 According to one study, college students may spend 8-10 hours per day on their cell phones. Tracking your cell phone use such as adding up how many times per hour you check your phone can increase your awareness about your problem. If you are aware of the extent of your problem you can begin to identify goals and possible solutions.


Try downloading an application that tracks your cell phone use like Checky. You can use this information to set a specific goal of how many times per hour or day you allow yourself to check your phone.;
, Limit your cell phone use to certain times of the day. You can set an alarm on your phone to alert you when you have reached your maximum time. For example, you can allow yourself to use your phone only from 6pm-7pm. You can also set up specific times not to use your phone, such as while you are at work or school. Write your plan and goals down to make them more concrete. Keep a log of which goals you’ve met and ones you are still working on.
 This concept is called positive self-reinforcement and it is used in therapy in order to teach an individual positive behaviors through use of a reward system. For example, if you meet your cell phone use goal for the day you can treat yourself to your favorite food, a new item, or an activity.
 Instead of going cold turkey and completely eliminating your cell phone use (which can be very anxiety provoking), begin by progressively reducing the amount of time you spend checking your phone. For example, start by limiting the amount you check your phone to once per 30 minutes, then once per 2 hours, as so on.


Keep a tally of how many times you check your phone per hour.
Use your phone only for necessary communications or emergencies.
 Put your phone somewhere where you will not see it. Turn your phone on silent mode when you are at work, study or anywhere else, so it won't distract you. , Cut cell phone use out of your life completely for a short period of time such as a weekend. Go on a trip or camping where there will be no cell service. This forces you to be off of your phone.
You can notify your friends and loved ones that you are going off the grid for a short time. This can be easily accomplished on social media.
 There are settings on your phone that may alert you every time you get an email or Facebook notification. Make sure you turn these off! This will reduce the amount of times your phone goes off or vibrates. This way you are not being notified every time something occurs. Settle for a pay-as-you-go plan as a last resort. It's similar to a portable pay phone and a calling card in one - in order to use a certain amount of minutes, you'll need to pay for that amount. It then disables your phone when you reach the maximum of minutes.
 Changing your thoughts may help alter your emotions and behaviors. In other words, if you change your thinking about your cell phone you can feel better and use your cell phone less.


Remind yourself that whatever you are wanting to check on your phone is not that important and can wait.Next time you feel the need to use it step back and think, "Do I really need to call/text this person right now or can it wait until later?"

, Mindfulness, the art of being aware, can help you become centered and possibly reduce the impulse to engage in cell phone use. Try to be in the present moment by focusing on what is currently going on, including your own thoughts and reactions. , Triggers are your feelings and thoughts about a situation that lead to a certain behavior (cell phone use). Learning why you are urged to use your cell phone can help you develop alternative options.Are you on your cell phone because you have a strong desire to be social and connect with others? If so, you can fulfill your needs in ways that last longer such as face-to-face contact.
Are you simply bored? Boredom can be a huge trigger for individuals to engage in addictive behaviors. If you are often bored, it may be time to develop hobbies or other activities that sustain your attention.
 Using your cell phone has been linked to increases in mood, which positively reinforces cell phone use. Instead of using your phone to feel better, engage in alternative activities such as exercise/sports or creative activities such as writing or drawing.
 If you have a specific plan for each day and you are focusing on your responsibilities, you will have less time to spend on your phone. The bonus is that you will spend more time focusing on your goals and being productive.


If you are not employed you can apply to jobs or volunteer at a local organization.
Try taking up a new hobby like knitting, sewing or playing an instrument.
Spend more time doing things that need to be finished, whether it's chores or parents wanting a family day or time together.
 Try to do something constructive instead of using your phone the next time you feel the urge. Focus on your own personal goals and objectives for the day. Make a list of tasks that do not involve your phone and any time you have the impulse to check your phone, stop and gently redirect your attention to your responsibilities. , Much of our desire to be on the phone comes from our innate and evolutionary drive to be social beings. However, there are other options to be social which may be more beneficial and satisfying in the long-term. Instead of texting, write a letter, or meet up with a friend for coffee or a meal.
Instead of blasting your photos on Instagram, invite a family member over and physically show them your memories. This type of connection may result in an increase in quality intimacy.
 Think of each reason you use your cell phone (games, texting, phone calls). Some of these habits may be necessary to your work and daily life (perhaps work emails, etc), while others could be disrupting your life if they take away from your normal interactions and responsibilities. Attempt to replace each of these disruptive habits into more productive, social, and quality experiences.


If one of your issues is excessively playing games on your phone, think of an alternative such as inviting a friend over to play a board game.
If you spend too much time looking at profiles on social media, meet up with a close friend or family member and ask them about what is going on in their life (instead of simply reading about it online).
 Social support is a crucial component of mental health. Having a positive social network produces feelings of safety and connectedness. These components are important when considering limiting your cell phone use, since your use is likely to be at least partly based on social connection (such as texting, using social applications). While cell phone use may feel positive, it can actually limit us and close us off from intimate relationships.


Simply tell your family and friends that you think you are using your cell phone too much and you are working on cutting down. You can explain that you would appreciate if they support you in this process. Additionally, you could give them specific suggestions and involve them in your plan. For example, ask them to call or text you only at certain times of the day.
Ask for advice. Your family members know you personally and may be able to help you devise a specific plan on cutting down your phone use.
 Let your family and friends know that you may not text, call, or email them back right away since you are attempting to cut down your cell phone use. If they are aware of the situation they are more likely to be understanding and not be upset.
 Instead of getting social support mostly through your cell phone, it is important to engage on a personal and intimate level. This can only be fully accomplished in person. Plan an activity with family or friends. Spend your limited cell phone time researching and planning this event. This way your energy is being used in a productive and meaningful way.
 This can be especially helpful during times when you feel strong urges to use your phone including after school, after dinner, and during the weekend.
 While cell phone addiction is not yet a widely recognized diagnosis, this does not mean that you cannot get help. There are treatment centers and counselors that specialize in these types of issues. If your cell phone problem is severe and disrupts your daily life and functioning, counseling or mental health treatment may be helpful.


Some signs that you may need help are if you are unable to complete your responsibilities (work, school, home), or if your interpersonal relationships are significantly negatively affected by your cell phone use.
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a type of treatment that is used for a wide variety of conditions and addictions. It focuses on changing your thoughts in order to change your feelings and behaviors. CBT may be a helpful option if you choose to seek treatment.

