 Sending a thank-you letter after a job interview can make an excellent impression on a potential employer, provided you send it promptly after the interview--no later than three days is ideal.


Even if you don’t get the job or suspect you won’t get the job, sending a thank-you letter will leave a positive impression that can benefit you if you apply there or with an associate in the future., Because a letter of appreciation to a potential employer implies a professional relationship, choose and appropriately professional letter format.When writing a formal letter, you should use a professional, typed format and print the letter on quality paper.You can either set up the format yourself or use one of the letter templates built into your word processing application.
If you’re setting up your own format for a formal letter, begin by entering the date in the top left-hand corner. Skip a line, then enter the full name and address of the person to whom you’re writing. Then skip a line before you enter your salutation.
 A professional thank-you should include a title in the salutation.


Doctors, professors, government officials, and military service members should all be addressed with their appropriate title spelled out in full, i.e. "Dear Doctor Johnson" or "Dear Sergeant Jones."
If the person doesn’t have a more formal title, use the abbreviated "Mr." for men, and "Miss/Mrs./Ms" for women (be sure to know which title she prefers; if you don't know, you can opt for the more neutral “Ms.” or you can use her full name, like "Dear Jane Smith.”).
 To begin writing the body of your letter, start with a simple and concise expression of gratitude.


Something like, “Thank you for taking the time to meet with me on Monday. I greatly enjoyed our discussion.”

, To show sincerity and that you aren’t simply using a general thank-you letter for every interviewer, include a specific detail about what you enjoyed during your conversation.


You might say something like, “I particularly enjoyed our discussion about the impact of social media outreach within non-profit organizations. Your insight about using technology to forge closer relations with clients made a strong impression on me.”

, As you close your letter, you can express a desire to talk or work with the recipient again in the near future.


For example, you could write, “I hope we’ll have more opportunities to work together in the near future.”

, It’s polite to conclude a post-interview thank-you letter with a sentence making yourself available for further contact.


For example, “I will gladly provide any additional information you may need and welcome additional questions.”

, Finally, choose an appropriate valediction (parting salutation) and sign your name to the bottom of the letter.


”Sincerely” is the most common valediction for professional letters, but you may consider additional options like, “Warm Regards,” “Best Regards,” “Sincere Regards,” or “Respectfully.”Hand-sign your name below the valediction.
It’s customary to type out your full name below your signature in case your signature is difficult to read.
 Before sending the letter, be sure you’ve carefully proofread it for typos and grammatical errors. A flawed letter will make a much less positive impression than a well-done one.

You may find it useful to read the letter aloud; sometimes reading aloud helps you catch errors you may miss by reading silently.
Have a trusted friend or colleague review the letter.

