


Invite your friend over to your house or somewhere you both love. Make your friendship fun and interesting. It could be that your friend thinks you're both going through the motions of friendships and finds your rival more exciting. Show your friend how unique and special your friendship is.
Compliment her more. Most people appreciate compliments. Girls like getting compliments on their outfit, makeup, perfume, and shoes. Be nice in general; it's possible that some behavior of yours has driven your friend away.
 There is no perfect number of friends. That said, having too many or too few friends can create a lot of tension in your life. Focus on regularly building new friendships. This will help you spread out your energy and needs among several friends instead of counting on only one person., Obviously, it is important to spend time with your friends. What most people lose sight of, however, is that it is just as important to spend time away from your friend. This gives you each time to experience new things and spend time with other people. A few ways to maintain a healthy balance in friendships are:Have scheduled hangouts (e.g. brunch on Sunday).
Spend time with multiple friends separately.
Create regular “me time” to be alone.
Regularly spend time with your family, too.
 You and your friends will go through times where it is harder than usual to get together. During those times, it is especially important to make the most of your time together. Make a point to express to your friend that you enjoyed seeing them and want to keep the friendship strong.For example, if you haven’t gotten to spend time with your friend in a long time, you could say something like “It was great to see you! I hope that we can get together again soon.”

, If you and your friend are going through a rough patch, avoid the urge to rush to a fix. Sometimes it takes friends a very long time to grow together, and it can take them time to grow back together after the friendship weakens. Give yourself and your friend time to process how you feel about things and work out the reasons that you are spending less time together.If this doesn't work, try to make new friends. Maybe you and your friend have changed and become quite different. It's natural for friendships to fade away and be replaced with new ones. Don't struggle to keep a weakening friendship alive if it's clear your friend has moved on.

