 Your kid will most likely have to look at the device for hours either for reading lectures or taking down lesson notes. Pick one that has a large screen, enough that it wouldn’t strain their eyes even after using it for long periods.


Android devices like Samsung Galaxy Tabs or Google Nexus tablets should fit the requirements.
If the school required the purchase, then ask the administration if there’s any particular unit that you need to buy. This will save you time on having to figure out which Android unit to get.;
, If your kid’s going to use the Android device just for entertainment purposes like video games, listening to music, and watching videos, then basic units like the entry level Samsung Galaxy series (Fame, Y, etc.) should be enough as it has enough hardware power to support most Android app games.
 If your child needs to use the Android device for special cases like supplementing physical disabilities, then you need to base the unit you’re going to buy on the specific situation you have.


In example, if your kid has speech defects or is mute and needs a device to aid him or her to communicate, buy an Android tablet—or any unit—with a large screen that he or she can use to conveniently write messages on.
 Your child won’t need extremely expensive Android gadgets, even if they’re going to use it for school. You also have to take into consideration that they won’t be able to take care of it as much as you could. Buy one that won’t be too expensive to replace in case it gets lost or damaged.
 Consider your kid’s physical attributes. You don’t want your five year-old son or daughter dragging a massive 10-inch tablet around the house, school, or anywhere they need to go. Buy a unit that they can easily carry and use anywhere, anytime.


Android devices are known for portability and mobility so this should be one of the factors that you need to consider.
 Get an Android device that’s lightweight and easy to carry around.


The Samsung Galaxy Tab Pro series are all lightweight and extremely thin. Your kid would hardly notice it inside their bags.
 The storage capacity of the device you’re going to purchase depends on how your kid will be using it. If it’s for school, buy a unit with enough space to save all their lessons.


Every Android brands have units that have expandable memory feature wherein you can use an external memory card to expand its storage capacity. Ask the salesperson if the Android device you’re going to purchase has this feature.
 If your child’s going to use it out of the house most of the time, then pick a device that has a longer lasting battery life and will take some considerable amount of time before it needs to be recharged.


LG Android phones, like the G series, are known for its long battery life span.

