 Membership is open to any United States Postal Service (USPS) employee. If you are in a management or supervisory position, you can only join to receive the union's health plan.If you have questions about membership, talk to your local shop steward or any union member. Those in small offices may call Anna Smith, the Organization Department Director, at 202-842-4227.;
, You need to complete this form in order to join. It is available for download here: http://www.apwu.org/news/deptdiv-news-article/joining-apwu-form-1187. If you can’t download it, then contact your shop steward for a copy.
 You can type your information directly into the form. Make sure to double check your information so that it is accurate. Provide the following:complete name
Social Security Number
mailing address
home and mobile phone numbers
email address
post office where you work
work finance number
your position type
your signature and the date

, Make a copy for your own records, and then give the original to your local shop steward or union president. They will make sure you are enrolled as soon as possible., Your dues will vary by location, and include dues established by the National Convention and by your local union. Your dues will be automatically deducted from your paycheck, and the amount will be listed on your pay stub., There are two health plans offered to employees and their families. One is a “high option” plan that has low copays and deductibles, along with a large network of providers.The other is a “consumer driven option” that includes a personal care account.


Read more at this website: https://www.apwuhp.com/.
 The union offers AFLAC Specified Health Event and Cancer insurance. This insurance provides a safety net when a covered family member is diagnosed with an illness. You can receive a cash benefit, regardless of what other insurance you have. Review rates and apply online., APWU members qualify for the Voluntary Benefits Plan, which provides insurance benefits designed for you. The plan provides the following insurance options:automobile
dental
disability
hospital indemnity
life

, Capital One offers credit cards to APWU members. You will need to be approved before you apply, and the cards offer different benefits depending on your credit score. Compare cards and apply online., Union members have access to the Union Plus Mortgage program, which makes buying and selling a home easier. For example, homebuyers might qualify for a low down payment option. Call 1-800-848-6466 or visit online to learn more.The mortgage program also provides mortgage assistance, which can help you make your mortgage payment if you are unemployed because of layoff, strike, or disability., All APWU members qualify for exclusive discounts for many products and services, including the following:clothing discounts
online tax services
pet insurance
college planning services
reduced prices on movie tickets and rentals

