 Some guitar players don’t realize the effect of adding a rest, or silence, to their solo.A rest in a guitar improvisation is a good time to recollect your thoughts and decide where to go. Listen to some of your favorite solos and you might notice that the guitarist isn’t playing nonstop.


A good way to employ a rest is by using your palm to mute the strings. By doing this, you can resume playing with your picking hand quickly.
A rest is commonly used at the end of a guitar line, or a succession of notes across the fretboard.;
, Timing, or the speed at which you play a solo, can offer a variety of effects. Many beginner guitarists feel inclined to play a guitar solo as fast as they possibly can. While many soloists do play fast, it is oftentimes more interesting for a soloist to modify the timing to create a better feeling for the solo. The mood of the solo will be reflective of how the soloist speeds up or slows down during a solo.


For example, you can begin a solo at a quick pace, but then slow it down once you hit a harmonious note or melody.
There are plenty of interesting and sometimes overlooked effects you can do with the speed and variety of timing used during a solo.
 Vibrato is when the pitch of a note bends. There are effects that produce this sound, but you can also achieve it using your fretting hand. Hold a note with your hand and bend the note back and forth quickly. The result will be a vibrato sound. To increase the stamina of your fretting hand, position a couple fingers above the finger that is holding the note.


By using multiple fingers, you’ll be able to bend the string farther and for a longer period of time.
Vibrato is a technique that is utilized at any given point of a solo. Play around and use it once you hear a note you like.
 Pull off is when you pull your finger off the string so that the open string (or another note you have positioned) rings out. Hammer on is when you slam (or hammer) your finger onto a string. Both hammer ons and pull offs allow you to quickly play a note without having to pick the string.


Use a combination of hammer ons and pull offs to execute a quick melody.
Flatpicking guitar is heavily made up of these techniques.
 Another staple of the guitar solo is the slide. Sliding on the guitar is an easy technique, but must be used tastefully. Slides are commonly used to begin or end a solo, but you can also employ them in the midst of a solo. Hold a note on a string and slides your finger up or down.


You can build your fingers strength and even slide chord shapes.
 Tremolo picking is when you use your pick to play exceptionally fast. The name refers to the similarity in sound that is produced with the tremolo effect. Do this by alternating between downstroke and upstroke with your pick. Practice this slowly until you become comfortable.


It might be hard for a beginner to control where the pick goes. This all takes time and practice.
 Understanding when and where your solo will end is extremely important to a successful improvisation. Knowing how long you'll be improvising means you can successfully bring the solo to a peak - with techniques like playing faster or in a higher register as the solo draws to a close. This gives your entire solo a strong feeling of intention and helps you finish strong.


This technique also implies knowing to start things off a bit slower. Allow your solo to breathe in the beginning then build in intensity as it goes along. Make sure you have "somewhere to go".

