 You'll need different kinds of clothes or uniform pieces for different purposes: skirts, shorts, slacks, blouses, shirts, jacket/sweater, phys ed setup, scarf/neck-tie (if any). Find out what is needed at your school's open house day.


If your school doesn't have a uniform rule, then wear whatever you want as long as you stay within the dress code. Have a variety of clothing: basics, such as jeans, solid colored t-shirts, and solid jackets. That should make up about 70% of your closet. The other 30% can be weekend t-shirts, splattered/color jeans or trousers, and favorite jackets.
If you're not familiar with the dress code, most of the time it's two finger spacing for tank tops, and shorts have to be eleven inches.
Wear something that the dress code will allow, and try to look as nice as possible. You want to make a good first impression, so dress to impress.;
, Try some earrings, or maybe a necklace or a scarf. Just something to make your outfit look unique and don't go overboard with the make up.
 If you lost it ask a friend, or go to the school website. If you were not given one, check the school website. If they say you don't need anything special on the first day, then bring 2 pencils (mechanical or not), an eraser/eraser tops, leads or a pencil sharpener, and maybe a small, inexpensive good luck charm, or wear your favorite nice-shirt/skirt or such.
 Try to categorise the folder and place worksheets of similar subjects together. This will keep you mess-free and also make things neater for you.
 It's always a good idea to have some pads/tampons in your locker or backpack, just in case (whether you've had your period before or not) you might have it at school. Try placing them in a case along with other things that you might need (e.g. emergency makeup, spare raincoat, plasters etc.)

, This is optional, but a cute bag will most likely spark others' attention and interest as well as boost your confidence. Use fabric markers or fabric paint and get your creative side on to make it look more unique or just simply hang a keychain and stick on some pins.
 Wash your face if you took a shower the night before. Brush your teeth and floss/clean out your braces (if you have them).
 Try to choose clothes the night before. The first day of school may be stressful for you so preparing the night before helps. If you are to wear the school uniform remember to iron it and smooth it nicely to prevent creases. Try to look at the mirror before you leave, to make sure your outfit looks okay.
 Try to do hairstyles that will keep your hair out of your face because you are going to be concentrating in school. Clip up your bangs or long fringe. Additionally, you can try pulling back your hair and braiding it for a more classy look. Here are some good back to school hair styles:


Ponytail, French/Dutch/Fishtail/Infinity braid, pig tails, half up-do, side braid or a bun.
 Take your time on the make up because you don't want it to look sloppy. Make sure it is even. All you need is a little foundation, some blush, and a touch of light colored eye shadow. Also, try some lip gloss, but don't wear lip stick. You will look too grown up.
 Try delicious and healthy foods such as waffles, pancakes, yogurt, bagel with cream cheese, or a breakfast burrito that will keep you filled up till lunchtime or recess. That way, you won't starve all day but stay energised and focused during class.
 Also, try to bring mints with you.
 You want to be prepared and totally ready. Double check to make sure everything is in your bag.
 If you're all alone, then don't sit by the window unless you want someone sitting next to you that you don't know. If you are new at your school, then ask someone who looks friendly -- or shy and alone -- whether you can sit next to him or her. Then strike up a conversation, or if you're by yourself, plug in your iPod, iPhone or MP3 player and ignore the crowd. If you're taking public transit, make sure to remember your stops! Keep a log on your phone. If you are late to school, your first day will be ruined!

, Confidence is a likable trait. Having confidence will earn you a lot of friends. It also boosts your popularity.


A good way to become confident is by practicing. A good way to practice is by standing in front of a mirror. Look yourself in the eyes, talk loudly and try to smile as much as you can. If you do this enough, you will start to do it around other people.
Averting your eyes and not looking directly at the person is taken as shy and definitely not confident.
 Smile a little or a lot to your new teachers or new classmates, or especially if you're new to the school, school district. But if you act-up as if you're angry, you may give yourself a bad reputation to be overcoming and undoing for weeks/months, or all year (bringing unnecessary stress on yourself).
 For some, the first day of school may be a pain. Try to make it more enjoyable (or at least bearable) by waking up an hour early and getting 8 to 10 hours of sleep. In the morning, shower (if you didn't the night before.)

, Do the usual class routines.
 Check your TV guide and see when your favorite show is on, have a snack and do your homework so you can watch your show. If it's on pretty soon, have a quick snack, set your recorder to record the show -- then do your homework. After that, call or text your friends and swap first day stories!

