 This should be as clean as possible with little or no background noise.






Sound Effects/Foley. Sound effects like traffic and animal sounds can either be recorded or found in libraries which are used in feature films, though these must be purchased for royalty-free use. Foley effects, such as footsteps and the rustle of clothes, are best recorded yourself using a condenser microphone.






Tempo music. This is music which is used by editors to set a pace but is not used in the final mix.






Atmosphere. This is the background sound to a scene such as in a wood it might be the rustle of trees and birdsong, it is used to give continuity to a scene which may have been filmed in different locations.
,, You monitor sound through speakers and headphones, using meters as a reference. Use flat equalization and keep the volume the same the whole time you do the mix to ensure a consistent volume no matter how many tracks are being mixed. Make sure to turn off any equalizers, bass boost, or other enhancements that may be available on the monitoring system.;
, Avoid using cheap computer speakers and instead use a high quality stereo and amplifier with the equalizer set to flat.
 The lack of ambient sound, coupled with the extreme stereo field, creates an unrealistic monitoring environment that often doesn't translate to larger systems.


Mixing solely using headphones is usually avoided, but you can use them if you keep in mind that it sounds different from speakers as sound is not bouncing off surfaces, you will hear more distinction between left and right and you may pick up some sounds you don't hear on speakers. You could probably mix 90% of the time with a good pair of headphones, but you will at some point have to hear your mix through speakers.
 The sound editing tools found in Final Cut Pro, Premier and Avid will do basic effects but can't be relied on for anything complex.
 These are your best options as they include advanced features to help in cleaning up sound but it is a steep learning curve.



Levels vs volume. Levels and volume differ in that if you turn the volume down your levels still bounce around. Levels are the objective levels of sound at which the audio has been or is being recorded.
Levels vs loudness. Levels and loudness differ with loudness being a measurement of average voltage signal. Low frequencies could appear high on the meters but be barely audible to the hear, having a lower loudness. Likewise compressed sound may not seem high on meters but sound loud to the ear, and is used frequently on narration.
Levels vs Decibels. Numbers on a meter are not decibels; they vary according to the type of meter.
 There are two types of analogue meters (that use needles): a volume unit which can give you a good rough idea and is cheaper but less sensitive, than the peak program meter which provides more accurate readings and needle falls more slowly. Peak on these is between 4 and 5 and is more forgiving taking full volume to make this happen.
Digital. You are more likely to use a digital meter, which is extremely accurate, but beware that digital sound is unforgiving when it comes to clip distortion when the level goes into the red. Digital audio should never exceed 0 dBFS on a digital meter.
 Don't edit the video once you have started mixing the audio.
 Keep levels consistent. This should be roughly around -12dB, but some parts may be slightly quieter.
 With DSLRs more and more people are recording sound separately to the video. You can sync either manually by using a clapper board or using a piece of software such as Plural Eyes or Woo Wave which do it automatically.


Scene by scene. Work on one scene at a time, and work through each element separately.
Atmosphere. Start by laying atmosphere tracks down; these should be continuous throughout.
Prioritize. For each scene work out whether dialogue, special effects or music or sound fx is most important and mix this level first.
Spotting. Go through the scene writing down what other sounds you need to find in a library or record.
Play around. When you have mixed it so it is all at a constant level and feels continuous, you should think of the tonal quality of the sound.. For example the music and dialogue may be a similar pitch so they are clashing.

Note: Don't attempt extreme stereo effects or surround sound unless you are an experienced sound mixer with expensive equipment. It's best to stick with stereo or mono. When mixing keep your music as stereo and atmosphere as stereo but pan the rest so that they are central. If you have two characters talking to each other you could pan one to one side and the other to the other side, but don't go further than 50%.
 Documentaries rely solely on sound in the form of interviews and narration to tell a story. It is very unusual to re-record anything in post so you have to record it well on set and do what you can to sweeten it in post. There may be fewer tracks in a documentary, but do not underestimate how long it takes to mix due to the sound problems you must deal with due to the guerrilla nature of a documentary.

Atmosphere. Ambient sound recorded on set is the first thing you lay down to smooth edits and may help if you are having problems with background sound. If you are clever you can create a sort of soundtrack from the atmosphere tracks.






Narration and interviews. You will want to have these as clean as possible, though you can do a little to improve them. In the worst case of sound that is poorly understood, add subtitles.






Music is a powerful tool in documentaries, but don't over use it. Remember silence can bring great tension.
 You can also use it to show when a character's attention wanders by reducing the level of other voices.

Semi-detached. Sound off screen can create an enigma or cover an effect you couldn't afford to do visually on your budget.






Silence. Remember not to drown your audience out with sound, as silence is just as important and can be useful for tension when there is a sudden sound.
 This is not a filter but is useful to put at the end of a track of audio to avoid pops.
Echo/Reverb. You use this effect if you did not pick it up on location and for psychological effects.
 Ask yourself how long a sound carries on in a location. For example if you clap your hands in a church then outside, the sound will seem to last longer in the church. This filter is used to match sounds you might have gotten from a library or recorded somewhere else to the location.


Equalizer. Think of it as a frequency specific volume controller. You use this to make different frequencies louder or quieter. It can be used to emphasize a voice and balance a recording. For example you may have recorded someone playing a piano but in the recording you mostly pick up the treble notes. Using the equalizer you can bring in more of the bass and mid-range notes. An equalizer can also be used if you just want the bass of the music, such as if the characters are outside a club. Here you would cut (lower) the high frequencies to create a realistic sound.
Compression/Normalization. Dialogue varies in volume so a compressor is used to smooth out the loud bits which makes the dialogue seem closer and more intimate. This effect is used extensively on narration and whispering dialogue. Normalization is more harsh than a compressor and should not be used, unless the audio levels are too low to achieve the proper loudness even with compression.
Notch filter. Notch filters are essentially equalizers set to remove specific problematic frequencies. You can get rid of continuous sounds such as fridge, camera, hum.
 This helps you eliminate rumble and sounds such as unwanted footsteps, traffic and wind. Set it to roughly around 80 Hz.


Expander/noise gate. This filter softens noise below a certain level so as to remove some background sound.
Noise removal. This filter is available in Soundtrack Pro and works by you selecting a quiet part of a clip with bad hiss or background sound then it will work on the whole clip. This filter produces varying results.
Keyframes. Key frames is another way of making sound constant throughout a clip.
Note: It is smart to listen to your sound on a wide range of devices before you master your film to see if any issues crop up.

