 The eligibility requirements are not set in stone, so make sure that you review the most up to date date on the fund. If you have successfully been receiving your dividend for years, there is no reason to think it will stop, unless your status has changed.If you are not certain if you are eligible, you can contact the governor's office or visit the PFD website to view the most recent updates.
 If you have recently moved to Alaska, this might be your first time applying for your permanent fund dividend.You want to make sure that you have proof of residency. The documents that you provide will need to include dates that indicate you have been in residence for the previous calendar year.There are several different types of documents that can be used as proof of residency. You can use school records, your voter registration card, employment records, or motor vehicle registration paperwork.
 You start applying for your PFD on January 1. On this date, you will be able to visit the PFD website and start your application.Every person who wishes to receive a payment must fill out a separate application., If you would rather have a hard copy of your PFD application, you can get a copy at any distribution center in the state., The application period is from January 1 through March 31 every year. During those months, the application is available to all Alaska residents. The easiest way to complete the application is by using the online form provided by the government of Alaska. If you prefer to fill out a paper application, they are available at statewide Distribution Centers.
The sooner you fill out your application, the sooner it will be processed.
 Before you file, you will need to sign your application. Even if you file electronically, you must still sign the document. There are two ways: either print a signature page off or sign electronically.


To print a signature page, click on the "Reprint a Signature" tab at the PFD website. The link is on the right.
Enter your applicant details and hit "Search." Then click "Required Item" and then "Document Center."
Print off the signature page after selecting it from "Required Items." Mail the signed page to the "Alaska Department of Revenue, Permanent Fund Dividend Division, P.O. Box 110462, Juneau, AK 99811-042."It may also be faxed to 907-465-3470.
Alternately, you may sign the application electronically. To do so, you must create a myAlaska.gov account.A myAlaska account is only available if you are an adult who has received the PFD previously.
 The application deadline is March 31. When you file your application, make sure you retain a receipt as proof of filing. If you filed online, print off the receipt page when it comes up. If you mail it in, make sure you keep your postage receipt. If you filed it in person, ask for a receipt.

