 The game is for 2-4 players, but you can have more if you like, although it would make the game a bit longer and harder.;
, The default goal is $15,000. The first player to get $15,000 by collecting properties wins the game!


For a shorter game, play for $10,000. For a longer game, you can play for $25,000, or whatever you like.
 Decide who goes first. Play then proceeds to the left. On your turn, here's what you will do:


Set the house die aside. The house die is the one with the pictures of the houses, hotel, lightning-struck house, and get out of jail free. Roll the remaining 10 dice.
Place all police dice in the designated area immediately.

Decide on any "keepers". Since the goal of the game is to collect all the properties in that color group, you should probably keep any properties that you have at least two of, in order to complete that group of properties. Once you decide to keep any dice, you must keep those dice the rest of your turn.
Roll again. You can keep rolling as many times as you like to try to get color groups, however, if you roll all 3 police dice, your turn immediately ends and you lose everything you've collected in that turn.
Chance: If you roll a question mark (?), this resembles a wild card and may be placed on any space.
 If you get a monopoly (complete color group), score the amount written on the board for that color group, not the dice. Roll the house die immediately. The house die will show one of the following:



House: Get one of the houses from the bank and collect $1,000. You may keep this house for the rest of the game. If all four houses have already been bought from the bank, you're out of luck!

Lightning-struck house: Give one of your houses back to the bank. You do not lose $1,000.

Get out of jail free: Take away one of your police dice. If you do not have any police dice, then it's no use!

Hotel: If you roll a hotel, you may collect $5,000, only if you own all four houses.
,,,, If the you roll a six when he's on GO, do not move the marker back. If you roll a jackpot when he's on the space after GO move it back one space.

