 Your hair should be something totally original. Don't go for the typical "chop random pieces of hair" and call it good, instead, do your own thing.;
, You should get bangs that cover your forehead. Don't get them professionally cut! You want them to look a little choppy. You should do them yourself. Besides, you know what you want more than a stylist would know.
 They will end up springing up and not looking like what you wanted. Pull all your hair back except the hair you are planning to cut. Make sure you take hair from the top, almost the middle, of your head. Thick bangs tend to look better than thin. Make sure that when you cut your bangs they are lower than your brow line and just a couple centimeters above your eyelashes. And there you go!

, When I say bold color, I'm not saying black. Black has become the new blonde, and it gives a lot of people the wrong impression. Don't have black hair! I would recommend blonde because that could come in handy if you want front highlights later on; if it is light enough you could also put in temporary color dyes on top of it and temporary is good if you change your mind later on. I recommend red, make sure it looks natural though, or possibly a light brown, or a reddish brown color.
 Put a dime size dollop of lotion through it. This will make your hair really oily if you use too much, however.
 Rub your hair like crazy with the towel. Then just let it air dry. It'll turn out with more volume and curly. Don't over spray it while it's air drying if you're planning to spray it at all. A good idea is to spray your hands, then use your hands to fix it. Don't brush your hair out after doing this. Another good thing about this is you can let your bangs dry crazy and then let them dry in any position they want, even if it's to the side!, Now, you have great hair! Now let's talk about your makeup.
 It gives bad impressions just like black hair. Use brown pencil eyeliner. You can do this like crazy, just like you would with the black, and then trace where you want to fix it up with a piece of toilet paper. Another thing is to just totally skip the eyeliner and go straight to mascara, this always gives a sort of spunky look and guys actually dig it a lot., Two swipes is all you need. Or, if you like the overload look, just remember to take some of the excess off with your fingers when you get done putting it on. Remember to also put mascara on your bottom eyelashes, it always ends up looking cool.
 Just make sure you don't use too much.
 Skinny jeans are great and so are jeans that only flare out a little. Wearing shirts that have cartoons on them or just a plain shirt always works, and just crazy shirts that don't seem to belong in this decade! Target has a lot of great clothes like this in clearance. They also have clothes that are Converse brand that are awesome! Another great tip is that you can wear clothes that look guy-ish, for instance, collared shirts.
 Converse shoes are a great choice. If you end up getting high tops push your skinny jeans into them a little, it looks pretty cool. Get Converse that you don't really see around much. Skater shoes are obviously great too, just make sure you like them because you think they are cool, ot because they are all black or you see them around in school a lot.

