 Punk fashion is underrated nowadays, and it covers a large range of clothing. However, there are some guidelines to follow.


Shirts don't always have to be black. In fact, neon and colors like lime green are punk if worn the right way. Shirts with slogans about uniqueness, freedom, or a cause important to you are punk. Tights for girls are recommend, although baggy works too. Feminine shirts work too. As long as it's you and something you like, that's all that really matters.
Punk dresses are good for more female punks. Although a lot of punks are tomboys, there are feminine punks. Dresses with sneakers can look great, if you wear it correctly. Look for colors that stand out such as turquoise, brick red, or a golden color. Look for unusual patterns, and unique details such as buttons, zips, etc.
Bottoms vary widely. Grey, black, or red skinny jeans work. Tights could be in a crazy pattern, or just normal colored. If your parents allow you to fishnet stockings are great too. Baggy jeans can work, as well as camouflage pants, or brightly colored pants. Pants with extra pockets, zips, studs and other details work.
Shoes can be almost anything, as long as you like them, and are unique. For milder punks, black flats or converse work. Those that want to go all out can choose combat boots, or high heeled knee boots work. Converse in patterns work well too.;
, Hair just needs to be clean and it needs to say something about your personality. If you're allowed to, dyeing your hair can look amazing. It's easier to start off with streaks than dying your whole head, because lots of schools and parents have problems with this. Getting side bangs, or a hair cut that is edgy works.



1. Be unique and don't look like something off a magazine or a show.
2. Avoid copying others, although it's okay to draw influence from people.
3. Have fun!

, Music is a big thing for punks, although if you don't want to do music you don't have to. Art, basketball, chess, whatever you want! Punk is about living your own life, so you can still be a cheerleader and be a punk. It's all in the attitude towards life and it's a lifestyle.
 You're probably only in middle school or early high school, and sex is something that should wait a few years. Girls and women have been seen as sex objects, but true punk girls want respect for something besides their bodies. Don't let any guy take advantage of you. Most guys are good guys and don't cheat, but especially in middle school some guys take advantage of girls. Just be careful.
 Avril Lavigne is a great one, as well as Sum 41, Sex Pistols, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Nirvana, Green Day, and the Beatles are other good ones. Punk is more about the outlook, so you can still listen to rap or pop and be punk. It's about the freedom.
 Punk girls must confident and willing to take risks. Start facing your fears, and accept yourself as you are.
 It's the 21st century, and punk girls often have interest in mostly guy activities. Don't let your gender hold you back.
 Be strong and don't let people wear you down. At this age, you personality is being to form. You might have discovered a passion or dream. If so, then follow it. Avoid people who try to change you or give you peer pressure.

