 You may be a chicken owner that breeds chickens for meat. The first method is good for keeping them healthy and happy, but not so good for bulking them up for slaughter or consumption. This method will teach you to feed them organically, but to help them bulk up, too.


For bulk, you can feed your chickens the following: Broccoli, carrots, leeks, peas, leftover bread crumbs, dried tomatoes, flaxseed, pumpkin seeds and red grapes. These are all great for immunity and bulk, but your chickens may be less active.
 Here's what you'll need: one cross section broccoli, about 15 red grapes, 1 cup flaxseed, one stem of a leak and a few blades of grass. Here's what you do:


Take the whole broccoli cross section and split it as much as you can by hand.
Then cut the green flower heads until they are just little bits on the plate (resembling green seeds).
Take the red grapes and mash them however you see fit (by hand, by blender or dicing). #*You then take the leak and split it vertically until it is just a few thin twigs of leeks.
Mix the broccoli flower heads, the red grapes and the flaxseeds, but not too much, not like a mush. Stick the leek twigs in and stir once. Throw blades of grass on top and give to your chicken.
 For this recipe, you'll need the following: A carrot, 1 cup of peas and  3/4 of a cup of pumpkin seeds and some blades of grass. Here's what you should do:


Cut the carrot into wheels from the tip to the leaves.
Dice until smaller than pinky fingernail.
Mash half the cup of peas (this half heated) and leave the other half whole (no heating, cold but not frozen).
Mix carrots bits and peas along with pumpkin seeds.
Throw grass on top and give to your chicken.
 Here's what you'll need for this recipe: 3/4 cups dried & diced tomatoes, 1/2 a cup of flaxseed, 1 cup pumpkin seeds, and a few blades of grass. Here's how you make it:


Add dried tomatoes to mixing area.
Throw in the flaxseed and pumpkin seeds.
Mix thoroughly and give to chicken with blades of grass on top.
 It helps the majority of them, though. Feed your hens/roosters the same as with the veggie method.

