 You will be significantly more difficult to hit if you are on the move. You should try to stay in motion constantly throughout the fight.Move side-to-side rather than forward-backward to maximize the difficulty for the person aiming at you.;
, If your evasive maneuvers involve moving over the same distance or in the same directions over and over again, you’ll become predictable. Try to mix it up as much as possible.
 The best water balloon fight spaces will have some obstacles you can use as cover. If you can throw balloons from behind something, part of your body will be covered while you’re throwing and you’ll be a smaller target.You could hide behind a rock, a tree, or a bush.
 The best way to irk your opponent is to catch a balloon they thought would splatter all over you. You can then use the balloon you caught to return fire.


If your opponent is throwing balloons designed for water fights, known as water bombs, they will have a harder exterior and will be much easier to catch. If you’re fighting with cheaper party balloons, you may want to avoid trying to catch them because they will break more easily.
If you fail to catch it, hitting an incoming balloon with your hand can either deflect it away or pop it away from your body so your clothes won’t get as wet.
 If you keep your knees slightly bent, you’ll be able to duck and sidestep incoming balloons more easily., It's basically inevitable that some water will get on you. Make sure you wear clothing that you don’t mind getting wet. It’s also a good idea to take off shoes and socks as they can be difficult to dry out.
 Gripping a water balloon too tightly can cause it to pop in your hand but a loose grip could hurt your throwing accuracy.


Keep in mind that the water will shift around in the balloon. If you’re having difficulty handling the balloon, it may help to hold your hand underneath the balloon and throw it overhand in a catapult motion.
 If they aren’t looking at you, they won’t be able to react and will be an easy target. Look for people throwing balloons at others so they aren’t paying attention to you.
 Fake throws will throw off your opponents and cause them to duck or dodge the throw too early. You can then hit them more easily immediately after they’ve moved.


Too many fake throws could cause the opponents to get annoyed and target you. Use your fakes judiciously.
 Aim for your target’s body just above the stomach. This spot will give you the widest margin of error if your throw isn’t perfect.

