 While viral sore throats are common and usually resolve themselves, a bacterial sore throat is more serious. Strep throat (caused by the Streptococcus pyogenes bacteria) is one of the most common bacterial infections and needs medical attention right away.A viral sore throat is usually accompanied by cold symptoms. Look for things like a cough, runny nose, or general sinus congestion.
Bacterial throat infections show different signs. They often come on very suddenly and are more likely to affect children.
Strep throat is frequently described as a severe sore throat, and the symptoms last for longer than a viral throat infection. Swallowing may be hard. The tonsils and back of the throat can also look very red and swollen, while streaks of pus or red spots occur on the roof of the mouth. Other symptoms include fever, headache, nausea, and swollen lymph nodes.
Strep throat is very contagious and can pass through the air and close contact. If untreated, it can lead to ear infections, Scarlet fever, Rheumatic fever, blood poisoning, kidney disease, and bone infections. See a doctor right away if you suspect you or a child has strep throat.
 If your throat infection is severe and does not go away with home treatments, or if you think it might be bacterial, see your doctor. Your doctor can do a physical exam of your throat and review your other symptoms. They can then diagnose the issue and prescribe treatment.


You may have a throat infection that is bacterial, such as strep throat, or you may have a throat infection that is caused by a virus. In rare cases, you may have tonsillitis. A doctor can confirm what is ailing you.
 Oral antibiotics are prescribed if you have a bacterial infection like strep throat. Antibiotics will help to treat the infection. You should feel better within one to two days of taking the antibiotics.Always follow your doctor’s instructions on dosage for the antibiotics. You cannot drink alcohol while taking antibiotics.
Be sure to complete the full course of antibiotic therapy, as well.
 If you have tonsillitis that returns often, at least once a month, or that is causing you breathing or sleep issues, your doctor may recommend surgery. During the surgery, your tonsils will be removed so they do not bother you anymore.You will be under general anesthetic during the surgery. Your doctor should outline the procedure beforehand.

