 Before you single out a particular girl to work your charms on it’s a good idea to understand how to behave around them in general. In fact, the more girls like you in general the better your odds are that the one you’re interested in will take notice.


There are a lot of myths out there about things that girls don’t like: being a "nice guy," being sensitive, etc. Believing those myths might actually lose you points.
Treat girl friends (as opposed to girlfriends) like one of the guys: be friendly, talk about your shared interests, tell jokes, and listen. Toss in some extra politeness and consideration and voila! You’re on your way to becoming that down-to-earth, chivalrous guy she’s been hoping for.;
, But don't be a doormat. It's fine—awesome—to be nice and sensitive. But don't push it so far that you become like her brother. That's the kiss of death to any hopes you might have, so let your conversation go into areas brothers never go.


For example, saying something like, "You look nice, Julia," may be true, and she'll probably like to hear it, but c'mon—it's something her brother could say! Instead, try something like, "Damn, Julia, you look sexy today. Those jeans are smokin' on you!" Think her brother might say that? Let's hope not. Don't be her brother and don't give her reason to think of you as one.
 People tend to give what they get, and get what they give. If she thinks you appreciate her just for her mind, then it's likely that she'll also appreciate you for your mind, too. But not your body, bro.


Appreciate all of her—her mind, her spirit, and her body. Let her know you think she's pretty, or sexy, or both.
 Plenty of perfectly nice, pretty girls get left on the sidelines because they’re quiet, shy, or not part of a fashionable social group.


The next time you sit next to one of these girls in class, strike up a conversation with her; the next time you see a girl standing around at a party or club, invite her to dance. Even if it’s clear that there's no romantic interest, she won’t forget it—and she will never look at you the same way again.
Learning how to interact with girls on a social level, without wanting anything other than their company, is a good lesson to learn. The more comfortable you are around girls in general, the more comfortable you will be when you meet somebody you really like.

