 If you are in a rough neighborhood, most people there are probably not wearing expensive suits, lots of bright jewelry, and shiny shoes. You need to wear clothes that make you fit in, not stand out in a way that makes you a target. Choose simple clothes such as jeans, sweat pants, plain t-shirts, sweatshirts, and coats that don’t appear new. Consider wearing clothes that are kind of beat up, maybe even dirty.If you are coming or going from work or somewhere that you need to wear nice clothes, consider wearing the old clothes while you are in the rough neighborhood and changing into your nice clothes when you get to your destination.;
, This will primarily apply to women, but is not out of the question for men. If you are someone who tends to look cheery, and especially if you usually wear makeup that gives you a pleasant appearance, this can be to your disadvantage. Wearing dark lipstick, eye shadow, and avoiding any bright colored makeup can give you a tougher appearance which can discourage people from messing with you.
 When you are walking around in a rough neighborhood, it is good to keep your head up, for a couple of reasons. For one, having your head down projects weakness and tends to make you look more like a target. It gives the appearance of fear and trying not to be noticed. Secondly, you want to be able to see around yourself clearly to keep alert of your surroundings. Having your head down restricts how much you can see and keeps you from be aware., Besides keeping your head up, you want to walk with your whole body up straight. People who walk with a slouch automatically give the appearance of weakness. People who have good posture appear to be more confident. Keep your back straight and your shoulders pulled slightly back.This type of posture will show that you are not afraid to be seen, while slouching will make people think you are trying to hide.
Good posture projects strength and is more likely to keep people from bothering you.
 This has two functions: minimizing distraction and not openly revealing valuables. Someone who is talking on their phone is most likely not paying very close attention to their surroundings, so it is just another weakness. Plus, talking on a phone shows people that you have at least one valuable on you, and gives them the idea that you might have more.If you are carrying a bag of some kind, this might be a good place to store your phone. If you keep it in a pocket, try to have a loose pocket that will not highlight the outline of your phone.

