 Some females will visibly swell in size after becoming pregnant. Others will not show so obviously that they are pregnant. The gestation period of a mouse is about 19-21 days. If a female has mated and become pregnant, it should give birth by that time.If a mouse has mated but does not become pregnant, don’t give up. Just let it try again.
Don’t poke or prod a mouse to try and see if it is pregnant. This could harm it.
 Once you have mice that are pregnant (or suspected to be), pair them into cages if they are not already. Breeders believe this will increase the chances of healthy pregnancies.Make sure to remove the father before birth. Male mice have been known to cannibalize baby mice.
 Mothers will benefit from a high-fat, high-protein diet. You can give each pregnant or nursing female one dog biscuit a day. They will also enjoy treats like bits of scrambled egg and small pieces of cooked meat., After 19-21 days, you can expect a pregnant mouse to give birth. In most cases, they will be able to handle everything all by themselves. In fact, you should leave the mother and her litter completely alone for the first day after birth. Otherwise, the mother may become scared and eat her young.If the mother does eat her young, don’t be too alarmed. There are various reasons this can happen - the mother might just not understand what has happened.
It is more rare for a mother to eat her young after the first birth.
 Most of the time, a female mouse will know how to nurse and care for her litter all by herself. If she doesn’t seem to be taking care of them, place her litter in a cage with another female who is nursing young. If it is a large litter, you can split it among several cages., Females will be physically able to mate the day after birth, and produce another litter in about three weeks. However, many breeders think that having a female breed too frequently will exhaust her and lead to unhealthy litters.If you need to breed many mice, start with a larger number of females rather than expecting a few females to breed more frequently.
 After about three or four weeks, the young mice will be ready to stop nursing. You can begin by placing dishes of regular mouse food softened with a bit of water in the cage. The young mice should naturally be drawn to this and soon stop nursing entirely.Place the young into cages of their own after they’ve stopped nursing.

