 To loosen tight shoulders, you need to stretch and strengthen the muscles that support them. This pose stretches and strengthens the muscles in your upper back, neck, and chest to improve the range of motion you have in your shoulders.To start this pose, stand sideways on your mat with your feet about four feet apart. Your right foot should be turned out 90 degrees to the right with your left foot pointed forward, as though your left heel is bisecting your right foot.
Raise your arms to shoulder height, parallel with the floor. Your palms should be facing the floor. You can take a moment here to connect to your breath.
On an inhale, turn your head to look out over your right fingertips. As you exhale, bend your right knee so that your shin is perpendicular to the floor and your thigh is parallel to the floor. Lean forward over your right knee, resting your right elbow on your right knee and extending your left arm overhead.
Be careful to simply rest your arm on your knee – don't lean on your leg or use it to brace yourself. Firm up your legs and press the outer edges of your feet into the floor to find your balance.
Hold the pose for at least five breaths, stretching and lengthening your sides. Stack your hips and engage your core, keeping your hips open.
 You're probably familiar with planks, but an upward plank will stretch your chest, neck, and shoulders while also strengthening the muscles that support your shoulders, helping to loosen them.To get into an upward plank, sit on your mat with your legs out in front of you and your feet together. Extend your arms out behind your hips and place your palms on the floor with your fingers facing towards your body.
Inhale and press into your hands and feet to lift your body up. Press your inner thighs together and press down into the floor through your big toes.
Engage your abs, but keep your glutes relaxed. Lift with your chest and hips, pulling away from your wrists. Drop your head down and lengthen your neck.
Stay in this pose for five breaths, then slowly lower back to the ground.
 This pose will stretch and strengthen your shoulder rotators to loosen tight shoulders and help increase your range of motion. You also can do this pose while seated at your desk.Start in a lotus position with each heel crossed to the outside of the opposite hip and your knees stacked, or in cross-legged position if you aren't flexible enough to sit in lotus comfortably.
Inhale and reach upward with your right arm. As you exhale, bend your elbow to drop your hand and forearm down your back.
On an inhale, reach your left arm behind and up to grab your right fingers and interlock your hands. If you can't reach, you can use a towel or a strap.
Lengthen your torso, drawing your shoulders down your back and away from your ears. Stay in the pose for five breaths, then switch and do the other side.
You can modify other poses by doing cow face arms. , The sphinx pose will strengthen your spine, as well as stretching your chest, shoulders, and abdomen. Extending your arms adds additional stretching for your shoulders that can help increase mobility.Start by lying on your stomach on the floor with your legs together. If you roll your outer thighs toward the floor to rotate your thighs inward, it will help protect your lower back during the back bend.
Place your elbows under your shoulders, planting your forearms on the floor with your palms facing down.
On an inhale, lift your upper torso and head away from the floor, bending your back. Keep your elbows squeezed tight to your body and take a moment to connect with your breath.
Raise your right hand off the ground in line with your ear and straighten it out in front of you. Keep your shoulders down your back and your gaze low so you don't crunch your neck. Hold your arm extended for about five seconds, then release and raise your left arm.

