 Let your passengers know if you are suddenly overcome with nausea. Passengers can help either by giving you something to vomit into or, in dire need, by grabbing control of the wheel. Someone can also cup their hands as an impromptu vomit bag. Gross, yes, but perhaps better than a lingering stench in the car of vomiting on your clothes. The important thing is that they know what is happening and do not panic.
 The most important thing is controlling the car and the ensuring the safety of you, your passengers, and other motorists and pedestrians. Your clothes are the least of your worries. If you are driving at a slower speed, between 10 to 30 mph, try to pull over. If that proves to be impossible and there are no or only a few cars behind you, slow to a stop, turn on your hazard lights, and vomit.


Don’t worry about the reaction of other motorists in this situation. At slow speeds, there is little danger in stopping in the road. Open the door and vomit if possible.
If you can, pull over onto the side of the road. At the first sign of nausea, brace your body for another couple seconds and attempt a safe, slow maneuver onto the road shoulder.
 Do not stop in the middle of the road. Drive defensively, use your indicator, and do not assume other cars will slow down for you.


Do not pull into the center divide on a freeway or highway. Center divides are closer to the fastest moving cars and offer less space than the shoulder.
 As said, as slower speeds you should be able to stop, open your door, and vomit onto the pavement. However, this maneuver is very dangerous on faster roads and expressways. Even pulled onto the shoulder, you should avoid getting out of your car. Exercise caution. It is better to hurl on your floor mats than to be seriously injured by another car.


At high speeds, and if stopping is impossible take your foot off the accelerator while preparing to vomit and hover your foot over the brake in case you need to slow the car down quickly.
 If unable to pull over, your primary aim should be to maintain control over the vehicle. Do not pivot your head to the side and take your eyes off the road. Such a movement naturally causes one to swerve. Instead, look straight ahead and aim for a container or, barring that, the steering wheel/column or front window. You can wipe it off later with your hand.


If a bag or container is unavailable, you might also pull out your shirt collar and vomit onto your chest. While gross, this minimizes head movement and keeps you safest.
Alternatively, aim for the floor. It is better to vomit on the seat or floor than on a console with sound system and air conditioning/heating controls etc.

