 An oil-free cleanser will wash away dirt, oil, and makeup without robbing your skin of essential moisture. Cold water closes your pores.;
, Clay masks tend to strip the skin of oil and water, temporarily making the appearance of your pores smaller. Look for clay masks that contain bentonite and kaolin clay.









Clay masks can over-dry your face if you use them too often. In conjunction with other facial beauty products, use clay masks once, or at most twice, a week to keep your skin from drying out and reversing the good trend.
Experiment with clay masks that work in concert with your skin's tolerance. Some clay masks are better suited for sensitive skin, while other masks are better suited for oily skin. Talk to a beautician if you're unsure of which clay mask to buy.
 A homemade mask might look something like this: mix two whole eggs, four tablespoons sugar, and a few drops of any acidic liquid (such as vinegar or lemon, lime, orange, or grapefruit juice). Spread the goo all over your face and wait 15 minutes. Rinse with icy cold water. The dried mask pulls dirt and oil out of your pores, which allows them to close.
 Skin toners do exactly what their name suggests they do: tone, or "even out," your skin. Toners can be used by both men and women, and can be especially helpful if your skin has excess shine during the day from oil buildup. Toners will help eliminate some of the oil and shine, help prevent breakouts, and keep pores from getting clogged, thereby making them appear smaller.


Use a toner after you cleanse but before you moisturize. Wipe your face dry, then apply a bit of toner — depending on what form of toner you buy, you could spray it on, wipe it on, or rub it on — and then moisturize.
If your skin is hardy, apply the toner every day to minimize the appearance of pores and reduce excess shine. If your skin is more sensitive, use a toner every other day or every third day to reduce the risk of over-drying.
 Astringents are much like toners, except they are often stronger and alcohol-based. They cause facial tissue to constrict and tighten, reducing the appearance of pore size. Alcohol- or acetone-based astringents are only recommended for tolerant, oily skin. Astringents like these may be too harsh and drying for sensitive, dry skin.


Natural astringents can also be found. They include the following:

Witch Hazel
Rose Water
Orange Blossom Water
Green Tea
Apple Cider Vinegar
Cucumber
Elderflower



, Exfoliation means to wipe away the dead layer of skin on top of the epidermis, called the stratum corneum. You can physically exfoliate your skin by wiping a cleanser onto your face with a buff puff (don't wipe too vigorously) or by using a gritty scrub, such as one that has ground-up peach cores in it. Exfoliate at most two times a week.
 For a stronger variant, try chemical peels. Chemical peels are a little stronger than physical exfoliants, so be sure to use sparingly or to ramp up use slowly so that your skin gets used to higher concentrations gradually.









Tretinoin is a common chemical exfoliant. It's a retinoid, meaning it's related to vitamin A, and it's prescription, meaning you'll have to visit a doctor to get it. It's worth it, however.
Alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs) are another class of chemical exfoliant. AHAs can be purchased in the store and used at home for professional-grade chemical exfoliation. Look for AHAs that are glycolic acid-based.
Beta hydroxy acids (BHAs) are helpful, too. BHAs are oil-soluble where AHAs aren't, meaning they can penetrate deep into oily skin and exfoliate from the inside out. BHAs are suitable for people with especially acne-prone skin.
 Sun can not only damage your skin, it can also exaggerate the size of your pores. In order to counteract this, wear a gentle, noncomedogenic sunscreen when you plan on spending significant amounts of time outside.

