 Test it on a piece of paper.
 Put paper underneath so that you don't get ink all over the surface. The ink may start to flow.
 This may get the ball of the pen to move freely.
 Do this for 5 minutes

, (But don't do this too long because the plastic will melt, ruining the pen.) Press the tip to scrap paper and scribble until the ink flows.
, Lay the bag flat in a pot of boiling water for about three to five minutes. Take the Ziploc bag out of the pot and let it cool. When they are cool enough to handle, take the pens out of the bag and forcefully dab them on paper. After several dabs, the pens should work.
 It gets messy. Once you can push the wire to the bottom of the refill, take a .010" guitar string and repeat the process until you get all the way to the ball itself. The nail polish remover will act as a solvent and get it going again.
 A small piece of sponge is an acceptable alternative. Once the ink is down far enough, re-attach the metal tip and push. Scribble until the ink flows freely again.
 Hot or cold water can also be used to get a dry ball point pen to work again.

Run the tip under cold water. If dried up ink is clogging the tip, this could get things flowing again. The water will lubricate the dried ball






Run warm water over the tip of the pen. The heat will loosen the dried ink.






Use a damp rag and try to write on it, pressing down hard - it will also get the ball moving and begin to write. Be sure it's a rag - you'll end up with pen marks on the piece of cloth you are using!







, Lay the refill on a small piece of paper towel. Microwave for a very short time, until the refill is barely warm.


For an older microwave, try two sessions of 10 seconds each, but if you have a newer microwave oven you'll probably need less. Be cautious and don't melt the plastic.
Monitor the pen closely if you try this; frequently the pen can explode or melt, leaving ink in your microwave.



Permanent marker usually contain strong solvent, use it on pen tip to help dissolve dried ink.
 You can find these at any local pharmacy or Babies "R" Us. Simply insert the end of the cartridge into the the nasal aspirator and squeeze the nasal aspirator. Do this until you see ink flowing out of your pen.

