 Nothing says you are unavailable quite like having headphones on. Wear over-the-ear headphones so that people are sure to see them. Earbuds work too, but aren’t as effective because they can be difficult to see. Music is great for stopping conversation because it restricts your hearing. People will be much less likely to talk to you because they will assume that you can’t hear them well. You would have to remove your headphones to have a good conversation, which makes it difficult for people to talk to you.This tip works even if you don’t feel like listening to music. You can simply wear your headphones without music and people will assume that you are listening to music.
If someone does try to talk with you while you are wearing headphones, you can say something like, "I'm sorry, I can't hear you."

, This shows that you are occupied and makes the other person decide whether what they have to say is important enough to interrupt you. This also demonstrates your lack of interest because you are both looking down and engaging in another activity. It also gives you a good way out of a conversation on the off chance that they do interrupt you. You could say something like, “I’m sorry but I need to get back to my book now. I’m dying to know what happens next!” The other person will likely accept this and allow you to go back to reading.Sometimes this can backfire, for example, if someone else really likes to read and wants to ask you about your book. In case this happens, keep your responses brief to show that you aren’t interested in talking about your book, but prefer to read it. If they don’t get the hint, you can always say something like, “It was great talking with you but I’m going to return to my book now. I really want to finish this chapter.” If the other person is a reader, they will likely understand.
 Bring a notebook and spend time journaling or writing. You could also type something on your computer or tablet. This will help ward off unwanted conversation because it shows people that you are busy and are working on something. It will also help you to avoid eye contact. If someone does try to ask you about your writing, you can say something like, “I’m writing a piece for my class and I really need to finish it.” They will likely let you get back to your work.
 Have a snack while you are riding public transportation. It’s quite difficult to talk with a full mouth. If someone interrupts you mid bite, they will have to wait for you to chew and swallow, which makes for a slow and frustrating conversation. You can even exaggerate this a bit and take a long time chewing before you respond, then immediately take another bite. They will likely give up and find someone else to talk to.Try eating an apple. You can take big bites and chew slowly so that people see you aren’t able to talk.
 Spend some time with God or take a moment to clear your mind. People are less likely to bother you if you are engaged in a spiritual activity. To make sure that they know not to bother you, close your eyes and fold your hands. The other passengers should leave you alone.
 If you are busy texting someone or using an app or checking social media on your phone, you will be looking down and avoiding strangers. If someone does interrupt you, you can give a quick answer, like “yes,” and then get right back to your phone to show that you aren’t available to talk., Bring a handheld game console and play a game. Games often require a lot of focus, so it will be difficult for you to talk and play at the same time. Handheld games are generally for a single player, so you are doing something that no one else can join. This will help them to see that you aren’t interested in connecting with them right now., When in doubt, take a nap. It is always awkward to wake up someone who is sleeping, especially if you don’t even know them. If you don’t feel safe sleeping on public transportation, you can simply close your eyes. No one will know the difference and they will definitely hesitate to disturb you. This shows people that you are completely unavailable for talking.