 You will be wrapping rubber bands around the bottle before painting/etching it to create a striped look. Plain bottles with smooth sides (no bumps or ridges) will work best for this.;
, Remove the label and any residue first. Next, wipe the entire bottle down with rubbing alcohol. This will remove any oils and residue that might prevent the paint or etching cream from adhering.
 How far up the bottle you put the rubber bands is up to you. You can cover the entire bottle with rubber bands, or just the bottom. Make sure that the rubber bands are stretched tight and flat across the bottle. If they are too loose or twisted, the paint/etching cream could get underneath them and ruin you design.You can use rubber bands that are all the same thickness, or you can use both thick and thin ones.
You can slide the rubber bands on in neat, straight lines, or you can slide them on in crisscrossing angles.
 If you will be painting or etching the entire bottle, this will not be necessary. If you only want the bottom panted/etched, then cover the rest of the bottle with masking tape., You can spray paint the bottle for a colorful look, or you can apply etching cream for a frosted look. Apply your desired medium over the entire bottle. Don't worry if you cover the rubber bands.


Apply a few light coats of spray paint rather than one thick one.Apply the etching cream in a thick layer using a foam brush., Don't remove the rubber bands just yet. If you remove them too soon, you risk ruining your design. How long the product takes set depends on what you used.


Set spray painted bottles down in a dust-free area. Wait until the paint dries, usually 20 minutes.
Allow etching cream to sit on the glass for the time recommended on the bottle. Once the time is up, rinse it off under running water., Once the bottle is dry, gently lift up the rubber bands, and cut them off one by one. If you used masking tape as well, you should peel it off.


If you painted the bottle, take extra care not to chip the paint.
If you etched the bottle, you can simple roll the rubber bands off instead of cutting them.
 Because the design is on the outside, you can fill these bottles with water. Etched bottles can be hand washed. Painted bottles should only be wiped down with a damp cloth.

