 Eating can be a much more enjoyable experience when you put some effort into creating a pleasant atmosphere at meal times. Light some candles, put some music on, or watch your favorite TV show while eating. Also try to avoid stressful topics of conversation at the table, especially if your poor appetite is a symptom of anxiety., Doing some light exercise can really help to stimulate your appetite. Your body is designed to crave more energy from food after burning calories, so you'll always feel hungrier after exercising.You don't need to put in a strenuous work-out at the gym for this to work, even a brisk walk outside in the fresh air half an hour before a meal can help to stimulate appetite.
If you are underweight, you should avoid any form of strenuous exercise because even though you will be hungrier after working out, the food you eat will only balance out the calories you burned while exercising, which is no good if you are trying to gain weight. Leave the strenuous exercise until your appetite has improved and weight has increased.
 You should aim to drink between 6 to 8 glasses of water or water-based drinks a day. Drinking a glass of water an hour before and an hour after a meal can help with digestion and ensure that there is not too much food in the stomach at any given time. However, you should avoid drinking too much water directly before or during a meal, as this can decrease your appetite and give you a false sense of fullness.


Certain herbal teas have also traditionally been used to increase appetite, in particular peppermint, anise and licorice teas. Try drinking a cup or two throughout the day to increase your liquid intake and potentially increase your appetite.You may want to drink water and liquids at a different time than when you eat your meals.
 Keeping a food diary is a great way to identify and understand the problems in your relationship with food, so you can attempt to overcome them. Everyday you should make notes of the times you felt hungry or of the foods that appealed to you most. This way you can identify the best times and foods for you to eat, so you can maximize your appetite.


You should also make notes foods or smells that you find unappealing, so you can try to avoid them in future.
In addition, keeping a food diary will allow you to track your progress to see how far you've come, which can be a great confidence boost.
 It is a lot easier to skip meals or avoid eating what's on your plate if you frequently eat alone. Arrange to eat family dinners or invite a friend over to eat with you. You will enjoy the experience more and may even forget that you're eating.


Having other people around is also a good idea as they can offer you encouragement and hold you accountable for the food you fail to eat, if that's what you want.
If eating with family and friends is not always an option, consider joining a business breakfast club or an interest-based social club where you can dine alongside others for a few meals a week.
 Eating food off larger plates than usual is a psychological trick which leads your brain to believe that you are eating a smaller portion of food. In this way, you can eat more than if the food was piled high on a small plate, even if it's exactly the same amount of food.


Using brightly colored plates and arranging your food in an aesthetically pleasing way has also been said to positively affect appetite.
 If your poor appetite persists you should consider seeing a doctor. If he or she feels that your appetite is negatively impacting your health, they may prescribe you with an appetite inducing medication, such as megestrol or Marinol, which should help you to develop a healthy appetite.