 If you don’t already have an outline of your dissertation, you should create one. Making an outline will help to make writing your actual abstract much more efficient. To create an outline:


Start with your main thesis at the top.
Next, read each section of your paper. As you read, write a one-sentence summary of each major chapter or section. Keep them in order on your paper. Regardless of your discipline, take time to point out the key theorists in the discipline you’ll be exploring in your paper.
Include a summary of your conclusions, as well.
If you’re writing an abstract for a scientific dissertation, it’s not necessary to include all of your literature review; however, you might include a sentence on how your paper fits into the larger academic discussion.;
, Depending on your field of study, your abstract will contain certain specific pieces of information. For a science abstract, make sure to:


Discuss how your research fits into the larger academic discussion.
Talk about your methodology.
Include your conclusions.
Take time to discuss how it could lead to further research.
 For a humanities abstract, you will need to include information about the major works you are discussing. Remember to:


Include any major works you’re analyzing. In other words, provide a short discussion of the source material, whether it’s the diaries of a famous historical figure for a history dissertation, a work of literature, a piece of music, or a great work of art.
Discuss the major theories you’re applying to make your argument.
Cover your main argument.
Talk about your conclusions.
 A social science abstract will most likely focus on the research you did and any studies you conducted. Try to:


Include any methodology you used to conduct research.
Provide an overview of any studies you conducted, including participants and the purpose of the study.
Discuss major theories that you are using for analyzing your work, as well as how your research fits into the larger discussion. Remember to keep it brief.
Don’t forget to discuss your conclusions, as well as how your research could lead to further research.
 For a business abstract, you will most likely have to provide specifics about other companies that you use as a model. Remember to:


Include major theories you are using to analyze your research.
Talk about your research methods, especially if you are collecting data.
Provide specifics if you are looking at a particular company or analyzing a particular model.
Discuss your overall conclusions.
 This full citation should be placed above your abstract. The citation should include:


Your name.
The name of the article you have written.
Publication information, if there is any.
 You can begin with your overall thesis, as long as it is only a sentence in length. If it is more than a sentence long, try to condense it down.Remember, you’re just trying to give your reader an overview of your dissertation, not every detail.
 Collect the sentences you wrote about each section of your paper and shape them into a paragraph. Make sure to keep them in order so that your reader does not get confused by a section being out of place.


You should also include the sentence about your conclusion.
 While copy and pasting sentences together is a fast way to create an abstract, you should add transitions to make those stand-alone sentences make sense as a whole paragraph.


Remember, you are not just summarizing your individual thoughts in your abstract, you are recreating the argument you make in your paper in a shortened form.
 As mentioned above, each discipline has its own information that will need to be included in your abstract. See Part 1 for more information.


For instance, if you’re an archaeologist, you need to reference your primary materials.
If you’re a librarian, you should talk about the methods you’ve used to collect your research.
If you’re a psychologist, talk about the way you conducted your study.
 Cut your abstract down where it is necessary. An abstract should be about 100 to 200 words or so,as your reader is just trying to get an overall sense of your argument. If your abstract is much longer, spend some time cutting out unnecessary information and making your sentences as concise as possible.Only include information that is in the paper; do not bring new ideas into the abstract.
 Your abstract should include the main purpose of your paper, the problem you’re exploring, how you implemented your research, the conclusions you drew, and the implications it holds for other research. These items will change by discipline, of course.


The way you implement your research in science includes methodology (how you carried out your experiment), but in a humanities paper, you’ll likely be talking about the theories you applied in your research (such as applying Foucault’s theories to a book like Wuthering Heights).
 Remember that your readers want to know the key points and ideas of the work, which is true across all disciplines. Include enough information that they will be able to tell how well it fits into their own research but not so much information that they become overwhelmed.

