 Feeling like your foot is "asleep" is a common sensation. It's also a feeling that most people would like to avoid. Typically, parasthesia occurs when there is a lack of movement in that body part. To keep your feet from falling asleep, make sure to move them regularly.When your nerves are compressed, they can't send normal messages to your brain. That's why you lose feeling in your feet during parasthesia.
Try rotating your ankles in gentle circles to increase blood flow to your feet. You can also gently flex your feet forwards and backwards.;
, Sitting "cross-legged" is comfortable for many people. You might find yourself sitting with one or both feet tucked under your body, especially if you are sitting on the floor. While sitting that way may be comfortable for you, it is also one of the most common reasons that feet fall asleep. To avoid nerve compression, try not to tuck your feet underneath you when you sit. Instead, make sure your feet are free to move around, and do not let your body weight press down on them.It's a good idea to stand up at least once an hour. Walking around is good for your overall health, too. Try setting a reminder on your phone so that you make sure to get out of your seat even when you're at work.
It is quite common to compress your nerves that run through the buttocks and back of the leg to the feet. Avoid sitting on a thick wallet on one side.
Try to sit with your legs at a 90 degree angle. Avoid sitting in a position where the back of your thighs dig into the chair. Sit at a 90 degree angle, or use a stepper to place your feet.
 One of the easiest and most effective ways to keep your feet from falling asleep is to move your toes around periodically. You can do this while you're sitting or lying down. For example, if you are watching tv, get in the habit of wiggling your toes during commercials.You can also wiggle your toes while you are standing. Have you ever had your feet fall asleep while you're waiting in a long line? Next time you find yourself in that situation, try moving your toes around inside of your shoes.
Often, feet fall asleep while you are riding a stationary bike or using an elliptical machine. Wiggle your toes periodically while you exercise and you can prevent the problem.
 It is possible for your feet to fall asleep even while you are walking. Often, this happens because of an underlying problem with the nerves in your feet. You can help alleviate this issue by wearing properly fitting shoes.Make sure that your shoes are not too tight. You should be able to move your toes around in them without pain.
Avoid wearing high-heels, as these types of shoes put added pressure on your feet.
 Anxiety is actually a cause of feeling pins and needles. If you suffer from a general anxiety disorder, helping to manage it can help you to prevent your feet from falling asleep. Try to keep your breathing slow and steady. This promotes an overall calming effect on your mind and body.During panic attacks, many people hyperventilate. This can cause pins and needles. Focus on drawing deep, slow breaths when dealing with anxiety.
Breathe in slowly for five to seven seconds, and hold each breath for two seconds before slowly exhaling.
 Controlling your anxiety is important for your mental health and also in preventing your feet from falling asleep. There are several things you can do to help manage anxiety. For example, you can try adding meditation to your daily routine.Each day, make time in your schedule to sit quietly and calm your mind. You can download guided meditations to listen to on your smartphone.
Do yoga. Yoga has wonderful benefits for both your mind and body, including easing anxiety. It is also excellent for circulation.
 If you are a sound sleeper, it is possible that you don't move much while you are sleeping. This is due to nerve compression. If you fall asleep with your legs crossed, or one foot tucked under the other, you may wake up to paresthesia.Try sleeping on your back with your legs parallel to one another. This will help keep pressure off of your feet.
If you share a bed with your partner, try sleeping a little further apart. Your feet could fall asleep if someone else puts his or her leg on top of yours.

