 The signs and symptoms of a rubella infection tend to be very mild and difficult to notice. However, its most distinctive characteristic is a fine, pink-colored rash that begins on the face and quickly spreads to the neck, trunk and then the limbs.The rash typically lasts for between 1-3 days, then disappears in the same sequence that it appeared (face -> trunk -> limbs).


The distinctive skin rash only occurs in 50–80% of cases of rubella.If the rash and other symptoms appear, they do so between 2-3 weeks after exposure to the virus.;
, Another common feature of rubella (and virtually all infections) is a fever. However, unlike some other viral infections, rubella only triggers a mild fever of 102°F (38.9°C) or lower in children and young adults.The fever only lasts for about 3 days, but it should still be treated.


As with any fever, it's smart to keep well hydrated. Children with mild fevers should have a small glass of water or diluted juice every few hours while they're awake.
Mild fevers sometimes reduce appetite or lead to some nausea, although vomiting is not a typical sign of rubella.
 Another sign that the body is fighting an infection, especially an upper respiratory one like rubella, is inflamed or enlarged lymph nodes (glands).Blood and lymph fluid is filtered by lymph nodes, which contain specialized white blood cells that kill viruses and other pathogens. In doing so, they often get enlarged, inflamed and tender. Check behind your ears, along the sides and back of your neck and above your collarbones for tender lymph nodules.


With mild acute (short-term) infections, lymph glands only get enlarged and tender for a few days.
Don't confuse inflamed lymph glands with pimples, boils or ingrown hairs.
People of all ages, including infants, will develop swollen glands before the pink rash appears., Other symptoms of rubella tend to mirror those of the common cold, except they tend to be milder. These common upper respiratory symptoms include stuffy or runny nose, sneezing, inflamed bloodshot eyes, fatigue and headaches.Unlike the common cold and influenza infections, rubella doesn't lead to a sore throat, excessive coughing or lung congestion. However, sore throat is a prodromal (early) symptom of Rubella.


People of all ages may develop achy joints and symptoms similar to arthritis that can last between 3–10 days.Rubella spreads in the same way that the common cold and influenza do — via tiny droplets when infected people sneeze, cough or leave secretions on surfaces.
 When women are infected with the rubella virus early during their pregnancy (first trimester), they have a 90% chance of passing the virus on to their developing fetus.When this happens, there is a 20% chance of miscarriage, stillbirth or severe birth defects, such as deafness, cataracts, heart defects, intellectual/developmental disability, and liver / spleen damage.Rubella infection during pregnancy is the most common cause of deafness in newborns.
If you want to get pregnant, make sure you've received your MMR vaccination well in advance.
If you're already pregnant, your doctor will likely screen you for immunity to rubella by taking a blood test.
 Rubella is a mild, self-limiting illness. Treatment is supportive and directed at relief of symptoms. You may be advised to take antipyretic medications, such as acetaminophen, to control fever and fluid intake. This will help to promote and maintain adequate hydration.

The incubation period of rubella is 14 to 21 days. The period of communicability is from 1 week before the onset of the rash until about 7 days after the appearance of the rash.During communicability, a child with rubella should not attend school or daycare and should be isolated from pregnant women. If a child is severe enough to be hospitalized then precautions should be instituted until 5 days after the rash disappears.
 The rubella vaccine is usually given as a combined measles-mumps-rubella inoculation during early childhood — doctors recommend shots between 12-15 months old, then again between 4-6 years old (before entering school).Usually newborns are protected from rubella for up to 8 months due to the natural immunity passed on from their mothers.



Almost everyone who receives the MMR vaccine has immunity to rubella because the body builds antibodies against the rubella virus.
It's especially important that young girls receive the MMR vaccine to prevent rubella during future pregnancies due to the potential complications.
In some adults, the vaccine may "wear off" or not be effective. In such cases, it's possible to get a booster shot from your family doctor.
Rubella vaccines are also available by themselves (monovalent formulation), combined with only the measles vaccine (MR), or along with the measles, mumps and varicella vaccines (MMRV)., The United States, Canada and some countries in Europe have the highest rates and numbers of vaccinations in the world. Traveling to other countries, particularly underdeveloped ones in Africa and Asia, can put you at risk of getting infected by rubella or other viruses.One extreme solution is not to travel abroad to these countries, but a more reasonable approach is to take precautions while there. Washing your hands frequently and avoiding exchanging saliva or other body fluids with strangers is usually enough to prevent most infections.


Some developed countries in Europe and Asia, such as Japan, no longer give children MMR vaccines due to potential side effects. As such, you might be at higher risk of infection while in those countries.
Consider a booster shot of just the rubella vaccine if traveling to foreign countries — but sometimes (in rare cases) the side effect symptoms are worse than the actual infection.
Contact the World Health Organization (WHO) or look on their website to find out which countries vaccinate their population against the rubella virus.
 For any type of infection, true prevention depends on a strong immune system.Your immune system consists of specialized white blood cells that search and destroy disease-causing microorganisms such as the rubella virus. However, when it's weakened and malfunctioning, viruses and other pathogens can grow unchecked in body fluids and mucus, leading to various symptoms. Therefore, focus on ways to keep your immune system healthy in order to naturally prevent rubella and other infections.


Getting more sleep (or better quality sleep), eating lots of fresh fruit and veggies, practicing good hygiene, keeping well hydrated and getting regular exercise are all ways to boost your immune system.Pay attention to your diet. Your immune system also benefits by cutting down on refined sugars (sodas, candy, ice cream, chocolate), cutting back on alcohol consumption and quitting smoking.
Supplements that can strengthen your immune response include: vitamins A, C and D, zinc, selenium, echinacea, olive leaf extract and astragalus root.