 When a woman is entering and exiting the car, open the door for her. It shows you have manners and know how to treat a woman like a lady.;
, It is also appropriate, in a safe place, to ask the lady to wait inside while you pull the car up for her.
 This is respectful and caring to all and shows you are happy to be seen with your lady. It doesn't mean she can't open the door for herself. It shows pride and respect.
 Make sure she and others are comfortable before taking your own seat. She will see the respect and feel cared for by someone who is interested in and willing to provide for and protect her.
 A woman loves a nice dinner as well as a day spent together, catering to her preferences. Unless she says otherwise, it can be whatever she wants to do. It's not about you.
 Always plan to pay, unless your date said in advance she wants to treat you to a special occasion.
 Do not blow the horn. It's just annoying to all and disrespectful to her. What woman wants to come out the door, running to you, on demand?

,, This is a sign of protection.
, It makes her feel safe. A gentlemanly hug and "Thank you.", for the pleasant day or evening is a good parting gesture. Don't assume it is okay to plant a kiss on the first date or two. Ask, "Is it all right if I kiss you?"

, A woman loves to know that she's on your mind. Whether you say it, write it, or text it, take 3 minutes to let her know you're thinking about her. It will brighten her day and make her feel special.
 Women are all different, but if you ask women what they enjoy doing, for most shopping is somewhere on the list. If you are at the mall with your woman, you should carry the bags. She shouldn't be struggling while you’re walking around, hands free.
 -- but don't insist, if she objects.
 Do not cheat or give any appearance of behavior that could be construed as disloyalty to a lady-friend, your date or to others.
 It shows you are really interested and reliable, and respect her time.
 Only make dates when you know for sure you are free to go out. If a true emergency arises that will prevent you from keeping the date, call as soon as possible. If you are unable to reach her by phone, text, e-mail, Facebook email -- do something to let her know you can't make it. Try to set up a follow-up date. This shows character.
 Women can handle it. Give them some credit. Don't play games with her and have her thinking the relationship is something that it's not.
 Let her know she looks nice. Most women are wired to want to feel beautiful, but not being told in an unrealistic way. Tell her in a courteous and sincere way.
 Don't boss or attempt to control the woman. Do not be condescending, talking down, leading the woman to feel that she is not respected. It's never okay to disrespect anyone, but men are particularly to uphold and honor women. Never bad mouth or curse, call her names, deride her or roughly "put your hands on" her in private or in public. These behaviors reveal that you are weak, selfish and immature.
 Be there for her when she needs you. Expect her to get nice compliments. And if anybody tries to hurt her, stand up for her and protect her. Don’t allow anybody, especially another man to disrespect her, call her names, touch her inappropriately, or such. Don't permit your children to speak disrespectfully of or to a lady or their mother (support your wife in disciplining the children and in arguments with your family).
 When going to a formal occasion, you can try holding out your arm to give her something to hold onto. Historically, chivalry dictated that this was the non-dominant arm, as the other arm was used to fight off other males. However, use whichever arm is more natural in the situation.

