 Often, gifted kids are unmotivated because they're bored. They've mastered the content already, so they feel like they don't have to try. To help alleviate the problem, try challenging these kids. One way to do that is to go faster if you have a group of these students. You don't want to leave them in the dust, but you do want to move fast enough that you're engaging their brains.Keep checking in with the children. If they have the content, move on. If they don't, try covering it again, but in a slightly different way.
One way to check if the kids have the material is to ask relevant questions or to do in-class homework. Either way, you can assess where they are individually or as a whole.
Look for warning signs of boredom, such as restless behavior, increased chatting, etc.
 One technique that can work in a large class of mixed students is to give the gifted kids more advanced material. Once they've mastered the basics, offering more advanced material on the same subject can give them motivation to keep working.Of course, this approach is more difficult in a large, varied class. However, you can give a group of students a topic to discuss while you help the rest of the class catches up, or you can ask the more advanced students to help the other kids catch up. Both offer challenges to the advanced kids, while keeping the other kids in mind.
For instance, in history, maybe some of the kids have the ideas of the Civil Rights Movement down, while the rest of the class needs a bit more help. You could have the more advance group spend time discussing what made "I Have a Dream" such a great speech, while the rest of the class does more reading. At the end of class, the more advance group could present their findings to the rest of the class.
 If a kid finds a topic interesting enough to master it quickly, try finding tangential or related material to interest them. If you can find related topics, the gifted kid will likely dive in and do more than you expect. Alternatively, try taking what they're already learning deeper.For example, if a kid is interested in the U.S. suffragist movement, you might point them in the direction of the British suffragist movement.
 Make sure you have conversations with your child that go beyond academia or what they're currently studying. For instance, watch the news together and ask them their opinion on current events. This reminds them that there's life outside of school, which can help keep them from feeling smothered or overwhelmed. Asking for their input shows you value what they have to say, and can also challenge them to apply their gifts toward real-world problems., One technique to help gifted students involves pre- and post-assessments. As you start a new unit, give the students a pre-assessment. The students who have already mastered certain areas can sit out those lessons, working on other material.When compacting, it's important to have alternative assignments and activities for students, though they can be self-directed if the student has a particular interest.

