 If you’ve developed a dependency on a particular type of fetish that you want to stop indulging, you can do so with focused effort. In particular, you will need to establish methods to interrupt the compulsions you feel.Since urges associated with mysophilia have not been studied extensively, and are different from person to person, the best way to address them is by working with a counselor that has been trained to help people work through these sorts of issues.
Some consider the compulsions associated with mysophilia to be similar to those of someone with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Thinking of your urges in this way might help you normalize them, as well as give you some insight into how you might address them.
Ask your therapist things like “What can I do when I experience a sexual urge that I do not want to indulge in?”

, CBT is a type of treatment you can undertake with the guidance of a counselor or therapist. Over the course of a few structured sessions, CBT will help you become more aware of certain thought patterns, as well as how you can choose to respond to them.CBT has been successfully used to help people manage mental, emotional, and sexual conditions of all sorts.
CBT may help you manage any negative thinking around your mysophilia. Instead of judging yourself or feeling ashamed about your urges, it can help you learn to restructure your thinking and accept that these urges are part of who you are and that it doesn't make you a bad person.
Hypnosis, though based on less scientific evidence, is also considered effective in reducing anxiety.
 There are specific types of psychotherapy that can help you redirect your urges towards more appropriate subjects. These methods all work by training your brain to associate positive feelings with particular behaviors, and/or negative feelings with certain behavior.Aversion therapy involves exposure to unpleasant stimuli, such as smelling salts, while aroused by a fetish you no longer wish to be aroused by, such as a dirty shower.
Similarly, covert sensitization therapy involves verbally describing, in detail, an arousal scenario (of the sort you wish to reduce the urge for), followed by a detailed description of an intensely unpleasant scenario.
Finally, masturbatory reconditioning is the most direct form of “conditioning.” This involves masturbating to the types of fantasies you don’t wish to indulge in any longer, and switching to images or video of vomit-free sex just before orgasm.
 In some cases, medication can be used to address and diminish sexual urges that you do not wish to experience. Drug therapy is usually not pursued unless the fetish becomes a large and problematic part of your life. Medications include options such as antidepressants and mood stabilizers. If you have any questions about the potential for medication to help you deal with a sexual issue, be open and honest with your doctor or therapist when describing why you are considering medication.