 It can be difficult to discuss these type of issues. It is important that you speak honestly about your feelings. Let your loved one know that you want to support them and help them with any problems they are having.Be realistic about how much time and energy you can commit and the other responsibilities you have.
If you are overwhelmed or are having difficulty speaking to your loved one, consider speaking with a a counselor to help you work through your feelings.
 Your loved one has likely been living independently and wants to maintain control. It is important that you honor your loved one's wishes even if you do not agree with them.

Be patient with your loved one and think about how you would want to be treated if you were in their position.

Suggest small changes so that it is easier for your loved one to adjust.
Try to focus on the big, important issues and do not get caught up in the little details.If your loved one's desires are not realistic or feasible, you may need to make some decisions without them. For example, if your loved one insists on driving but has been in multiple car accidents, you may need to take their keys away until you make other transportation arrangements.
 If you are care plan includes community resources and home health care providers, frame these resources in a positive light so your loved one is more receptive. Call a home health care provider a "friend." If you are sending your loved one to an adult day care center, tell your loved one that they are going to volunteer or help at the center. You could also refer to the center as a club or social organization.Remind your loved on that accepting help now will help them remain independent for as long as possible.
 While it is important to be considerate of your loved one's feelings, avoid sugar coating the situation. Be honest and present the negative information as well. If it will be difficult for your loved one to stay in their house or perform daily activities without help, let them know.

Remind your loved one know that they are not going through these changes alone and that you are speaking from a place of genuine care and concern.

