 Some good ideas might be something like, "Save the whales!" or "Stop global warming!" the cause should also relate to where you are. For example, 'save the whales' might not be such a good idea if you live 10 hours to the nearest whale location, whereas 'keep our state clean' would work anywhere. But nothing says you can't do more than one cause. Your club could do a different cause every month. For example, you could do saving polar bears in November, pandas in December, and global warming in January.;
, This can be as simple as 'The Environmental Club' or as cool as 'Team Environment'. Some words you could use are green, tree-hugger, and, of course, something that relates to your cause. Then you can start accepting members.
 Now that you have your club, you need to assign days you will get together to study your cause. After the club members are experts on the cause, research places where you can help or protest, depending on your cause.
 Your club must have a place where it gets together to have meetings and discuss your projects. It could be in the woods (just don't litter), in someone's room, living room, tree house, or your yard, there are endless possibilities.
 Find a time that suits most of your club members (if not all) and talk about possible projects. They could be fund-raisers, cleanups, spreading awareness, it should relate to what you have been researching.
 Each club member should have a certain job they need to do. Some you could include are a recruiter, site administrator, activity manager, Project manager, the President who decides all the meeting times, new members, meeting places, activities, and projects. (The president only decides on them, does not think them up.)

, Your club should have some fun activities to do occasionally to remind them what they are fighting for. These could be hikes in the forest, watching environmental movies (such as "An Inconvenient Truth, or even "WALL-E"), or anything else you can think of that would apply to the environment (don't use this as an excuse to spend your meetings watching movies and eating popcorn), only do these once a month or twice a month or the group may become too passive.
 At your meetings, decide on a few projects, and do them. When you're done with the few projects you have chosen, decide on a few more. And after that, a few more. In addition, after that, you can always redo projects if you think they were not successful. The projects could be anything from fund-raisers to park cleanups and even to handing out brochures on a cause (be sure to print them on recycled paper, or don't print it at all because recycling still pollutes).
 If you don't have enough money, you can always make it from a web-hosting service, such as WordPress or Posterous, Current/Upcoming Projects (the projects you are working on and what you will do soon), and Home. On your homepage, write what you have been talking about during your meetings. You can also have a photo gallery, links to other environmental sites, a members-only area that is password protected and where you have a discussion page, and even a section about how you can help the earth. Be sure not to give any personal info on your page, such as phone numbers, last names, addresses, e-mail addresses, or school addresses. Update your website frequently, so people don't get bored.

