 Before you file your report, make sure you have sufficient information or evidence for the police to go on. It also may be a good idea to find out if the abuse you've observed violates a state law or local ordinance.If you find a law that you believe relates directly to the abuse you've observed, print it out so you can show it to law enforcement.
Keep in mind that law enforcement officers don't necessarily know every law related to animal cruelty, and they may be more inclined to investigate the situation if they know specifically which law is being violated.
If you can do so safely, you may want to take photos of the animals or the condition in which they are being kept. However, make sure you don't trespass on private property to obtain your evidence.
Understand how the animals you've observed being abused are classified. Cities, states, and counties have different laws regarding the treatment of companion animals as opposed to animals classified as farmed animals or livestock.
Regardless of the animal's classification, certain acts generally are forbidden, including kicking or punching an animal or neglecting the animal by failing to provide adequate food, water, or veterinary care.
Generally, livestock includes any animals that are being kept for consumption of byproducts, such as dairy cattle. In contrast, farmed animals are animals raised for slaughter.;
, The law enforcement agency that has jurisdiction to investigate the situation typically will be the one located in the city or county where the abuse is taking place.Within city limits, you typically must use the municipal police department. Out in the county, you probably should use the sheriff's department.
Keep in mind that farm animal conditions also may violate health and safety ordinances, in which case you would need to file your report with the local department of health.
The USDA has a map on its website of the appropriate law enforcement agency to contact about farm animal abuse in each locality.
 Typically you'll want to go down to the police station so you can file your report in person and speak with an officer face to face about the farm animal abuse you've observed. Bring along any evidence you have.Provide as many facts about the situation as you can. Include your name and contact information in the report so investigators know how to reach you.
If you made copies of laws you believe are being violated, take those along as well. Be prepared for the officer who takes your report to say there's nothing that can be done about it.
Make sure you get a written copy of the report before you leave. You can use the reference number on the report to call and check the status of your report or provide additional information.
 If police officers choose to investigate the situation based on your report, they may have additional questions or need assistance from you. Make sure you've provided contact information so they can get in touch with you if necessary.Law enforcement generally have discretion over whether to investigate reports, and the extent to which they investigate them. You may have to be persistent to get results.
Keep in mind that regardless of the outcome of the investigation, prosecutors also have broad discretion regarding whether to file charges in any given case. Filing a report is no guarantee that the abusers will be brought to justice.
However, in the event the prosecutor does elect to file charges, they typically will need to get in touch with you and discuss the possibility of using you as a witness in the case.

