 Gingham can be appropriate for formal occasions. When wearing gingham to something like a formal dinner party or work, it's best to choose played down colors. Go for ginghams with shades like grays, blacks, or light blues to avoid an overwhelming look.While neutral ginghams can often be successfully paired with bolder colors, for formal occasions it's best to avoid anything too bold. Pair ginghams with matching neutral colors, like a black and white gingham shirt with a pair of gingham dress pants.
 When going to a semi-formal occasions, such as a business casual office, gingham can work great. It brings something casual to your outfit without completely sacrificing the professional feel. Try wearing something gingham, like a gingham top or bottom, and pairing it with more formal clothing items.Try wearing a gingham undershirt underneath a suit.
Pair a more casual gingham skirt with a formal blouse for a top.
If you have anything with short or no sleeves in gingham, throw a more formal cardigan, blazer, or jacket over this outfit.
 The great thing about gingham is that it can be wearable for many different occasions. If you're just going out for a casual get-together, throw on a pair of blue jeans with your gingham.Keep other outfit items casual as well. Wear a pair of tennis shoes, for example, or casual flats to an informal event. Avoid things like blazers or cardigans that may look too stuffy.
 Gingham is great because it's so versatile. A good gingham dress can be appropriate for multiple occasions. It can be worn to places like work and school, but also worn for casual nights out.Using other wardrobe items, you can change how a single gingham dress works. Wear a gingham dress with a blazer and tights at the office. When you're ready for happy hour with co-workers, remove the tights and blazer for a more informal look.
While gingham is usually an appropriate pattern for most occasions, check your office's policy before wearing gingham to work to make sure your dress meets all aspects of your company's dress code.

