 This is the number one thing you can do to fight bad breath. Using a toothbrush and fluoride toothpaste, brush in the morning and evening every day. Set a timer for two minutes or listen to a short song to keep time, since most people do not brush for long enough.If you are really worried about bad breath, brush after every meal.


Don't "scrub" your teeth hard -- hold the brush like a pencil and brush in light circlesHold the brush at a 45 degree angle, just along the edge of the gum line.
Be sure to brush your tongue and the roof of your mouth as well.
Replace your brush every 2-3 months.;
, Flossing is still the most effective way to remove food and plaque from between your teeth, where it can irritate your gums and lead to bad-smelling bacteria growth. Be sure to get each tooth from each side.


The floss should form a "C" shape around the tooth.
Only floss at the gum line. If your gums start bleeding, rinse your mouth and resume gentle flossing.
 Use antibacterial mouthwash a few times a week after brushing and flossing. Never use mouthwash with alcohol since it dries out your mouth and worsens your breath in the long-term.Mouthwash generally masks bad breath instead of curing it, so make sure you are still brushing and flossing frequently.
 Dehydration is a major cause of bad breath, but it is easily remedied. Make sure you drink 4-5 glasses of water a day to keep your mouth healthy and clean., Gum promotes saliva creation in your mouth, which helps keep your mouth moist and the bacteria in balance. However, gum with sugar in it will make your breath worse, as sugar feeds the bacteria in your mouth and creates worse breath.


Having a piece of sugar free gum right after a meal can help keep your mouth healthy., Leafy green herbs like parsley contain chlorophyll, which is known to naturally deodorize your mouth. Chew up several sprigs for a quick breath freshener.Fresh basil, cardamom, rosemary, and green tea also have similar deodorizing properties

, Zinc, found in some mouthwashes, helps fight halitosis and prevent bad breath. It can be found in pumpkin seeds and other gourds (like squash), cacao, and organ meats like liver. It is also an essential part of most multi-vitamins and can be purchased as a supplement at your local pharmacy.
 Professional cleanings will remove plaque and help you notice any issues before they become problems. Be sure to make regular appointments and ask your dentist any questions you have about your breath.

