 Depending upon the size of the bird, it can take between 1 and 3 days to defrost in the refrigerator. It is recommended that you cook soon after defrosting to avoid food borne illness.;
, Place a rack in the middle to low middle of the oven, depending upon the size of the whole chicken.
 Remove other kitchen appliances, dishes and silverware to reduce cross contamination. Ready your roasting pan or Dutch oven nearby for easy transfer.
 Place the packaging directly in the trash.
 Throw them away if you do not want to use them for a gravy.
 Stick your fingers between the breast and the skin. Move your hands underneath the skin to loosen it for seasoning.
, Roast chicken is versatile, and it can be flavored according to the regional aromatics, fruits and vegetables you prefer.


Try lemon pepper or lemon garlic chicken. Lemon, onions and garlic are the staples of the aromatics that help to flavor the whole chicken. Pepper or garlic can be used to season the surface of the chicken as well as the inside cavity.
Consider herb seasonings, such as a combination of rosemary, sage and thyme. You can use a generic poultry seasoning or Italian seasoning if you do not have access to fresh herbs.
Spanish or Mexican flavors, such as chili pepper, paprika, garlic or cayenne will make the chicken's surface spicy. Use the pre-seasoned extra meat for tacos and enchiladas. Adobo seasoning is a combination of paprika, oregano, garlic and pepper that comes pre-packaged at specialty stores and supermarkets.



Slice 1 to 2 lemons in half to place inside the chicken cavity.
Cut up onions or shallots into quarters.
Peel garlic cloves. You will want to place anywhere from 2 to 10 garlic cloves, depending upon preference.
 Combine 2 tbsp. (30ml) of unsalted melted butter with 1/2 tsp. (0.9g) salt, 1/2 tsp. (0.9g) of pepper and 1/2 tsp. (0.9g) to 1 tbsp. (30g) of dried or fresh herbs. You can use a ratio of 1 to 3 with measuring dried or fresh herbs, since dried herbs are more potent.


You can also substitute canola oil or olive oil for the butter. The fat will help to brown the surface of the bird.
 Place them underneath the skin on the surface of the chicken meat.
 Place them inside the cavity of the chicken. Make sure there aren't any ingredients falling out; however, it can be tightly packed.
 The breasts should face upward on the rack.
 Place them below the roasting rack.


If you are using a Dutch oven, place the root vegetables on the bottom of the pan, then place the chicken on top. This will help the juices drip down into the pan as they cook.
If you want smaller vegetable slices, wait 20 to 30 minutes, to place them underneath the roasting rack. This will prevent overdone vegetables.
 This means you wrap the drumsticks with twine and tuck in the wings to keep the cavity closed.


Trussing the chicken is not necessary. It can increase the cooking time, because the heat does not reach the dark meat as easily.
 Allow it to roast at 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius) for 20 minutes. This will brown the bird and seal in juices.
 Let it roast for 1 hour to 1 hour and 30 minutes, depending upon the size of the bird, the evenness of the oven and the altitude.
 It should read at least 170 degrees Fahrenheit (77 degrees Celsius). If it does not, allow it to roast for 20 to 30 more minutes before checking again.
 Place the chicken on an unheated surface or a cooling rack.
,,, You will need to return to the bird to take the rest of the meat off the bones for use in future recipes.


Throw away the chicken carcass or place it in a pot to make homemade chicken stock.
