 If your child is out trick-or-treating alone this year, have them hold a flashlight just in case. If you are going out with your child, you can carry it for them. There are also light-up shoes which flash different colours as your child is walking. You can also find glow rods or bracelets. They are sure to be seen on even the darkest of Halloween nights.;
, If your child is old enough to go on their own, but young enough to get lost, make a trick or treat route for them the day before. Check the area for dangers, such as broken sidewalks, large cracks, potholes, construction work, etc. Even though your child may want to go trick or treating in a less crowded area of town, keep in mind that these areas are sometimes deserted for a reason. There could be a crime watch, homes without sweets, or even just bad candy. Although, sometimes these places are perfectly fine. There are ups and downs for every section of a neighbourhood, and it's the discretion of the parent or trick or treater where to go., This step is extremely important if the child doesn't have a cellphone. A group of three to ten is generally okay. Make sure that the group will stay on task, meaning they won't drop the candy bags and get into mischief as soon as they are out of your sight (see warnings).
 Sneakers are preferred. Flip flops may seem fashionable at first, but after two hours of the shoe cutting into your big toe, it won't be as fun as it sounds. The same goes for Heelys, and other rollerblades. These are dangerous shoes, and could result in a serious injury. Make sure that the shoe fits, and that the laces are tied correctly. It's a common misfortune when a kid loses their shoe for a second, and it disappears into the Halloween night.


Just in case, if your you or your child has special shoes for their Halloween costume, bring a back up pair, that you know will be comfortable. This way, your trick or treating won't have to end earlier than you expected because you or your child cannot walk anymore in their shoes.
 Many masks (i.e., Spiderman, Grim Reaper, Ninja Turtle, etc.) do not provide air holes large enough for breathing, or may not have air holes at all. Before buying it, make sure that it has holes for eyes, nose, and mouth. If the child thinks it's not big enough, carefully cut them larger. It may be a hassle, but you'll be thankful in the long run when you can breathe easily after an hour of trick or treating.
 A short-cut cheerleader costume may not be such a good idea in forty degree weather, and vice versa for warmer areas. Bring along a jacket just in case, and be aware of the weather for that night.
 Although there have been reports of tampered candy, they are mostly false or lies. Even though it's highly unlikely, you should still probably check any candy with torn wrappers, as this may involve tampering.Before eating any of your food, lay it out once you get home to make sure you are only eating unopened candy. If your child is under ten, go through this activity with them. They should also be aware to never eat food they collect as they are trick or treating for this reason.
 If a house doesn't have any lights on, isn't attracting much attention, or is overall uninviting, the owners may not want to participate in Halloween. Respect their wishes, and don't ring the doorbell! Some children will insist on 'making sure they're not home' by ringing the doorbell, or rapping on the door obnoxiously. Not only could this annoy the people inside the house, but it could wake them up, or interrupt them during important work. Remember, there's always other houses.
 This includes;


Cross at crosswalks or streets without any traffic.
Stay on sidewalks.
If there is no sidewalk, walk near the curb, facing traffic.
Never assume a car will see you.

