 Wild birds are not domesticated like house birds. A cage may alarm them, and they can injure themselves in an attempt to escape. Ventilated boxes lined with towels are actually best for birds, especially adult birds who have lived in the wild their whole lives. The dark calms them, and the enclosed space gives them a sense of protection against predators.Make sure you poke air holes in the box.


Remember this will only a temporary solution for keeping birds. The end goal to caring for wild birds is to reintroduce them into the wild, not to keep them as pets.
 Birds will be quiet as they recover so do not be alarmed if they do not sing or chirp in the box. In fact, the quieter their shelter, the better it will be for their healing.If the bird is an adult, you should keep the box outside as far away from the house as possible.
Baby birds should be kept close to you for constant supervision. You may choose to keep them inside or outside. If you do choose to leave their shelter outside, make sure that they remain close to the house, and give them an insulated shelter for warmth and protection.
 Especially if the bird you have rescued is a baby, you will want to keep the bird warm. There are a few methods you can use to warm a bird bed. If the bird is an adult, it may only need towels and grass shavings for warmth. If the bird is an unfeathered chick, it will need a more substantial source of warmth.You can pour warm water in a bottle and wrap it in paper towels. You may also want to put paper towels around the bird so that this doesn't burn them. This is a good option if you are keeping the bird outside.
Alternatively, you may make a bed of towels or old t-shirts in a pet carrier. Place the bird inside. Leave a heating pad beneath the carrier on throughout the day and night. The heating pad should warm the entire carrier.This is ideal if you are keeping the bird inside.
 If it curls up and isn't moving, it's not dead! It's sleeping, and this bird needs to sleep. It will tell you when it's awake and hungry again. Make sure you stay nearby when they're sleeping; they will need your absolute attention when they wake up.
 After a few weeks, you will notice the bird has sprouted more feathers. The bird will also start flapping its wings and shuffling around on its own. It is becoming a fledgling. It is extremely important in this stage that the bird has room to move around as it will be learning to fly. Supervise the bird carefully but give him room to move.


To ensure successful reintroduction into wild, take the chick outside once or twice a day. Hold the nestling in your hands, and if they try to fly off, don’t stop them. This exercise will strengthen their muscles and help them learn to fly. As time goes by, they will fly away for farther distances and longer periods of time but may still return for feedings.To prevent injury inside the home, you can teach the fledgling to avoid mirrors and windows. Hold the bird up to the glass and allow them to poke their beak against it. Do this repeatedly to teach the bird to avoid these as they learn to fly.