 You don't want the ball slipping from under your feet do you?


Practice dribbling and scoring. (Going to an empty field to practice dribbling and scoring is a good idea). However, there is only so much you can do on your own. Ideally, it is best to have a partner or, even better, partners to practice with. Then, you can mimic game time situations and moments, and practice movement with a ball and with other players.
Find a good brick wall, draw a circle on it, and practice scoring into that circle. Practice both feet, because it isn't relevant to be only right or left-footed.;
, If you can’t run a series of sprints without feeling completely out of breath, you need to work on your speed and endurance. Practice doing 8-10 100 yard sprints in a row, at least 3 times a week, in the month before your tryout.


Squatting also helps speed. The overhead squat is a time-tested exercise requiring full-body range of motion. It takes some practice to get it right, but there is no better exercise to encourage maximal gluteal and hamstring activation. You also end up gaining strength and neuromuscular power you could never hope to achieve on a squat machine or with a typical half-depth standing squat. Just try to this with a partner to help analyze your form, if possible.
Stand with heels as wide as shoulders, toes pointing slightly out, and arms overhead, elbows locked. Squat down as low as you can, encouraging gluteal contraction, and keeping your back as straight as possible. Hold this position as long as you can. As you continue to do this exercise, you will be able to do it longer.
 This skill is crucial to learn and requires a lot of practice.
, It is important to be healthy out on the field. Also, Eating well will indeed increase your stamina.
 It's necessary to be active in soccer, due to the transitions and moving you have to do.
 This means understand your position and prepare to play soccer.
 If you are trying to play in an older league, make sure that the team fits your need for a challenge. If you want to play for a select team, but you are still looking to have fun more than anything else, you will want to be sure you agree with the philosophy of your coaches.
 In other words, make sure you agree with the coach's way of teaching the game. Understand what your coach is trying to tell you. Understand that your coach is looking for soccer skills, not personality.


Respect what your coach says or tells you to do. Make sure you respect your coach, but have enough will-power to decline if your coach wants you to do something that doesn't reach the rules of the game.
 Play the game and pass the ball to other players. Do not hog the ball to yourself expecting to get to the goal in time. Pass the ball. This develops team work and help your team mates want to gain your trust.


Practice passing the soccer ball and get good in your soccer skills.
 If someone has fallen, help them up and play fair.
 Most coaches want to see how well you react to situations and how well you can use the environment or space to your advantage.
 When people work together, honest mistakes and disappointments happen, and it's easy to blame someone who causes these. However, when everyone starts pointing fingers, an unpleasant atmosphere can quickly develop. This lowers morale, undermines trust, and is ultimately unproductive. Instead, encourage everyone in your group to think about the mistake in a constructive way. What can you all do to fix what happened, and move forward together? And how can you make sure that this mistake doesn't happen again?

