 Oftentimes, taking offense is a choice. This means that our reactions to what we consider offensive should be the focus of change.If you’re not sure whether or not you really are easily offended, take this test for a quick answer.


How has taking offense easily shaped you? Do you expect to be offended often, causing you to be very defensive? Do you find it difficult to trust others?
Avoid the trap of thinking that you’re a sensitive person, and that taking offense is a hard-wired part of your personality. You may indeed be very sensitive to outside influence—most people are. But, sensitivity is different from taking others' actions personally.;
, Unless the world really does revolve around you, it is just an assumption that others are acting out of hatred or disdain for you. So, where do these assumptions come from?


Examine your relationship with yourself. The easily bruised egos that result from feeling vulnerable and defensive usually mask fundamental insecurities and mistrust of self.Do you feel insecure about your identity or uncomfortable in your skin? Are you finding what you feel inside out in the world, in the form of an offensive comment or slight?
Just because you have an intense experience of your feelings does not mean that people are being purposely malicious toward you. In fact, others can rarely tell when people around them are highly sensitive even if they wanted to purposely harm sensitive people.
 Another major trigger for taking offense is seeing a behavior or hearing a phrase that reminds us of a negative past experience.We make associations between certain actions and our hurt feelings or discomfort that emerged with them at the time. Even if the person doing it means no harm, just seeing the action may cause us to become defensive and feel victimized.


It is important to remember that while an action may have carried a particular meaning at some other point does not mean that this will always be the same in the future.
For example, say while growing up, a school teacher scolded you for wearing a revealing shirt to school, making you feel frightened and ashamed. Upon a current friend's neutral suggestion that you bring a sweater to wear over your halter top, you could take offense and lash out at her, not quite knowing why.
 As humans, we all have basic emotional needs--to feel connected, safe, purposeful, and attended to.Many of us are lucky enough to grow up with the expectation that other people will be support our needs (just like our parents did). While this expectation helps us feel safe and trusting of others, it can backfire and create unrealistic ideals about how we should be treated.


This is especially problematic since growing older usually involves being increasingly responsible for our own needs.
Often, working on this issue means that the fulfillment of emotional needs requires better balance between yourself and others. Do you work to manage your emotional needs or expect others to conform to your ideal way of being treated?

, Sometimes it's easy to get offended if you see a socially acceptable opportunity to do so. For instance, we know that talking in a library is against the rules. So, even if you are casually reading a magazine, taking offense to the talking can serve the function of getting you attention.If someone says something potentially offensive, question if you really do feel burned because their take is that important to you. You might just be martyring yourself to illuminate a faux pas or rude remark just for the hell of it--out of self-righteousness or a desire to control who says what.
 Since there are appropriate times make issue of something that happened, journal about your values to determine which problems you really consider worthwhile. This will make you better able to know what’s worth raising a fuss about and what can be let go and forgotten about.


Additionally, having a stronger sense of your own values will help you feel less threatened when they are challenged. Trusting your values makes others' opinions less important.
 Breaking habitual ways of acting is extremely difficult. Talking yourself through your own feelings and using yourself as a springboard to consider alternative ways of thinking is an invaluable tool.


You might develop little mantras to tell yourself, like "Everyone is doing the best they can to be compassionate" or "If each person doesn't prioritize her own needs, who will?"

, Allow time to pass before responding to someone you feel is offending you. If you are too easily offended, it has probably become an automatic response for you. This means that there is no time between feeling offended and responding as if you’ve been hurt. So, make time to pause and question whether or not you want to take offense.


If the emotions are running too high to just pause, try counting to ten in your head.
Learning and practicing mindfulness exercises regularly will make this step easy as pie. Mindfulness involves learning how to strategically detach from strong emotions so that more measured responses can be formulated.One mindfulness exercise is to spend time focusing on your breath. When you attend to the sensation of your breath coming and going, you gain a stronger connection to your feelings rather than pesky, automatic thoughts.
 Instead of ignoring what your mind is telling you, listen to it. That way you can determine for yourself whether or not to purse the offense and make a scene.


If someone says that your haircut might not be the best style for you, your head might be screaming “Oh no she didn’t! Give her a piece of your mind!” Hear this anger and feel your urge to lash out in response. This way you can see that as just one of many possible ways that you could respond.
It’s also important to see how angry you feel inside so that you can gauge your next move.For example, if you feel enraged then you may not want to respond humorously (since humor in your state might not be perceived as humor at all).
 Being certain of our interpretation of what a person means or where she is coming from can turn anything into an offense. Consider great works of art; their beauty comes from the possibility of many different interpretations. No interpretation is right, but each one has the power to make us feel differently.


Imagine that an acquaintance just told you that they decided to stay in instead of accepting your invitation to go together to an event. You may be tempted to make the snap judgment that the person could only have done that because he thinks you make bad choices about what events to attend.
Resisting this judgment requires an open mind that is willing to ask "what might this have been about that I am not taking into consideration at this moment?"

, This can be a helpful exercise to remind yourself that even though you see and experience lots of different things from people, they are not centered on or tailored to you.You may not get to the bottom of why someone did something, but that’s okay. The point is to begin to put yourself in the offender’s shoes to see that taking offense too easily is needlessly detrimental for everyone involved.
If someone refuses an invitation of yours, there are tons of possible reasons why he doesn’t want to leave the house.He could have just received bad news, be feeling down and is too embarrassed to explain that, or just treasure his alone time (which of course has nothing to do with you).
 When we are anxious and full of energy, we tend to be less forgiving of mild offenses.This is simply because we are looking for new material in the world to “pounce on” or to attend to because, well, we can! Don’t let habitual offense taking spring up and drain energy that could be put to better use, say, marveling at how differently different people express their opinions.
 There are many different ways you might respond after someone says or does something that doesn’t sit well with you. Here are some possibilities:


Re-route the conversation. Let the matter drop and find a new focus. This is a good option if you feel that attempting to clear up the matter would just create more opportunities to be offended
Try using your sense of humor. Even if you are not quite at the point of being able to laugh off potential offenses, try throwing your whole self back into the equation.
Calmly ask for clarification.If you hear a comment that you find offensive or rude, think about asking for the person to clarify what they mean. They may have misstated what they meant, or you may have heard incorrectly.

Try saying something like, "I'm not sure I understood you, can you make that comment another way?"



, Remember that one consequence of taking offense often is that people may begin to walk on eggshells around you or feel a little nervous discussing their thoughts or feelings. What's more, you are keeping yourself in a place of increased tension and anxiety--a harmful state for your body, even if you see other benefits to taking offense.


You are also blocking yourself , Try replacing your negative thoughts with self-affirmations and positive frames of whatever situation you’re going through. Letting unchecked negative thoughts stew in our minds is often the direct cause of flying into offense mode.


This means letting go of situations that you are tempted to take be offended by. Ruminating over negative feelings is like making an investment in sadness.Your time is valuable, and you don’t need to spend it re-living moments of fleeting discomfort.
 To cultivate an ongoing understanding of situations that tend to offend you, try journaling about some of your most memorable moments of victimhood. List 3 or 4 incidents with as much detail as possible.


Push yourself to think deeply about these moments, expressing how you felt and why you took offense. Don't assume that the offense requires no explanation or is "obviously" offensive. Write why you were offended, not why anyone would take offense at the same thing.
Then, write these moments down as if you are a journalist reporting an incident. Instead of writing about how you feel, try writing about what an outside observer saw.
 Is there anything you notice across these situations? Does a particular way of being treated frequently make you indignant with consistency? Look for the deeper reasons you were offended.


For example, say you are offended by someone explaining something to you that you already know. Perhaps you are offended because your ego is bruised because the person doesn't see your smarts. Can you reasonably expect that this person should spend their time keeping track of what you know and don't know?
These patterns are your triggers. When something like this happens to you in the future, you will know that the moment is ideal for trying out other responses., We typically justify or "prop up" our actions and beliefs with thoughts that rationalize them.What thoughts about what should and shouldn't be the case allow you to claim offense? What makes you think it's a proper response?


Maybe you are offended because someone comes to your house-warming party without bringing a gift. The thoughts that might support taking offense could be ideas like:

"Bringing a gift is the only way to show warmth."
"A gift for me should be this person's priority regardless of other financial obligations."
"I need to receive tokens from others to know that I am loved and supported".
 When it comes down to it, we can either spend our time trying to get others to adjust their behavior or work on our own reactions. Trying to change others is a weighty task because people are always changing, surprising us—not to mention how many there are out there. What’s more, trying to change others amounts to controlling others. Ethical issues abound.


When you work on your reactions, you are making yourself a more flexible and joyous person who can handle more of the world with ease. Taking the “high road” is not just more noble, but actually more beneficial to your ability to cope with everyday life.

