 You’ll want to learn the language that your coach or teammates will be speaking so you can understand exactly what they mean. Search online or watch a few cheerleading videos to get an idea of the basics.

Tumbling refers to gymnastic moves performed on the floor, such as round-offs or back handsprings.
Stunting refers to the way a team builds their tricks, such as in pyramids or basket tosses. The backspot and bases are the people holding up the flyer, who does tricks in the air.
Jumps have different names depending on how to do them. A toe touch is a jump in which you jump up and spread your legs in the air, like a split, while touching your toes; a herkie is a jump in which one leg is stretched out in front of you while the other is bent at the knee and faces behind you.;
, Stretching is a very important part of cheerleading. It loosens your muscles in preparation for jumps, tumbling, and stunts. Flexibility also plays a big part in which role you’ll have on the team; the more flexible you are, the more versatile you’ll be, allowing you to participate in tumbling, jumps, and stunts., Most cheers will be variations of the same movements. If you spend a bit of time learning the basics, such as a high V, low V, daggers, T, and broken T, you’ll have an edge when it comes time to try out. Remember to keep your motions stiff.

Make sure your arms are straight and your muscles are tense.
Keep your joints (elbows, wrists) stiff and straight unless the motion requires them to be bent.
For most motions, your arms should be slightly in front of you.
Tighten your fists, and be sure to keep your thumbs on the outside of your fingers, not tucked in.
 Learn how to do a cartwheel and a roundoff so you can show the coach your skills. If you have mastered those moves, try a back walkover, back handspring, or back tuck. Be careful, and don’t try these moves alone if you have no experience. Tumbling is dangerous and you can easily hurt yourself if you don’t have the right form., It’s a great idea to learn a few basic jumps before tryouts. Try the toe touch and the herkie. Work on your form as well as the height of your jump., Find a dance or cheer routine online and practice it yourself. You will likely have to learn a dance as well as a few cheers at tryouts, so this will give you some experience. There are lots of tutorials online that will teach you how to do a routine step by step., Cheerleaders have to be both loud and clear. You’ll need to speak from your diaphragm rather than your throat. Practice shouting a cheer while also carefully enunciating your words. If you don’t know any cheers yet, just make one up.A great way to strengthen your voice is to lay on the floor on your stomach and grip your toes with your hands behind you. Try yelling or singing this way, and you’ll see the way it exercises your diaphragm!

, Cheerleading is a big commitment and you’ll need to show your parents and the coach that you can handle it. Be sure to stay on top of your school work; complete all your homework, study for tests, and turn everything in on time. In most cases, cheerleaders need to achieve a certain GPA in order to stay on the team, so make your schoolwork a priority!, Cheer requires flexibility, strength, and endurance. You should go running, swimming, or lift weights to prepare for tryouts. Playing other sports will also help you get into shape, so join another team if you think you can handle it., Drink lots of water to stay hydrated. Be sure to eat a variety of foods, including protein, carbohydrates, fruits, and vegetables. Stay away from salty and sugary snacks as well as soda and energy drinks., It’s important to get eight to ten hours of sleep each night.Your body needs time to rest and recuperate, especially if you’ve been exercising and working hard on learning the basics of cheerleading., Arrive on time and prepared for the tryout. Bring water and a snack for the break time. Avoid checking your phone or other distractions so you can show the coach that you will be a dedicated cheerleader., Be sure to smile and keep a positive attitude. Cheerleaders are known for their peppy personalities and energetic attitudes. If you make a mistake, move past it. Everyone is likely to mess up when learning something new. Simply smile and find your place, as this will show the coach that you don’t give up when things are difficult., You should wear shorts and a t-shirt or tank top so that you can move freely. Wear sturdy sneakers or special cheerleading shoes if you have them. Braid your hair or put it up in a ponytail or bun to keep it off your face. Wear your school colors if you are able, and/or add a ribbon in your school colors to your hair., Confidence is key for cheerleading. Even if you are new to the sport, if you learn a few basics before tryouts you can be confident in your skills. You should also be nice to others who are trying out and offer to help if you think you know something they can learn from., Give the coach your full attention at all times. It may be tempting to talk to your friends or others who are trying out, but you should show the coach respect. You’ll also need to pay close attention to the instructions you are given so you can remember everything later., Don’t be afraid to speak up if you have a question or would like some help with a move. Asking a question shows you want to understand, which is admirable. The coach will be likely be happy to explain something to you or help you adjust your movement., Give 100% during your tryout. Even if you feel silly or awkward, try your hardest to do what the coach asks of you. Though you may be new to the moves, the coach will appreciate your dedication and willingness to try., If the dance, cheers, or stunts are harder than you expected, or even if you don’t make the squad, don’t get discouraged. Practice the dance and cheers as much as you can before tryouts are over. If you don’t make the team you can always work on your skills so that you will be more prepared the next year. Consider joining a dance team or a gymnastics team to improve your skills as well as have some fun. You could also try another sport.