 When cleaning your teak furniture, you should always start at the bottom and keep cleaning as you move up to the top of the furniture. This will help you avoid any streaks or irregularities caused by the cleaning solution or the cleaning process.Starting at the top may be tempting, as it is the most visible part of your teak furniture. But beginning here could damage your furniture, or make it become more unsightly.;
, The best way to keep your teak furniture clean and looking great is to give it a quick wipe down with soap and water once every few weeks. This kind of maintenance will prevent discoloration and the buildup of grime and mildew. Simply apply some mild liquid soap to a sponge and wipe down the surface.You can also add a bit of bleach or vinegar to the soap to get it extra clean.
 Be sure to rinse the soap off thoroughly to avoid leaving any soap residue, as this could cause more buildup of grime over time. If you are cleaning your teak furniture outside, use a garden hose to rinse off the soap.


If you are cleaning the teak furniture indoors, use a damp cloth to remove the soap residue. Be sure to frequently rinse the cloth out so that you don’t keep reapplying the soapy water.
Let the teak furniture air dry when you finish rinsing it off.
 The oil in the teak wood often leaks out, especially in the first few months after application, and can stain fabrics that it comes in contact with. If you have cushions on your teak furniture, you should consider storing them separately from the teak furniture itself. This will help your teak furniture look nicer for a longer period of time.This is especially important when it’s raining, and right after you’ve oiled the teak wood.
 Pressure washing can be a great way to clean lots of surfaces, but your teak furniture shouldn’t be one of them. It may seem like a simple solution, but it can wear down the surface of the teak wood over time and cause more damage. If cracks develop in the wood, shooting water into the cracks at high velocities will cause the wood to become deformed over time.Pressure washing can also remove any finish that might be protecting the teak wood, causing more damage in the long run.

