 Go to http://www.straighttalk.com/wps/portal/home/h/coverage/servicearea/.


TracFone uses the Sprint, Verizon and AT&T networks for service, so the phones and providers in your area will determine their coverage.
Choose a phone on the list that you have or would like to buy.;
, If it is on the list, the best option is to unlock a phone you have already bought with another cell phone plan. Call the wireless provider you have used and ask them to unlock your phone.
 You can choose a phone from the list of phones that are available in your area.
 Walmart bundles refurbished phones in packages with a 30-day Unlimited plan with Straight Talk.


You can go into a local Walmart or order from Walmart.com.
 This will depend upon both the model of phone and your wireless provider.


Phones that work on the CDMA network have a letter “C” in the model number.
Phones that work on the GSM network have a letter “G” in the model number.
 You can activate the service faster if you purchase the SIM card and plan card together. Walmart is the official provider of the activation pack.


If you find a Straight Talk activation pack at another store, such as eBay, it is a resale product.
Some phone models, such as the iPhone 4 and 4S require a micro SIM, rather than a regular SIM.
 Go to http://www.straighttalk.com/wps/portal/home/shop and select “SIM Cards” from the drop down list. Follow the prompts to buy your CDMA or GSM SIM card for approximately $15.


You can choose to purchase a service plan card that will also be shipped to you, or you can wait and choose a plan on the website, when you activate your plan.
 It lists the serial number you should use during the activation process, in place of your phone’s former serial number.
 You may have already purchased a $30 or $45 service plan card, if you bought an activation kit from Walmart. If you do not have a service plan card, you can purchase it during the activation process.
 Click “Continue” to start the process.
 The following are the different numbers you will need depending upon the type of phone you own:


Enter the IMEI/MEID number on the red activation card, if you bought the phone from TracFone.
Enter the last 15-digits of your new SIM card, if you have an existing phone, but purchased a TracFone SIM card.
Enter the MEID, if you purchased an iPhone through Walmart or the Straight Talk website.
, Click on the credit card option, if you want to purchase your plan during activation.
 It is necessary to pay each month anew with your credit card and to see details about your plan.
 Agree to the terms and conditions.
 Wait several hours to 2 days for mobile service to be activated. Try making a call.

