 While not all kidney stones cause people to have symptoms, even very small stones can cause severe pain. If you've already had a few kidney stones in your life, you might be reasonably sure that's what's going on. However, since the symptoms of a kidney stone overlap symptoms of many other disorders, it's a good idea to receive a diagnosis so you can treat it properly. Here are the most common symptoms of kidney stones:Severe pain in the side and lower back, which often spreads to the abdomen and groin.
Pain that comes and goes in waves, and is present during urination.
Foul-smelling, cloudy, pink or brown urine.
Nausea and vomiting.
 Getting an x-ray, CT scan or ultrasound (depending on what your doctor recommends) when you notice the symptoms of a kidney stone is the best way to determine how you should treat the stone. Imaging technology can will reveal the size, shape and number of stones you're dealing with.


If you have a stone smaller than 5 millimeters, your doctor will probably advise using at-home methods to help the stone pass.
If you have a larger stone or multiple stones, your doctor may prescribe a medication or recommend a different course of medical treatment to pulverize the stones so you can pass them.
 Kidney stones produce the same symptoms, but they can be caused by several different conditions. Knowing what's causing the formation of your kidney stones will help you reduce their size and prevent them in the future. Your doctor may perform blood or urine tests to figure out what type of stones you have. After you pass a stone, your doctor might send it to a lab for analysis to determine its makeup. Here are the different types of kidney stones:



Calcium stones: these are the most common type of stones, and are caused by a high level of calcium combined with another substance, such as oxalate or uric acid. Doctors may prescribe a thiazide diuretic or phosphate containing preparation in order to get rid of these stones.

Uric acid stones: these form when the urine contains too much acid. Doctors will prescribe allopurinol, which may help dissolve the kidney stone. Also, they may prescribe potassium citrate to lower the pH of the urine and dissolve the uric acid stone.

Struvite stones: these can form after a urinary tract infection. To prevent struvite stones, your doctor might suggest that you keep your urinary tract clean and free of infections.

Cystine stones: this type of stone is caused by a rare genetic disease. These are more difficult to treat. Your doctor may have your drink more fluids or prescribe you medication that reduces the amount of cystine in the urine.