 It may be tempting, when you are trying to establish a credit history, to apply for several credit cards from several different lenders. Doing this, however, can harm your credit rating. Credit reporting agencies and lenders who view your credit history will look with suspicion on an “explosion” of activity. Consider starting with one or two accounts that you can easily manage, and then expand if you have the need., Having open credit accounts, but not using them, does nothing to help build a positive credit history. If you have one or more dormant accounts, you should purchase at least one item periodically, so the card shows up in your credit report. Then pay off that purchase as soon as you get the bill, so your payment history will be 100% positive., Pushing your credit up to the maximum limit will harm your overall credit score. As a general rule of thumb, you should keep your balance to 50% of the available credit limit, or less. A low credit balance will show that you can use the credit cards but handle having some debt without letting it get out of control., The worst thing you can do is fail to pay your bills on time. Make notes in your calendars so you are aware when your bills are due. Make payments on or before the due dates, so they will be processed without being late. If you develop bad habits of paying your credit bills late, this will result in a low credit score, which can interfere with your efforts to get additional credit cards in the future., When you receive your monthly credit card bill, it will tell you the total outstanding balance as well as the minimum monthly payment. If possible, you should pay off your balance each month, so you do not incur additional interest or fees. However, if you cannot pay the full amount, you should at least pay more than the minimum.The minimum payment reflected on your bill is an amount that will allow you to avoid paying penalties. However, if you pay only the minimum, you will develop other problems. After a few months of making only minimum payments, your credit score is likely to drop. Also, you will see that the amount of the monthly minimum will begin to increase. After a few months, you may begin having difficulty even paying off the minimum., In the United States, there are three primary credit reporting agencies--Equifax, TransUnion and Experian. When you are trying to build up a positive credit history, you will want to review all three of these credit reports regularly. When you get a copy of each credit report, you should review it for timely payments, open accounts, and any inquiries into your credit that may be questionable. Anytime you see activity on your credit report that you do not recognize, you should contact the credit reporting agency immediately to investigate.You can learn more about each of the three main credit reporting agencies as follows:


TransUnion: www.transunion.com.
Equifax: www.equifax.com.
Experian: www.experian.com.

