 Focus on keeping fluids down. This means if you are vomiting everything out, your primary objective should be to alleviate the nausea and to prevent the vomiting. Without fluids, your illness could cause dehydration and will slow your recovery.


Many people like to drink a plain carbonated beverage, such as lemon-lime soda, to treat their nausea. Others advocate the use of ginger to calm nausea., Diarrhea can be described as liquid stool, frequent stool but watery stool here really is the definition of the term. Patients may experience it differently. However, if you are losing fluids via diarrhea you will need to replace these losses with electrolytes containing formulas such as ( Gatorade, Pedialyte) as well as water. Because electrolytes specifically, potassium, are key in the electrical conduction of the heart, and potassium is lost with diarrhea, you must be especially alert to keeping electrolytes on board. There are different opinions as to whether it is better to let the viral illness “out” or to stop it with constipating anti-diarrheal agents. Most doctors agree that anti-diarrhea medications can make the symptoms last longer. Consult your doctor before taking one.
 The combination of vomiting and diarrhea will make dehydration your primary complication. Adults that are dehydrated will notice that they are dizzy when they stand, have a racing pulse when standing, have dry oral mucosa, or a feeling of being very weak. Part of the problem with dehydration is that it brings with it a lack of important electrolytes, such as potassium. Replace these losses with fluids that contain electrolytes, such as Gatorade or Pedialyte, as well as drinking water.


If you are losing a fair amount of fluids and your diarrhea is severe, you should see your physician. They will help determine if you are in fact only suffering from viral gastroenteritis and begin treatment. There are other illnesses, such as bacterial infections, parasitic causes, or an intolerance to lactose or sorbitol that could also be causing your illness., Babies and toddlers are at particular risk of dehydration. If they won't drink fluids then you should take them to a doctor for assessment, as children fall victim to dehydration more quickly than adults., You can take any over-the-counter painkiller that makes you more comfortable for the few days you are sick. If a warm bath helps you, do that.


If an over-the-counter pain reliever is not handling the pain, seek treatment from a medical professional.
 Because gastroenteritis is typically caused by a virus, not a bacteria, antibiotics won't help you feel better. Don't ask for them at the pharmacy, and don't take them if offered. Taking antibiotics when they are not necessary encourages antibiotic-resistant bacteria ("superbugs").

