


Analog shortwave can be found at $30-70 and well beyond. Amplitude Modulation (AM) is a common mode for broadcasters, but there is also Single Side Band (SSB) mode.
An SSB radio will receive both SSB and AM modes, but an AM only mode radio will not allow intelligible SSB monitoring.
Digital tuners (sometimes called PLL or Phase Locked Loop) are more expensive, but make it easy to precisely tune and lock on a particular frequency. Drift is virtually eliminated. These tuners can also easily scan and memorize frequencies. However, many inexpensive digital tuners present the listener with "chopping" sounds or "automatic muting" while tuning, that analog tuners do not exhibit. This would only be a problem when attempting to scan shortwave bands for content, not when there is a specific frequency that you wish to tune. See Tips.;
, Google "SWL Antenna" for ready to install types from manufacturers, or make your own. Nearly anything will be better than just the telescopic rod type antenna included with the radio; adding long length of wire clamped to the rod antenna with a simple alligator clip can work wonders! Move the wire around to find the optimum location for best reception.
 There are multiple shortwave bands named 25 meters, 31 meters, 49 meters, etc. Each band encompasses a specific frequency range. Some radios show frequency in megahertz (MHz) and other in kilohertz (KHz). You may need to consult your radio's manual in order to find out how to get into specific bands. Generally, most bands have the clearest signals at sunrise and sunset, although some are better at night and others are better during the day (see Sources below).



Annual publications like World Radio TV Handbook and Passport to World Band Radio provide frequencies and schedules of broadcasters.
There are websites that will tell you which broadcaster is using the frequency as well as provide a schedule of English language shortwave broadcast .
Some people look for certain kinds of content:
Foreign stations - this pursuit is often referred to as DXing; DX is the telegraphic shorthand for "distant."
Specialized shortwave utility, or "ute", transmissions - e.g. maritime, naval, aviation, or military signals.
Numbers stations - broadcasts of voices reading in unidentified code; the origin is uncertain, and the purpose is suspected by many to be espionage.
Interactive communication between amateur radio operators.
 This is optional, but many shortwave listeners enjoy collecting QSLs as keepsakes, and you provide the broadcaster with valuable feedback and information. To put together an SWL Reception Report, you'll need to record the following information:
• When and how the station identifies itself.
• The name of the program.
• Content of the news or other program
• Names of the announcer(s).
• Items unique to the locality of the station.
• How well the signal was received using the SINPO code:


Signal. Refers to the strength of the signal received.
Interference. Indicates whether other stations were interfering with the signal.
Noise. Identifies the presence of atmospheric or other noise on the frequency.
Propagation. Refers to the fading characteristics of the signal.
Overall. Tells the station how well you received their signal.

