 Difficulties in the relationship with a real estate agent often stem from a simple breakdown in communication. Re-establishing communication may clear up any misunderstandings.


However, if you feel that your agent has deliberately lied or misled you about anything you consider material (e.g., the condition of a piece of property, the willingness of a seller or buyer, or the costs of services), you should pursue a complaint.
Sometimes what strikes a seller as unprofessional conduct may seem minor to real estate professionals. Discuss your issue with an unbiased third party to gain another perspective. ;
, The broker is the party who owes you a fiduciary duty; the agent is merely the broker’s employee. You should therefore set up a meeting and make your complaints known. The agent may or may not be invited to attend.


Write out your complaints and all of the details that you remember. Take down the name of any witnesses as well as their telephone numbers.
Practice explaining your complaint. You want to be precise and clear. Be firm but not angry.
 If you believe the broker violated the contract, take out your copy of the contract and highlight the section you believe has been violated. Although the agent’s manager has access to the contract, the meeting will go more smoothly if you bring as much supporting documentation as possible.


Other important documents include lease contracts, sales receipts, and communications between you and the agent.
 If you do not want the agent to attend, ask for him or her not to be present.


If possible, you should willingly agree to have the agent at the meeting. Problems can be resolved more quickly if the supervisor or manager has both sides of the story.
You can also gently correct any errors the agent makes in describing his side of the story.
 Apart from merely lodging a complaint against an agent, you can ask the managing broker to resolve your problem. For example, if the agent did not disclose a defect in the house, you could ask for an offsetting reduction in agent fees.


Be open to settlement. Accepting less than you want does not mean that you cannot still file a complaint with your state’s licensing board.
 If you feel the meeting did not go well, ask if there is anyone else you can meet with. In large real estate offices you probably will not meet with the president initially, so there should be someone else to talk to. Ask to move up the chain of command.