 Place 2 teaspoons (1 g) of dried wakame in one small bowl and place 1 teaspoon (½ g) of dried hijiki in another. Cover both with boiling water, and allow them to soak until they are rehydrated, which should take about 5 minutes.Wakame and hijiki are different types of dried seaweed. You can usually find them at Japanese markets and various online retailers.;
, After you’ve soaked the seaweed, empty the water from the bowls and blot the wakame and hijiki with paper towel. Use a sharp knife to roughly chop the wakame, and add it to a large bowl with the hijiki., Add 12 ounces (340 g) of raw sashimi-grade tuna that’s been cut into ½-inch (13-mm) cubes, 3 ounces (85 g) of Maui onion that’s been cut into ¼-inch (6.5-mm) dice, 1 thinly sliced scallion, 1 teaspoon (3 g) of white or black sesame seeds, 4 teaspoons (20 ml) of soy sauce, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of toasted sesame oil, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of honey, and crushed red pepper to taste. Stir all of the ingredients together so they’re well blended.You can substitute any sweet onion for the Maui onion. For example, a Vidalia or Walla Walla onion would also work well in the poke.
If you prefer, you can use a combination of white and black sesame seeds.
If you don’t want to add any heat to the tuna poke, you can omit the crushed red pepper.
 After you’ve mixed the ingredients together, sprinkle in some kosher salt and fold it in with the rest of the salad. Next, taste the poke and see if you are happy with the seasonings. Add more of whatever you think is missing, and stir well.You may want to add more sesame oil, soy sauce, honey, and/or crushed red pepper depending on what flavors you want to be strongest in the poke.
 Once the salad is mixed and the seasonings are right, let the poke sit at room temperature for approximately 5 minutes to give the flavors time to meld. Serve the poke by itself as a salad or over a bed of steamed rice as a main course.It’s best to mix up the poke just before you plan to serve it. The flavors will be brighter than if you leave it marinating in the fridge beforehand.
The tuna poke serves approximately 3 to 6.

