 While many problems require time and healing, some problems can be solved with a little effort and thoughtful consideration. Think about problems you are facing that may have a solution. This can include work, finances, family, friendships, romantic relationship, and educational stresses. Write down as many solutions as you can think of for each item that you listed. It doesn’t matter whether a particular solution seems realistic or not, just write them all down.It’s amazing which solutions can actually be helpful, so you don’t want to disregard any of them in the initial brainstorming session.


For example, if you and your partner always talk about finances right before bed and end up going to bed angry, start moving your discussions to the morning and have enough time to adequately talk through all issues.
Once you know what the solutions are, be sure to create a specific actionable plan to move forward. This will probably require you to identify specific goals and the action steps that you will take to meet the goals.
For more information on goal attainment, check out How to Set Goals and Achieve Them.
 Don’t be afraid to ask for help or advice. If you are overwhelmed or if you don’t know what to do about something, there are many people who are willing to help. Whether you talk about your difficulties with family, friends, or a therapist, it can be cathartic to verbally express what’s going on to someone else.Don’t try to do it all alone. Trying to live life without support only intensifies the struggle and makes life feel worse.


Don’t let pride get in the way of you seeking help. No one knows everything and you can always reciprocate later.
Talking about your problems can allow someone to give you unique perspective that you may not have considered.
When you talk to someone else, let them know what you want. If you want feedback, ask for thoughts or feelings regarding your situation. If you just want someone to listen, make that clear. Sometimes well-intentioned people will give you feedback to try and solve your problem when all you want is to vent.
 Despite your hardships, much of life may need to go on, including taking care of kids or putting in 40 hours at your job. While getting through this difficult time, make sure you are doing things to care for your body and your emotions.It can be easy to stretch yourself thin meeting other peoples’ needs, but make time to meet your own needs, too. Be sure that you are eating healthy, getting enough sleep, exercising regularly, and intentionally creating joy in your life. Find things you enjoy doing and do them.


Treat your body to a massage.
Find time to journal and express your thoughts and emotions.
Find 20 minutes each day to meditate or take a power nap.
Take a walk or go for a hike if you don’t have the time or energy to go to the gym.
Laughing decreases stress.Watch funny wipeout videos or silly animal videos to keep you laughing.
Staying positive also helps. Always search for the silver lining in everything., If you feel overwhelmed by your life situation, take a break. A break can come in many forms: it can be a vacation, a weekend getaway, or even a long walk. Taking a break can even be engaging in distraction, such as reading a book, watching a movie, or going to the gym.Find out what distractions help you cope (not run away from your problems). Find activities you enjoy and go do them! This can also include going hiking, horseback riding, or writing in a journal.
 Sometimes it can be most helpful to talk to a mental health professional when dealing with difficult times. A therapist is someone who is there to support you and ask questions that help you gain a different perspective. A therapist can help you uncover the root of your problems, work through emotional struggles, and help you make positive changes in your life.Therapy helps you explore yourself and your situation in a way that encourages growth.
A therapist can be helpful in a number of situations. If you experience job stress, relationship problems, or difficulty coping, a therapist can help.
 When going through crisis, much of your attention gets placed onto yourself and your situation, which can eventually be draining. Set aside some time to volunteer and help others to put your focus on other people. You can increase your own happiness by helping others.Offer to help out a friend with errands.
Volunteer your time at an animal shelter and help orphaned animals.
Volunteer once a week with children or older adults.

