 As you age, you can't eat the same amount you used to when you were younger. You'll need to cut back a little just to maintain your weight. That means eating a little bit less than you did before at each meal. Even a few bites here and there can help.To understand how many calories you need to maintain your weight, try using an online calorie calculator. These calculators, which can be found by a quick Google search, use factors like your age, weight, and gender to predict how many calories you need per day. For instance, a 50-year-old woman who is 5' 8" and 150 pounds and who's somewhat active needs 1,850 calories to maintain her weight, while a man of the same height, weight, age, and activity level needs 2,000 calories.;
, While you don't want to eat excessive amounts of protein, adding protein to snacks and meals can help you feel fuller for longer. On the other hand, many carbohydrates will leave you feeling hungry more quickly.For instance, try a boiled egg with whole grain toast and tomato slices at breakfast or a snack of hummus and sliced veggies.
Try to focus on lean proteins, such as chicken, fish, and beans.
Aim for about 0.8 to 1.5 grams of protein for every pound of body weight.Therefore, if you weigh 150 pounds, then you would need to get between 120 and 225 grams of protein per day.
A serving of protein is about the size of a deck of cards sized portion of meat. You can also weigh out the portion into a 3-4 ounce serving. A serving of beans/lentils/pulses is one cup.
 You do need some fats in your diet, but you should try to limit them, as they are high in calories. Healthy fats and oils include foods like avocado, vegetable oils, and nut oils.In the past, people have been advised to steer clear of saturated fats, such as in coconut oil, butter, and chicken skin. However, new studies have shown that saturated fats are mostly harmless, so they are fine to consume in moderation.The daily allowance for women over 31 is 5 teaspoons, while it's 6 teaspoons for men. Eating an ounce of nuts also counts as 3 teaspoons of oil, as does half an avocado.
 When eating carbohydrates, try to eat more whole grains, such as oatmeal, buckwheat, millet, and quinoa. Whole wheat pasta and bread are also good options. Other complex carbohydrates include fruits and vegetables.As you focus on whole grains, try to eliminate or reduce sugars and simple carbohydrates such as pasta, white bread, baked goods, and sweetened beverages (including alcohol).
 If you have trouble sticking to a healthy diet because you always feel hungry, try filling up on foods like fruits and vegetables. Vegetables, in particular, are low in calories but high in fiber, meaning you can fill up without eating too many calories., While you can sneak a few processed foods like chips and frozen dinners every now and then, avoid them as much as you can. These foods are often high in salt and fat, plus many foods, like chips, encourage you to keep eating. Stick to healthy, whole foods that you cook yourself.