 Shanghai has a climate comparable to that of the United States' southeast coastal states. The spring months of March through May are mild and temperate, while temperatures in the summer rise drastically and cause oppressive heat throughout the city. Autumn brings mild, comfortable temperatures, but the threat of typhoon-propelled rains spikes each September. Winter temperatures usually remain above freezing, but the weather is damp and chilly with occasional snowfall.;
, Shanghai has many traditional and modern festivals for visitors to enjoy throughout the year.


Chinese New Year, or Spring Festival, is celebrated on the first day of the first lunar month, which usually falls in late January or early February. Houses are cleaned and decorated with predominantly red-colored calligraphy, paper-cuttings and lanterns to welcome peace and prosperity for the New Year. The revelry and celebration is taken to the streets in the form of lion dancing, dragon dancing, lantern festivals and temple fairs which last for 5-to-7 days.
The Shanghai Peach Blossom Festival is in late March/early April each year and celebrates the blossoming of Nanhui District's beautiful peach trees.
The Longhua Temple Fair is held each year on the 3rd day of the 3rd month of the lunar calendar, the day on which, according to local legend, dragons visit the temple to help grant people's wishes. Locals and pilgrims attend the festival and pay homage to Buddha at this ancient temple.
The Shanghai Tourism Festival is held annually in mid-September. A more modern festival, it celebrates the city's colorful tourist products and activities related to sightseeing, shopping and dining.
Shanghai's old city is home to traditional treasures such as teahouses, active temples, classic gardens and ancient pagodas that remain open year-round.
 Shanghai's busiest tourist seasons coincide with the temperate weather in the spring and fall. The movement of domestic tourists, during public holidays, can increase the local population by tens of millions and quickly clog transportation and available hotel accommodations. Millions of Chinese residents attempt to return to their homes in time for Spring Festival each year, and the effects of the holiday are felt from 2 weeks before Chinese New Year, until 2 weeks after.

