 Victoria Justice has very long, very dark brown hair. It’s so dark brown that it’s almost black. You won’t look like her without dark hair.


Her hair sometimes tapers off to a slightly lighter colored brown at the ends with a deeper chocolate color at the roots.The color is slightly graduated subtly, though, so that it doesn’t look intentional.
Wear your hair straight. Victoria’s hair is usually straight, and it’s not too layered. You can get this look with a flat iron.;
, Victoria often wears her hair parted in the middle, although she occasionally wears her hair parted on the left side and swept to the right.


She has said that she thinks side bangs don’t work with her face because they make her hair look too thin.
Victoria Justice doesn’t have bangs. Her hair is all one length. She usually wears her hair long, falling past the breasts. Occasionally you will see her with somewhat shorter hair, but still past her shoulders.
 Although Victoria often has very straight hair, occasionally, she will put long, loose waves in her hair.


Sleeping with a braid in your hair or using a large-barreled curling iron can help you accomplish this look. Try sea salt spray to create a beachy look, and use dry texturing spray for finishing touches.Victoria’s hair never looks overly styled and is never too stiff. Her hair is natural, shiny, and flowing. Don’t use too much hairspray if you want to look like her.
 Because her hair is so long, it’s very versatile when it comes to styling. She’s almost always seen with her hair down, but occasionally she mixes that up.


You might see Victoria with her long hair pulled into a side ponytail, with the fastener falling where her shoulder line meets her neck.
She is a fan of romantic looks, and has worn her hair braided at the top or her long hair pulled back off her face.
 Victoria is usually seen with lipstick. However, she doesn’t overdo the makeup, preferring a natural look.


Often, you will see her wearing neutral hues on her lips, such as taupe or mauve. She sometimes wears lip gloss or lip stain, but she also wears matte makeup.
Occasionally, but not as often, Victoria brightens up her lips, generally choosing dark red lipstick or a deep berry color.
 Choose a neutral palette. Victoria usually plays up her eyes, and she favors earthy hues when she does this.


Choose eyeshadows in light and dark brown. Sweep the lighter color over the lids, and apply the darker brown color into the creases.Apply black mascara, and use kohl eyeliner in the waterline of the eyes. Victoria also has thicker, shaped brows. Waxing and threading can create a shaped look. Apply brow powder over the brows, and seal them with brow gel. She prefers what she has described as a bolder brow look. She has said she uses Telescopic mascara by L’Oreal.
Use dark gel eyeliner on the top lash line, and use softer pencil liner underneath the lower lash line and in the waterline of the eye. Victoria has also said she covers up pimples with brown eyeliner, to make them look like beauty marks!

, Victoria is not a person you will always see with makeup caked on her face and in high heels. When she is running around doing errands, she lightens up on the makeup.


She has said she will put on a little lip balm (she likes Burt’s Bees Pomegranate lip balm). She curls her eyelashes.
She wears a little concealer and a little blush, and that’s it. Those are the makeup staples that she is never seen without.
 Victoria is a television star, but she has a big social media following. She has said her favorite social media platform is Instagram.


She loves taking photos and sharing photos of herself, using different filters. Victoria is an active person, so her Instagram site is filled with photos of her life. However, you will often notice that she plays up her eyes in photos. They are dark black, and she uses makeup to bring them out as the dominant feature on her face.
 Victoria’s clothes are usually monochrome colors. She isn’t big on wearing loud patterns, although you will occasionally see her in something subtle, such as a tiny floral pattern or geometric design.


Most often you will see her in vibrant, dark colors, like navy blue, dark green, black, and red. You won’t often see her in looks that are too girlie or pastel.
Victoria occasionally mixes it up with a bright lemon yellow or powder blue, but that’s not the most common look for her.
 Victoria doesn’t often go out with a lot of bling. She accessorizes but only subtly


For example, you might see her with a headband that she wears across her forehead or with a hat on, but these looks are not her most common.
More likely, she wears small silver earrings, clutches a small purse, or wears a small silver necklace.
Her jewelry is not loud. Her smile and beautiful face draw people’s attention, not her accessories.
 Victoria is in great shape, and she often shows that off by wearing cropped tops. She pairs them in different ways to capture versatile looks.


For example, she pairs crop tops with short skirts. She’s also worn them with shorts and blue jeans. Get some fun shirts. Victoria likes to wear cute and random graphic tees, or over-sized plaid button-up shirts.
She likes to show her legs too. When she’s on the red carpet, she often favors shorter cocktail dresses that highlight her legs.
 Victoria is in great shape. One way she keeps in shape is by using different dance routines in her workouts.She has also said that she does lunges and goes for walks. Generally, she stays active.
Victoria is a fan of staying in shape through light exercise and by eating healthy. She is not too thin. She has an athletic, slim build.
 Looking as good as Victoria takes discipline. She has said that she eats a clean and healthy diet that is heavy on protein and low on processed carbohydrates.


For breakfast, she might have toast, fish oil, egg whites, and a protein shake of rice milk and greens. For lunch, she eats protein (she loves bacon) and green vegetables.
For dinner, it’s back to protein, such as grilled steak. She again loads up on the green vegetables, such as spinach. Eat a lot of protein and a lot of green vegetables to look like her, and avoid excessive amounts of sugar.
 Victoria’s look is not too high maintenance, and she always has a younger vibe. So be able to let your hair down and dress down at times.


She is a fan of blue jeans. She will often pair them with a cool T shirt or nicer shirt. She favors the skinny jean look, often in light denim tones. She also enjoys wearing blazers, which she will pair with statement T-shirts.
A fitted denim jacket is also something that she would wear. She also likes pencil dresses with a relaxed waistline. Her look is sexy, but she doesn’t show too much cleavage., Victoria’s shoes add a splash of creativity to her outfits, and they are often chosen for comfort. She isn’t a person always running around in spiked high heels.


She once posted a picture on Instagram of a pair of sneakers she turned into watermelon using DIY. She is also a fan of ankle boots, a look she will often pair with short skirts or blue jeans. You will see her wearing sneakers.
Victoria is always seen in Converse. Buy a couple different pairs of high-top and low-top Converse in whatever colors you'd like. Be original and creative with one of the pairs - mess them up a little! Draw on them with Sharpies and fabric markers, or get your friends to sign them. Victoria loves doing this!

