 Handwritten notes are a more personal form of correspondence than email. There may be some situations when you may want to send the teacher a handwritten note. These include:


A thank you note
A brief introduction
An excuse to leave class or for illness., You want to make sure the teacher can easily read your note. Make sure your handwriting is heat while you are composing your note.


Write slowly if you have bad handwriting. This may help you more clearly form your letters.
Avoid using pencils or pens that smudge easily. A ballpoint pen is likely your best option.
Consider writing a preliminary draft on your composing and transferring the text by hand for your note. This may help you think in more detail about what you’d like to write.
Print out your note from the computer and sign it by hand if you prefer.
 If you prefer to write by hand to the teacher, you can follow the same process as for an email. However, if the situation is something less serious, such as a thank you note, you may not need to compose multiple drafts.


Use personal stationary if you have it. If not, use a clean and unwrinkled piece of plain paper.
Write the date at the top of the paper.
Put your greeting under the date. For example, “Dear Mrs. Maier” followed by a comma.
Use the same elements as you did in the email. Remember to keep the note as brief and concise as possible. For example, “Dear Mrs. Maier, My name is Teresa Lutz and I am Sophia’s mother. I would really like to thank you for helping her in math class. She’s been experiencing some difficulty with math and I truly appreciate that you took the time to meet with her after school to explain the problems in greater detail. If I can help you in any way, please let me know. Sincerely, Teresa Lutz.”
Sign the note with your signature and include a printed version of your name below it if need be.
 Before you send your note, proofread it. This can ensure there are no mistakes, that you haven’t forgotten anything, or that there aren’t smudges or illegible parts.


Rewrite the letter if there are considerable mistakes.
 There are many different ways you can deliver the handwritten note to your child’s teacher. Depending on the formality of the note or if you want to ensure it arrives by a certain date, you can deliver the note in the following ways:


By mail. Make sure you address the letter to the teacher and then put the school’s information under it.
By hand. Drop off the note in the office for the staff to deliver to the teacher.
With your child. You can also send the note with your child. Just be aware that she may forget to deliver it. Consider pinning it to her coat where the teacher can see it if you want.

