 Before you being your exercise routine, you should warm up your body properly. You can do this by walking, jogging, or biking to the park. If the park is too far away for you to get there on foot or bike, you can also perform these activities once you arrive at the gym. Warming up will ensure that your muscles are ready for more intense exercise and prevent injury.



Jog for 20 to 30 minutes or take a brief 1 to 2-mile (1.6 to 3.2 km) run around the park before you begin your workout routine.
A brisk 20 to 30 minute walk should adequately warm up your legs and lower body.
 Depending on the equipment available at your gym, you may have access to various cardio stations like a cardio walker, elliptical station, or an upright cycle. These machines are great for warming up and getting some cardiovascular exercise. The benefit of these machines is that they will help warm up your upper body and not just your legs.If you are beginning a new workout routine, consider only using one of the cardio stations for a few minutes. Increase the amount of time spent on warming up as you get in better shape.
 Most outdoor gyms will have a body curl or sit-up station. This will look like an uneven bench with a handle on the higher end. In order to use the station, lie on the bench with your head towards the bar and grab the bar with both hands. Keep your legs straight and use your core to lift your heels off the bench.Initially, try to do two sets of five curls and, as you get in better shape, you should increase the number of the number of curls and sets.
 Another common piece of exercise equipment in an outdoor gym is the bench dip. This piece of equipment is a short bench with two sets of bars at different heights. Grasp the set of bars that you feel the most comfortable with, keeping your feet straight out in front of you. Bend your elbows to lower yourself down to the seat without touching it. Then raise yourself back up, keeping your heels on the ground.If you are a beginner, try to do one to two sets of 10 to 12 dips. If you are a more advanced exerciser, consider three sets of 15 to 20 reps.
 Possibly the most common workout station in an outdoor gym, the pull-up or chin up station helps you strengthen your arms, shoulders, back, and core. Simply grab the vertical bar or hand holds with both hands and pull yourself up towards the bar. If you are unable to do a traditional pull-up, the station may also have a reclining pull-up bar.Because pull-ups are more difficult, you may only be able to do a few at first. If you are a beginner, consider using the reclining pull-up bar at first and work your way up to the regular bar.
Start with two sets of 10 to 15 reps and work your way up to four sets of 15 to 20 reps.A more advanced outdoor gym may have a back pull down station. This piece of equipment uses your own weight as resistance and works many of the same muscle groups as a traditional pull-up., Building leg strength is an important part of staying healthy and preventing injuries. Your outdoor gym may have some platforms or steps for you to do some step-ups. For a step-up, alternate stepping up onto the step platform as if you are going up a flight of stairs. This is a great resistance and cardio workout.Start with two one-minute sets and work your way up to two three-minute sets.
A more advanced outdoor gym may have resistance equipment like leg press machines that strengthen your legs using your own weight.As you get more comfortable with the stepping, you might consider trying plyometric jumps if boxes are available at the gym., Working on your balance is a great way to strengthen your core. If your outdoor gym has a balance beam, walk along the beam while maintaining upright posture. Try not to fall off the beam and walk with controlled steps.As you get more comfortable on the beam, slow down your steps and practice walking heel to toe for a better workout.

