 You can learn how to play well with a small dog by taking her for short walks. You may go for a stroll along the beach, in a park, or around the neighborhood. Make sure you keep the small dog close to you and on a leash. Use a four to six foot (1.2 to 1.8 meter) lead so your dog stays close to you during the walk.Try to walk your small dog at least once a day. Keep the walks short, about 15-20 minutes tops. This will ensure your small dog’s joints do not get too worn out.
 You can also play with your small dog by having a game of hide and seek indoors. Hide and seek can be a good way to get your dog running around and interacting with you in a fun way.You may play hide and seek by first having a friend hold your small dog while you hide. Then, you may call the dog’s name a few times to get her to find you. You can also try using the command “come”, if the small dog already knows this command, to get the dog to search for you.
Playing hide and seek inside will ensure your small dog does not get lost outdoors where you cannot find her. It also allows you to keep tabs on your dog and prevent the risk of her running off into a dangerous area during the hide and seek game.
 Make sure you use a fetch toy that is soft, such as a small soft plush toy or doll. The fetch toy should be light enough for your small dog to pick up and hold in her mouth. Avoid using sticks or rope toys to play fetch, as they can be hard on your dog’s teeth.You may get your dog use to retrieving the toy in the park as part of a game or practice playing fetch at home. You can demonstrate how to chase and retrieve the toy. Your dog should mirror your actions and start to understand the game.
To avoid overworking your small dog, make sure you keep fetch to 10 minutes at a time. Take a break every 10 minutes to pet your dog and give your dog access to water.
 Most dogs love water, even small dogs. You should encourage your small dog to try going into the water at a calm lake or a pool, as it is a low-impact workout that will not put too much stress on your dog’s joints. You may start by introducing your dog to a calm lake or pool to see if she will jump in or enter the water on her own.You may get your dog a pet-appropriate life vest so she is safe in the water. You may take this precaution even when your dog is going into calm waters to prevent drowning.
Let your dog swim in calm waters for 10 minutes at a time. Do not let your dog enter water that is turbulent or rough, such as the ocean or a river with a strong currant.
If your small dog does not seem to enjoy being in or by water, do not try to force her to like it. Putting her in the water when she does not seem to enjoy it can lead to panic and anxiety, which could increase your dog’s risk of injury in the water.

