 Add two or three cups (.5-.7 liters) of water to a kettle or saucepan. Place the kettle or saucepan over your stove on medium-high heat. Let the water heat for five to ten minutes until the water comes to an active boil.


Water is boiling when large bubbles of water are rising to the surface.An active boil has many large bubbles rising.
Some kettles have a “whistling” feature. When the kettle whistles, your water is done boiling.
You can also boil water in the microwave if necessary. However, the water can become superheated and explode out of the cup, causing severe burns.;
, First, pull the lid of the ramen cup back halfway. Remove any seasoning packets. Next, open the packet and add the seasoning to the ramen. If you’re worried about lumps in the seasoning, shake the cup from side to side to help spread the seasoning around.


Some packages of ramen come with an extra spice pack. If you don’t like spicy food, don’t add this package.
 Once the water has boiled and your ramen cup has been prepared, pour the water into the cup. Add enough water to reach the “fill” line on the inside of the cup.


Most ramen cups have a “fill” line. If yours doesn’t, fill the cup about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) from the top.
 Once the water has been added, press the lid back into place. Usually, the ramen should sit undisturbed for three minutes.However, some brands of instant noodles require a longer or shorter cooking time. Check the back of the package for these cooking times.


To secure the lid into place, fold the foil tab around the lip of the cup. If this doesn’t work, place a saucer or other small dish over the lid to hold it down.
 After the three minutes are up, peel off the lid of the noodle cup. Use chopsticks or a fork to stir the noodles and break them apart. If the noodles are steaming, let the cup sit open for a minute or two. This will help the noodles cool down enough to be eaten.


You can eat the noodles with chopsticks or a fork.
Season additionally to taste, if desired.

