 There is a five-minute time limit before the game. Hit 2-3 shots and then pass the ball. Don't keep the ball too long - it's considered rude. This is a good time, to observe your opponent, if you never played him. Every time you pass the ball, use a different shot, and see how he deals with it. You can judge his weak and strong shots before the match even started.
 Remember that squash is all about energy - the player who runs out of it first will lose. The goal is to wear your opponent down before your own energy runs out. If you find yourself in an uneven match in the first round: don't waste your energy on a match, you can't possible win. Chances are, you'll be in for a much more competitive game in the next round. If you're matched against a much weaker opponent, take it easy. Don't rush it. Use the easy game as a prolonged warm-up.
 In a closely-matched game, it gets down to preparation, battle plan, tactics, and nerves. Keep a cool mind and don't let the opponent force his game style upon you. You only need to win by two points.
 This will help you conserve energy. If you are five points ahead, you don't need to run after a well-placed stop. Let it be and conserve your energy for the next point. You still lead by four points. If the opponent is ahead, you need to fight for every single point to get even. Don't let him escape. With the new rule, where each point counts, it is very hard to overcome a five-point deficit if the opponent is playing at your level, and playing a steady game without errors.
 Many games turn around, because a player with a big lead, thinking he has already won, relaxes and thus lowers the pressure on you, waits for your mistakes without going for winners, hits loose balls, stops paying attention. On the other side, the opponent who has nothing to lose, goes into berserker mode, suddenly the game evens out at 10-10, and the nerves kick in. Remember: it's over when it's over, and never before. That's where the cool mind comes in. Concentrate on every single swing, on every single shot, always maintain a good body tension and light feet, even if you think it is an easy shot. Because.
 You can fail on the simplest of shots if you don't concentrate, and every unforced error is a free point to the opponent, and a potential point you missed. If you feel nervous and shaky, don't take risks. Go back to the basics and play it safe. Avoid loose shots, so your opponent can not attack you, play the shots and style you play best to get your confidence back on track.
 Don't try to score a point with each shot. Be patient and wait for an opportunity to attack a loose ball. Return the ball into the corners, keep it close to the walls, to force your opponent away from the "T", and get yourself on the "T" in a comfortable pace.
 The need to play a winner, to kill the ball, take highly risky shots, and put yourself in a bad position, usually comes when you get tired and desperately want to end a rally. Observe the state of your opponent. If he gets greedy and starts to attack a lot, plays a lot of stops, trying to end the point early, he is getting tired - unless that is his playing style from the start on. If you have an energy advantage, then exploit his tiredness, and make him even more tired. Speed up the game - make him run, but do not give him the opportunity to volley. Pass up opportunities to attack or to kill the ball in favor of extending the rallies to make your opponent run even more. He'll run out of air and have to stop running. If you don't give him a chance to catch his breath, you should win the match.
 Now you need to buy time, to catch your breath, and to get your heart rate down. Slow down the pace. Play long lobs to the back corners. If your opponent starts to hit hard and low, take out the speed and lob every ball. But be careful, don't allow him to volley it. Practice these shots - they are safe and very effective, but few players use them. These also have the effect of disturbing the pace of hard and fast hitting, aggressive players.

