,


Use witch hazel, peppermint and sage as a toner for your face. In a small bottle or a jar, mix 4 ounces (120 ml) of witch hazel with 1 teaspoon each of chopped peppermint and sage leaves. Steep the mixture for 3 days and then apply it to your face after you use cleanser.
Boil 1 cup of water and add 1 tablespoon of peppermint, hyssop, yarrow or sage leaves. Steep the mixture for a half hour before straining out the leaves and applying it to your face.
 Try some of these add-ins to help itchy, dry skin:


1 cup powdered milk mixed with 1 tablespoon of grapeseed oil
Equal parts sesame oil, wheat germ and apple cider vinegar
1 cup of uncooked oatmeal tied into a pair of nylons or a muslin bag
Some bags of your favorite tea
2 cups of Epsom salts (soak in the salts and also rub them over rough areas of your skin)
1 pound (455 g) baking soda and 1/2 pound (225 g) sea salt

, The ice will draw blood to the area to improve circulation and deliver moisture. Just make sure that your skin doesn't get cold or numb.
 You can either purchase bottled aloe vera gel or cut the leaf off of an aloe vera plant and rub the gel on your skin.
 Exfoliate your skin in the shower. Then, cut a grapefruit in half. Sink your elbows into each half and soak the area for 15 minutes. The acids will help to smooth your skin.



Grind rolled oats in your food processor or coffee grinder until you have enough ground oats to fill 1/2 cup.
Add 1/3 cup ground sunflower seeds, 1/2 teaspoon peppermint leaves and 4 tablespoons of almond meal. Mix everything thoroughly.
Combine 2 teaspoons of the oatmeal mixture with a small amount of heavy cream until the mixture has the consistency of a facial scrub. Scrub your face, neck and chest with the oatmeal scrub and rinse thoroughly.
 Grapeseed oil counteracts aging by helping your skin cells to repair themselves.
 In a small spray bottle, mix a few drops of bergamot, rose or sandalwood oil with some water. Close your eyes and spray the mixture onto your face whenever your skin feels dry.
 Try any of the following ideas:


Whisk 1 tablespoon of plain yogurt with a few drops of sesame oil. Apply the mixture to your face, throat and upper chest and leave it on for 15 minutes.
Mash a banana and mix in a little bit of honey. Apply the mixture to your skin for 15 minutes.
Combine 2 tablespoons mashed avocado, 1/4 cup whipping cream, 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil and 1 teaspoon of calendula petals. Leave the mixture on your face for 15 minutes before rinsing it off.
Peel a mango and mash the flesh. Apply the pulp to your face and leave it on for a few minutes to clean and tighten your pores. Then, rinse it off.
Bring water to a simmer in a saucepan. Drop an apple into the water and simmer it until it turns soft. Take the apple out, mash it and add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice and 1 teaspoon of peppermint leaves. Smear the mixture on your face and rinse it off after 5 minutes.
Scramble an egg. Don't use your spatula to break the egg into pieces; leave it in 1 large piece. Place the egg on your face and keep it there until the egg starts to harden. If you have oily skin, use an egg white instead of the whole egg., Put it on arms, legs and stomach. Put it on after every shower.

