 Cinnamon, allspice, mace, cloves, and ginger are spices that have all have a sweet or spicy flavor, and are used in both sweet and savory recipes. In many cases, you can substitute some or all of these spices for the others.You can substitute ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground nutmeg or allspice for every 1 teaspoon (3 g) ground cinnamon.
You can replace allspice with an equal amount of cinnamon, or a dash of ground nutmeg or cloves for every 1 teaspoon (2 g).
You can substitute an equal amount of ground cinnamon, ginger, or mace for nutmeg.
You can replace mace with an equal amount of ground allspice, cinnamon, ginger, or nutmeg.
You can substitute an equal amount of ground allspice, cinnamon, or nutmeg for ground mace.
You can replace ground cloves with an equal amount of ground allspice, cinnamon, or nutmeg.
You can substitute an equal amount of ground cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, or mace for ground ginger.;
, If a recipe calls for fresh grated ginger root, ground ginger is an ideal substitute. However, because ground spices are more potent than their fresh counterparts, you don’t need as much ground ginger.Replace every 1 teaspoon (2 g) of grated fresh ginger with ¼ teaspoon (1 g) ground ginger.
 Ground cardamom has an herbal, citrusy taste, but it also has strong hint of spice. That makes ground ginger an ideal substitute for it in recipes.You can replace the ground cardamon in a recipe with an equal amount of ground ginger.
 Anise seed has a subtle licorice flavor. Though fennel seed is slightly sweeter than anise, it also has a licorice-y flavor, so it is a good replacement in recipes.You can swap an equal amount of fennel seed for anise seed in dishes.
The replacement also works in the reverse -- substitute anise seed for fennel seed while cooking.
You can also use a few drops of anise extract to substitute for 1 teaspoon (2 g) of anise seed.
 Saffron powder has a subtle floral, almost honey-like flavor, but is often used in recipes to give the dish a yellow color. Ground turmeric has a similar taste and can impart the same yellow color so it’s an ideal replacement for saffron powder.You can substitute a dash of turmeric for 1 teaspoon (2 g) of saffron powder.
 Cayenne pepper can add major heat to a dish. Red chili powder offers a similar heat and red color, so it’s an ideal substitute for cayenne. You can also swap paprika for cayenne pepper, though paprika isn’t quite as hot.You can substitute an equal amount of red chili powder for the cayenne pepper.
Replace every teaspoon (2 g) of cayenne pepper with 2 teaspoons (4 g) of paprika.
 Paprika doesn’t really provide heat or spiciness to a dish, but it does offer a delicious smokiness. You can substitute ancho or chipotle powder for paprika. You can also swap a pinch of cayenne pepper for paprika.You can use an equal amount of ancho or chipotle powder for the paprika.
Add a pinch of cayenne pepper for every tablespoon (7 g) of paprika.
 Chili powder is often used in Mexican food and chili recipes to add heat and spiciness. It is actually a blend of several different dried, ground chilies and other spices. To replace it, use a combination of bottled red pepper sauce, dried oregano, and ground cumin.For every tablespoon (8 g) of chili powder, use a dash of red pepper sauce, 1 ½ teaspoons (1 ½ g) og dried oregano, and 1 ½ teaspoon (4 g) og ground cumin.
 Poultry seasoning is often used to give roasted chickens, turkeys, and other poultry flavor. It is actually a blend of several spices, so mix dried sage with a combination of dried thyme, marjoram, black pepper, and rosemary as a substitute.For every 1 teaspoon (1 ½ g) of poultry seasoning, mix ¾ teaspoon (1 g) dried sage with ¼ teaspoon (½ g) blend of dried thyme, marjoram, black pepper, and/or rosemary.
 When you’re making a pumpkin pie or other pumpkin-flavored desserts, pumpkin pie spice helps add just the right flavor. It is a blend of several different spices, so substitute a mix of ground cinnamon, ginger, allspice, and nutmeg for pumpkin pie spice.For every 1 teaspoon (½ g) of pumpkin pie seasoning, combine ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ground cinnamon with ¼ teaspoon (½ g) ground of ginger, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) ground of allspice, and ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of ground nutmeg.
 Curry powder is a spice used to flavor rice, soups, sauces, and other dishes in South Asian cooking. Combine ground turmeric, ginger, black pepper, coriander, cumin, and chili powder to substitute for it in recipes.Mix equal amounts of ground turmeric, ginger, black pepper, coriander, cumin, and chili powder to create the amount needed to substitute for the curry powder.
 Apple pie spice is used not only to flavor pies, but apple turnovers, crisps, and dumplings. It is a blend of several different spices, so mix ground cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and cloves or ginger to substitute for it.For every 1 teaspoon (½ g) of apple pie spice, combine ½ (1 g) of ground cinnamon with ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground nutmeg, ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of ground allspice, and a dash of ground cloves or ground ginger.
 Italian seasoning can add the perfect flavor to pasta sauces, pizzas, and other Italian dishes. It features a blend of several spices, so mix any combination of dried basil, oregano, rosemary, and/or crushed red pepper to substitute for it in a recipe.Combine equal amounts of dried basil, oregano, rosemary, and/or crushed red pepper to replace the amount of Italian seasoning that you need.
 When you’re making spice substitutions as you cook, it’s best to start with a small amount of the replacement to ensure that you’re happy with the flavor. For the best results, start with just half the amount of the replacement that the recipes calls for with the original and add more to get the flavor that you want.For example, if a recipe calls for a teaspoon (2 g) of cardamom, add ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ginger to start with. Only mix in more if you aren’t happy with the flavor.
 Spices can lose their flavor and pungency within 1 to 3 years. Because you usually only use a small amount each time you cook, you may not go through a large bottle before the spice loses its flavor. That’s why it’s best to buy spices in small jars so you know that they’re always fresh.Buying your spices in small batches can also help you save money.
 To ensure that your spices are always fresh when you use them, it’s important to know how old they are. When you purchase the spices, write down the date on the bottle or container so you easily verify how old they are.While some spices will be good for 2 to 3 years, it’s best to replace your spices once a year to ensure that they’re fresh.
 Spices can degrade more quickly if they’re exposed to heat and humidity. Store yours in a cold, dry spot, such as inside a cabinet or pantry, so they stay fresh for as long as possible.Exposure to air is also harmful to spices, so keep them in airtight containers.
Light can also degrade spices, so make sure to keep them in a dark location.
Don’t keep your spices in a cabinet over the stove because the heat may degrade them.
 Before you mix spices into your dishes, it’s a good idea to examine them to ensure that they’re fresh. Fresh spices typically have a bright color and a strong aroma. If the color or scent seems off, the spice likely has lost its flavor.