 Diabetes is the most common cause of chronic numbness in the feet and toes. It causes numbness by both damaging the nerves and by causing poor circulation to your feet. Numbness is often one of the first symptoms of diabetes, so you should talk to your doctor and get tested right away if you have regular numbness that does not have another obvious cause.


Numbness can be extremely serious for people with diabetes because it may cause them not to feel pain in the feet caused by things like heat, punctures, or blisters.
Decreased circulation also means that the person's feet will heal much slower, so infection is a serious concern. For this reason it is very important that you take especially good care of your feet if you have diabetes.
 Keeping your blood glucose levels in check is the best way to prevent circulation issues and neuropathy, both of which can cause numbness, if you have diabetes. Develop a plan with your doctor that works for you.


Check your blood sugar regularly with a blood glucose meter and get your A1C levels tested a few times each year.
Although numbness in your feet and other symptoms of diabetes may make it difficult to exercise, do you best to stay active. Aim for 30 minutes of exercise each day, whether it is going to the gym or walking up and down the stairs at home.
Eat a healthy, balanced diet including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, beans, fish, and low-fat dairy. Do your best to avoid foods that trigger blood sugar spikes, such as cookies and soda.
Take all of your prescribed medications, including insulin, regularly.
Smoking can worsen the symptoms of your diabetes, so ask your doctor for help quitting.
 Extra pounds and obesity can contribute to numbness in your feet and toes, so ask your doctor for tips on healthy weight loss to help alleviate some of your symptoms.


Losing weight may also help you lower your blood pressure, which may also help reduce numbness. If losing weight is not enough to get your blood pressure under control, consider talking to your doctor about medications., Compression hose and socks help stimulate circulation, which can decrease numbness.Special lotions that contain capsaicin may also provide you with relief from numbness., If you have diabetes, you may still benefit from some of the methods recommended for the relief of occasional numbness, such as moving your feet, elevating your feet, massaging your feet, and using warm compresses. While these techniques might offer you temporary relief from your symptoms, keep in mind that they will not cure the underlying disease, so you still need to be vigilant about managing your diabetes and taking care of your feet.
 Some studies have shown benefits to relaxation and biofeedback treatment, as well as anodyne therapy, in the treatment of foot numbness related to diabetes. These treatments may not be covered by your insurance, but they may be worth investigating if nothing else works to relieve your numbness.Your doctor may also prescribe medication to address your numbness, although it is likely to be an off-label use of the drug.