 Most bishoujos in anime are always shown in a sparkling scene, looking beautiful while washing a dog or doing homework or cooking. This is mainly because they have cute accessories to keep their hair out of their face and nice clothes with a pretty design but suit the activity. Don't wear a dress to wash your dog, but you can do better than that shirt that has bleach spots and paint on it!;
, In anime, the heroine always is nice even to the people that are mean to her! You don't have to be fake, but you don't have to cuss the person out. Just smile at them, say something nice but nondescript like "I see." or "That's nice." and walk away or ignore them.
 No one likes people who curse. In school, it always seems cool but its really just a stupid habit to get into.
 No one likes someone who has B.O.! That's just gross. Also, ask your parents to let you shave your armpits if you haven't already. It might be embarrassing but gorilla armpits are even more embarrassing.
 All of the Bishoujos like what they like and that's what makes them so unique! Whether its dance, the music business, anime, video games, rock climbing, painting, drawing, collecting perfumes or the mechanics of a car, you should be interesting in what you are interested in.
 You don't have to have the money for it, but take that tie on your robe and use it as a belt! Or, cut up some old winter gloves you can't use anymore into cufflinks/sweatbands. Things like this add detail to an outfit and are conversation pieces.
 Don't get stuck into the rhythm of, 'Well all the popular/beautiful people are always out there doing stuff! I don't want anyone to think I don't have a life!' Having a life is based on doing what you want to do. If you want to sit in your room and watch anime all day, do it! If you want to spend six hours at the pool, do that too but wear sunscreen.
 It's healthy and it's wonderful. Remember the scenes where the bishoujo comes into the dining room carrying some lovely tasting food that's organic and that they made themselves?

, While makeup can be good for looking good, in the long run it can drag your face down and make more wrinkles Plus if you save it for special occasions, people will be shocked and surprised when you show up looking your most beautiful.
 There will be rewards at the end of a long road. People are always impressed with the girl who looks beautiful but has a brain too. Stand up for the nerds and geeks and look beautiful but be smart!

, Different hairstyles suit different face shapes. Getting a suitable hairstyle will not only accentuate your beauty, but also make you more confident. Bishoujo, as popularized in Japanese anime, usually have long, flowing hair - if you are striving to be a bishoujo, you might want to try that. Re-bonding your hair and consulting a professional hairstylist will get you a step closer to achieving the "bishoujo look". For that Asian look, you might want to consider dyeing your hair natural black/dark brown.
 Japanese culture places great importance on cute-ness. Bishoujo are usually girls below university age, so dress up in a way that will make you look younger and cuter. A good idea would be to wear a sailor uniform, as bishoujo are usually shown in their uniforms in anime.

