 If you truly feel like you have a food addiction, it'll be helpful to fully understand what food addiction it is and how it affects your life.


Food addiction can be a serious problem. High sugar and high fat foods are extremely palatable. When eaten, they trigger the release of dopamine to the brain's reward center. This triggers the desire to eat more of that food and to return to it again.People with Binge-eating Disorder feel a compulsion to eat unusually large amounts of food in a short period of time.They may feel disgusted by their eating habits but are unable to control them.If you feel compelled to eat large quantities of fast food, even if you feel bad afterward, consider seeing a mental health professional about the possibility of Binge-eating Disorder. It's highly treatable.
Spend some time researching food addiction online. There are a variety of sources online that may be able to help you learn more about your eating habits.
Purchase or check out a library book on food addiction. Spend some time reading and researching about food addictions.;
, Seeing your food addiction issues written down can make them more real to you. Include how often you eat fast food, your feelings or cravings around fast food and how hard you think it'll be to give it up.


To help you understand the severity of your food addiction, ask yourself if you are powerless around fast food or what emotions or situations make you crave fast food.
Also rate your feelings of addiction from 1 to 10 (one being weak and 10 being immensely strong). The rating may change with your emotions but it can give you insight into times, events or people that influence your rating.
Write down all the specific types of food that you feel addicted to. Is it only fast food? Or does your addiction include "junk foods" like candy, potato chips or soda?, Diets, in the traditional sense are not sustainable long term plans, especially not for a food addiction.People give up, stop purchasing the diet products or get bored and stop. Aim to make a lifestyle change around your food addiction and don't just adopt a diet.
Write up a food plan that does not include fast food or junk food. Make sure you plan for appropriate portion sizes and snacks so you do not become too hungry at any point during the day.
Remove "trigger" foods from your home if your addiction includes other junk foods in addition to fast food. If you are still eating a lot of fat and sugar (key ingredients in fast food) at home, it will be harder to break your addiction to fast food.

