 Or, do some people just not fit together? If that is the case, make sure they sit on opposite sides of the table!;
, Who likes to chat with a nemesis for a whole night? Also, it might turn out to be dangerous.
 Put yourself next to friends and people you have no problem being yourself with.
 It's very annoying when little kids bug you for the whole dinner, so make sure that they have toys to play with and other kids to scream with.
 Inevitably, there are the casualties, so make sure that if you end up with a very boring or annoying person as your side person, that you have an escape. Some ideas are offered next, to help you.
 You can say that your friend is in a homework crisis, or be even less confidential and simply say it's important.
 Kids are a great diversion from family dinners, because they need so much care and attention. Watch out though, you might find yourself spending the rest of the night with little Johnny!

, If you desperately need to go to the bathroom, nobody could force you to stay. Just make sure you don't stay away for too long.
 Group chats can be so much easier and enjoyable, because you can just lay back and listen (or not).
 Many people expect you to be making eye contact, so do that.
 This basically shows the person respect.
 The person might come back later and won't give up until you've heard it all.
 It is so much more enjoyable to talk to a funny person! Make jokes and laugh when necessary, but make sure you don't overdo it.


Laugh even when you don't get the joke, it makes people feel appreciated.
 Nod when you have to, cry when you have to, and even yell if necessary! The talker needs a confidence booster to keep his or her story interesting on both sides.
 Don't interrupt unless the speaker asks you a question.
 It's so much easier to speak if both parties are interested and involved in the conversation.
 Don't try to see everything at a bad angle, it makes the environment worse for you and the other guests. Try to enjoy yourself, and most of the time you will.

