 Open Kohl's website in a new window by pressing Shift and clicking this link: Kohls.com


At the top of the page, click on the link that says "my kohl's charge" and you'll be directed to the first signup page:;
, This will open up a secure connection where you can begin the signup process.


Consider reading the Security and Privacy Policy before applying for a Kohl's charge card—or any charge card—online. Click on the "Security and Privacy Policy" link at the bottom of the page to learn more about how the company may use your personal information.
When you apply for a Kohl's credit card, the store may collect and store information, including your name, birth date, telephone number, address, email address and social security number.
If you feel comfortable with what you read, close the "Security and Privacy Policy" page to return to the online credit application page.
Click the "Apply Now!*" button when you're ready to continue.
 This allows you to receive an electronic copy of the Kohl's card member agreement, which you can view by using Adobe Acrobat Reader.


The card member agreement usually includes useful information about interest rates, billing statement periods, late payment fees and other items pertaining to your account.



If you received a Personal Offer Code, enter it in the next screen, and press Submit. Otherwise, press Continue.
 Form fields marked by asterisks (*) indicate required information. Enter your first and last name, your home address, and your primary (home) phone number.


If you wish, include your work phone as well.
 Type your social security number, birth date and annual household income in the required fields.


Check the box next to the "Sign-up for Sale Alerts" field, if you want to receive sales alerts and coupons toward future purchases. Leave the box unchecked if you decline this option.
 Make sure it is accurate before going to the next step in the application process.


Also review the fine print at the bottom of the application. Check the related box to indicate that you have read the credit card agreement, verified the information in your credit application and granted permission for Kohl's to obtain information about your credit profile.
 This completes the application process.
 The confirmation page alerts you that Kohl's will review and process your application. In most cases, it takes as little as 1 minute to approve your credit account.

