 Decide what your colors will be so you can buy materials that fit the theme.
 If you are making less than 20 popcorn boxes, you may want to choose materials to print at home. Larger projects may benefit from buying cardstock and using a pre-made plastic template or printing at a local print shop.
 There are a number of excellent popcorn box templates on the Internet and in stores.









If you want to offer different sized popcorn boxes, or have the option for a future project, order a plastic popcorn box template. You can find this template at papercrafttemplates.com/Box-Templates/ for $8.99. The sturdy, reusable template can save you time and gives you many more chances for customization with your choice of cardstock.
Print a 1-page popcorn box template like the one above. This box design is simple, and it allows you to bring with different colors of cardstock, or cut it out and make a template that you can trace onto other cardstock.
For a printer and design friendly option, go to onecharmingparty.com/tag/popcorn-box/. This pre-designed template is striped, with blue and white stripes. Print it onto cardstock, cut it out and increase the professional look of your party.
For a popcorn box that is striped and says "popcorn," go to http://ideas.homelife.com.au/media/pdf/feb09/A4-popcorn.pdf This box will help distinguish the food from other favors. It prints on cardstock in green and white.
 If you are going to print the boxes from a pre-designed template, buy a package of white cardstock at an office supply store, craft store or on the Internet. If you want to customize your box by tracing a template, buy sheets of 12 by 12 inch (30.5cm) cardstock at your local craft store.









Consider purchasing 2-sided cardstock for use with a plastic template. You can have a patterned side and a plain side that the person will see as they eat their popcorn.
 You will either print or trace it onto cardstock.









Print your template, if you are using a pre-designed box. Make sure you have enough printer ink in your printer. Load the cardstock into your paper feed, as you would with normal paper.
Trace your popcorn box shape onto the cardstock, if you are using a plastic or hard paper template. Use a pencil to trace the outside portions. If you are using the version from papercrafttemplates.com you will need to trace 2 of these shapes. If you are using the template from Lavender's Blue Design blog, you will only need to make 1 template with cardboard to make the whole box.
 Whether you are using a printed version or a traced version, you will see that the inside areas of the box need to be scored for easy folding.









Place the piece of cardstock on a flat craft table. Use a bone folder or paper scoring wheel to trace the inside edges of the box and the flaps that glue the box together. Make sure you are scoring your paper on the correct side, the side that will fold in.
 Be as precise as possible, so your box will fit together well. Ensure you do not cut any of the scored lines, only the outside edges.
 If you are using the 2-piece design from paper craft templates, you may not be able to do this until you have glued 1 of the flaps.
 Apply durable craft glue to the flap. Align the opposite edge of the paper. You can bring the opposite side of the box down so that it is flush with the table's surface to ensure you are aligning the 2 pieces properly.









Press firmly on the glue flap with your fingers. Affix glue to the other glue flap, if you are using a 2-piece template. Align it and press to form your box structure.
 Make sure the bottom flaps are scored well and will fold easily into the box.
 Fold the bottom in, so that the flaps insert into the inside of the box.
 Reach your hand into the center of the box and press the flaps against the side of the box, using your other hand to create a firm surface.
 Allow your boxes to dry according to the glue's product specifications before serving popcorn.
