 If your customers or prospective customers cannot read your content, it has limited value. Likewise, if your content is easily copied or shared your control of the content is limited. e-Publishing gives you the ability to both widely disseminate your content as well as limit who can see your content, copy it, and even print it.;
, There are several ways to get started. If you only have a physical copy, it is best to retype it, but if you are unable to do so, it can be scanned. Most scanners include a scan to PDF tool, but if it does not you can use something like DocQ Onramp. It will scan your document for you and convert it to a PDF.
 If you have an electronic copy of you are half-way there. While in the past people used to simply stick their documents on their website as PDFs, they realized they lost immediate control of the document. Once uploaded, everyone can copy it and share it. If you have an update to the document or a new issue, you would conceivably want to update every copy of your PDF on the internet. This is not possible. You also will not maintain any statistics on who is reading the document. e-Publishing solves these problems. So the next step is to find an e-Publishing solution.
 There are several e-Publishing solutions available. Depending on your budget you can spend from a few dollars a month to more than a $1000. e-Publishing goes by a few names including; e-zine, online page flip book, e-magazine, etc. A few of these solutions, have a free trial, which I suggest you try first to see if your customer respond to the approach, before diving into a big monthly fee.
 Some have different capabilities on controlling your content while some are designed for mass publishing. Think what niche you are in. If you are a content creator for a group of people you may want one system and if you want to broadcast to everyone you will want another. (Note: while everyone may think they want to broadcast to everyone, it is important to note that your content will quickly be pushed down to nearly invisible on these systems if it is not deemed popular). With this said your options include docq.com, issuu.com, scribd.com, zmags.com, and epaperflip.com are popular solutions.
 Once logged in you will be brought to your "My Docs" page. Here you will upload the document you wish to publish. Chose the upload button on the left side and select the PDF document on your local computer.
, Choose your options.
 Alternatively, you can simply copy that link and email it or use DocQ to distribute.

