 The issue is not your thoughts — it is your attachment to the thoughts. Your thoughts (and the language in which you experience them) come from your conditioning, your society, your reaction to experiences.
 Question everything and attempt to see past all social, political, spiritual and personal conditioning and falsehoods.
 Know that we humans often feel that we are stuck in a game designed and controlled by others who do not have your or humanity's best interests in mind. When you're in crisis, it looks like others succeed through ignorance, fear and the ability to lead you around by the nose. Research the history of civilization and how this rat race began, and how it is perpetuated, then begin to formulate your own understanding as to where it may be heading.
 Some type of consistency does appear to exist, at least on a micro level.
 Your ability to experience joy will grow dramatically when you stop comparing yourself to other people and only compare yourself to yourself, if to anyone at all. In an ironic twist of fate, this can be achieved incrementally by holding a more stoic subjectivity.
 Remember to let go of "should" — you are in charge. (This message is a "should", so take it with a grain of salt.) You are the lightning of your values, and don't forget that, ultimately, value is genetically grounded in the body, even if it appears to be emotion. If you feel anxiety about "what to do", now that nobody else is telling you what to do, that's the most exciting part of the journey ... remember childhood? Mystery? Adventure? Smelling new smells and feeling new fabrics? New foods? Do something to improve your experience of joy.
 Some people write full-length sentences to help determine what their issues are. Others start by writing a poem in order to get their thoughts and feelings flowing. Later, you can elaborate in prose.
 Don't pick anyone abusive. Try Mr. Rogers, your first grade teacher, or that person you had a crush on in 9th grade. They don't help very much, do they? But it's fun talking to them.
 Would you still think this was as big a problem?

, If you can't figure out your problem, that means it's legitimate. If your solution involves making big changes, take a few days to think about it.


If you can't do anything about your problem right now, accept it. If it's late, go to sleep; if you can't sleep, find something to do that does not involve a television or computer screen (blue light causes insomnia). You'll want to go to sleep later. If it's daytime, get some exercise or finish your job. Be professional. A few successes never hurt anyone.
 If after exhausting research you still feel unsatisfied, you still have gained a lot of insight into the philosophy of the situation. You must know by now that a will to truth is absurd (to use the terminology). Since we truly don't know whether there is meaning to existence or not, we can always fall back on risk assessment.
 In whatever situation you find yourself, do no harm to yourself or others; even though sometimes it hurts, it will pass. Find meaning in the simple pleasures of life through your senses. Stop to smell the roses, feel the sunlight, taste the food, see the beauty and listen to your heart calling. You can create your own meaning for yourself and your own life. After all, it is your life, your game, your experiment. Play your game with respect for others, and deal with your circumstances to the best of your ability. To really succeed, respectfully enlist the help of others.
 This will help you clarify your power over the world and give you a few minutes to do some basic problem-solving. Don't just straighten things up, clean. Use a cleaning product.
 It's another opportunity for you to make changes in your life to seek happiness and self-fulfillment. This power is yours — claim it.
 If you did not care about the philosophical problem of existential despair, then you would not experience existential crisis because the impossibility of absolutely proving anything would bore you. If you are reading this page, then you are upset. Therefore, you must care about the philosophical problem: why? To be consistent, you must scrutinize your motivations like you do everything else. A helpful question in this scrutiny is, "If I discovered the Truth and meaning of life, then what would I do, think, and feel?" You may either discover a fresh meaning of life or simply realize that your former goals and ends were quite it. In any case, should the new or old ends be unhealthy, seek professional help.

