 You will need to try to come up with as many ideas or situations as you can. Try to think of some typical situations, as well as some wacky ones. It is good to have a variety to work with.


Be sure to not worry about the content of the ideas. At this point, you just need to get a basis for an idea, then run with it later on.
Make a plan beforehand. Prior to starting you brainstorm session, know or jot down who your characters are and know their defining traits. This will make the brainstorming easier.
 You should eliminate some of your weaker ideas or ones that couldn't be elaborated on very well. You should narrow your list down to about 4-7 workable ideas.


Act some out if you need to. Do what you need to do to determine if an idea is workable or not. If that means acting a scenario out, then by all means do it. The final goal is to get a few great ideas.
 To do this, you need to start writing a small draft. Remember to let the script flow to you, and if you aren't feeling an idea, dump it. This is why it is good to eliminate all but about 6.


This is the part where you really start to incorporate the characters, so it is good to have a plan off attack for this step, even though you are making very rough drafts.

Start the draft by writing a bit out in "story form". Just write it like you would see in a novel. From here you should start determining what the characters say and do, or react, to the situation. Remember to make your situation seem bad to the characters, yet funny to the viewers. In the end, it should end up being funny for both parties.
 You will need to take a few things into consideration with this. Those factors include:


What type of situation it is. Will you affect your decision because of the time of year (holidays, seasons, tradition, etc.)?
Who is involved. What characters are involved and do they work in this situation well together? There is an old rule in writing comedy that says "opposites attract". This means that in a sitcom, two different types of people will make for a funny situation.
Your gut feeling. What does your gut tell you about the idea? Deep down, do you think it is a winner? It is key to personally believe in the idea.
 This is the first stage of the final product. Use the rough draft you have as a basis for writing the script. Elaborate deeply on the situation. Remember to add every little detail, as the episode (when aired) will be around 21-23 minutes long.
 Weather you are working on a team for this or not, get input from others and don't be afraid to ask for help if you are stuck on an idea.


Sleep. This may seem silly, but sleeping can help you come up with ideas for a script. If you are having dreams about the sitcom, that means you are really getting into the episode and that is when your mind will come up with some great ideas. If you do start having those dreams, keep your mind open to dreaming.
People. Other people may come up with some great scenarios that even you couldn't think of, so there is no harm done in asking for some other opinions.
Other shows. Many teenage sitcoms are based around the same ideas, so if you are having trouble, watch some shows and pay attention to the big picture (what the episode is trying to say as a whole to the viewer) and the details (some of the smaller quirks that makes the show its own).
 Once you have "finished" the script, take a break for a few days, then come back to edit it. Editing the script should not take very long, but just remember to take your time. Don't be afraid to change some things around or even re-write some sections. Use a color like red and make your edits visible.
 Plug in the revisions you made and then re-read. If you find anything else you figure worth changing, don't be afraid to change it. Some writers do this dozens of times before they think they have it just right.
 Weather it is a "publisher" or producer, send the script in to be finalized. Know that whomever you are sending the script in to will more than likely change it up a bit.



Be confident. Try to be confident, but not over-confident, while awaiting a response from the producer or publisher. Although it won't physically improve your chances, it may help if you do get rejected of have to change things up.
 This will give you a list of what you need before you send it back in.


Make sure you do exactly as the producer says. Even though you may disagree, he/she is the boss, and you need to try it their way if they didn't like yours.;
, Use the same guidelines as described above for editing.
 As always, be confident when doing this. At some point it will be good enough.

