 In order to become a true fan, you need to watch the programming that WWE offers. These shows are Raw (USA Network), Smackdown (Syfy Network), Superstars(WWE Network), NXT (WWE Network), and Main Event (WWE Network). It's okay if you don't have WWE Network right away. The main shows are Raw and Smackdown anyway, so strive to watch those more. In the mean time, you could see clips of the shows on WWE Network, on WWE.com. Each program features a different roster of wrestlers and a different feel. Watch the shows intently the first few times, and get used to the way the programming runs. RAW and Smackdown tend to feature the more popular superstars. Main Event usually feature mid-card superstars. Superstars feature lower card Superstars. (aka jobbers) And lastly, NXT features future WWE Superstars and Divas who strive to make it to the main roster.;
, WWE rules are unique, and can be confusing at first. If you watch the programming more, you will get the hang of the way matches work. Basically, a wrestler wins via have the shoulders of his opponent on the mat for a count of three or having them tap out to a submission hold. You can also win via Disqualification, Count Out, or Knockout. However, some matches have different stipulations.
 After you have watched the programming for 2-3 weeks, get to know the roster better by visiting pro wrestling websites and on WWE's official homepage. You will need to have them all memorized, if you're trying to be a true fan. (The time it takes to memorize everyone varies, but the harder you work, the faster you'll learn.) Set goals for yourself to have a certain amount of wrestlers memorized by a deadline - this method should take a week or two. Make sure you know the major players of each brand, and the main finishing moves.
 Whatever you do, do not TRY to pick a favorite. This is where people go wrong and become fake fans! You don't pick your favorite wrestler, your favorite wrestler will pick you. Don't try to make yourself like someone, it all comes naturally. If you don't have a favorite wrestler by the end of the month, its OKAY! It takes time to build up actual love for a wrestler, not 1 day. You will have favorites, but there will be that one person that always sticks out to you, and can always get you pumped and happy to see them. When you do eventually have a favorite wrestler, try to stay updated with that person and try to learn about their life, where they came from, how they started, and so forth. This builds for a deeper connection and natural love for that person.
 Study up on the history of the company, and get to know the historic legends of the business, such as Hulk Hogan, The Rock, and "Stone Cold" Steve Austin. Going to the WWE homepage is a good idea to study the history. You can also watch some of the many WWE DVD's, read one of their encyclopedias, or you could subscribe to the WWE Network for just $9.99.
 Go to a wrestling news or behind the scenes website that is credible. You will learn a lot about how the business works, and about recent events not shown on WWE television.
 Go to a WWE event and see the Superstars in real life. This is an experience any true WWE fan should do at least once or twice in their life. It doesn't matter if you go to a house show (WWE Live) or go to a top notch PPV like Wrestlemania. You should experience it if you are a true WWE fan.
 This is where most of the better matches take place and where feuds are resolved. In order to become a true fan, try ordering at least one or two pay per views a year to know what they are like.(Instead of paying $60 for a pay-per-view, you could just get WWE Network, for the low, low price of $9.99 and watch every pay-per-view, plus some.)

, Obviously you shouldn't become a fan if you don't enjoy wrestling.
 You can't be a WWE fan without some merchandise such as signed items, DVDs, action figures, belts, shirts, etc. You could even just go to the store and get a poster.(NOTE: Not everyone you see with WWE merchandise, is not a true fan, so if you don't really have much, it's ok.

