 Before you begin cleaning, unplug everything. It is very dangerous to enter a water damaged home if electronics are plugged in. Carefully unplug everything from the wall and turn off any appliances before you begin cleaning.;
, If you don't have a wet/dry vacuum, you can rent one at a hardware store. To begin the process of drying out the floor and walls, run the vacuum over your floors, walls, and anywhere else where you notice built up water damage. Sop up as much set in water as possible with the wet/dry vacuum., For water damaged carpet, your best option is steam cleaning. You can rent a steam cleaner at a local hardware store if you do not own one. Run the steam cleaner over the water damaged carpet to remove moisture and clean your carpeting.For very water damaged carpet, professional steam cleaning may be the best option.
 Water damage can cause the build up of bacteria in your walls, floors, and carpeting. Disinfecting these areas to remove water damage is important. You can buy a disinfectant cleaner at a local grocery store or hardware store. If possible, ask a worker for a disinfectant specifically designed to treat water damage. Scrub down your walls and floors with a disinfectant.Read the directions of the disinfectant you purchase. Different disinfectants will need to be diluted with different levels of water.
You can also make a solution at home using a combination of bleach and water. It depends on the type of bleach you're using, but half a cup of bleach per gallon of water is usually a safe ratio., Mold growth can occur, especially in wood, after water damage. After cleaning and disinfecting your floors and walls, apply a product that inhibits mold growth. Purchase your product at a hardware store or department store. Apply it according to package directions., Even after sopping up most of the water, there is likely some lingering water in your floors and carpeting. Keep fans in the room and have them on for 24 hours a day. This can speed up the drying process. You should also place a dehumidifier in the room if you have one.If you don't have a dehumidifier, consider renting one, purchasing one, or borrowing one from a friend. They can really speed up the drying process.

