 An angle grinder is a power tool that is highly effective for breaking U-locks and most other kinds of locks. It’s the most powerful and quick method of slicing though U-locks, but in order to handle it responsibly you need to take a few safety precautions. You practice and feel comfortable with your angle grinder before using it on your U-lock. Put on work gloves to protect your hands, as well as goggles to stop any flyaway material from getting in your eyes.
Don’t wear any loose clothing or jewelry when you operate the angle grinder.
Make sure that you are using the right sized disc for the grinder and that the grinder is able to go up to maximum speeds.
If your U-lock is locked but not attached to anything, clamp it with a vice attached to a table. If the lock is fastened around a bicycle, adjust it so that when pressure is applied to it, it doesn’t move but stays in relatively the same place.
 Hold your angle grinder using both hands at an angle of 15-30 degrees. Hold your angle grinder a few inches away from the U-lock and turn it on., Use both hands to hold the angle grinder and slowly bring the blade against one of the U-shaped sides of the U-lock. Don’t be alarmed when you see sparks fly; even if they touch you they won’t hurt you. Hold the blade against the side of the U-lock until it cuts through. This can take anywhere from 15 seconds to a few minutes.Be very slow and deliberate when you use the angle grinder. Don’t push or exert force with the grinder. Just hold the blade against the lock and wait as it chips away.
If exert force while you cut, you will cut through the U-lock and then push angle grinder past it to cut whatever is behind the U-lock.
 If you are trying to take the U-lock off your bike or the handle of a door, you will need to create one more cut to be able to dislodge it. Use the same method to cut the U-lock as you did for the first cut, this time cutting through an area a few inches from the first cut. Stop when you complete the cut.
 After you finish using your angle grinder, turn it off. It’s important as a safety precaution to turn it off immediately after you are finished using it. After you make the second cut, a section of the U-lock should have fallen away to make a gap in the lock. Take the U-lock off, store your angle grinder, and throw away the remains of your lock!

