 Though not always the case, most Dubai recruitment agencies in the traditional West (like the UK and US) focus on managerial positions. Agencies recruiting in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Korea, and the Philippines generally focus on filling manual labor positions., This will determine the kind of recruitment agency you will approach. Agencies have different areas of specialization, but not all job categories have a suitable recruitment agency that can connect you with the job you desire.Newspaper classifieds and online job postings, while more time consuming, offer potential opportunities or, at least, direction for cold-calls you may make in search of employment.
 Recruitment agency fees are always paid by the employer, with no charge to staff.These fees are usually a percentage of the annual salary of the position you are applying for, ranging 10 - 20% for most positions.


UAE Ministry of Labor prohibits recruitment agencies to charge employees a fee for representation.Some recruitment companies legitimize claim a service fee to prospective employees by being based in a country other than Dubai, though many countries have bans on this practice as well.
 Your recruitment agent can do more for you than simply help put you in contact with future employers. Should you accept a position in Dubai, your agent can help your spouse with the necessary paperwork to find work, or put you in touch with someone who can help.Show proper respect in personal meetings. It is important, if at a business lunch, that you accept and express your enjoyment of food and refreshment before moving on to matters of business. Additionally, try to always accept food and drink with your right hand, avoid pointing the sole of your foot (or your foot in general) at your agent, try not to point or beckon with your finger.Giving a personal gift can establish a meaningful bond with your agent. Be sure your gift does not violate any of the precepts of Islam. Avoid anything with alcohol, including perfume, pig products, personal items like underwear, knives, canine themed gifts, and sexually suggestive material.