 In the United States, these are Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. Explain briefly why your credit report is incorrect, along with the facts; do not give long-winded explanations. In your letter, be sure to include your full name, current address, date of birth, Social Security Number, and any credit report numbers you have available.


Provide any copies of documents that support your claim. These may be credit card receipts, mortgage receipts, or other loan documents. It may help to circle the items in question.
If you have a police report or other official documents proving your claims, then include copies with your letter.
Keep copies of your dispute letter and any enclosures you used to support your claim.;
, The addresses of the major three credit bureaus are listed below:


Equifax Information Services, LLC, P.O. Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374
Experian, P.O. Box 2002, Allen, TX 75013
TransUnion, Baldwin Place, P.O. Box 2000, Chester, PA 19022

, Whenever possible, communicate with all credit reporting agencies by postal mail. But if you must call about a credit report dispute, use the following telephone numbers: Equifax, (800) 685-1111; Experian, (888) 397-3742; TransUnion, (800) 888-4213.


The credit reporting companies are obligate to investigate the matter within 30 days, unless they somehow show your dispute to be frivolous.What happens during the investigation? The credit reporting company forwards the information you gave them to institution or company that originated the information. For the sake of example, let's assume it's a restaurant. The restaurant must then investigate the matter and report back to the credit reporting company with its findings. The restaurant is responsible for notifying all three credit bureaus if it finds that the information in question is inaccurate.
 Regardless of what the credit reporting company determines, they must send issue a verdict in writing. If the credit reporting company finds the disputed information to be inaccurate, they must provide you with a free credit report that takes into account this information.


This free credit report does not count towards your free annual credit report.
The credit reporting agency must also send you the name, address, and phone number regarding the institution or company that provided the disputed information.
 The credit reporting agency must also send copies of the revised credit report to any person or institution that received your credit report in the last two years for purposes of employment. The credit reporting agency is obligated to do both by law.
 This time, mention that your rights under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) were violated by the credit bureau’s failure to promptly investigate and respond to your dispute., You are lawfully able to do so. If you wish to pay a fee, you can also have the credit reporting agency give your statement to any person or institution that received your credit report in the recent past.

