 If you decide that you want to work one-on-one with a personal piano instructor online, you should begin looking through search engines. Many accomplished performers and pedagogues teach online lessons—some may setup face-to-face lessons over a webcam, while others may send weekly instructional videos and lessons.Apart from search engines and other typical resources, consider reaching out to your friends. Social media is a great source for reviews and insights to help you decide on the right online service or teacher. Look at what your musical friends are reading, commenting on, or sharing online.
 If a website offers instruction from more than one teacher, take free trials or interviews with 2–3 teachers that spark your interest. Look at the instructors’ credentials, experience, education, and biographies. If a site only has one piano instructor, ask for a trial lesson before you commit to the lessons.


Don’t underestimate the importance of scheduling and availability. It’s important that you find an individual teacher who can work with you online when your schedule permits.
 Online piano instructors may have different levels of service they provide. For example, a “basic” level may provide fewer face-to-face instructional meetings and fewer online resources than a “premium” or higher-level service. Talk with the instructor: describe you level of experience, level of interest, budget, and available time, and see what they suggest.


Always keep your personal budget in mind while negotiating with your instructor. You don’t want to strain your financial resources just to purchase a higher-level subscription.
 Learning to play the piano takes a substantial amount of time, and the sooner you start, the quicker you’ll be able to master the basics. Familiarize yourself with the instructor and their methods. Consider doing some of the very basic work (e.g. learning the notes, their positions on the keyboard and on the musical staff) outside of the lessons, so that you’re not paying for unnecessary instruction.


If the lessons are over a webcam, make sure to start on time and set the computer near your piano, so you can see it as you play.

