 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large pot or Dutch oven. Place it over medium heat, and allow the oil to heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.To keep your sauce from having a metallic taste, avoid using an aluminum, copper, or cast iron pot. Instead, opt for an enameled cast iron or stainless steel option.
 Add 1 pound (454 g) of lean ground beef, 1 cup (150 g) of diced yellow onion, and 2 teaspoons (6 g) of minced garlic to the pot. Sauté the mixture until the ground beef is browned and no longer pink, which should take approximately 6 to 8 minutes.Use a wooden spoon to break up the beef and stir the mixture as it sautés to ensure that it cooks evenly.
When the mixture is finished cooking, drain any excess grease from the pot if necessary.
 Add 6 ounces (170 g) of tomato paste to the pot. Stir it into the beef mixture so it’s fully incorporated, and allow the mixture to cook for 1 to 2 minutes., Stir the dried basil, dried oregano, dried thyme leaves, lightly crushed fennel seed, salt, freshly ground black pepper to taste, and crushed red pepper flakes into the pan. Allow the mixture to cook for another minute, stirring it the entire time so it’s well mixed.Adding the crushed red pepper is optional. If you prefer a milder sauce, you can omit it.
To crush the fennel seed, place it on a cutting board and use the back of a spoon to break it down. That helps release its flavor and aroma.
 Add a 28-ounce (794 g) can of whole San Marzano tomatoes, 2 cups (473 ml) of low sodium beef broth, and 2 teaspoons (8 g) of sugar into the pot. Mix well to incorporate all of the ingredients, using the spoon to mash the tomatoes into a smoother consistency.Be sure to add all of the whole tomatoes and liquid from the can.
 Once all of the ingredients are combined, turn the heat up to medium-high. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes., Once the sauce is boiling, reduce the heat to low. Leave the sauce to simmer on the stove for two hours so the flavors have time to meld and deepen.Be sure to stir the sauce every so often as it simmers to ensure that it doesn’t stick to the pot.
 Give the sauce a taste when it's finished simmering the sauce. Add more salt and pepper if necessary. If the sauce is too acidic, you can also mix in 2 tablespoons (28 g) of butter and let it melt to mellow the sauce’s flavor., Once you’re happy with the sauce’s flavor, ladle it over the cooked pasta of your choice. You can top the pasta with grated Parmesan cheese if you like.