 Is it fantasy, action, comedy, etc.?;
, Why is this character needed in the story?

, Are you creating a main character or a supporter? The object of affection or a despised enemy to a main character? By deciding what role your character plays in the story beforehand, it is easier to create a personality to fit that role.
 It would make your story seem off. For example, if your character was very trusting, would he/she investigate the strange man who came to town from the forest? You may be thinking 'My story won't work if he/she doesn't investigate the man!' Maybe you can find a way to make it work, or maybe you will even spin the story into another, more exciting direction.
 This will be the skeleton for your character's personality. What does this person look like? How old are they? Where did they come from, and how were they raised? What are some of their likes and dislikes? Think of your character as someone you've just met and are trying to get to know better. Try to make their attributes relate to their role in the story; for example, a villain likely would not have a nice attitude about other people. Use a character's attributes to tell the reader something about who they are. This doesn't have to be very personal or in-depth. After all, the character isn't a day old! Also, even if you are not making a comic, if you have some skill in drawing, it helps to draw your character to further visualize him or her. If you are not confident in your drawing skills, ask an artsy friend for help.
 What made them what they are today? Is there some deep dark secret that the character feels like he has to hide? Was the character born into extraordinary circumstances or did she/he have a normal childhood? Create a biography for your character and get as in-depth as you like with this. You can even write short memory scenes for your character. Don't hesitate to add to this character's experiences even as you're writing the story. You may find that, for your character to react the way you want him/her to in a situation, something must have happened in their past to garner that reaction. It's OK to change your character's personality to suit the story. Just make sure to go back and change anything that would be extremely out of character given his/her altered personality.
 The events in your story all add to your character's experiences and memories and will have an effect on their thoughts, actions, and attitude. For example, if you have a very lonely downtrodden character who is shown a shining instant of human kindness, the character's attitude will change, at least temporarily.
 Use the character's actions and dialogue in your story to reveal them to the reader instead of just bluntly stating what they are like. Dedicating an entire paragraph of a story to describing the character's personality and appearance causes your story to sound stilted and disrupts the plot; instead, make character development an organic part of the story.

