 One of the most important ways to learn to become respectful of other cultures is to spend some time reflecting on your own beliefs and biases. Each of us has what is known as a "filter". The filter impacts how we see other cultures.Your filter describes the way you view the world. Many different factors can affect your filter.
Some factors that affect your view, or filter, are ethnic background, religion, and age. Your filter is also affected by your income level and your education level.
Spend some time reflecting on your filter. Ask yourself questions such as, "How does my income affect the way I look at others?" or "Do I have any biases because of my religion?"
Becoming more self-aware can help you realize new things about your own culture. This, in turn, can open your eyes to appreciating cultural differences.;
, In order to respect other cultures, it is important to understand something about them. You can expand your knowledge by doing some research. Start by reading about the culture you are interested in.For example, if you are interested in Japanese culture, look for a book on the history of Japan. Background knowledge of the history can help you comprehend the culture.
You can also try fiction. Reading a fictional account of a new culture can give you a more clear understanding of what life is like in that culture.
Try reading Chinua Achebe's "Things Fall Apart" for an interesting story about life in Nigeria. Or consider reading Elizabeth Gilbert's "Eat, Pray, Love" to learn about Italy, India, and Indonesia.
Ask your local librarian for guidance. Ask for recommendations for both fiction and non-fiction works.
 Religion is an important part of many cultures. Learning more about a different religion can help you understand cultures other than your own. Take some steps to learn more about religion.Attend a different type of worship. If you are Catholic, you might have only experienced a traditional Catholic mass.
Visit a different type of worship service. For example, visit a Jewish synagogue or go to a mosque.
Make sure to inquire as to whether visitors are allowed at services. Also take care to ask about any guidelines for dress or behavior.
Do your research. Read books and newspaper articles about different religions. For example, you could read about what it means to be a Buddhist.
 Furthering your education is a great way to learn to respect other cultures. You could take a traditional course at your local community college. For example, you could take a course on Russian literature.Colleges also offer classes in topics such as the history and religions of other cultures. Many of these types of classes are even available online, and some are free.
Ask a friend to take a class with you. The two of you could have fun learning to speak beginning Spanish.
 Make an effort to have a conversation with someone from another culture. Meeting someone new, or having an in-depth talk with someone you know, will help you gain a more personal understanding of another culture.This can help deepen your respect.Try to place yourself in situations where your will be around people from many cultures. If you are in college, your campus might sponsor multi-cultural awareness events. Make it a point to attend.
Make an effort to make new friends. Join a new sports team or spend time in a diverse neighborhood.
Take time to talk to people. Listening to their stories and experiences is a great way to connect with a new culture.

