 Your credit report from each of the three credit bureaus (TransUnion, Experian, and Equifax) is available for free once a year. You can order each credit report using one central service. Do not contact each bureau individually. They only offer the free service by using the following methods:


Order online by visiting annualcreditreport.com.
Order over the phone by calling 1-877-322-8228.
Order by mail by sending a Request Form to "Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281.";
, Once you get your credit reports, look through them to see if there is any tax lien information. Credit reports contain a lot of information, so you may have to do some digging to find a tax lien. In general, a credit report will include the following information:


Your personal information;
Information about your credit history;
Your bill repayment history;
Whether a collector is collecting money from you; and
Other public records (i.e., liens, judgments, and bankruptcies)., To spot possible errors on your credit report, look for derogatory marks, which is information that does not belong on your report.One example of this is a federal tax lien that has been paid, is not yours, or that has been discharged in bankruptcy.


If you are not sure if a tax lien is yours, you should search through public records offices to track down the lien. These offices are often called the "Official Records Office" or the "Office of the Recorder."You can also call the IRS, who is responsible for issuing federal tax liens. To verify a lien with the IRS, you can call (800) 913-6050., Unpaid tax liens can stay on your credit report forever. A tax lien is not required to be removed until seven years after it has been paid and released.If you have paid the federal tax lien close to seven years ago, you may want to consider waiting for it to be removed. The process of disputing the derogatory mark may be more difficult than simply waiting it out.
 If you do not think the federal tax lien is valid (e.g., it is not yours or there was some mistake), you must request a hearing within 30 days of receiving your Notice of Federal Tax Lien.


After this period, you may still be able to request an equivalent hearing so long as you do so within one year of receiving your Notice of Federal Tax Lien., Before you request a hearing, but within your 30 day window to do so, contact the Collection office that sent you the Lien Notice. Call the number on your Lien Notice and talk to the IRS about a solution. If you cannot find a number to call, call 1-800-829-1040. Explain to the IRS why you disagree with the Lien Notice.


Be aware that this process does not extend your 30 day window to file a request for a hearing.If your deadline is coming up, request a hearing even if you think you might work out a solution outside of the formal hearing process.
 To request a hearing, fill out IRS Form 12153, which is a Request for a Collection Due Process or Equivalent Hearing. The form can be found at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f12153.pdf. When you fill out Form 12153, you will need the following information:


Your personal information;
The tax information found on your Notice of Federal Tax Lien;
An explanation of why you are requesting a hearing; and
Your signature., Once you complete Form 12153, you need to send it to the address shown on your Lien Notice.An Appeals officer will contact you to schedule a conference. The conference will usually be held over the phone., During the conference, the IRS will explain the information they have on file and any investigation they have completed. They will give you an opportunity to respond to any information they tell you. At the conclusion of your hearing, Appeals will issue a determination letter., If a federal tax lien is yours, there may still be a way to get it removed from your credit report. The IRS has a Fresh Start program that may lead to your Notice of Federal Tax Lien being withdrawn. If your tax lien is withdrawn, the lien will no longer exist. However, you will still owe the amount due. To qualify for the Fresh Start program, you must be in one of two categories:


First, you can get a withdrawal if you pay off the debt and have the lien released. You must also be in compliance with all owed taxes for the last three years and any upcoming tax payments.
Second, if you have not paid off the debt, you can get the lien withdrawn if you enter into a Direct Debit installment agreement with the IRS. To qualify, you must owe $25,000 or less and you must pay off the debt within 60 months., To request a withdrawal based on either eligibility option, you must complete IRS Form 12277, which is an Application for Withdrawal of Filed Form 668(Y), Notice of Federal Tax Lien. The Form can be found at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f12277.pdf. To fill out the Form completely, you will need the following information:


your personal information;
The Notice of Federal Tax Lien;
Your reason for requesting withdrawal; and
Your signature., Mail the completed Form and a copy of your Notice of Federal Tax Lien to the IRS office assigned to your case. Your application will be reviewed and you will be notified of the IRS's determination.


If the IRS withdraws the Notice of Federal Tax Lien, they will file a Form 10916(c), Withdrawal of Filed Notice of Federal Tax Lien, where the filed the original Lien Notice., If you do not agree with the information in your credit report, you can add a statement explaining the information you do not agree with. To add a statement of dispute, send a written account of your story and explanation to each of the three credit bureaus.


A statement of dispute can be helpful because they alert lenders to your ongoing issue. A lot of times, when lenders see these statements, they will give you an opportunity to submit information evidencing your claim., If you have already dealt with the IRS and received a withdrawal of a Lien Notice or a positive determination letter stating the lien was an accident in the first place, then you need to contact all three credit bureaus. If the lien was filed improperly, the credit bureaus will remove the information from your credit reports. In addition, all three credit bureaus have agreed to remove a tax lien from your report if the IRS withdraws the lien. To file a dispute with each credit bureau:


File an online dispute with Equifax. When you do so, you will identify the issue you have with your credit report and you will document how you would like it fixed.File an online dispute with Experian. To do so, visit their website and follow the on screen prompts.File an online dispute with TransUnion. To do so, create an account and follow the instructions on the screen.In all of these scenarios, attach a copy of your IRS Form 10916(c) (if your lien was withdrawn) or your IRS determination letter stating the lien was filed improperly., The credit bureaus have 30 days to respond to your dispute and 90 days to issue a decision.If you do not hear back before these deadlines, follow up with each credit bureau individually.

