 That's what the Boy Scouts say. But we're going to use that to make a Boy Scout blush.


Take a look at yourself in the mirror, then close your eyes. Think about something or somebody you think is super sexy. Think about that with your eyes closed, until you are feeling undeniably sexy. Now open your eyes, and take a look. That's a look you want to recreate!
Listen to voices, and see how guys respond. Sexy is as much in the tone as it is in the words you use. Low and throaty is always a safe bet, but if your voice is not ready for that, soft and sweet works well too.;
, Start with saying phrases such as "I must really like you." This turns guys on without sounding too serious, too soon.
 Once you know what your sexy look is, practice it on yourself, until you can get that "look" whenever you want. Try variations on it:


Look directly ahead with a no-nonsense "yes, you" gaze.
Bend your head down, and look up with your eyes. It's sort of the opposite of the direct gaze, but still very sexy to guys.
As you're waking away from him, turn your head and eyes towards him, and smile. If that doesn't make his knees quiver, nothing will!

, Nothing is sexier than telling somebody how much you appreciate things about them, especially the little things.


When you're talking to him, focus on him, no matter who else is around—even if the hottest guy around walks into the room. Focusing on him alone is most definitely sexy. Think about it: if Selena Gomez walked into the room while he's talking to you, and his gaze never wandered from you for an instant, how would you feel?

, Being a little bit aloof means that you're not going to be taken for granted. Look like you don't really care if he responds or not, and enjoy yourself!

, If the goal is to make him think sexy thoughts about you, then there's no better place to start than his own imagination. Try using subtle cues when talking. It might be a sexy smile, or touching your lips while listening to him, or even saying something that is borderline naughty, like "It is so hot today, I could just toss off all my clothes and dance naked in the fountain!"

, Don't just use "friend" touches. Part of talking sexy is being sexy. When you're saying something flirty, run a finger down his forearm towards his hand. He will like that.
 Learn how to use double entendres. Those are words or phrases open to two interpretations, one of which is usually risqué or indecent.

