 Imitation is often the quickest way to learn the basics of something, and screaming is no exception. Try to find a singer who does not scream his or her entire vocals. Instead, when learning how to master this, try listening to a song where there's a scream within the song, but doesn't scream all the lyrics.


As you practice your own scream, you can vary the style to suit your voice and image as desired. For now, however, focus simply on producing the basic sound and worry about tailoring it to your own tastes later on.;
, Screaming will be much less harsh on your throat if you moisten your throat first. Something lukewarm or warm is preferably to something cold, since warm fluids can soothe the throat while cold fluids can cause the muscles to tighten and ultimately feel more sore.


Warm tea with honey is one of the best options, but you could also settle for lukewarm water or room temperature juice.
Avoid cold drinks.
Stay away from drinks containing caffeine or alcohol, since these will only dry out your throat more.



Take a deep breathe through your nose before you begin to get as much air into your lungs as possible. The more air you start with, the longer you can sustain the sound.
Breathe out from the diaphragm. The air should be forced up from the bottom of your lungs, and you should force it out in a controlled, steady stream instead of letting it loose all at once.
 Narrow your throat so that there is only a small gap for you to force air through. Apply more energy to your "ah" until you can eventually feel the sound between your throat and chest.


Your throat should be as tightly closed together as it can be while still allowing air to flow through.
 If you take your time, it could take several weeks of consistent practice before you master this scream. You should still practice this slowly to avoid ruining your throat, though.


If your throat begins to hurt as you practice your screaming, stop immediately and drink something warm. Warm tea with honey is especially good at this point.
Only continue with your practice when your throat feels completely fine.

