 A health care professional will help you manage your COPD and develop a treatment plan that works for you. Everyone with COPD does not take the same medications. Speak openly with your doctor about your symptoms, emotions, and how COPD is affecting your life.Show your doctor how you use your medications to make sure that you are using them correctly.
 A controller mediation is a medicine that you take daily. Long-acting bronchodilators are used as controller medications. You typically use an inhaler to take this medication. They work to keep your lungs open and help prevent exacerbations. You will not feel any immediate effects from taking a controller medication.Take this medication no matter how you feel.
Ask your doctor how to take the medication and always follow the instructions. All inhalers do not work the same.
 Short-acting bronchodilators are used as rescue medication. Use your rescue medication when you need immediate relief. You should feel better in a minute or less. If your controller medication is working well, you should only need to use your rescue medication a couple times a week.The effects of your rescue medication only last four to six hours., If your COPD makes it difficult to get enough oxygen in your blood stream, your doctor can prescribe oxygen therapy. Your doctor will decide if you need oxygen for rest, exercise, and/ or sleeping, the type of oxygen system you need, and how often you must use your oxygen.Your doctor will take a blood sample to determine if you need oxygen therapy.They may also do a home evaluation to monitor oxygen during activity and while you sleep, as well as do an evaluation in the clinic which assesses oxygen levels at rest, with activity, and response to supplemental oxygen.
If your doctor thinks this is a good option for you, you will receive a certificate of medical necessity.
It's also important to use oxygen as prescribed to avoid complications such as hypercapnia (excessive carbon dioxide in the bloodstream).

