 If you know your crush well enough and communicate via email or social media, you can ask for her number while talking online. Asking in person works just as well, but requires a bit more self confidence.


Bring it up during conversation. Being direct is a good thing, but time your directness to be more effective. Try to let the question appear organic in the conversation.
Ask her out. If she is interested on going on a date, then ask for her phone number.
 If you have a good reason to ask for her number, she is more likely to comply. Use the circumstances in your life to figure out an appropriate excuse. Focus on circumstances the two of you share to make the act more organic.


A shared class is a great starting point. If the two of you are in the same group for a project, ask for her number so that you can arrange a meet-up for a project outside of class. Likewise, if you have trouble with a particular topic that your crush excels at, ask your crush if she might be willing to help you with your homework over the phone.
Work is another great place to get a phone number organically. Ask for her number if you need someone to check the schedule for you. Alternatively, ask for her number in case she needs a ride to work in the rain.
 If you feel bold and confident about the possibility that your crush might have similar feelings, you could offer your phone number directly without an excuse.Nothing beats being straight to the point on matters of romance.


Stay cool and confident. Make a simple statement: give your phone number and tell your crush to text you if he or she feels like it. If your feelings are mutual, your crush will probably give you her number in exchange.If you and your crush are already flirtatious with each other, you can ask for your crush's number in the midst of flirting. Say something simple like, "I'll give you my number if you give me yours." Keep the mood lighthearted to avoid putting too much pressure or tension on the situation.
 As before, you should avoid using your crush's number that same night you get it. If you are too zealous about sending the first text or placing the first phone call, you might scare the apple of your eye away.


If you used a specific excuse to get your crush's number, your first call or text should be made with that excuse in mind.
If you did not have an excuse when you asked, however, you can call or text whenever you have something to say.

