 Before you choose an investment website, you need to have an idea of what you're looking for and what you wish to accomplish. Consider what you already know about investing and how much guidance you will need. Do you already have a strategy and know how you'd like to invest and you're just looking to reduce service costs? Or are you a total novice and require someone to advise you, or a website that will do most of the work for you?

Think about how much time and attention you want to devote to your investments. Are you interested in following the market devoting time to track and analyze? And do you have the skills to do this? Or would you rather be more hands-off with your investing? Are you prepared to pay someone to advise you? Your answers to these questions will help you choose a website that works best for you.;
, Ask yourself what you hope to achieve through investing. Are you saving for retirement with a personal IRA? What is your timeline? Are you hoping to use the money decades from now, or in three years?

If your goals are far in the future, then you can afford to take more risks with your investments for bigger payouts, because you have plenty of time to let your investments grow and ride out a volatile market. If you need the money sooner, then you will want to make safer investments with a lower rate of return, because you don't have as much time to recover from a loss.
Again, understanding your goals will help you know what to look for in an investment website. Look for one that will help you reach your goals, whatever they may be.
 You can use an investment website to simply make transactions — logging on, entering your oder, then logging off — but keep in mind that different websites will offer other services as well. Beyond making the trade, an investment website might connect you with a professional who can offer you advice, allow you to manage your portfolio, follow the market, or even take classes to educate yourself further. Think about whether you want something that is bare-bones, or a website that will help guide you through the process and allow you to learn more about your finances.