 The designer's website may provide you with updates surrounding the Sharky Tea Infuser; such as its release date and where it will be available for consumers to purchase.


Visit the Pablo Matteoda website featured in the Sources section of this article.
Enter your email address under the "Follow by Email" field and click "Submit." You will then be redirected to Feedburner.com to verify your subscription. When the website publishes new posts, a copy of the post will be delivered directly to your email.
If you prefer to receive updates in your web-based news reader service, you can click on the link for "Subscribe to Pablo Matteoda" below the "Feed Atom" section of Pablo Matteoda's website.;
, This procedure may generate a response from the designer that provides more information about the future release of the Sharky Tea Infuser.


Visit Pablo Matteoda's website to verify the correct email address or send an email to pablomatteoda hotmail.com.
In the body of your email, send a basic inquiry asking about the release date of the Sharky Tea Infuser and the vendors that will be selling the product.
 According to Pablo Matteoda's website, the Sharky Tea Infuser will soon be sold by Donkey Products.


Click on the Donkey Products website link featured on Pablo Matteoda's website to be redirected to Donkey Products.
If you need to website translated into the English language, click on "English" located in the upper-right corner.
Click on the link for "Online Shop" to browse the website for the Sharky Tea Infuser.
If the Sharky Tea Infuser is still not available for sale, click on the "Contact" link to access Donkey Products contact information or to send an inquiry regarding the Sharky Tea Infuser.
You can also subscribe to Donkey Products using your Facebook account. Return to the main page of the Donkey Products website and click on the "Like" button next to the Facebook logo under "Follow the Donkey." You will then receive product updates and other news from Donkey Products in Facebook.

