 The Red Cross or similar organizations will often distribute cleanup kits after a disaster. These contain many useful items such as a broom, mop, bucket, and cleaning supplies. In most cases, household cleaning products will do the job if you use them correctly. Check the label on the products to see how much to use. After cleaning a room or item, go over it again with a disinfectant to kill the germs and smell left by the flood waters.
 A two bucket approach is most efficient: use one bucket for rinse water and the other for the cleaner. Rinse out your sponge, mop, or cleaning cloth in the rinse bucket.


Start cleaning a wall at the bottom or where the worst damage was. If you have removed the wallboard or plaster, wash the studs and sills and disinfect them.
If you taped your windows before the storm, clean the tape off as soon as possible. The sun will bake the adhesive into the glass. Use orange or eucalyptus oil to help remove the sticky leftovers.
Don’t try to force open swollen wooden doors and drawers. Take off the back of the piece of furniture to let the air circulate. You'll probably be able to open the drawers after they dry.
 There’s an unexpected danger of shock with some electrical appliances such as TV sets and radios. Certain internal parts store electricity even when the appliance is unplugged. Check the back for a warning label.


Even if your washing machine did not get wet, do not use it until you know that the water is safe enough to drink and that your sewer line works.
Throw out soft plastic and porous items that probably absorbed whatever the flood waters carried in. Like the washing machine, the dishwasher should also be used only after you know your water is safe to drink and your sewer line works.
 Even food in tin cans should be discarded if the cans got wet during the flood because there is no way to be absolutely certain the food inside is safe. Do not keep food in bottles or jars with bottle caps or screw on lids—they do not keep out flood waters.
 Valuable papers such as books, photographs, and stamp collections can be restored with a great deal of effort. They can be rinsed and frozen (in a frost-free freezer or commercial meat locker) until you have time to work on them.
 As you get rid of things from your home, don’t turn your yard into a dump. Food and garbage must be hauled away as soon as possible.


Mosquitoes can carry many diseases, and a flood can create ideal conditions for them to breed. Drain or remove standing water that can become a breeding ground. Dump water out of barrels, old tires, and cans. Check that your gutters are clean and can drain.
Ditches and drains also need to be cleaned so they can carry storm water away from your home.
Lawns usually survive being underwater for up to four days. Salt water should be hosed off the lawn and shrubs.

