 An invitation issued during a large event will always stick out in your date's memory and--if you play it right--can be done for free. Think about potential venues for you to do this: during a football game, the intermission of the school play, at a spirit rally, or during another event where a lot of people you both know will be present.


Keep in mind that the downside of asking your prospective date in front of an audience is that if you get rejected, your whole audience will know. If you feel confident that your prospective date will say yes, or if you just don’t care what your audience thinks, than by all means bring in the public--and more power to you!

, There are many ways you can tie sports into your prom question. If you both play the same sport, you might want to do something that involves that specific sport. If you are considering doing something at a school sporting event where you will get the announcer in on the question, make absolutely sure that your prospective date will be at the game.


If you know your date will be at a game you are playing in, get your teammates to help you out. Before the game starts, or at halftime, get your teammates to grab cones and spell out ‘Prom?’ with them (you could also get them to lie down on the field and form ‘Prom?’ with their bodies but that would take a lot of coordination.) Get the announcer to say “-Your name- would like to know if you will go to prom with him/her, -Name of your date-.”

, If you are in the school play, or even if you’re not and have friends that are in the play, get permission to go up on stage during intermission. Again, make sure your prospective date is in the audience. Either ask the question out loud (perhaps dramatically, you’re on stage after all) or with a sign. As an extra step, get the lighting crew to find your prospective date in the audience and put the spotlight on him/her.
 You could also walk out into the middle of the field or room with a bunch of roses or balloons and have the announcer announce, “-Your name- would like to know if you will go to prom with him/her, -Name of your date-” while the spotlight is on you. Again, for an added bonus, try to single out your date but putting the spotlight on him/her as well.
 While it might not seem like lunch is a big event, all of your friends and peers are there. If you want to make asking your date a big production, ask him/her at lunch. You could ask him/her in any number of ways, like with balloons as mentioned above, but adding an audience will make your question even more exciting.

