, Go to your building menu and click on the tab with the crossing swords on it; there you can find all the military buildings you have unlocked so far. Build as many as you can fit into your city.
 Click Train, which is orange, and recruit as many as you can. Encourage your guild mates to do this; the more firepower you have, the better!

, The goods buildings are located in the building menu; click on the tab with the pile of bricks on it. Build at least one of every building or one or more of the ones which you have boosts for.


To see which ones you have the goods boost for, look for a green tick on the menu that appears when you hover your cursor over the building.
 Encourage your guild mates to produce as many goods as they can as you will need a lot to compete in GvG. Once you are producing, store the goods in the guild's treasury.


To do this, go to "global" and click on "your guild" and on the menu that appears; there is a tab saying "Treasury", click it and there you can donate as much as you want or can.
 At first, you cannot do anything until the daily calculation begins; this depends on your country's time zone. The clock usually resets at night or early in the morning so be prepared!

, Find somewhere to set up your first headquarters (if your guild already has a headquarters, ignore this step)! Find a NPC sector; they are easier and you don't usually need goods to take them.
 Assign some troops and attack! Once you attack, your guild mates can join and help take that sector. Once the opponent's army is defeated, that sector is yours!

, Keep an army in there at all times; in the meanwhile you can attack other sectors and expand your empire!, Click on any adjacent sector with red bars (the green ones are sectors owned by your guild) and then click "View sector." The assigning menu will appear. Get your troops assigned and place a siege on that sector; your guild mates can now join in and fight in battle!


You can keep in touch with the message center or global chat.






Like with NPC sectors, once they are defeated, that sector is now yours! It will have a green shield floating above it until the calculation ends. Keep winning and your guild will rank up and become stronger!







