 That's right -- sanitation. It's a legitimate medical disorder where you can't stop sneezing because your stomach is full. It generally happens immediately after consuming quite a large meal. So how do you avoid it? Don't eat so much.


In case you're as curious as George, it's a backronym -- Sneezing Non-controllably At a Time of Indulgence of the Appetite—a Trait Inherited and Ordained to be Named. Originally it was a portmanteau of sneeze and satiation.Now that you know it's a real thing monitor your eating activity. When do you usually find yourself sneezing?

, If you find that you sneeze when exposed to bright lights, you could have photoptarmosis or the photic sneeze reflex. It's present in a remarkable 18-35% of people and is sometimes referred to as ACHOO - Autosomal dominant Compelling Helio-Ophthalmic Outburst syndrome. The more you know, right? It's hereditary and can be treated with antihistamines if it's inconvenient.Otherwise, wear sunglasses (polarized, especially) or scarves. If bright lights (or the sun) are present, keep your eyes away and focus on something darker or more neutral. This is doubly important if you are operating a motorized vehicle.
 If you're entering a high sneeze-risk environment (say a cloud of pepper or a field of pollen), take precautions to keep your sneezing fits at bay.


Keep a tissue on hand. Often sneezing and blowing your nose go hand in hand.
Have a way to wet your nostrils. This can stop sneezing fits before they start. Though snorting water is definitely a feasible option, you may want to stick with wetting a tissue and applying to your nostrils, using your eyedrops, or sniffing the steam from a cup of coffee., For those of us that don't suffer from the completely random sneeze attack and are privy to more constant bouts, it may be more of an environmental thing. In addition to talking to your doctor, be allergy smart. A certain amount of sneezing can be prevented.


Get on antihistamines. Not only will these fight sneezing, but they'll keep the coughing, runny nose, and itchy eyes away to boot. Benadryl is known to induce drowsiness, but other medications, like Claritin, have significantly fewer side effects.Keep your windows and doors closed. This goes for your home and in your car. The less exposure you have to allergens the better. The outside needs to stay outside.If you've been outside for a long time, take a shower and change your clothes. You may have dragged in those pollen buggers with you.