 The general spec is 3/13/54+1. The 3 in affliction is for hit rating and is not necessary if your gear provides enough hit rating for you. The 13 points is up to "Demonic Aegis". The +1 point is usually invested in completing Fel Synergy for pet survivability. The key difference between this and deep destruction is that deep destruction includes "Soul Leech" and "Improved Soul Leech" for added survivability.;
, At the moment the main one being used is Immolate-Chaos bolt+Confla-Incin spam. Of course a curse should be used but depending on the circumstances will decide which one. If you are the only warlock in the group/raid then you will want to caste Curse of Elements due to the boost it will give to other classes. If there are multiple warlocks then you can decide who is casting Curse of Elements and if that warlock is not you then you should use Curse of Doom. How many times you cast Incinerate depends on what your haste level and current buffs are. Note that Corruption is also used by some warlocks but is usually only seen used by warlocks with the 2 piece T7/7.5 set bonus. Corruption can also be cast on a target if you are moving for a slight DPS boost.
 Conflagration glyph is a must due to the fact it will not eat your Immolate on the target and makes the Incin spam part of your rotation so much better. Glyph of Immolate should also be used. Finally the Life tap glyph should be used so you gain a 40 second spirit-spellpower increase.
 Without a doubt Spell Power is the best stat to look for. This should always be the highest on your list to look out for. The use of crit/haste can be argued either way but from what I have seen, as long as crit sticks around 22-24% (without calculating talents into it), the warlock should then start stacking haste. Although this is debatable. This of course can be applied to gems. This means that +23 Spell power is the main gem you want to use and in most scenario's, socket colour should be broken. For a meta you should use Chaotic skyflare diamond (+20 crit rating and increased crit damage by 3%). You should socket the 2 gems that make this valid in the areas where they lower your DPS the least as opposed to a better gem that would break socket colour. The main time you should socket for yellow is when the socket bonus is something very valuable such as spell power which will make the yellow gem a better choice than the red +23 Spell Power Gem. Other than these rules you should be looking to socket +23 Spell Power.

