 Use the leaves to supplement romaine, spinach, kale and other fresh greens. Top with feta cheese, seasonal root veggies or any of your other favorite salad additives. Left uncooked, plantains have a slightly sweet, earthy flavor similar to artichokes and mild varieties of mushrooms.Most people prefer to eat plantains raw because of their high natural nutrient content.Plantains have a subtle taste that pairs just as well with traditional savory ingredients like cheese, bacon and herbed croutons as it does with sweeter items like candied nuts and dried cranberries., Plantain leaves can make an excellent substitute in casseroles, stir fries, sandwiches and hors d'oeuvres. Just prepare and cook the greens the same way you normally would. Since they’re from a heartier variety of plant, they even retain more of their satisfying crunch.Offer mini plantain quiches or plantain and artichoke dip for the next get-together you host.Because they grow and spread so quickly, plantains are more readily available and easier to harvest in large amounts than spinach.
 For a unique organic spin on the Mediterranean staple, brown ground beef or lamb in a pan, then combine with rice, herbs and sweet and savory spices. Scoop a hefty spoonful of the mixture into the leaves and roll it all together into tight bundles. Bake in a deep dish with a couple inches of water, olive oil and lemon juice until most of the moisture has been absorbed.Serve stuffed plantain leaves hot or cold with fresh cucumber-yogurt dipping sauce., Place whole leaves in a blender with fresh basil, toasted pine nuts, aged parmesan cheese and extra virgin olive oil. Pulse the ingredients until they take on a smooth consistency. The result is a zesty, flavorful spread perfect for pizzas, wraps, omelettes and almost anything else you can think up.Pesto is an incredibly versatile food enhancer that can be whipped up in a matter of minutes.The leaves will also be at home in other herb-based sauces and condiments, such as chimichurri and salsa verde., The plant’s many beneficial nutrients can be unlocked with a simple infusion. After drying plantain leaves in the oven, grind them finely in a food processor or coffee grinder. Funnel the leaves into an infuser and steep them in hot (not quite boiling) water for 5-10 minutes. If desired, sweeten with a drizzle of honey or simple syrup.Store plantain tea in a lidded jar or other airtight container to protect it from moisture.Experiment with adding dried fruit rinds, mint, wildflowers and other organic fare to your homemade tea mixes.