 If you are proficient in html, you can skip this step.;
, The host is the company that will store the files that make up your website. Whether it's free or paid (see Tips), you'll need to set up an account first.
 If your host doesn't provide you with a domain or sub-domain name, you'll need to get one. It is easier for people to remember a simple domain name (ie: www.wikihowexample.com) than a tediously long URL (ie: http://www.wikihowexample.com/user/creator/index/pg223/creatorhmpg.html).
 You know this is a website for your friends and family, so think about what you will offer them when they visit. Some great ideas are tools like photo galleries, a calendar, a guest-book or forum, an e-mail list, and news on your front-page. Write down your thoughts as you come up with what to include.
 Even though you may think a personal website doesn't need one, a logo unifies and makes your website more comfortable for your guests. Use a program like Corel Paint Shop Pro to manipulate some text (possibly your name or family name) into an attractive and pleasing design. You could just save yourself the money and look for some open source software, gimp or inkscape should do just fine. They are also free and just as useful as Photoshop and Paint.
 Using HTML or a Web-Publishing tool like Macromedia Dreamweaver, create a "Home" page with an introduction to the website, news, and basic instructions on how to navigate it. Other pages such as a "Biography" page and a "Contact" page may soon follow. Save the pages as .html.
 Upload your pages and files to your root folder ("/"). Use an FTP program or your web browser to log in to the server. On your browser's address bar type "ftp://your-domain-name.com" and hit "Go" or the Enter key, then fill out the prompt with your username and password (provided by your host). You can browse your folders as you would on your PC or Mac.
 Keeping your family and friends up-to-date with news and photos is invaluable to them. Share new stories and jokes with them frequently to keep them coming back.

