 Ask the average person what a "smooth guy" is like and you'll probably get an answer along the lines of, "He's impeccably handsome, cool, confident, and well-dressed, with tons of masculine hobbies and interests." While the first four items in this list can certainly be a big help in the dating game, the last is hardly the end-all-be-all it's often made out to be. Don't feel a need to conceal or lie about the things you like to do. If you're geeky, be unabashedly geeky. If you like to do something really bizarre, like watch syrupy French romance films from the silent film era, don't hide this fact — it's super cool to like something unique! Being 100% honest about how you like to spend your time makes you seem genuine and confident and distinguishes you from everyone else around you.
 Clubs, singles bars, and other traditional dating "hot spots" are great for people who are in their element when the music's blaring loud and everyone around them is drunk. For everyone else, it may be much easier to meet people elsewhere. For starters, try meeting women at places and events that you naturally enjoy attending. For instance, if you like exercise and the outdoors, you might want to try running in a popular park. By using this approach, you're more likely to meet women that you have things in common with than you would be simply visiting a local club.
 We've all heard it before: "Be yourself and you'll go far." This age-old advice is a little cheesy, but when it comes to smooth operators, it's completely true. Smooth guys don't follow others when it comes to defining themselves — they do what they want to do and present themselves how they want to be presented and let others judge them as they see fit. Having your own unique personal style makes you hugely more interesting and memorable than trying to be someone else's idea of "cool", so being yourself isn't only easier than being trendy, it's also smarter if you're trying to win people over.


One way to immediately and visibly differentiate yourself from other people is to dress in a way that's not 100% ordinary (while obviously not completely absurd either). For instance, you might want to try buying your clothes at a second-hand store or a vintage shop for a worn-in, retro look or even making your own clothes and accessories by knitting or sewing them yourself.
 When it comes to pursuing women, honesty is the best policy. For the most part, everyone (ladies included) can tell a phony from a genuine person, so trying to act like someone you're not or conceal your true feelings will just lead to mutual feelings of awkwardness. Besides this, most women think sincerity is cute,so you have almost no reason not to be completely honest and open about your thoughts, opinions, and intentions. The absolute worst-case scenario that can occur from being honest is that you lose the opportunity to date someone, but if you would have had to lie about the way you feel to date this person, would you ever have been completely happy with them? Probably not.


For instance, if you've got certain "dealbreakers" — things that you simply can't tolerate in your significant other, you'll definitely want to be open and honest about these with your partner (or potential partner). Think about it: would you rather spend a few weeks pretending to be into someone who smokes, belches, and listens to Limp Bizkit all day, or would you rather politely nip this relationship in the bud?
Note that, however, there is such a thing as over-sharing. While you'll want to be sincere about your thoughts and feelings, you probably won't want to make things awkward by bringing up intensely personal information before you truly get to know someone.
 You can't love other people if you don't love yourself, so if you have a lousy opinion of yourself, steer clear of romance until you do. Ideally, romantic relationships should be the cherry on top of a happy, satisfied life — experiences that are truly wonderful to have, but not things that you need to be happy. Smooth men are always at ease partly because they know that, no matter what happens in their romantic life, they'll be more or less happy regardless. To have a happy foundation for the possibility of future relationships, below are just a few of the things you will probably want your life to contain:


A reasonable amount of personal independence (like, for instance, being able to support yourself and spend your free time as you please).
The opportunity (and motivation) to pursue hobbies and interests.
Stable, satisfying non-romantic friendships.
A satisfying level of professional and/or personal achievement (like performing well at your job, becoming an important member of your community, etc.)

