 Wait until the leaves are "true leaves," or fully matured. At that point, the root system will have grown too large to continue sitting in a shallow tray.
 You no longer have to seed starting mix, but the potting mix you do use should be light. Look for mixes that are made of part soil and part peat, part perlite. Peat moss is endangered; use coir dust instead, if possible. Do not use vermiculite, which may contain asbestos, even when the label doesn't say so.


The pot for each plant should be at least 2 inches (5 cm) in diameter. Alternatively, you can also use a larger pot or division-free tray and space multiple lavender plants in the tray 2 inches (5 cm) apart from one another.
 Use a small amount of granular slow-release fertilizer that contains balanced proportions of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
 Dig a small hole in the fresh growing media that is about as big as the compartment the lavender presently sits in. Gently pry the lavender out of its original container and transplant it into the new hole, packing the soil around it to keep it firmly fixed in place.
 The plants must reach a height of 3 inches (7.6 cm) before they can be transplanted to their final location, but they should still only have a single stem. This could take anywhere from one to three months.
 Place your pots outdoors in partial shade or partial sun for a few hours at a time. Do this for about one week, just long enough for the lavender to have time to adapt to outdoor conditions.
 Lavender plants do best when grown in partial to full sun. Shaded areas tend to be soggier, and soggy soil can invite fungi that will destroy the plant.
 Chop the soil up with a trowel or digging fork to loosen it and mix in a healthy dose of compost. Compost has uneven particles, creating looser soil and making it easier for roots to stretch out.


Check the soil of the pH after adding compost. The soil pH should rest between 6 and 8, and preferably between 6.5 and 7.5 for best results. If soil pH is too low, mix in agricultural lime. If it is too high, add a small amount of plant litter pine sawdust., Dig a hole that is as deep as the container the plant currently grows in. Remove the plant from its pot, using a garden trowel to carefully slide it out, and plant the lavender into the new hole.

