 If you are dealing with a high ankle sprain, you may have noticed that your ability to get around and keep your balance has been impaired. Exercising can help your to regain the normal function of your ankle. You must regain your stability before you work on mobility or strength.Stability training: Stability is your ability to stand on your injured ankle without feeling off balance or tipping over.
Mobility training: This is your ability to move your ankle around in every direction that it normally goes in when it is not injured. When you are fully mobile, your ankle is less likely to become stiff or have scar tissue develop.
Strength training: When you injure your ankle and can’t walk on it, the muscles around your ankle also get weak. You need to make them strong again in order to make a full recovery.;
, Try not to push yourself too hard when doing these exercises or you could end up injuring your ankle further. While a little discomfort is normal when you start doing exercises after suffering a sprain, you should not feel serious pain in your ankle.If you do start feeling a sharp or extreme pain, stop the exercise immediately and ice your ankle. You should also elevate it to reduce swelling that might occur because of the exercise.
 The time you have to wait before you can begin exercises will depend on how serious your sprain was. Do not start doing exercises without talking to your doctor. Pushing yourself to do exercises before you are ready could result in injuring yourself further. Moderate high ankle sprains will generally make you unable to put weight on your ankle for one or two weeks. When you can start putting weight on it again, talk to your doctor and start doing exercises.If you had surgery to repair a very severe high ankle sprain, you will most likely have to wait longer than one or two weeks before you begin rehabilitation. Follow the time frame that your doctor gives you.
 Like talking to your doctor about when to start exercising, talking to a physical therapist about the specific exercises you do is also a good idea. Each injury is different, so your physical therapist might recommend some exercises over others.


The following sections cover basic exercises that are often recommended for high ankle sprains.

