 Beginning immediately after you period ends, start checking your cervical mucus first thing in the morning.


Wipe with a clean piece of toilet paper and examine any mucus you find by picking up a bit with your finger.
Record the type and consistency of discharge or note the lack of discharge.
 The female body produces several different types of cervical mucus each month as hormone levels fluctuate, and certain types of mucus are more conducive to pregnancy. Here's how vaginal discharge changes during the month:During menstruation, your body will discharge menstrual blood, which consists of the shed uterine lining and unfertilized egg.
During three to five days following menstruation, most women will have no discharge. Though not impossible, it’s highly unlikely that a woman will become pregnant during this stage.Following the dry period, you’ll begin to notice cloudy cervical mucus.This kind of cervical mucus forms a plug over the cervical canal that prevents bacteria from entering the uterus, and it’s also difficult for sperm to penetrate. A woman is unlikely to get pregnant during this period.Following the stickier discharge, you’ll begin to see a white, beige, or yellow “creamy” discharge that’s similar in consistency to cream or lotion. During this stage a woman is more fertile, though not at peak fertility.You’ll then begin to notice thin, stretchy, watery mucus that resembles egg whites. It will be watery enough to be stretched several inches between your fingers. On or after the last day of this “egg white” cervical mucus stage, you’ll begin to ovulate. This “egg white” cervical mucus is very fertile and provides nourishment to sperm, making this the woman’s most fertile stage.Following this stage and ovulation, the discharge will return to its earlier cloudy, sticky consistency.
 It will take several months of monitoring before you’ll be able to distinguish a regular pattern.Continue recording for several months. Examine your chart and try to distinguish a pattern. Right before the end of the “egg white” cervical mucus stage is when you’re ovulating.
Tracking cervical mucus along with basal body temperature (BBT) can help you more accurately pinpoint when you’re ovulating by allowing you to corroborate the two records.