 Half masks that cover just the eyes work the best, but you can use a full face mask if you can't find anything else. If you can't find any blank masks, find a mask template online, print it onto cardstock, then cut it out, including the eye holes., Most blank masks come in either black or white. If you want to make your mask look more interesting, paint it using purple, green, or yellow/gold paint. Acrylic or tempera paint will work just fine on paper or cardboard masks, but spray paint would be the better option for plastic masks.

If you like paper mache, consider covering the mask with glue and purple, green, and yellow tissue paper cut into 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) squares., The possibilities are endless here. Grab some glitter glue, rhinestones, feathers, sequins, and beads, and let your imagination run wild. Typical Mardi Gras colors are purple, green, and yellow/gold, but you can include other colors here as well. To cut back on drying times, use hot glue. Here are some decorating ideas to get you started:

Outline the eyes using glitter glue, sequins, tiny rhinestones, or Mardi Gras beads.
Add some colorful feathers to the top edge of the mask. Secure them by the stems to the back of the mask.
Decorate the mask with rhinestones and glitter glue.
Paint a harlequin design using purple, green, or yellow/gold paint.
 You don't have to do this, but it will give your mask a nice touch! Place a drop of hot glue at the bottom of you dowel, and press the end of a thin ribbon into it. Wrap the ribbon around the dowel in a spiral, then secure the other end to the top of the dowel with more hot glue. Glue a small, round rhinestone to each end of the dowel.

If you can't find a dowel, a chop stick may also work.
Stick-on rhinestones are the perfect size for this. You will still want to glue them on, however.
If you can't find rhinestones, that's okay! You can leave them out, or use glitter glue instead!

, How long the mask takes to dry depends on what you used to decorate it. Hot glue sets in seconds, and acrylic paint dries in less than an hour. Regular craft glue and glitter glue can take several hours! Be patient., Flip the mask over so that the back is facing you. Place the dowel along one of the edges. Make sure that the rhinestone tip is just peeking out over the top edge of the mask. Secure the dowel with some hot glue.