 You want a clean fresh face before applying new makeup. Use warm water and face wash to remove dirt, oil, and other unwanted debris.


Wet your face with warm water and lather your hands with the soap or face wash.
Rub away dirt and rinse well.
Always dry your skin well before applying any products.
 Daily moisturizers with a matte finish help fight the appearance of breakouts by removing excess oil and calming the complexion.Apply moisturizer to your face, making sure to cover every part.
Let it dry before continuing to the next step.
 Foundation is used to cover up uneven skin tones, red spots, or acne lesions. You may apply concealer before your foundation but adding foundation first allows you to really see where you need to use the concealer.Prep your skin with a primer to smoothen everything so that the base glides on and doesn’t settle into lines, dry patches, or rough areas.
Let primer dry before adding foundation.
Apply a dime-sized amount of foundation to your hands and use your fingers to dot it on your forehead, nose, and chin.
Smooth the product all around, generally working from the center outward.
Blend so lines along the jaw don’t appear

, Use a high-end concealer to achieve a flawless result. The best concealers counteract discolorations, lighten shadows, disguise hyperpigmentation marks, and work together with your foundation to achieve an even skin tone.Dab the concealer onto discolorations with a clean finger, brush, or sponge.
Blend until there are no lines.
Pease note: do not apply liquid or cream concealers over powder foundation. If you use powder foundation, use the concealer first and allow it to dry before you apply the foundation

, Apply finishing touches with a powder. This will help set your foundation and concealer to last longer.Apply powder with a fluffy brush to areas where your face gets oily.
Use a light touch so you do not use too much.
Please note: there are differences between loose vs. pressed powder. Loose powder will give a more natural look but it is more messy., Use your eyes and lips to accentuate your features and draw attention away from the red spots.Use darker eye makeup or lipstick to draw attention.

