 Muscle strains (or pulls) are the most common cause of backaches. The para-spinal muscles of the lower back are thick and powerful, but they become susceptible to injury when they get chilled, dehydrated or overworked. Soaking your entire back and legs in a warm Epsom salt bath can significantly reduce pain, swelling and muscle tension.The magnesium in the salt helps the muscle fibers relax and heal, which sometimes provides surprisingly quick pain relief.


Make sure the salt bath isn't too hot because otherwise it will pull water from your body, dehydrate your muscles and increase the risk of further damage.
Backaches from muscle strains are usually described as dull and achy in nature and are not particularly debilitating. Some range of motion is restricted, but walking, sitting and sleeping are not usually impaired.
 A strained muscle occurs when individual muscle fibers are taken beyond their tensile limits and subsequently tear, which leads to pain, inflammation and some degree of guarding (muscle spasm in attempts to prevent further damage). A deep tissue massage is helpful for mild-to-moderate strains because it reduces muscle spasm, combats inflammation and promotes relaxation.Start with a 30 minute massage, focusing on your low back and hips. Allow the therapist to go as deep as you can tolerate without wincing.


Always drink lots of water immediately following a massage in order to flush inflammatory by-products, lactic acid and toxins from your body. Failure to do so might cause a headache or mild nausea.
As an alternative to massage therapy, position a tennis ball underneath your body, near your backache. Roll on the ball slowly until the pain subsides.
 A muscle strain will improve faster if you begin gentle stretching and strengthening exercises as early as possible. Make sure you always perform exercises within a pain-free range of motion. If you have an acute muscle strain (an injury that occurred recently), beginning a gentle aerobic exercise program such as walking will be beneficial. If you feel pain at any time during your exercise, stop and consult your physician.
 Muscle relaxant medication (such as cyclobenzaprine) can certainly ease the discomfort of mild-to-moderate backache that's caused by injured muscles, but they tend to be hard on the stomach, kidneys and liver, so they should be viewed as short-term help at best. Keep in mind that muscle relaxants can make other muscles in your body feel strange because they circulate everywhere through the bloodstream, not just the back.


Side effects of muscle relaxant use include drowsiness, dry mouth, constipation and confusion.An alternative to muscles relaxants are anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen.

