 If you think you may have FSD, and you also think there is no physical or medical reason for it (or you’ve already been assessed by a doctor), make an appointment to speak to a psychologist. Don’t be embarrassed about seeking help from a psychologist. If you think there’s a problem, and you want to fix it, they will be able to help.Find a psychologist who specializes in FSD or other sexual problems and issues.
If you are lesbian, bisexual or transgendered, you can also look for psychologists who specialize in treating LGBT individuals.
 A psychologist can only help you effectively if you tell them the truth, and are as open and honest as possible. Treatment plans will be based on what you said, so if you aren’t honest you may waste your time trying a treatment plan not designed for your specific situation. Your psychologist will most likely ask about the following things:A complete history of the sexual problem you’re experiencing. When it started, what the exact symptoms are, etc.
Some details about your sexual history and past relationships.
Information about your physical health, including anything you may have been tested for medically and what the results were.
Information about your emotional health, including what’s going on in your life (in general), how your job is going, what stresses you out, how you’re feeling, etc.
 You and your psychologist will develop a treatment plan together. Your psychologist will customize the treatment based on your specific circumstances and needs. Some possible treatments may include:Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) — CBT is used to help you identify and change the feelings, thoughts, and behaviours you have that are causing the problem. CBT is normally conducted on a weekly or bi-weekly basis with a psychologist, plus through at-home exercises you can do on your own.

Mindfulness-based Interventions — Mindfulness works by helping you feel and understand your body and its various sensations. Mindfulness is achieved by not judging, criticizing or measuring those feelings against anything else, it is simply learning how to feel.

