 Every smoothie has at least two main ingredients, and those are liquid and fruit. The liquid portion of a smoothie helps the blender out and makes the consistency smooth and creamy. For every cup of fruit you use, you should add ¼ to 1/3 cup of liquid to the smoothie.Good liquid options include:Non-dairy milk, such as almond, rice, and soy
Coconut milk or coconut water
Water
Dairy milk
Fruit juice
Green tea

, You can use any fruit or fruit combination in a smoothie, but it’s important to choose juicy fruit and creamy fruit for each smoothie. This will ensure a balanced consistency. Use fresh or frozen fruit for the most nutritional benefits. Frozen fruit will give the smoothie a cold and refreshing iciness.


Thick and creamy base fruits include mango, apple, peach, papaya, coconut, avocado, and banana.Juicy fruit options for smoothies include citrus fruits like oranges and grapefruit, pineapple, watermelon, and berries such as strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, and blackberries.
 As long as you have a liquid and fruit you can make a smoothie, but there are also optional ingredients you can add to enhance the nutritional value or change the flavor or texture.For added nutritional benefits, add about one tablespoon of nut butter, protein powder, hemp hearts, or a small handful of spinach or kale.
For added sweetness, consider using a pinch of brown sugar, honey, or maple syrup, or a couple dates.
For extra flavor, add a pinch of cinnamon, nutmeg, or cloves.
For extra thickness and the right texture, add a few cubes of ice to the smoothie if you used fresh instead of frozen fruit.
 To ensure the right consistency, to protect the blades from damage, and to prevent air bubbles from forming, you should always add the liquid portion of your smoothie to the blender first.You can then add your fruit, ice, and additional ingredients.


Always start the blender on a low speed to prevent air bubbles from forming. If air bubbles form, the blades won’t be able to blend properly. If this happens, turn off the blender, unplug the unit, and use a long spoon to stir everything. Add more liquid before starting up the blender again.

