 You can send quick audio notes to your iMessage contacts using the Messages app.;
, You'll need to be chatting with another iMessage user in order to send audio notes. Check the messages in the conversation and the title bar. If they are green, you are not chatting via iMessage. If they are blue, you will be able to send audio messages.
 This microphone button only appears when you're chatting with another iMessage user.
 You'll continue to record for as long as you're holding the button.
 This will immediately send the audio note to the other person. If you want to cancel instead, release your finger then tap the "X" next to your recording.
 You can find this on one of your Home screens. It may be in a folder labeled "Extras." The icon looks like sound graph on a white background.


You can also hold the Home button to launch Siri and say "Record a voice memo" to start the app.
 This will immediately begin recording using your iPhone's microphone. You'll get the best results if the source of the sound you're recording is physically close to your iPhone.


You may get better recordings if you use the Apple earbuds with the microphone built into the cable. You'll need this if you're using an iPod Touch, which doesn't have a built-in microphone.
If your iPhone has a protective case, it may be hampering the microphone. Remove the iPhone from the case for the best recording performance.
 You can pause and restart your recording as many times as you'd like.
 You'll be prompted to give the recording a name. Type a name and tap "Save" to save it to your list of recordings.There is no practical limit to the length of recordings, though eventually you may run out of space on your iPhone if your recording is extra long. Recordings are essentially 480 KB per minute, meaning an hour-long recording would take approximately 30 MB., You'll find this list when you launch the Voice Memos app. You can trim your recordings to get rid of parts that you don't need, or to split a long recording into multiple parts.
 This only appears when you've selected it.
 You'll see red bars appear at each end of the recording.
 You can tap and drag each bar to change where the recording will start and end. Use this to get rid of dead air at the beginning or end of a recording, or to select the part of the recording you want to turn into a new file.


You can trim multiple times to get the results you want. For example, you could trim once to get rid of dead air at the start of the recording, then trim again to get rid of dead air at the end. You could then trim a section of the recording and create a new file from it.
 This will prompt you to either create a new recording from the trimmed portion, or to overwrite the original.


When you choose to create a new recording, the portion of the recording you selected with the Trim tool will be turned into a new file, and the original will remain unchanged.
If you choose to overwrite the original, only what you selected with the Trim tool will remain.
 You'll see a list of memos when you open the Voice Memos app. You can send your memo files to other people from the Voice Memos app. The file will be sent in M4A format, which can be played on virtually any modern device that supports audio files.
 You'll find this beneath the recording after you select it. It looks like a square with an arrow coming out of the top.
 You can send the file using Mail, Messages, or by using any other messaging apps installed on your device. If you don't see the messaging app you want to use, tap the "..." button and then toggle the app on.
 You can save your voice memos to your computer by using iTunes.Connect your iPhone to your computer and open iTunes.
Select your iPhone at the top of the screen, then click the "Music" option in the left menu.
Ensure that "Sync Music" and "Include voice memos" are checked.
Click the "Sync" button and your voice memos will be copied to your iTunes library.

