 Artificial sweeteners are substances that sweeten drinks, baked goods, and other foodstuffs, but contain no nutritional or caloric value. These sweeteners include sucralose (marketed commercially as Splenda), saccharin (marketed commercially as Sweet ‘N Low), Stevia (marketed commercially as Sun Crystals and Truvia), Aspartame (marketed commercially as NutraSweet and Equal), Acesulfame K (marketed commercially as Sunett and Sweet One), monk fruit (available commercially as Nectresse), neotame, and cyclamates.Artificial sweeteners are also referred to as non-nutritive sweeteners, noncaloric sweeteners, and sugar substitutes.;
, Prepared foods have a nutrition label on them where you can find a list of ingredients that went into their manufacture. Before buying foods that might contain artificial sweeteners, read the ingredients label and look for artificial sweeteners.If you see an artificial sweetener listed on the label, do not buy or consume it.
Foods that are commonly made with artificial sweeteners include diet soda, sugar-free yogurt, sugar-free jams, powdered drink mixes, puddings, and baked goods., Many artificial sweeteners are advertised as “natural” in order to trick consumers into believing they are healthier alternatives to regular sweeteners or other artificial sweeteners. Stevia and agave, for instance, are processed and refined, but marketed as “natural.”, Government agencies are responsible for regulating how food is labeled. If you believe it is too difficult to determine which foods have artificial sweeteners, or how much of a given sweetener is in an artificially-sweetened food, you could petition your representatives in Congress to change the labeling so that they are easier to understand.A full list of U.S. senators is available at http://www.senate.gov/senators/contact/ Identify yours from the list and contact them directly with your message asking for clearer labeling on artificially-sweetened goods.
A database of U.S. representatives is available at http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/. Identify yours and contact them directly with your message asking for clearer labeling on artificially-sweetened goods.
For instance, you could call or write an email with phrasing like, “Hello. My name is . I am a concerned citizen residing in . I would like clearer labeling on artificially-sweetened foods so that I and others who wish to avoid them can do so. I urge you to take action on this important consumer issue.” Provide your name again, as well as an email address or phone number where you can be reached so the politician in questions can get back to you.

