 Though you may think that your girl must know how you feel because you are shy to tell her from time to time, physical affection can go a long way in sweeping her off her feet. You don't have to have your arm around her all the time or hold her hand 24/7 , but you should give her a loving touch or gesture when you're together often enough to make her feel loved to you. Here are some things you can do:


If you're at the movies or walking around, hold her hand for at least a part of it -- if she wants you to hold her hand.
If you're on the couch together, don't forget to snuggle or cuddle with her to make her feel special and loved.
When taking photographs, you can put an arm around her to make her feel close to you for the photo
If you're talking and she's upset, put a hand on her knee, stroke her arm, or hold her hand to let her know you care about her.
When you greet her and kiss her, run your hands through her hair or touch the back of her head slightly but not too much.
Don't forget to touch her playfully. Picking her up, or just playfully swatting each other is a great way to show affection to each other.
 If you really want to make her feel loved, then you have to go beyond complimenting and touching her. You have to support her, whether it's by watching her soccer game or being there for her after the death of her grandmother or her mother. Love isn't always just fun and games and affection, and to really sweep her off her feet, you have to be part of the complete package and be there for her when she needs you with her.


If she's really into sports, be there to watch her games when you can, or at least don't forget to ask how it went for her sports games like baseball game,basketball game.
If she has a tough exam coming up, help her study, or support her by bringing her lunch or offering to do small favors for her while she studies for her exam.
If she's having a stressful week at work, take it easy on her. Help her relax by planning a stress-free night in and don't bring up any big questions right then and there.
 Sure, kissing her in the middle of a hot hook-up session will make her feel good, but it's the unexpected kisses that count the most. If you're just chatting in the middle of a date or having a nice stroll through a park, give her a kiss and say, "I just had to kiss you right now. You look so pretty or beautiful right now." That will really impress her and she will want to kiss you too.


And once you're kissing, make sure you give her a kiss every time you see her without making her feel neglected or a nobody.
Not every kiss has to be a full-on French kiss. A gentle kiss on the lips is a great way to show you care about her and to mix things up right away.
 If you really want your girl to feel loved, then you have to make sure to plan dates and to stick to them. If you want to sweep her off her feet, then you can't just be Casanova for the first three weeks and then tell her that "Sunday is sports day" until the end of time. Make sure you have a weekly date night, no matter how stressed and tired you both are, and you'll continue to make your girl feel loved and cared about.


Romance doesn't have to mean chocolate. It just means making time to show each other that you care about each other.
 If you want to make her feel loved, then you have to let her see that she's on your mind even if you're not together. Shoot her a text once a day to let her know you're thinking of her or about her,or send her an email from work with a link that made you think about her. Don't check in eight times a day unless you want to seem overbearing about it, but if you're started seriously dating, don't let a day go by without a quick phone call or a text.


Though it's important to let her see how much you care when you're together, it's equally important for her to see that she's on your mind when you're apart.
 Though the big, grand gestures, like life-sized teddy bears or a diamond necklace can show her that you really care about her, all of the little things can add up, too. Though it may not be as glamorous to pick up a few groceries for her when she's in a pinch, to fix the broken table leg in her living room, or to go to the vet with her when her kitty is sick, these are the things that will make her think that wow, you really must care about her.


Of course, she should do the little things for you, too. You don't have to become her errand boy to make her see that you really care about her.

