 Even if you are using other contraceptive devices, such as a hormonal form of birth control, other contraceptive methods do nothing to prevent you from STIs (sexually transmitted infections). Therefore, condoms have an important advantage when it comes to practicing safe sex.


Condoms protect you from STIs by reducing genital-to-genital contact, and by also blocking the ejaculatory fluid from the man's penis from getting into the woman's vagina. Both of these types of contact are ways in which an infection can be passed from one person to another.
 If you are in a long-term committed monogamous relationship, you will know whether your partner is taking alternative forms of birth control, such as taking "the pill" or using an IUD, as you will have developed a trusting relationship with that person and have presumably discussed the best contraceptive strategies for the two of you. However, if you have a new sexual partner who you do not yet know well enough to fully trust, it is important to understand that a condom can be one of the more reliable methods of contraception.


If you are a man, you can never know for sure if a new female sexual partner is actually on "the pill" (or another birth control method), and taking it reliably.
It is possible for a woman to be dishonest about using birth control while purposefully becoming pregnant.
Similarly, a man may be dishonest to a woman about having a vasectomy when he actually does not. Or, he may say he will withdraw and then fail to do so.
Using a condom is a clear and straightforward method of contraception that does not require trust on anyone's behalf.



You can purchase emergency contraception at your local pharmacy or drugstore, or oftentimes even at the supermarket.
Your options are a pill (Plan B), or having a Copper IUD inserted. Plan B needs to be taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse (ideally within one day, as its effectiveness decreases the longer you wait). However, Plan B can be used up to 72 hours after having unprotected sex. A Copper IUD is effective as emergency contraception for up to 5 days following unprotected intercourse.
Other options include ulipristal acetate and combined estrogen-progesterone pills.Both of these emergency contraception medications require a prescription from your doctor.
 Since every method has a failure rate, it is smart to combine more than one method - such as using both a condom and birth control pills - in situations where you absolutely do not want a pregnancy. It is better to be cautious than risking becoming pregnant, and having to then deal with the potential aftermath.

