 MVM maps all have robots carrying a bomb to a hole, and if they jump down the hole with the bomb, you will lose the round. Destroy robots by shooting them. After robots die, they will drop credits. You can upgrade your stats, such as movement speed and bullet resistance, or your gun's stats in the Upgrades Shop. Special classes have special abilities, such as the Scout's ability to pick up credits in an area or the Engie's ability to build two-way teleporters. Look at the "Select class" page and look at the MVM abilities for each class.;
, If you want to put out heavy damage, choose a class such as Soldier, Demoman, Heavy, or Engineer. If you would like to take down one robot at a time, take Pyro, Spy, or Sniper. Medics and Scouts are in a league of their own, as scouts do plenty of damage but many just collect credits, and medics can upgrade their medi gun to heal insanely fast. Medics can also, with upgrades, press Mouse-3 to deploy a red shield that will block 50% of projectiles headed that way. This is extremely useful against a wave full of Soldiers and Demomen.
 You start most maps with 400 credits, so pick a statistic you want to upgrade and put some money into it. For example, if you want to pick up credits and not do much damage first round as Scout, upgrade Movement speed. If you want to do tons of damage, upgrade Scattergun's damage. Each class different upgrades based on their weapons and role.
 Snipers, Engineer sentry guns, and Demos will want to be on high ground to launch their attacks. Other classes, such as Spy, won't be any help 100 meters away from the fight. Spies, Scouts, and Pyros need to be right in the robot's face, attacking them directly. Heavies, Medics, and Soldiers should not be right next to robots, but within shooting distance.
 Cooperate and try to have a even split of classes. Six Heavies will do worse than a Soldier, Demo, Scout, Heavy, Engie, and Medic. If your team has an even spread, you will maximize your damage and effectiveness.
 You learn by failing in this mode, and it is rare to play the very first time and beat all 6-8 rounds. Learn which classes are good against which bots, and adjust your playing strategy appropriately.
 If you are a Sniper main, try out Spy or Soldier. While Sniper is good at killing enemies far away, he won't do well against tanks, because you can't headshot tanks. If you go against a tank, take Demoman or Heavy, which do very well against tanks.

