 It should be leaning on its front legs and sitting on its back legs. This will allow it to rise easily to a standing position.


If your dog cannot sit, teach your dog to sit before it learns to stand. Getting a dog to stand requires that it is sitting or lying down.
If you don’t want to train your dog to sit, you could simply wait for it to sit (or lie down) on its own before ordering it to stand.
 Grip the treat between your thumb, middle, and index fingers so your dog can see it. Place the treat about six to ten inches away from your dog’ nose.
 When moving it, do not raise it above the level of the dog’s nose or your doggie might be confused and think you’re taking the treat away.
 As you bring your hand toward you, your dog should track it with its eyes at first, then get up off its haunches to follow the treat. As soon as your dog rises, drop the treat so the dog can eat it. You could also choose to hand-feed the treat directly to your dog.


Praise your dog for standing and taking the treat.You might say encouraging phrases like “Good dog!” or “Wow, you did great!”
If your dog does not immediately rise when you move the treat away from it, encourage your dog to get up by patting your thigh or making a kissing sound.
 Once your dog is trained well enough that it will stand when you offer it a treat, add a verbal cue to reinforce the action. Say this phrase or word as soon as you extend your hand in front of the dog’s nose to offer the treat.


Since you want your dog to stand, it makes sense to use a word like “Stand” or “Up” as your verbal command.Your verbal cues should always be clear, direct, and confident. Speak clearly and forcefully so your dog responds immediately.
 Once your dog knows how to stand, you can use it in a number of situations. For instance, you could get your dog to stand (and come to you) when it is sitting in a location you don’t want it to be, like in front of a door or on the sofa. You could also use it at the vet’s office to help your vet check for responsiveness, or to examine the dog’s legs. It’s also a useful command when you want to brush your dog.Any time your dog is sitting somewhere and you want it to move somewhere else, the first step is always getting it to stand.

