 You can visit the Michigan government website for their laws regarding eligible marriages.



Age - You must be at least 16 years old to get married in Michigan. If you are under 18 years of age, you must show a certified copy of your birth certificate and have the written consent of one parent or legal guardian, who also must appear at the time of application with picture identification (such as a driver's license or passport).Family Relation - Note that Michigan does not grant marriage licenses for marriages between members of the same family, including between first cousins. Marriages between second cousins is not, however, considered illegal.Sex - As of June 2015, same-sex and different sex partners are allowed to get married. ;
, Each party will need the following to fill out and submit the marriage license application:Valid driver's license or state ID to show proof of identification and residency. Note that you do not need to be a resident of Michigan to marry in the state. More information on this is provided in step 3.Certified copy of birth certificate. Hospital certificates and/or baptismal certificates will not be accepted. You can also use a valid passport if you do not have a certified copy of your birth certificate, but note that you will need to provide the full names of both parents and the state or country in which they were born. If a previous marriage ended in divorce in the last six months before you If it was within the last 6 months, you will need to bring proof of the divorce that can be left with the Clerk.
Social Security numbers of both parties.
Any information regarding previous marriages including full name of former spouse, date of divorce or death, county, and state of dissolution or death of spouse. If you are divorced within the last 6 months, you will need to bring proof of the divorce that can be left with the Clerk.
 This is where you will submit your marriage application.


If you are a Michigan resident (meaning you have a valid driver's license or state I.D.), you must apply in the county where you live. If both partners are Michigan residents, you can apply in either county. The license is valid throughout the state.Out-of-state couples who want to get married in Michigan need to apply to the county in which they are to be married. The license is only valid for that county.

