 While there are other console options available for this game, such as the Wii Virtual Console, a downloadable service on the Wii, or an emulation, the N64 will give you the greatest advantage. Besides, it's retro, so it will give your home entertainment setup some character.


The N64 controller’s revolutionary analog stick works much better with this game because it was designed for this game. Using any other controller feels somewhat awkward.
The console itself is sturdier than the newer technology that comes out these days. These things were made to survive a nuclear blast.
This guide will refer only to the N64 controller. However, don't be discouraged if you're stuck using the Virtual Console controller. It feels different but it is largely the same.;
, The N64 controller streamlined 3D gaming with the analog stick, so movement in a 3D environment is now hard to imagine without it. The analog stick is key to understanding this game along with most other 3D games.


Ignore the left handle (the one with the D-pad). It is a sad, pathetic waste of plastic that is the one design flaw in the controller. Grip the center handle with your left hand, so that your thumb rests over the analog stick and your index finger rests on the Z-trigger (I'll explain that later).  Grip the right handle with your right hand.
No need for a run button.  Unlike the original Super Mario Bros. on the Nintendo Entertainment System where you held B while moving in order to run, the analog stick does everything.  Running, walking, and tiptoeing are all possible depending on how much you tilt the control stick with your thumb.
You can make Mario run around in endless circles by slowly rotating the control stick.  This was truly innovative in 1996 and a good example of the freedom of movement allowed with an analog stick.  Give it a whirl.
 Even to this day, developers of 3D games struggle to find the right perspective to utilize so the player can see what needs to be seen on screen.  Since SM64 was one of the first, its system is dated and difficult to use at times.  The camera is controlled by the four yellow C-buttons (yes, four C-buttons), each containing a directional arrow. Press the one with the up arrow and the camera zooms in, allowing you to look around. Press the down C-button to zoom out and press the left and right C-buttons to swing the camera to the left and right, respectively. Sounds easy? Good! Don't ignore it.


The camera system screws up on its own, so sometimes manual adjustment is imperative.
You do not want Mario running toward the camera or to a spot off camera that could lead to your possible death in the game. This game contains lava, ice water, quicksand, and bottomless pits. Oh yes, and there's also a world where you ride a magic carpet in the sky along a rainbow.  You need to set the camera so that you can see where you're going!
Setting the camera at the right angle can uncover a secret below, above, or to the side of you. 
Practice running around while adjusting the camera view with the left and right C-buttons. Note that the camera is always reluctant to shift and is constantly re-centering itself. Sometimes you have to tap the left and right buttons more than once for the ideal angle.
  Mario's got the moves, over twenty in his arsenal, but all can be reduced to three simple actions: jumping, punching, and crouching.  You jump with the blue A button, punch with the green B button, and crouch with the Z-trigger that your left index finger is resting on.  Here are a few key things to remember when using these buttons.


Jumping is the most important of these actions, as it has defined Mario since his 2D iterations.  Learn to time your jumps.
You can almost get away with completely ignoring the punch button.  Most enemies can be easily avoided or killed with the classic jumping attack (making pancakes out of Goombas). 
Some enemies, such the first boss, can be picked up by Mario by pressing the punch button when standing behind them.
Crouching isn't necessary most of the time, but it leads to some of more advanced moves that Mario can do.  More on that later.
 This is the perfect opening for the game, as there are no enemies, and you have a small little field to practice all of your moves. Take your time, and just have fun moving Mario around.  Here are a few things you can try.


Mario can climb trees and poles in this game.  Outside in the garden are plenty of trees to climb.  To do this, just jump toward the tree and Mario will automatically grab onto it.  You can then climb up and down it or jump right off by pressing the jump button again.
Master the triple jump.  This will bring style to your game and will allow you to reach higher platforms. To perform a triple jump, keep running, and then jump, and then jump again right when Mario lands, and then repeat once more, all while running forward.  You will be amazed. You will also fly if you're wearing a certain cap with wings.
Swim.  Just jump into the water and press A for a breast stroke.  Tilt the control stick down and press A to dive into the water.  Hold A for a slow flutter kick which will allow you to swim underwater in a more controlled manner.  You can do breast strokes underwater, but believe me, it is difficult at first.
 It is the link to all 15 worlds in Mario's first 3D outing, where the majority of the game's action takes place. There's no point in explaining the story of the game (it's a Mario game after all), so here is the concept:


The goal of this game is to collect stars in the 15 worlds in this game to unlock other parts of the castle. You do this until you reach Bowser's lair on the top floor. Each world contains 7 stars along with scattered ones hidden in the castle.  You find stars through exploration and completing certain mission objectives in each world.
Not every star is necessary in order to complete the game.  There is a reward for those committed gamers who collect all 120 stars, but in the end, that isn't necessary to save the princess.  You need only 70.  This gives the gamer options, to complete the levels they want from the world's they want to spend more time exploring.  If there's a swimming level that doesn't quite tickle your fancy (world 3), then neglect it, and collect stars from other worlds.
The castle paintings are the portal to the various worlds in this game.  To enter the first world, enter the door to your left after entering the castle, and you will find a giant painting of a walking, ticking bomb (called a bob-omb).  Jump into the painting and that will take you to world 1. Look for paintings throughout the castle. This is your link to the games numerous worlds.
  By today's gaming standards, the difficulty of the game is rather modest.  The developers, realizing at the the time that they were creating a new way to play games, did their best to make the game as accessible as possible.  Therefore, the game is forgiving, perhaps since the game itself has some glitches and hiccups that can screw over players.


There is no timer. This allows the player to focus on exploration instead of just going from point A to B.
Refill your life meter with coins. You earn coins by finding them throughout the world. Some are well hidden, concealed in the iconic question mark block, and some are easily viewable out in the open.
Find all of the cap power ups. Mario can fly, turn into metal, or gain invincibility temporarily by finding certain caps hidden in blocks. These power ups must first be unlocked by finding secret passages in the castle. Good luck.
  For example, while running, if you press the Z-trigger and then the A button, Mario will perform a long jump. This is an advanced move that isn't required to complete this game, but it is awesome!


Hold Z and then press A to do a back flip.  If you press B instead then you will do spinning kick on the floor. Mario's got some mad breakdancing' skills.
Jump and then press Z to do a butt-stomp.
Run, jump, and then press the B button to do a diving attack.
Run in one direction, and then quickly tilt the control stick in the opposite direction and press A.  This will cause Mario to do a quick somersault, one of my favorite moves for reaching high ledges. Practice!
Hold Z and move the control stick around for some laughs.
  If you can play SM64, then you at least know the basic concept for most 3D games.  Here are some examples.


The Grand Theft Auto games.  Liberty City is your hub world, linking all of the mission objectives contained in the game.  Just as in Mario, you can explore the hub world and complete the missions that you want to as you please.  Now running over innocent pedestrians, that's an innovative feature the Grand Theft Auto series introduced.
Most games implement some sort of camera system.  However, instead of using four yellow buttons to change the angle, most games use the dual analog system today, an evolution of the original N64 controller.  One analog stick is used to control player movement, and the other is used to control the camera.
Platforming games, such as SM64, have changed over time in the way they approach exploration versus platforming skills.  For example, new games mix in portions with camera control and portions without.  More focus on fast-paced action instead of exploration, combining the best parts of 2D and 3D platforming into a collage of awesomeness.

