 Hugging your knees to your chest helps stretch out the back and the hip area. This helps relieve tension and improve flexibility, which can help with back pain.To do this stretch, lie on your back and bring your knees to your chest. Hold them with your arms. You can rock gently back and forth or side to side.
To perform a variation of this stretch, pull one leg up, hold it to your chest, then release and repeat on the other side before pulling both legs to your chest.Hold for five to 10 seconds. Repeat five times.;
, The piriformis is a muscle that runs through the buttock area. By stretching this area, you work on the flexibility in your bottom, legs, and back.Lie on your back with your knees bent. Cross one leg over the other, resting your ankle just above your knee. Reach through your legs and grab the back of one thigh to pull it towards you. You should start to feel a stretch in your bottom. Stop when it gets too painful.
Hold this for 20 seconds. Switch to the other side. Repeat five times.
 The torso twist stretch helps you stretch out your core, hips, and lower back. It helps you increase your flexibility. Lie on your back with your knees bent. Drop your knees to the side. Hold for 10 seconds. Rotate as your rotate your legs to drop your legs to the other side.Repeat three times.
 This stretch helps reduce tension in your lower back and increase flexibility in your back. Lie flat on your back with your knees bent. Arch your back slightly, causing your tailbone to press into the floor. Hold for five seconds before releasing.Repeat five times. As your fitness level increases, add repetitions until you get to 30.
 This stretch helps you increase the flexibility and mobility in your entire back. Get on your hands and knees. Round your back down as your core sags towards the floor. Then, round your back up towards the ceiling. Then return to neutral position.Repeat five times a day.
 Doing a hamstring stretch helps stretch the back of your legs and through your hips. Lie on your back with one leg bent. Extend the other leg straight up. Use a towel, cloth, or your hands to wrap around the arch of the foot in the air. Gently pull down on the foot with your hand or cloth as you press your leg up. You should feel a stretch in the back of your leg.Hold the pose for at least 30 seconds. Switch legs. Repeat three times.
 Runner’s lunges help stretch the hip area, which improves flexibility of the trunk area. To do a half-lunge, stand with one leg in front of the other. Bend your front leg so the knee is at a 90 degree angle. Lower your back knee until it is only a few inches from the floor. To get the stretch in your hip, press your hips forward.Hold for 30 seconds. Then do the other side.
You should feel the stretch through the front of your hips of the back leg.

