 Whether you want to deep clean your Chucks so they look brand new, or you’re just trying to get some major stains out, you can make your Converse shoes look great with a few simple cleaning supplies in no time.


Get some stain remover, laundry detergent, 3% hydrogen peroxide solution, and a Magic Eraser for the dirt and stains.You can use a couple hand towels and/or rags for scrubbing and laying out your shoes.
Make sure that none of your cleaning supplies have bleach in them. Even if you have a white pair of All Stars, you want to avoid any chemicals that may discolor your shoes.;
, Fill a bucket with warm water and add enough soap so that you can see bubbles.









If you don’t have a bucket readily available, you can also fill up your sink or bathtub with some soapy water.
Add some hydrogen peroxide for extra cleaning power.
 The easiest way to clean your laces is to remove them from your Chucks and clean separately. This will also make it much easier to scrub the tongue and eyelets of your shoes.


For now, set the laces aside on a dry towel or rag.
 If your shoes have recently gotten dirty or muddied then it’s easiest to let the mud dry off before trying to clean your shoes. This may sound counterintuitive but it will be easier to scrape dry mud off of your shoes.If you soak or scrub your shoes with a lot of mud on them then you’re more likely to smear the mud into the canvas, making it harder to remove stains.
Smack your shoes together to knock any mud off.
You can also use a toothbrush or bristle brush to get dry mud off your shoes.
 To protect your washing machine and prevent your shoes from banging around, you should pad your washing machine with some clothes or towels that are similar in color to your shoes.


Don’t fill the washing machine too high so that your shoes won’t get the full effects of the washing machine.
It’s also advisable to only use old clothes or fabrics that you won’t mind if they get affected by your shoes.
 Let your Chucks sit for a few minutes so that the hydrogen peroxide and soap can sink into the canvas fabric. After your shoes have soaked for a few minutes lay the Chucks on a clean towel.









The majority of your shoes are canvas which is a form of cotton, so don’t worry about really letting your shoes soak.
If you have bike grease on your sneakers, you can add some baby powder or even hair spray with alcohol to your shoes and letting it set before soaking., Start scrubbing with a rag to remove any lighter stains that you may have on your shoes. If the rag isn’t working then use a toothbrush or bristle brush.









Scrub in small circular motions to get deeper into the fabric.
For some added cleaning power, grab a stain remover stick and apply it to the problem areas of your shoes like you would on a shirt or pair of pants.
You can also use your Magic Eraser on both the canvas and rubber parts of your sneakers to lift stains.
 Depending on how long you’ve had your sneakers and how much wear there is, you may not be able to clean the rubber completely.









If you’re hitting a tough spot where the rubber may be scratched or stained by something like bike grease, grab a toothbrush and a cup of water and baking soda. Scrub at the tough areas of the rubber as an extra measure.
Be conscious of the rubber strips that wrap around the bottom of your shoes. If you scrub too hard the rubber could break and start to peel off.
 You can clean your shoelaces by simply soaking them but you run the risk of ruining the plastic tips making it harder to thread your laces back into your shoes. To keep the tips intact, unscrew a spray bottle of cleaning solution and put your laces in, screwing the lid back on with the tips hanging out.









Let the laces sit in the solution for about a minute. Then shake the bottle for about 30 seconds.
Be careful since the lid won’t be screwed on completely with your laces hanging out and some liquid will probably leak out.
Remove your laces and wipe down, removing any extra dirt before laying the laces out to dry.
 While you don’t need a mesh washing bag, it doesn’t hurt to put your shoes in one. The bag will keep your shoes from bouncing around too much and possibly hurting your washing machine.


Sandwich your shoes between your other clothes and fabrics for extra padding.
Set your machine to a gentle cycle and use cold water to prevent any color bleeding.
 It’s best to dry your sneakers indoors so that you don’t see a fade in color from overexposure to sunlight. Find a bright, warm, dry place for your All Stars to sit.


You may have to reshape your sneakers a bit after the washing machine. Simply bend the rubber and canvas with your hands to mold your shoes back in place.
Make sure that you lay your shoes on a towel that’s on a flat surface.
