 A myomectomy removes fibroids using laparoscopic surgery. In this procedure, the surgeon removes fibroids from the uterus through the navel or through the vagina and cervix. Both approaches are less invasive and less expensive than a hysterectomy.
 Hormone therapy may be a short-term option for treating uterine fibroids, but surgery is still required. Your doctor may recommend medications to shrink the size of uterine fibroids in preparation for surgery. The fibroids will grow back if they are not removed.Some hormone medications block the production of estrogen, which can reduce symptoms. Other medications can be included to control pain and other symptoms.
 Endometrial ablation is a technique that removes the lining of the uterus, but also causes infertility. There are some variations on this method as well, including thermal balloon ablation, cryoablation and radiofrequency ablation.


All forms of ablation cause infertility but are much less invasive and have faster recovery time than a hysterectomy. They each have success rates between 80 and 90 percent.Be aware that this procedure is not a substitution for sterilization or contraception. Pregnancies absolutely occur after ablation, but they cannot be carried for long.
 Uterine prolapse may respond to Kegel exercises because they help to strengthen the pelvic floor if they are not severe.All women should start doing Kegel exercises when they reach their 40’s or after having their first child.


Kegel exercises improve the strength of the pelvic floor, reduce the possibility of leaking urine while laughing or sneezing, and increase the strength of orgasm contractions.
 A pessary device may also be useful for a uterine prolapse. A pessary device is a plastic device that is placed in the vagina to help support the uterus and bladder without undergoing any surgery.Your physician may also recommend a pessary device if you have urinary incontinence from bladder weakness.You can remove and clean a pessary device.
A pessary device may cause you to produce more vaginal secretions.
Some pessary devices can be left in place during intercourse, but most cannot. Ask your physician about your options.
 Ask your doctor if birth control pills might improve your condition. Birth control pills can be used to help reduce large amounts of blood loss during your menstrual period. They may be used to treat endometriosis and chronic pelvic pain as well., If a hysterectomy has been suggested to treat abnormal bleeding, ask your doctor about other treatments that might solve the problem. Other treatments that may be used to treat abnormal bleeding can include a dilation and curettage (D&C), hormonal medications such as progestins and oral contraception, or placement of a progesterone intrauterine device (IUD) to decrease the rate of bleeding and reduce pain.A progesterone IUD can prevent hysterectomies in many patients.
 Uterine artery embolization (UAE) reduces the size and blood supply to fibroid tissues growing in the uterus. Once the blood supply is blocked, the fibroids will shrink and die. Although this procedure is less invasive and has a quicker recovery time than a hysterectomy, it also causes infertility.There is also a chance that it will trigger premature menopause, and it can be very painful for a day or two following the procedure.

