 You will need to buy flowers right before you plan on making a wreath. If you buy flowers too long before making a wreath, there is a chance they will wither and die. You can buy flowers from your local supermarket or florist. Some flowers you can choose from are roses, poppies, carnations, chrysanthemums, lilies, and orchids.You can combine several flowers to make a more visually interesting wreath. Choose flowers with colors that complement each other. For example, yellow tulips pair well with verbena or lavender. You can also choose flowers of different sizes and shapes, like bundles of baby’s-breath with roses.;
, You can buy floral wire at a craft store, like Michaels or Hobby Lobby. The wire will hold more flowers the thicker it is. A 18-gauge is the minimum you should buy. It will support heavy buds, like roses. 22-26-Gauge is an all purpose wire that will support whatever type of flowers you are using.Thinner wire is more malleable and a better choice for an intricate setting.
You can choose between green stub, paper covered, and enameled wire.
 Double a length of floral wire. Wrap the ends around what you want to be the top of your wreath form, twining the ends back around the wire to secure it. It should create a circular shape. Twine the ends to form a loop. You'll use the loop at the top for hanging the wreath.Size your wreath to take up about half the width of the door or wall you intend to hang it on.
Make sure the hanging loop sticks up from the back of the wreath where it'll be less visible, instead of the front.
 Create small bundles of flowers by wrapping the stems with flexible wire attached to a floral pick (a small wooden stake). You can also bundle flower stems together with floral wire. The upper limit for your bundle size is the width of the wreath form. How small you make your bundles, and how you shape them, depends to a large degree on your wreath size and the textures and size of your materials.Group together several types of flowers in a bundle to create variety in the wreath.
 Lay your floral bundles out on the wreath form so you get a general idea of the proper positioning. Do not use any glue or form of attachment yet. Now is the time to make any major design changes or tweaks. Leave a few flowers or bundles out just in case you want to go back and fill in space.It’s okay if you don’t remember exactly where the bundles went or they move slightly. You just want to get a general idea of how you want to design the wreath.
 Attach your floral bundles to the homemade flower wreath using hot or white glue. Apply glue to the foam wreath form, then press the floral bundles into place. Work "backwards" around the wreath, laying each new bundle of flowers over the exposed stems of the previous bunch, with each bunch overlapping by about half.If you're creating a wide wreath work from the outside in, filling in the entire width of the wreath from outside to center before you move further around the ring.
You must leave the wreath flat until the glue is completely dry.
 If you would like to add extra embellishment to the wreath, add decoration embellishments using the same techniques using glue, pins, or floral picks. You can add berries, leaves, fern, and bows. Consider the type of wreath you are making when adding decorations.Pastel bows work well with an Easter wreath.
Red berries look great with Christmas wreaths.
Only use glue to attach the flowers/stems/greenery directly to the wreath form. If none of your wreath form still shows and you still want to add embellishments, you'll need to use floral picks or pins.

