 Curly hair tends to be dry, so apply a leave-in conditioner before you get out of the shower to give your locks a dose of moisture. The conditioner will also help to prevent frizz, which can be a constant battle for those with curls, and assist in detangling your wet hair.The best way to detangle curly hair is by using a wide-toothed comb and working from tip to root. If you deal with a lot of tangles, a spray-on detangling product can make the process painless.;
, Once you’ve conditioned and detangled your damp mane, apply a curl cream product to help enhance and define your curls. Put a dime-sized amount in your palm, then rub your palms together. Smooth the product on your hair, starting just shy of your scalp and working it down to the tips. Work in palm-sized sections until you’ve coated all of your hair with the cream.Choose a curl cream made with Moroccan or Argan oil if you need help taming frizz.
 When applying curl cream or styling gel, the praying hands technique can help you get even coverage. Apply a small amount of product to your palms and rub them together. Take one section of hair and clap your hands together, with the hair in between them, starting at the roots. Pull your hands down toward the tips of that section of hair. Continue in this way until you’ve covered all of your hair., Go ahead and part your hair the way you want it to fall once it’s dried and styled. Lean your head to one side and cup your hand underneath a section so that the tips are brushing your palm. Lift up to grab onto a section of hair, then make a fist while you lift your hand and the hair up to your scalp. This is a “scrunch.” Scrunch your hair liberally, then lean to the other side and do the same thing.Scrunching will enhance your curls and start the process of helping them set.For extra volume, flip your hair over and scrunch with both hands for about a minute or so.
 To amp up curls without using a hair dryer, give the “twist out” technique a try. After applying a styling gel, grab a small section of hair, then divide it in two. Twist the two pieces around each other, starting at the roots and working your way down to the tips. Continue twisting sections of hair in this pattern until you’ve twisted all of it. Let your hair air-dry and then gently unravel the twists.The tighter the twist, the tighter the resulting curls will be.
 Set your hair dryer to “low” and aim it at your hair. As you dry, continue to scrunch your hair the entire time. When your hair is about halfway dry, flip your head over and cup sections of your hair in your hand, continuing to scrunch your hair to the roots. Flip your head back up and finish off with a few more scrunches.Invest in a high-quality hair diffuser, since this is a critical tool for those with curly hair.
Flipping your head over to scrunch will add bounce and volume. If your hair is very thick and you don’t want extra volume, avoid doing this.

