 If you’ve only got letter-sized paper (8.5”x11”) available, you can make it into a square with folds and a pair of scissors. With the paper laying vertically in front of you, fold the bottom right corner towards the top left of the paper until it forms a triangle.What was the bottom edge should now be flush with the left edge; there should remain a rectangle on top of the triangle formed. Cut this rectangle off with scissors.
 Crease the fold well and open it up once you’ve folded it. Use the remaining crease line as a marker and cut along this line, making two rectangles from the square.


These two rectangles will be manipulated exactly the same, but mirrored. Eventually each rectangle will come to form two points of the star.
For a more distinct finished star, use two different colored pieces of paper to make two rectangles to continue on from this step.
 First fold each rectangle “hot dog” style along the vertical side (meeting the two longer sides). Fold them again in half “hamburger” style, having either short edge meet.’


Unfold this last fold to have two thin rectangles with a visible crease line horizontally through the middle.
 Take the lower half of the left triangle and fold it to the right, forming an “L” with a right angle. Do the same to the right rectangle, but fold it to the left, creating a “J.” Then do the same to the unfolded sides of both rectangles, folding them to face opposite the already folded portions.


Each rectangle should end up as two squares connected by a slanted rectangle.
 For each square (four total) on the two figures, fold them in half to make a triangle each. Fold them such that the corners folded in towards the slant face towards one another. Once all squares have been folded into triangles, you should be to flip the figure lengthwise and have it look the same.
 Along the edge which meets the slanted rectangle, fold the triangles to make a right angle. Fold them to be perpendicular with the surface you’re using, with the slanted rectangle lying flat. Fold them flat to make the crease very distinct.
 After the last step, your two figures should remain mirror images of one another. Flip the right one upside down so that its folds point towards the surface you’re using. This flipped figure should look like two isosceles triangles.


Then place this flipped figure on top of the left one. There should now be an idea of what the star will come to look like; each triangle forms a point of the star.
 First, fold the right triangle of the lower piece (the one on bottom) under the top triangle of the top piece. Then do the same with the left triangle of the lower piece and the triangle closest you on the top piece. The two triangles just folded should form the top and bottom points of the star.


Once completed, flip the whole thing over.
 Fold them both towards the center of the star, tucking them under the folds formed in the last step. Once both have been folded, what remains should be your ninja star.