 Even when a movie or TV show is characterized as “educational,” parents still should be cautious. Too much screen time can still be a detriment to your child’s development, particularly in very young children.


If you are selecting screen time choices for toddlers, lean towards those with an interactive element in which the child is being shown some visual or audio aspects, being given instructions, and then asked to do something as a result.;
, If your child is going to watch TV or a movie, ensure that they are gaining something from it rather than using it for pure entertainment. Not all media is created equally, meaning that some choices will be more appropriate for your child than others.It can be helpful for older children to watch films or shows in which they are learning some aspect of history, geography, art, or another subject taught in school. It can help, once again, if the show or the parent interacts with the kid, reinforcing and asking questions that are presented on-screen. Examples might include “When did dinosaurs become extinct?” or “What was the Ice Age, again?” right after the information has just been presented.
Children will get used to this approach with practice, but only if you are actively involved. If you use the screen as a babysitter, the children are unlikely to get much out of it.
 iPads and other similar tablets are all the rage with kids. But, again, not all play on these devices is equally helpful or educational for your child. Experts suggest choosing applications that give children the option to select their own preference for play, enabling them to engage in the way that best suits their learning style.


Try those that involve skills already learned at home or in school, such as reading, selecting shapes, adding numbers, or drawing pictures. Parents magazine has helpful suggestions for kid-appropriate apps to download., Look on the box or label to see what age the game is most appropriate for. Avoid those with violence, graphic content, or foul language.


Watch your child as he or she plays. Does the game seem to provoke aggression? Does your child act negatively due to losing? Does he or she say inappropriate words?Be clear and consistent about where you draw the line. Don't fall into the trap of "all the kids in school are playing it."

, If your child has a video game console or plays games online, you can encourage healthy use by previewing them yourself. Play the game to see for yourself what it involves. This helps you ensure that the game is actually appropriate for your child.


Once you have played the game, you can use your knowledge of it to drive home helpful points. For instance, you might say, "I noticed the main character had to forage for food. In what ways does the war affect their family?"

