


Before you begin searching for possible casting call locations, be certain of your budget. Knowing exactly what you can spend for venue rental will help you to avoid embarrassment or disappointment. It will also save you time; knowing how much you can spend will help you rule out venues that have more costly rental fees.
You will definitely need a location with two separate rooms, so before you commit to a space, be sure it has them. Also look at the size of the rooms; it is essential that the room in which the actors will prepare has ample space so they are not crowded together. Likewise, the room in which the actual auditions will be held should be spacious enough to allow for free movement.;
,


It is imperative that you get the word out about your casting call, and there are a number of ways to accomplish this. Depending on the size of the production, consider sending information about your auditions to casting agencies and newspapers. For smaller auditions such as community theater, local newspapers often offer free advertising for community events, so be sure to check into that. Additionally, many newspapers have websites, which means information about your casting call will reach an even wider audience. Call local theater groups or colleges and ask for the names and email addresses of local thespians so you can send personal invitations.
Be sure any information you submit to media outlets has thorough descriptions of all parts you are looking to cast. If your show has no children's roles, it would be a waste of time for everyone involved for children to come to the casting call. Include the ages, genders, body types and ethnicities of the characters you are casting. If you are casting a large number of children, send notices of your casting call to area school district offices.
If the casting call is for a film, television show or commercial, consider sending the information about the auditions to your local or state film commission. Film commissions have websites where they post upcoming casting calls.



Try to select scenes that will allow actors to show a range of emotions. Audition scenes should be relatively short, and when possible, choose scenes that include several actors and actresses. This will allow you to see what those who are auditioning will look like together on stage and how well they interact.



Give actors and actresses time slots for their auditions, and notify them ahead of time if possible. Be sure to make the time blocks ample enough to allow for mistake correction and to allow the actors to try doing scenes in a couple of different ways.



On one of the sheets, clearly outline the days of the production and the rehearsal schedule to give to those actors who make the cut. This will allow the actors and actresses you select to let you know right away if they have any scheduling conflicts.
Make an additional information sheet on which the actors will provide you with their contact information including mailing addresses, home and cellular telephone numbers and email addresses.

