 GIMP stands for GNU Image Manipulation Program, an open-source image editing program. Download it for free at gimp.org/downloads. Using GIMP, you can edit each frame of your GIF, customize the speed of your GIF, and save it in an optimized format that will be quicker to load.
 Go to File → Open in the top menu and select an image saved on your computer. If you'd like to draw your own GIF from scratch, use File → New instead.


If you are using an existing GIMP file with multiple layers, use the Image → Flatten Image command to merge them all into one layer.This layer will be one frame of the animation.
 If you already have several images to turn into a GIF (such as a series of screenshots), open them using File → Open as Layers. If you only have one image and wish to edit the animation yourself, use the Duplicate Layers function in the "Layers" window on the right of the screen. You can do this by right-clicking the image icon and selecting Duplicate Layer, or by selecting the icon and clicking the icon that looks like two stacked photographs.


Each layer will be one frame of the GIF. The image on the bottom of the list will appear first, then the images above it. Drag them around to change the order.
Every image must be the same size, or the larger ones will be cropped when the GIF is saved.
 If you plan to edit the images or add text to them, you'll need to hide all layers higher up on the list than the one you're editing, or you won't be able to see your work. There are two ways to accomplish this, both found in the "Layers" window:


Click the "eye" icon next to a layer to hide it. Click the same spot again when you're ready to show it again.

Or select a layer and adjust the Opacity bar near the top of the Layers window. Low Opacity makes the layer more transparent. This is helpful if you're adding text or other additions to multiple frames, so you can line them up with each other.
 You can learn about many GIMP editing features if you like, or just use these basic techniques. Select the image you wish to edit from the icon in the "Layers" window to the right, then use the following tools to adjust your GIF frames:


In the "Toolbar" window to the left, select the "Scale Tool" (one small square with an arrow pointing to a large square) to resize the image. Make all your layers the same size.
In the Toolbar window, select the "A" icon and click the image to add text. Type in the text and use the popup tools to adjust the size, font, and color. When finished, use the Layer → Merge Down command to combine the text with the layer beneath it.
 Once you've completed your edits, select the Filters → Animation → Playback... command from the top menu. Click the play icon in the window that appears to view your animation.
 Go to the "Layers" window, and right click (or control-click on some Macs) a layer. Select Edit Layer Attributes. After the name, type (XXXXms), replacing the Xs with the number of milliseconds you want that layer displayed.Do this with each layer. Open the Playback again to view the animation with your new changes, and continue to adjust until you are satisfied.


Most GIFs made from videos are close to 10 frames per second (100ms per frame).
You can skip this step and select a default speed later, when you export the file.
 Use the top menu to select Filter → Animation → Optimize (for GIF). This will create a copy with a much smaller file size. Continue working in the copy for the remaining steps.


Before optimization, each frame is loaded completely ("replaced"). After optimization, only the areas of the image that change are loaded ("combined").You can skip this step and optimize during export in the step below.
 Select File → Export As.... Click Select File Type at the bottom of the window that appears to view more options, then scroll down to and select "GIF". Click Export and a new window will appear, described below.
 In the new window, titled "Export Image as GIF," check the box next to "As animation." Finish by clicking Export, or change your options first:


Uncheck "Loop forever" if you only want the animation to play once.
If you skipped the timing adjustment step, set the delay here. By default, this is set to 100 ms, or 10 frames per second. Reduce this number for a faster GIF, and raise it for a slower one.
If you skipped the optimize step above, look for a "Frame disposal" option while exporting and select "Cumulative layers (combine)."

