 A good way to do this is to place a pre-weighed steel ring on the ground where you would like to take a sample and fill it with water. Allow the water to sit in the ring overnight, or until it is absorbed by the ground. This will make it easier to collect your sample., Use a block of wood and a hammer to drive the ring down into the ground. The soil inside the ring is referred to as a core or core sample. The ring protects the core sample from being disturbed during collection., Use a spade and other digging tools to carefully dig around the steel ring. You do not want to disturb the soil inside the ring. Cut away any roots from the bottom of the ring., Once you have cleared out the soil around the ring, you can remove it from the hole. Keep the core sample inside the ring and do not disturb it. Be careful not to lose any of the sample when moving it., Add water until the sample in the ring is fully saturated and can hold no more water. Weigh the sample in the steel ring. Subtract from that value the mass of the steel ring. This will leave you with the saturated mass of your sample.
 The volume of your sample will be the same as the volume of your ring. Since your ring is a cylinder, to calculate the volume you will multiply the height of the cylinder by the radius squared (the radius is the distance from the center of the circle to the edge), and then multiply that by pi (often rounded to 3.14). If you do not know the radius you can measure across the top of the cylinder at its widest point and divide that measurement by two., Be sure to pre-weigh the container and write down the mass of the container (mc{\displaystyle mc}). If you are planning to use a microwave oven to dry your sample, be sure that your container has no metal and is microwave safe., If you are using a microwave, 10 minutes on high should be sufficient to dry out your sample. This ensures that all of the pores in the sample have been cleared of water. You can also dry the sample in a conventional oven at a temperature of 105 degrees Celsius, or 221 degrees fahrenheit, for at least 2 hours.Though they are still full of air, this will not affect the mass of the sample., Remember that this value is not the mass of your sample. It is the mass of your sample plus the mass of your container. Do not use this value to calculate porosity., To find the dry weight of your sample, you can simply subtract the initial mass of the container from the final mass of the container plus the sample. Be sure that the number you get makes sense. For example, you will not have a negative value for mass. If you do this is incorrect and you should troubleshoot your math., Subtract the dry mass (md{\displaystyle md}) from the saturated mass (ms{\displaystyle ms}). The difference will be the mass of water (mw{\displaystyle mw}). Again, the dry mass should be smaller than the saturated mass.
 By definition, one gram of water is equal to one cubic centimeter of water. This means that the mass of your water in grams is equal to the volume of water in cubic centimeters. Since your sample was saturated, all pores are filled with water, therefore, the pore volume is equal to the volume of water present in the saturated sample.
 This will yield a decimal number that is smaller than one. Multiply that number by 100%. The result is the porosity of your sample expressed as a percent.
