 Independent contractors in the travel industry may have the best of both worlds. They have the independence of their own business with the backing and security of a host agency, which pays a commission to the contractor.


There are many different host agencies. Make sure you compare them and their requirements to find the right fit for you and your business.
You can search the internet or find books at the local library to help you research different host agencies in the travel industry.
Some host agencies require an initial monetary investment to become an independent contractor. However, the cost is typically much less than purchasing a franchise.
Host agencies handle much of the back office work, such as calculating and paying commissions, providing training, and handling some marketing.
Licensing and certification are typically handled by the hosting agency, allowing the independent contractor to focus on finding customers and making sales.
 The host agency will provide you with the legal documents. Review the agreement thoroughly before signing. Ask the host agency any questions you may have.


Consider hiring an attorney to review any legal documents included in this process.
Check with local government agencies for any additional licenses or permits that may be needed.
 Independent contractors are not employees of the host agency. They are their own business owners. Some host agencies do provide office space for their contractors. You may also consider a home-based office or a traditional store front office.


A real estate agent or website can help you find the right location. If available in your area, try to find a real estate agent who specializes in commercial property.
The location you choose should be highly visible and traveled by those customers you wish to target.
 Be sure to understand and follow any requirements from your host agency. As much as possible, take advantage of any training offered by the host agency, as this will help you meet their expectations and achieve your own goals.


The host agency will provide all of the guidelines and other operating requirements that you need to follow.
Remember that the host agency's success depends on the success of its independent contractors. Therefore, they are there to help you succeed.

