 Use a mild facial cleanser when you wash your face to keep the pores on your nose open and clean. Pat your face dry with a clean towel instead of rubbing it, which can create redness.


Try a cleanser that includes salicylic acid if you experience acne on the nose. However, test out any product with salicylic acid first, as some are allergic to the ingredient, which will make redness much worse. Look for cleansers made for sensitive skin if you have bad reactions to ingredients like this.
Use exfoliating cleansers carefully or avoid them altogether if they create a burning, itching, or irritation after use. You may also want to avoid harsh toners, astringents, or products containing alcohol to lessen irritation.;
, Use a moisturizer intended for the face or a pure oil to help keep the skin of your nose hydrated and soothed. Try a cream specifically meant to reduce redness, or simply a natural oil of your choice.


If you want to try a medicated moisturizer, look for over-the-counter varieties that contain ingredients like licorice or feverfew, which are natural anti-inflammatories.Try applying pure coconut or almond oil to your nose as a moisturizer, as they are both natural emollients.You can use a small amount after cleansing your face and let your skin absorb it, or use more and gently wash away the excess after several minutes.
Always apply a moisturizer to your nose after cleansing and before bed to ensure it remains hydrated throughout the day and night. You can moisturize several times throughout the day if you’re prone to very dry skin or live in a dry and cold climate.
 Use ingredients that may have an anti-inflammatory effect directly on the skin of the nose to help soothe it and reduce redness. Try applying pureed cucumber to the face as a mask, or brewing green, chamomile, or peppermint tea and putting it on the nose with a washcloth.You can also make a mask out of oatmeal. Look for 100% pure colloidal oatmeal if you can, and mix it with enough water to make a paste. Leave the paste on your skin for 10 minutes before rinsing it off. You can also add milk, honey, or aloe vera for additional soothing effect.
Keep any homemade or storebought face treatment in the refrigerator before use for an extra cooling effect. Even a plain cold washcloth over the nose can reduce redness quickly., Pay attention to food and drink that seems to trigger redness or irritation on your nose and face. Avoid known allergies and sensitivities, and favor cooling, anti-inflammatory foods and beverages.


Generally, it’s beneficial to avoid hot and spicy foods, alcohol, hot drinks, and anything else that you notice gives you a flushed complexion after consuming. This is especially important to note for those with persisting skin conditions that cause redness like rosacea.Try incorporating more cooling and anti-inflammatory foods into your diet, such as melon, cucumber, coconut, spinach, celery, etc., If you can’t reduce redness and irritation completely with other methods, use makeup to even out the red tone in your skin. Try facial makeup that has a slightly green tint to counteract red tones.


Make sure your face is well cleansed and moisturized before applying makeup. Dab small dots of foundation or concealer onto your nose, then rub in with your finger or a makeup sponge to blend evenly, without applying too much.If you are unsure of what shade of makeup to apply or how to apply it, consult a makeup professional for assistance.

