 Dogs mourn differently from humans. While some dogs may not mourn at all, others will become extremely clingy, anxious, or lethargic. Keep an eye out for the following symptoms. If they do not disappear after a few days, you might consider seeking help from a vet or dog behaviorist.


Lethargy or lack of energy.
Lack of interest in playing
Loss of appetite






Unsocial behavior
Increased sleeping






Weight loss
Decline in physical health, It is very common for older dogs to stop eating after the loss of their owner. This can cause other health issues to develop. If the dog seems to have stopped eating, you should try to get the dog to eat.If possible, keep feeding the dog the same food that the old owner fed them.
You can also give the dog kibble in a kong-type dog toy or food puzzle. The dog may enjoy trying to get the food out of the toy.
While a few extra treats here and there may not be detrimental to your dog, you should avoid giving the dog too many treats during this period. They may learn that they will be rewarded for whining, and they may not eat their normal food., Older dogs may not be extremely active to begin with, but they may become more lethargic after the loss of their owner. Such inactivity can lead to further health problems. If the dog is able, take them on a walk at least once or twice a day. Depending on the age and health of the dog, these may be short walks., If the dog continues to mourn for several weeks or if the dog is not eating, you should visit the vet to make sure that the dog is still in good health. The vet can diagnose an underlying medical problem or prescribe medication to help with the dog's anxiety or depression.While at the vet, you might ask:


"What medical issues does this dog have? Can any of them be aggravated by the loss of their owner?"
"The dog seems really depressed. What can I do to help?"
"The dog has been sleeping a lot since I took them in. Is this because the dog is depressed or is there another issue?"
"The dog has not been eating since their owner died. What can I do to encourage them to eat?"
If you know which vet the dog's old owner used, you should take them there. The vet can inform you of the dog's medical history.

