 Choose a paper that is shaped like a small rectangle that fits the size of your notebook, and reinforce it with cardboard for durability. You can write not only your name, but the subject of your class, and your roll number, or any other relevant information. Once you've filled out the card, you can glue the paper to the front of the notebook -- ordinary glue or a glue-stick will do. Also use sticky notes for easy notebook organisation. Just write the subject and stick the sticky note on the side of the book. Do this to all your books. Now it looks so much more organised and fancier!


After you glue down the paper, smooth it down to avoid any bumps. If it's too bumpy, then react quickly and take the paper off before it sticks down properly and re-glue it.;
, You can use pictures of animals, pictures from comic strips, or even pictures of your favorite celebrities. You can cover as much of the notebook as you like, as long as you don't cover the card with your name on it. This is all about personalizing the notebook -- choose the pictures that appeal to you.
 Place the stickers in any empty parts of your notebook. You can also partially cover the pictures you've glued onto the notebook, if you like, for a layered effect. 3D stickers also make it look really awesome-but don't use them if you don't want to. Just don't cover the index card with the stickers. You can also make your own stickers and put them on your notebook.
 Find a lacy, beautiful fabric and and glue it around the border of the index card. This will give your notebook a more elegant look. Some stronger glue will be best for this purpose, such as craft bond tacky glue, or craft bond fabric and paper glue. You can even decorate the fabric with glitter.
 If you haven't covered your notebook completely, you can use the same color marker you used for the index card to draw small designs on the notebook, such as hearts, stars, lips, or flowers. And if you get bored with your new notebook, you can always add more layers to it.

