 Lemon juice has been used for thousands of years as a natural skin lightener. It contains acids that lightly bleach the skin and exfoliate the top layer of darker skin cells. Since pure lemon juice can be irritating to skin, make a lemon juice solution by mixing one part lemon juice to one part water. Take a cotton ball and spread the solution on your skin. Let it sit for 15 minutes, then wash it off with warm water.


Limit your application of lemon juice solution to just two to three times per week. Applying it more often could lead to skin irritation. Apply a moisturizer after rinsing off the lemon juice because the juice can dry out your skin.
You should begin to see results after three to four weeks of using the solution several times per week. While lemon juice doesn’t provide instant lightening effects, it’s the most effective natural solution available.
Use caution if you ever attempt to put any kind of citrus juice on your face. Phytophotodermatitis can be caused by a reaction between UV light and photosynthesizing chemicals found in citrus fruits.While it's fine to use lemon juice on your skin, you need to wash it off thoroughly before going out in the sun.;
, For a soothing full-body lightening treatment, start by drawing a bath of warm water. Pour in a cup of full-fat milk and squeeze the juice of an entire lemon into the tub. Swirl the mixture around so that the milk and lemon are evenly distributed in the tub. Soak in the bath for 20 minutes, then rinse yourself off with clean water.


The milk in this soak has enzymes that gently lighten the skin. It also moisturizes the skin, offsetting the drying properties of the lemon juice.
Try a milk soak once a week, and you should see results after a month or so.
 Like milk, yogurt contains enzymes that can gently lighten skin. Honey has moisturizing and antibacterial properties. Together, the two ingredients make a nourishing mask. Mix one part honey and one part yogurt, then spread the mixture on your face and body. Allow it to sit for 15 minutes, then rinse it away with warm water.


Be sure to use plain, unsweetened yogurt. Sugary or flavored yogurt will get too sticky.
In place of honey, try mashing up an avocado or using aloe instead. Both ingredients have a wonderful moisturizing effect.
 For more concentrated benefits, try making a thick paste using natural ingredients that help lighten the skin. Spread a paste on your freshly washed face, leave it in place for 15 minutes, then rinse it away with warm water. Here are two recipes for natural lightening pastes:


Gram flour paste. Pour ¼ cup of gram flour into a bowl. Add enough lemon juice or milk to make a thick paste.
Turmeric paste. Pour 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of turmeric into a bowl. Add enough lemon juice or milk to make a thick paste.

