 One of the more common symptoms of bloating and torsion, when your dog’s stomach turn or twist up to 360 degrees, is an attempt to vomit with no results. This can often sound and look like a dry-heave or sound more like a deep repeated cough.Vomiting with no results might also produce mucus or foam. Unless your dog is vomiting up more solid food they may be bloated or distended.Check your dog’s mouth for other related objects or foods that might be causing a similar symptom, like grass or plastic that might be blocking their windpipe.;
, Excessive drooling is a sure sign that something is negatively affecting your dog. If your dog is suffering from torsion and bloating they will likely be drooling for extended periods of time. Check your dog’s mouth and gums, as well as their bed and the floor around them, for excess drool. However, keep in mind that drooling is a general reaction that your dog will have to negative stimuli, which can also include vertigo and allergies.Drooling, paired with other symptoms, will help you determine what your dog might be suffering from. Consult your vet for a more informed opinions on what might be causing your dog to drool excessively.
 Many dog’s will be much less active when suffering from bloating and torsion as their stomach will make many movements uncomfortable. Dog’s suffering from bloating and distention might also be hunched or curled over by trying to physically compensate for the discomfort.Try calling your dog over to you if you think your dog is displaying unusual behavior. If they react in a way that is not normal, like slowly limping over or refusing to move, they may be experiencing physical discomfort.
Examples of signs of restlessness and anxiety are fidgeting, sighing or whimpering, constant eye movements, furrowed ears, and grimacing., Although this symptom is not the most pronounced or easiest to identify it is a clear sign that your dog is suffering from torsion and bloating. You should be able to tell if your dog’s stomach is tight by having them stand up and placing your hand on their abdomen, below their ribcage. Their stomach should feel soft and tapered when relaxed. If their stomach is firm, or makes a hollow sound like a drum when you pat it softly, they may be suffering from bloating or torsion., Taking your dog’s personality or general disposition into account will help you gauge when and if they are suffering from discomfort. Look to see if your dog is displaying any unusual behaviors, like lethargy when they are usually playing unusual body language, to determine whether or not they might be ill.


Bloating, torsion, and torsion is most common with specific breeds that have large chests, like Great Danes, Saint Bernards, Setters, Dobermans, and Sheepdogs.