 Launch Minecraft, and on the main screen, select “Singleplayer.” This option is found at the bottom right of the screen.;
,, Click “Create New World” in the bottom-left corner to begin the game in creative mode.
 Once in game, press “E” to see that the normal inventory has been replaced with a menu containing all the items you need to create a map.


Notice the 12 tabs on the top and bottom of the menu, each has a symbol representing what items can be found in that tab.
The storage chest in the bottom right is the normal inventory of your character.
The compass in the top right allows you to search for specific items

, You can now begin forming the land as you want it to look.


To add a block, open your inventory (“E” key) and select the Block tab. Click and drag the desired block type to the action bar, which is the last row in the inventory on any tab. Close the menu (“E” key again) and select the block on the action bar. You can now right-click an area on the screen to place an infinite amount of that block.
Right-click on the block to remove it.
 After the terrain is done, you can add buildings and structures to make your map to make it unique. Check out your inventory on what you can add.


The process of adding buildings and structure is the same as adding blocks to the land. You select the item from your inventory and place it in the action bar. Afterwards, right-click the area where every thing changes!

, Press “E” and select the Miscellaneous tab indicated by a lava bucket. This tab contains eggs for every creature that exists in the game.


Equip the egg in the action bar and exit the menu. Right-clicking with the egg selected will spawn that creature in front of you.
 When the map is complete and ready to be shared with others, save the game, and close it.


Navigate to the “.minecraft” folder. As a shortcut, click “Edit profile” at the bottom left of the launcher and click “Open Game Dir.” This will automatically find the file location for you.
Double-click the “saves” file to bring up a list of worlds that have been created.
Right-click on the world just created and select “send to compressed zipped folder.” This will compress the file so that it can be stored on a file-sharing site.

