 Withdrawal symptoms can be painful and potentially fatal. Even after rehab, it is recommended that you speak with your doctor to schedule your alcohol consumption (this depends greatly on the person and the program).


Medical assistance can be useful in helping you plan and track your progress. It is also very important to receive a physician’s advice on the variety of changes happening to your body on a cellular and physiological level.
Professionals can help relieve some of your withdrawal pain by either providing appropriate medication or protocol for the variety of potential withdrawal symptoms you could be having. Medication can help calm panic and other strategies can show you what to do in case of extreme anxiety.;
, Alcohol contains a lot of calories, yet does not supply all the resources your body needs to thrive. Nutrition is very important for adequate recovery; make sure you give your body the proper nutrients it requires to make transitioning into a sober lifestyle as easy as possible.

Schedule your meals so you receive the necessary amount of calories and nourishment. Alcoholics have been found with deficiencies in calcium, zinc and vitamins B and D (amongst other health problems). Talk to your doctor to gain more knowledge on vitamins and minerals recommended specifically for you.






Always keep water and food at hand. Fighting against urges is hard and it is only magnified by feelings of thirst and hunger. Suppress these feelings and urges by making sure you drink plenty of water and eat enough food.
 A good way to maintain sobriety is to keep your mind occupied with topics other than alcohol. Find local events or schedule fun things to do with your family. You can also take up a new sport or hobby to occupy time in a productive manner.
 For most people, family relationships play a huge role in the choice to abstain from alcohol. Surrounding yourself with people who love you will increase your happiness and drive to stay sober. Your journey to sobriety is a good time to reform and strengthen your relationship with family.


Engage more with your family by going to certain events with them or just spending more time with them. Watching movies, playing board games, or celebrating holidays are all great things to do with your family.
Reconnecting with your family will not only aid you in recovering from weak points in your life, but also help you celebrate the high points. They will be with you through the ups and downs, helping you get up and stay up throughout all of them. You may also find yourself needing to speak with somebody while in a rough emotional time, and family members are great people to turn to in times of need.
 Friends can be great resources as they can remind you during times of urges that you do not need to drink alcohol and can help you abstain from drinking. Tell your close friends about your journey and they will more than likely be willing to help you stay on that path. People prefer the sober you and are capable of being a valuable asset to you. Friends, like family, are also there to help you emotionally in times of need.
 Recovering from alcoholism is hard enough. Trying to life alcohol free when surrounded by people who constantly drink or who are not entirely supportive of your choice puts more unnecessary strain on you. Attempt to spend less time around alcohol and more time near individuals who encourage you to stay sober.
 Everyone has different reasons for wanting to continue to live alcohol free. Though most people share somewhat similar patterns, every individual’s reasons are specific to him/her.

Never forget the reasons you wanted to quit. Did you hate the feeling of a hangover? Did you notice an absence of your presence in family life? Whether it was because of economic or family issues, make sure you remember your reasons. If you’re even in danger of drinking, fall back to your core values and recall why you quit alcohol to begin with. Recount all the negative feelings you had when you lived your life as an alcoholic, and use that as motivation to continue your abstinence.
 Creating a list of thought provoking and motivational sayings are a great resource for situations when you want to drink. You can save them on your phone and look them up during times of need. They will help you remind yourself of your goals and help provide a small boost of motivation any time you need it.
 Reflecting on how far you’ve come so far, is a powerful method for continuing to abstain from alcohol use. Once you look back and realize you don’t want the life you had while drinking, it makes it much easier to avoid alcohol as you associate negative times with the act of drinking. Conversely, the enjoyable, sober moments you have will encourage you to remain sober., It will constantly prompt you to remain sober and can help suppress urges to drink during times of need. It’s a manifestation of your current progress and the time of abstinence you have remaining.

