 Manxes are playful and friendly animals. They are affectionate and love hopping in people’s laps. They get along well with children and other pets. If that sounds like your cat, you might have a Manx., Manxes enjoy jumping on shelves and other elevated perches. They have dog-like characteristics that include chasing after balled-up pieces of paper or ping-pong balls. They also enjoy swatting at running water. If your cat comes running when you turn the tap, you might just have a Manx.If you do have a Manx, you can provide it with a cat tree or cat house so it can have many opportunities to jump and play.
 Manx cats do not vocalize often, but they do have a distinctive vocalization. In addition to normal feline purrs and meows, they also produce a trilling sound. This sound is most commonly heard from mother cats callings their kittens. Manxes have soft voices., Manxes have generally good health, but are predisposed to a condition called Manx syndrome. The condition has a number of symptoms that might not be immediately obvious as part of an underlying condition. Symptoms include bowel and bladder issues, poor digestion, and deformity of the spine.If you observe these symptoms in your cat, contact your vet for a diagnosis.
 If you cannot determine whether or not you’ve got a Manx on your hands using behavioral and visual data, you could take your cat to the vet for a DNA test. To perform a DNA test, your vet or a qualified medical technician will perform a noninvasive procedure to obtain a sample of your cat’s DNA, typically by swabbing the inside of its cheek or clipping some of its fur. The cat’s genome will then be matched against that of a known Manx cat and evaluated for similarities., By obtaining your cat through a reputable breeder, you’ll be able to get official certification from the breeder that confirms whether your cat is a Manx. To identify reputable breeders, consult your vet or a feline enthusiast association such as the International Cat Association.