 Check you telephone carrier how many minutes and messages you used and consider to downgrade your contract, better is switching to a low cost carrier like from At&t to T-Mobile or Verizon to Cricket (You can keep your current phone, just need a new chip or flash). Check how many hours you spend in front of the TV and downgrade your service. Most People don't even need pay TV, free over the air TV has better HD picture and all local channels carry the favorite shows. For movies just get Netflix, and you can choose what you want to see with no commercials. Compare Internet providers, electric companies, insurances etc. online and switch if possible, get what you need and not what you wish to have. 6000 DSL is sufficient to watch HD movie streams. If you are a good driver you don't need a low deductible. Better just go with Liability if you own the car. It does takes some time to figure everything out, but it pays well. And if your savings are just $30 a month, that's a win. Most working Americans can save several hundreds of dollars.;
, You need to find out how much you make and how much you spend. Be realistic. Do not underestimate your spending or overestimate your earnings. You will find out quickly where the potential is for additional savings.
 You don't need them for your regular life. If you don't have any, awesome, you don't need to read this. With the money saved from your bills you can start paying them off. Figure out if you can do a balance transfer to a low interest card and kill the others. Pay off the card and kill all of them except one for emergencies. Telling this is easy, it may take a while depending on your debt. It's hard to get through it. If your debt is too huge, go to your bank and consult someone to get a loan to pay all the cards off at once. If that's not an option, you have to recalculate again and figure out how long it would take to pay your cards off (don't forget interest!) with your desired amount of payment every month. Does it take longer then 15 years? Win the lottery or go into bankruptcy and start all over again. Don't forget you can just go into bankruptcy once in your life so please think twice about it.
 Your car is bought on credit and you need it to go to work. Americas cities are not very pedestrian friendly. Figure out what size of car you need. Of course it's nice to have a SUV but isn't a compact car sufficient for a 3 person household? Think about gasoline and insurance, payments and maintenance. Maybe sell your SUV and get a smaller, older car until the rest of your remaining payments are paid off. Please make sure that you don't lose too much money. If it's not worth it to trade in your SUV, stick with it or get a great deal on another car. Again, you need to do your research. If you spend hundreds of dollars in gasoline each month, do the math how much you can safe with a 30+ MPG car and keep your eyes open for deals. A house is the same thing, only more stress attached to it. What size do you need, how is the insulation etc. If you live in an apartment, keep your eyes open for better deals in the area or if you really like the place you live in, try to be a good renter by paying on time and do your own maintenance to get a good deal on a lease extension. Only buy if you save money by doing it and if you have enough money for a huge down payment available. Banks don't help you to find out if it makes sense to buy, they just want to sell the mortgage to you. Most Americans pay more interest a year than a lease for an apartment would cost.
 Do you want to buy a flat screen TV? I guess most Americans would run into Best Buy and get one, because you can pay with a credit card. And it's hard to have a thousand dollars in a account to pay cash. Check craigslist or local newspapers for things you can get used. Today's quality (no junk brands) electronics last for years to come, so why buy a $999 new TV when you can get it used for $500 with the same purpose? On computers and laptops, refurbished electronics often give less trouble than brand new ones. Warranty? Come on. You are smart, check it out and test it before you buy and a $100 repair is still cheaper than the extra $499 for a new one. And you can do it with almost everything, furniture, cars etc.
 If you need something new, consider buying it online. Many stores don't charge shipping or sales tax and the overhead for online sales is far lower. This can save you hundreds on major purchases, with no stress and no carbon footprint because you're not driving from Best Buy to Target to whatever to compare prices.
 Eating out is expensive and makes you fat, but its fun and may involve socializing. But there's nothing wrong with hosting a dinner party at home. Try to find a good mix for you and check for specials and happy hours at your favorite restaurants and bars. When you are alone or with your family, stay at home and cook. It's healthier and more fun, saves you hundreds and makes a monthly trip to Chucky Cheese something special.
 You want that fancy dress? Now because you saved so much money you can reward yourself easily without the bad feeling afterward. But don't forget you can save a lot of money. Check the mall for clearance sales and specials. Even the fanciest designer store has a clearance section. Use your smartphone to check prices online and order there in case you can save some money. Always double check prices. Be careful with outlet malls, they are not always cheaper then retail.
 Now that you don't have credit card payments, no car payments, low bills and no stress, why not start to save some money? The car lasts for 10 or less years, then you may want a new(er) one. Don't forget, even when you just save $50 a Month, that's $6,000 in five years plus interest. The more you save, the more you have afterward for bigger purchases. Save the money you would have spent on your car payment every month and see how much that will be after 5 years. Once you have some savings, if there is an emergency like a broken toe or a towed car, it's no sweat to pay the bill with no interest to pay either. Don't forget retirement either or do you want to work till you die?

, Having the confidence that everything is taken care of makes life easier and enjoyable. Today, credit, debt, payments and the stress related to it is the number one reason for suicide in the US. Don't be a part of it.

