 Feel free to cut the deck as well. At some point when you're squaring up the deck, sneak a peek at the bottom card and memorize it.


If you let an audience member shuffle the deck, just take a quick look at the bottom card of the deck before moving on.
This trick is similar to finding someone’s card in the deck, with a slight variation.
 Fan out the deck slightly and ask your audience member to pick a card and memorize it. Then, cut the deck from where the card was drawn and separate it into to two piles. Have your audience member place the card on top of the pile that doesn’t have the bottom card you’ve memorized in it. Then place your memorized card on top of your audience member’s card.


If you are more advanced, you can perform a swing or false cut which gives the illusion of shuffling the deck without actually doing so., You can either cut the deck yourself, or have your audience member cut the deck once. Now the bottom card you memorized is right on top of your spectator's chosen card. At this point, you may want to do a few shuffles, but if you do, make sure to remember where the two cards are so you don't mix them up.


The more places you find to let your audience interact in your trick, the more the audience feels in control. This will make the reveal at the end of the trick more rewarding.
 Deal your cards out in a row from one side of the table to the other. Don't stop when you see the card you memorized and your spectator's chosen card, which is the one right after yours. Keep dealing as if everything is normal. Deal out most of the deck except for the last several cards in this manner.


This trick involves you acting as if you already know what your audience member’s card is. If you stop when you do get to it, it will ruin the next parts of the trick.
 Magic tricks, especially this one, are enhanced when you tell a story. Start talking about how you're so convinced you'll find your spectator’s card that you're going to bet money on it. You can even add a bit about how you made a lot of money in Vegas by knowing how to manipulate a deck of cards.


Bet a dollar that the very next card you flip over will be the spectator's. Because the spectator already saw the card go by, he might take the bet, thinking that you're about to turn over the final card in your hand.
If the audience member doesn’t take the bet, offer a dollar up if you’re wrong.
 Instead of flipping the next card in the deck over, hunt back through the pile of cards you've already turned over and find his card, which should be right next to the card you memorized. To really sell this move, pretend as if you're about to turn over the card in your hand before flipping over your spectator's card.


Don’t actually take anyone’s money. If your audience member did bet you, take your dollar back and tell him that you’ll give him this one for free. You can even make a joke out of it by telling him it wouldn’t really be fair since you’re magic and already knew which card was his.
If you do mess up the trick, you may have to give your audience member the dollar you staked.

