 When you wake up from a nightmare, chances are you will be in somewhat of a panic. Take the following steps quickly to help you break this panic and start to ground yourself:Sit up quickly after awaking from your nightmare.
Sit on the edge of the bed, with your feet on the floor.
Focus on your surroundings. Start naming the things in your room.
Calmly reassure yourself. Tell yourself you are safe and fully awake.
Try to sleep again. If you can't after fifteen minutes, do something relaxing until tired.;
, While you can reassure your mind that you are awake and safe, it is also important to reassure your senses and body as well. Ground each sense by taking the following steps:Taste. Try eating something strong, like a mint. Avoid sugar as it will affect sleep.
Touch. Touch something with a rough texture or cold temperature like an ice cube.
Smell. Keep a comforting and strong smell next to your bed such as coffee or cloves.
Sound. Choose a comforting sound or listen to gentle music.
 Calm breathing can help lower heart rate and reduce any state of panic or stress that a nightmare can have on you. By following the steps of this technique, you can greatly improve the speed at which you recover after a nightmare:Breathe in through your nose, with mouth closed, and hold for five seconds.
Exhale slowly. Mentally think of a word such as “relax” or “calm” as you exhale.
Hold for five seconds and then inhale again.
Practice this breathing throughout the day, before bed, and after any nightmare.
 Right after you wake up from a nightmare, try not to think about what it was you experienced. Sitting in bed dwelling on the nightmare will only increase anxiety, which will make it difficult to fall back asleep, as well as increase the likelihood of another nightmare.


Wait until the morning to analyze and examine your nightmares.
Get out of bed and ground yourself immediately. Try making a cup of tea and reading a calming book in low, soothing lighting.
Reassure yourself that you are safe, check that the doors and windows of your house are locked.
Remind yourself that although frightening, the nightmare is over and it was only a dream.

