 The more you have going on, the easier it is for something to slip through the cracks. Keep your bedroom, your locker, your car and your backpack neat and you won’t waste time looking for assignments you have lost or jerseys that have gone missing.Create a filing system that will help you keep track of all your current assignments.
Color code your folders and assignments by using different colored labels for each class.
 It’s very easy to look at all the work you have to do and the little time you have to complete it and get completely overwhelmed. Buy a calendar or paper planner and use it to make a weekly schedule for yourself.Mark off all the time you have classes or practices, then look at the rest of your schedule and figure out when you have free time to do homework and chores.
Make sure to give yourself some free time each week to relax, or you will get burned out.
If you have trouble getting organized, ask a parent or guidance counselor to help you.
 If a teacher assigns a project a month in advance and you know it’s going to be due just as basketball season is heating up, get that project out of the way early. The earlier you can get something done, the less stress you’ll feel.Try to split up the work – work on your project for 20 minutes every day, instead of working on it for a three hour chunk on one day.
Don’t cram. Cramming the night before a test is far less effective than actual studying and will exhaust your brain and stress you out.
 Your weekends are incredibly important – they give you time to reset, catch up on sleep and provide much needed “me time.” But you don’t need to spend your entire weekend chilling out.Spend two hours on Saturday getting a jumpstart on your assignments for next week.
Spend an hour on Sunday getting organized and making a to-do list for the upcoming week.
 If your parents are comfortable with it, do all your chores on one day. Getting all your chores done at once is more efficient and you’ll feel better knowing that you’ve finished them all and don’t have to worry about them for another week.If your chores are daily chores, like making the bed, try to do them first thing when you wake up to get them out of the way early.
Multi-task during chore time. If you have a book to read for English class, get the audio recording and listen to it while doing your laundry.

