 The proper shoes for doing a split jump will be able to absorb the shock of your body weight jumping at full force onto the floor. Good quality running shoes or gym shoes should fit snugly, but not tightly, and your toes should not feel constricted.Arch supports may be helpful if you have weak arches.
Lightweight shoes with a good grip and cushioning are best for split jumps, but any shoes that feel right on your feet will work.;
, Start with your right foot placed about 3 feet in front of the other. Make sure your weight is evenly balanced between your two feet, and that both feet are relaxed. Your ankles should be strong and limber, not bent.If you tend to bear your body weight on one side or the other, check and see that you are balancing your weight evenly.
The exact distance apart your feet are held at the start of this exercise will vary based on your own body's size.
 Your left heel will rise off the floor while your body weight will be balanced between the ball of your left foot and your full right foot.Your right knee will bend as well, as your right calf remains perpendicular to the floor.
You will feel this stretch most acutely in your right thigh, or quadriceps (quads).
 If your knee is overly extended, you can pull a tendon. If it isn't over the midline, you won't be getting the full benefit of the stretch.

It can be difficult to determine the accuracy of your angle by yourself. If you can, check in a mirror or ask a coach for help.
You shouldn't feel any pinching, or sharp, shooting pains in your knee. If you notice any sharp pains, you may be pushing the angle of your knee too tightly.
 Both of your feet should come off the ground. You'll use the strength of your calf muscles, your ankles, and your quads, to jump. Use your arms to help your upward momentum, and for balance.

You may have to practice this action for a while, as jumping from a lunging position uses muscles in an unfamiliar way at first.
Your legs should relax their angles, and hang vertically from your torso mid-jump.
 This will feel natural as you jump, as your legs will also be held loosely together. Your knees may both bend slightly, as you work to gain vertical distance from the ground.Your feet shouldn't feel forced to touch one another.
Enjoy the sensation of feeling your body suspended midair. You want your attention to be in the present, neither in the past (in your pre-jumping position) or the future (deciding the way you'll land).
 As gravity brings your body back to the floor or ground, move your right foot forward. You should find yourself back in your original position, with your left knee bent, and your right knee held at a an angle with your foot flat on the ground. Landing in this way should also help absorb the shock of impact.You may find that you need your arms for balance as you land.
Do not allow your left knee to hit the ground hard, as this may result in bruising or injury.
 The number of repetitions, or reps, you do will vary depending on your strength and skill with the exercise. For a beginner, you may decide to do 5-10 reps. Someone more experienced may choose to do 20-25 or more reps.

When you've done the reps with your left knee bent, repeat with your right knee bent.
Doing these exercises at a rapid rate will a great workout for your quads.

