 No college education is necessary to be an electrical contractor, but some post-secondary instruction can help. Trade schools and colleges offer course work in electrical contracting. A bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering will improve your job prospects, but trade schools also offer useful programs that do not require a four-year degree.Coursework for a certificate will focus on subjects like electrical wiring, circuitry and motor controls, theories of electricity, standards for electrical code as well as mathematics to develop skills and proficiency necessary to work with and calculate electrical frequency and voltage. Higher degrees will also cover business skills.
Colleges often offer programs that allow you to get hands on experience as part of your degree program.;
, A contractor can either get a certificate, which takes about a year; an associate degree, which takes about two years; or a Bachelor's degree, which takes about four years. Advanced degrees tend to include more classes on high level business skill, like management and contracts. These can often give you an advantage when applying for jobs with large corporations, but are not required for many jobs., The academic adviser can give you more information about what the program offers and help you decide whether it is right for you. The adviser might be able to tell you what financial assistance is available. The academic adviser will also guide you in selecting the right courses and get you started toward becoming an electrical contractor., Once you have found a program that fits your needs, apply for admission into a training program. Application requirements will vary considerably from a certificate program to a four-year college. For example, a four-year college should require an SAT score, whereas a certificate program will not. Review the institution’s website to find out what is required to apply.


Most colleges offer financial aid assistance. Apply for financial aid, if it is available. FAFSA is a good starting point when looking for financial aid.
 Essential skills to successfully become a contractor include having good eye-hand coordination and a sense of balance. Physical fitness and good manual dexterity are important for the position.


You could take up jogging to improve your physical endurance for long days on the job site.
Alternatively, lifting weights will help you when you need to carry a heavy load.
 Electricians are not required to hold a college degree, only a high school degree or a GED. You can get the equivalent to a college education working in the field as an apprentice. As an apprentice, you will work alongside experienced electricians and learn all aspects of the industry. Apprenticeships last for approximately 5 years and are paid.


The National Electrical Contractors Association posts a list of apprenticeships to help you find a place to start. Alternatively, you can ask local unions or businesses about opportunities.Your salary should increase every year during the course of your training program.You can also get hands-on experience as an electrical contractor in the military. Many employers consider a background in military service equivalent to a college degree. Joining the military, therefore, can be a good way to acquire necessary skills without paying tuition., The Occupational Safety and Health Administration is a government program responsible for workplace safety. Because electrical contractors deal with dangerous working conditions, completing an OSHA training course can be a useful credential when seeking employment. Visit OSHA’s website for information about course offerings in your state.
 Most states require that electrical contractors hold a license to work independently. Although requirements vary from state to state, you generally need to take a test to demonstrate competence and pay a relatively small fee. For a comprehensive list of licensing requirements for each state, review the database of the National Electrical Contractors Association., The National Electrical Contractors Association has a useful database of contractor jobs. Other job websites sometimes feature postings in electrical contracting. Alternatively, you could call local unions and companies to ask about opportunities., You should always be trying to learn more on your job. Don’t just learn how to use electrical equipment, study the way that the business is run and how safety protocols are followed. Study the way that your superiors handle customer service. You can learn many of the skills necessary to pass your licensing exam working for a master electrician.You will likely be tested on local and state building codes, electrical theory and National Electrical Code.
 Owning your own electrical contracting business will allow you earn more money and operate on your own schedule. To run your own business, however, you will need to obtain a license and years of experience in the industry. You will also need to save up money to buy your own tools and hire employees., Working as an electrical contractor requires ongoing education to familiarize oneself with changes to standard electrical code as well as technical advancements within the industry. You can attend seminars and training courses to keep up-to-date.