 Configure your coals into a two-zone fire. This means that you will cast your coals to cover about half of the grill to produce medium to high-temperature zones.


You can use any coals for grilling. Self-lighting coals are generally easier to work with.
 Use a match or lighter to light the edge of a few of the coals. The flame will spread to the other coals in the pile.
 If your coals call for lighter fluid, carefully squirt lighter fluid on the top and sides of the charcoal mound. Squirt the lighter fluid gently and wait a minute or two for the fluid to sink into the coals. This will prevent all the lighter fluid from burning off immediately. After waiting a minute, squirt a second layer, followed by a third before lighting your coals. Avoid squirting lots of lighter fluid into your coals during each application. Less fluid is better than more. Lighter fluid can add a chemical taste to your burgers if you use too much.It doesn’t take a lot of lighter fluid to get your fire going. You will only need about 1.6 ounces of lighter fluid per pound of charcoal.
 Your coals need time to produce heat and won't be ready immediately after lighting them. Wait for the flames to subside and the edges of the coals turn a light gray. Your coals should be covered completely with gray ash after about 10 minutes. Now you can grill your burgers.
 Add your patties to the grill and sear them directly over the pile of coals. This is the hottest part of the grill. Cook your patties for about 5 minutes or until they are brown and crispy at the bottom.









Avoid charring the meat and pressing it down with a spatula. This will squeeze all the delicious juices out.
During the cooking process, you will see flare-ups. Don't be alarmed. Flare-ups result from fat dripping into the flame. Move the burgers to the cooler side of the grill if the flames get too high. Move them back when the flames go down.
 Use a long-handled metal spatula to flip your burgers once. Sear the other side on the hot part of the grill for about 1 minute to lock in the juices.
 Now that your burgers are in their final stage of cooking, it's the perfect time to add a slice of cheese and allow it to melt to perfection. Place your cheese slice centered on each patty and continue to cook your patty as the cheese melts.
 Toasting buns is quick and easy. Simply split your buns open and place them on the grill with the cut side down. Make sure to place them on the cooler side of the grill to keep them from burning or cooking too quickly. Grill your buns for about 10 seconds and flip if desired..


You can lightly butter the inside of your buns before toasting if you'd like.
Watch the buns closely as they can burn easily.
 Once you have seared your patties, move the burgers onto the cooler side of the grill, so they are no longer over direct heat and cover the grill with a lid. Continue cooking for 3 to 5 minutes until done. Here are two ways to check your burgers:









Remove one burger and cut into it. For medium-rare, the inside should be pinkish, but not bloody.
Use an instant-read meat thermometer. The USDA recommends an internal temperature of 160 °F (71 °C).
 Take your burgers off the grill as soon as they are done to avoid overcooking. Remember that they will cook a little bit after they are taken from the grill. Serve your burgers with a variety of condiments

