 Think about what sort of style you want to wear and what look you are trying to portray to the world.


Maybe you want stand out with a wild, crazy, and colorful look because everyone around you dresses conservatively. Maybe you want to dress neatly while everyone else shows off flashy styles. Decide what is going to work for you.
Look at other people’s styles for inspiration if necessary, but don’t directly copy what you see. The goal is to be unique, and what works for someone else might not work for you.;
, Look into your own closet to see what clothing you have, like, and want to keep before you buy anything new.You definitely don’t want to get rid of every piece of clothing you already own. Replacing a wardrobe can be expensive, and the clothing you have chosen in the past may represent a style that is already unique to you.
Go through your closet and divide your clothes into piles. In one pile, keep pieces you still want to wear or can modify. In another pile, put the items you don't want anymore, and can either sell or donate.
Have a swap party with your friends, where you can all bring your unwanted clothes to exchange with one another. You might find that your friends have some items that are perfect for you.
 Only buy clothing that you truly want and think you’ll wear; don’t ever buy an item just because someone else has it.


Try shopping outside the box at thrift or consignment stores to find one-of-a-kind pieces. Thrift stores carry a lot of vintage items that may not be the biggest styles anymore but might be appealing to you.
Only spend good money items that will last you a while. Splurging when you find a great piece of unique clothing can be exciting, but only spend the cash if the item is going to last you a while. You’re creating a new, unique style, so make sure you’re spending your money on things - like a good dress, top, or coat - that will benefit you for a long time.Don't be afraid of colors and patterns! Bold colors and patterns will naturally draw the eye to you, but if you are trying to go in the opposite direction, don’t be afraid of wearing neutral colors and traditional patterns like stripes or plaid. Remember that you’re wearing whatever makes you feel unique.
 Forget about what you are “supposed” to wear and focus on what you want to wear.


Ignore traditional gender stereotypes. If you’re a girl who prefers men’s clothing, go for it. If you’re a boy who wants to rock a skirt, do it! Your unique look is all about being true to who you are and what you like.
Forget about whether you have a lot of money or a little money, and dress however you want. You don’t have to dress any particular way, no matter if you’re rich or poor. It is possible to find your unique look on any budget.
Throw traditional fashion rules out the window. Who says you can’t wear white after Labor Day? You can wear whatever clothes you want whenever you want to wear them!
Focus on your preferences. If an item of clothing speaks to you, then wear it. Don’t worry about what other people might say, or what looks you might get - sometimes that’s what wearing a unique look is all about. Wearing clothing that you like will make you feel comfortable and confident no matter what, and a sense of true confidence always helps you stand out from the crowd.

