 When dealing with a difficult child, it is completely normal to feel frustrated and angry. Take a moment to step back and remember that it is typical for children to go through difficult phases. You might need to change your perspective. Try to figure out ways to change your reaction, instead of constantly trying to change your child's behavior.Part of your frustration might actually be that you are upset that you are unable to remain calm. Try to learn ways to manage your anger. You might try counting to ten, or saying your next words inside your head before you say them out loud.
This does not mean that you should stop trying to improve your child's behavior. It simply means that you are also part of the equation, and your reactions might need to be changed, too.
 When you are having a conflict with a child, it is very important that you stay calm. Remember, you are the one who is in charge. It is up to you to set a good example.Try to find a calming technique that works for you. Often, taking deep calming breaths is a great way to calm down during an argument. Take deep, slow breaths, until you find your heart rate slowing down a bit.
 During a conflict, it can be difficult to think about anything other than the negative attributes of a child. Try to remember that everyone has positive qualities. Focus on thinking about things that your child does well.When you are having a conflict with your child, try to think of one thing you really love about her. Is she normally very affectionate? Is she doing well in school? Focus on that trait, and you will feel calmer and more capable of dealing with the situation.
 It can be difficult to keep your anger and frustration from reaching the boiling point. However, try to remember that this is just a conflict — you will both move on. Try not to let previous issues or external factors influence your reactions.When trying to keep your emotions in check, try to focus clearly on the situation at hand. Is it really worth it to blow up because your child threw a fit? Probably not. Try to keep calm and find a way to keep the problem from reoccurring.

