 European elder is widely used in medicine. It can help reduce congestion and other symptoms of respiratory illness.Elderberry has anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties, which can help fight colds, and it stimulates the immune system.









You can find elderberry extract in syrup, lozenge, and capsule supplement forms at most nutrition stores and drug stores.
You make elder flower tea by steeping three to five grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for 10–15 minutes. Strain the flowers out, and drink the tea up to three times daily.
Do not use elderberry for a prolonged time without consulting with your doctor. You should talk with your doctor before taking elderberry, as it may present side effects for pregnant women, people with autoimmune disease, and people with low blood pressure. People who take diabetes medication, laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or immunosuppressants should also consult with a doctor before using elderberry.
Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries. They are poisonous., Eucalyptus has antioxidant properties that protect against free radicals, molecules that can damage cells. The active ingredient in eucalyptus is cineole, a compound that works as an expectorant to fight respiratory infections and alleviate coughs.You can find it in lozenge, cough syrup, and vapor bath forms at most drug stores.









Ointments containing eucalyptus oil may also be applied to the nose and chest area to relieve congestion and loosen phlegm.
Fresh or dried eucalyptus leaves can be used in teas and warm water gargles to soothe sore throats. You can make eucalyptus tea by steeping two to four grams of dried leaves in a cup of hot water for 10–15 minutes. Drink this tea up to three times per day.
For gargles, steep two to four grams of dried leaves in one cup of warm water. Add ¼ to ½ tsp salt. Steep for five to 10 minutes. Use after meals to reduce bad breath and soothe sore throats.Don’t consume eucalyptus oil by mouth, as it can be toxic. People with asthma, seizures, liver or kidney disease, or low blood pressure should not use eucalyptus without asking their doctor.
 Peppermint is also widely used to treat cold symptoms. Its main ingredient, menthol, is an excellent decongestant. Menthol thins mucus and breaks up phlegm. It can also soothe sore throats and coughs.You can find peppermint in essential oils, lozenges, supplemental extracts, herbal teas, and as a fresh or dried herb.









Peppermint tea can help soothe sore throats. Steep one tea bag (approximately three to four grams of leaves) in hot water. Adding a little honey will help quiet coughs.
Do not use peppermint oil or menthol with children under two.
Peppermint oil is safe for aromatherapy use and as a rub. Do not consume peppermint oil orally.
 Honey contains anti-viral properties and strengthens your immune system, and raw honey is even better for you. Raw honey is solid at room temperature and has a slightly stronger flavor than pasteurized honey. For maximum benefits, look for raw honey that has been harvested locally, as it helps your body combat the allergens particular to your area.









You can use honey and lemon in tea to soothe sore throats and quiet coughs.
Do not give honey to a child under one year old., Echinacea may help boost your immune system. Studies have not proven that it can help fight the common cold, although it is a common remedy.You can find echinacea in supplement form at most drug stores and pharmacies.








If you have ragweed, daisy, or marigold allergies, do not use echinacea.People who use certain medications, such as some heart medications and anti-fungals, should not use echinacea. Consult with your doctor before you use echinacea or any herbal supplement.
 Garlic appears to boost your immune system, and may have a mild anti-viral quality.More studies are needed to determine whether garlic can help fight colds, but it shows some promise.








You can take garlic as a supplement, or eat it in foods. You should aim to eat two to four cloves of garlic per day to maximize any effects.