 You can purchase premade hummus in a wide range of flavors such as avocado, garlic, jalapeño, green chile lime, and coconut curry. If you pick up a bag of carrots, you can dip carrots in the hummus for a healthy lunch or snack. This is a healthy lunch filled with protein, fiber, and vitamins, which takes very little time to prepare. , It is vegan and both dairy- and gluten-free. To make four lunches or six side dishes, you will need the following ingredients: one can (15.5 oz) chickpeas; 1 1/2 cups of shelled and precooked, frozen edamame; 1/2 cup of thinly sliced green onion; 1 cup of finely chopped fresh mint. For the dressing, you will need: the juice of one large lemon; 1/2 teaspoon of minced garlic; 2 tablespoons of olive oil; salt and freshly ground black pepper. Using these ingredients, make your salad:Drain the can of chickpeas in a colander and rinse with cold water.
Microwave the frozen edamame for five minutes.
Drain the edamame.
Zest and juice the large lemon.
Mix the dressing ingredients in a large bowl and add the chickpeas. Stir to coat the chickpeas in the dressing.
Slice the green onions and chop the mint.
Add edamame, green onions, and chopped mint to the large bowl with the chickpeas and dressing.
Serve the salad.
 If you regularly make a Greek salad with feta, olives, tomatoes, and lettuce, try adding chickpeas. By adding chickpeas to your Greek salad, you will increase the protein and fiber content.If you are using canned chickpeas, remember to drain and rinse them.
If you are making this recipe from scratch, you will need to cook your chickpeas. To cook 1 cup of chickpeas, which makes 4 cups of cooked chickpeas, you will need to pre-soak. Before going to bed, cover your cup of chickpeas with at least 2 inches of water. The next day, drain the chickpeas and then cover them with 2 inches of fresh water. Finally, bring the water to a boil and then reduce to a simmer. It should take about an hour and a half to cook the chickpeas., These wraps are made with lettuce leaves and have a festive appearance, which is perfect for entertaining guests on a warm summer afternoon. To make four servings, you will need the following ingredients: 2 cups of cooked quinoa; 1 1/2 cups of cooked chickpeas; 1 cup of diced bell pepper; 1 cup of shredded kale; 1 cup of diced carrots; 1 cup of diced celery; 2 tablespoons of chopped chives; 2 tablespoons of lemon juice; 2 tablespoons of hemp, olive, or avocado oil; 1 teaspoon of Dijon mustard; 16 leaves of romaine lettuce; sea salt and black pepper to taste. Using these ingredients, make your wraps:Mix the quinoa and chickpeas with all of your chopped vegetables.
Whisk the oil, lemon, salt, pepper, and Dijon mustard together.
In a large bowl, pour the dressing over the quinoa, chickpeas, and chopped vegetables.
Place a mound of salad on each piece of romaine lettuce.
Plate the wraps by placing four wraps on each plate. Finally, serve your wraps!

