 Separate the stem and the bowl. Moisten a pipe cleaner with alcohol, and then run the pipe cleaner through the stem. Make sure to pull it all the way through. After you have pulled the damp pipe cleaner through, run a dry one through.The pipe cleaner will probably have black and brown debris on it. Continue doing this until the pipe cleaner doesn’t have any debris on it when you push it through.
You can use isopropyl alcohol or grain alcohol.
If it is available to you, you can also purchase pipe cleaning solution.
 The airhole should be cleaned with a bristle pipe cleaner that has been dipped in alcohol. Use this pipe cleaner to wipe the airhole, and follow that with a dry regular pipe cleaner.There should be some resistance. If the airhole is too large, then fold the pipe cleaner in half.
Do this until the pipe cleaner you scrub through the airhole comes out without any debris.
 The mortise is the place where the stem connects to the bowl. This can also get dirty, so use a cotton swab or shank brush to do this. Clean it until there is no residual ash or dark residue on the brush or swab., When the rim of the bowl starts to get a dark, ashy look, you should clean it. Take a damp pipe cleaner and wipe around the rim. This gets rid of any charring that begins around the rim from the flame of your lighter.This usually occurs from lighting the pipe.
 Many pipes have metal bands around them. When you do a deep cleaning, polish the band. Use a metal polish to do this. If your band is made of silver, use silver polish., While cleaning the pipe, avoid getting any alcohol on the outside. This will mess up the finish, stain, or detail on the outside. Use care to keep the alcohol on the pipe cleaner.This is also true for any pipe cleaning solution. Keep it away from the outside of the pipe.
 When the cake, the protective layer of ash, gets too thick, you need to ream the bowl. Reaming the bowl means scraping off some of the cake. You can use a reamer, which you can buy at a tobacco shop or online. As you clean the inside of the bowl, make sure to go slowly as you shave the cake. Don’t pull it out in chunks. You can easily damage or scrape the bowl with the edge of the tool.You can also use the blunt knife tool that came with your pipe tools. This can clean the cake in an uneven way or dig into the wood. You can also use wooden dowels that have been wrapped in sandpaper or grit cloth.
The cake should only be about 1/16 in or 1.5 mm in thickness. Anything larger than that should be reamed.

