 You can get all of the ingredients that you will need to make moisturizing vitamin C serum from a health food store or a well-stocked grocery store. To make vitamin C serum, you will need:


1/2 teaspoon of vitamin C powder
1 tablespoon of hot (not boiling) distilled water
2 tablespoons of vegetable glycerin OR non-comedogenic oil. Non-comedogenic oils are those that will not clog your pores such as hempseed oil, argan oil, sunflower oil, or calendula oil.1/4 teaspoon of vitamin E oil
5-6 drops of an essential oil of your choice such as rose, lavender, frankincense, or geranium oil
measuring spoons
bowl for mixing the serum ingredients
something to mix the ingredients such as a fork or small whisk
small funnel to transfer the serum to the glass container
dark colored glass container for storing the serum

, Dissolve ½ teaspoon of the vitamin C powder in one tablespoon of hot water. Place the tablespoon of hot water in your bowl and then add ½ teaspoon of vitamin C powder to the water. Mix the water and vitamin C powder together with a fork or whisk.
 Add the vegetable glycerin or non-comedogenic oil to the water and vitamin C powder mixture. Vegetable glycerin and non-comedogenic oils both work well as a base for the vitamin C serum, but some people like to use oil because it is similar to the sebum on our skin. Sebum acts as a protective barrier for your skin., This ingredient is optional, but it is a nice addition if you would like the serum have more moisturizing qualities.
 Adding an essential oil is optional, but it can add a pleasant scent and enhance the properties of your vitamin C serum as well. If you do not want to add the essential oil, then you can just move on to the next step.
 Use your whisk or fork to mix the oil in with the vitamin C powder and water. Mix until all of the ingredients are well-combined. Keep in mind that oil separates from water over time so you will need to shake your vitamin C serum before each use.
 Use your funnel to transfer the vitamin C serum to your dark glass container. You may also want to use a spatula to scrape any excess serum from the bowl and pour it into the funnel. Place the lid on your bottle after you have transferred all of the serum to the bottle.

