 Use the tape measure to identify the size of the patch that will be extracted from the surrounding carpet. This will make it easier to cut a replacement patch to size.;
, Use duct tape to outline a square section to be removed. Check the position of the tape with the measurements taken previously to make sure the inside edge of the tape matches those dimensions.


Try to farm the replacement carpet from an inconspicuous area, such as inside a closet or underneath a bed. Be sure that the place you farm the replacement carpet from isn't going to be visible.
You can also keep extra carpet in your attic or storage for repairing damaged areas.
 Use a utility knife or a carpet cutting tool to gently cut along the inside edge of the duct tape. Apply just enough pressure to cut through both the surface of the carpet and the backing, but not enough to damage the underlying layer of padding. Once the section is completely cut, lift it off the carpet surface.


If working with a carpet cutting tool, use the tool to first make an imprint. Once an imprint has been made, attach the cutter blades and the pivot screw and make your incision, rotating as many as two or three times in order to remove it.
 Turn a carpet remnant face down and measure a patch for the carpeting, using the measurements obtained earlier as a guideline. Mark the lines of the patch with the pencil, and then use a utility knife or carpet cutter to cut out the patch.
 Neutralize the disk temporarily by putting a small amount of water on it. Lift the edges of the carpeting around the hole and slide the adhesive disk underneath, with the adhesive side facing upward.


Make sure that the adhesive disk is significantly larger than replacement patch: you want the disk to hold onto all of the replacement patch, especially the corners, as well as some surrounding carpet.
When the patch becomes sticky again, in about three to five minutes, press down on the outer edge of the carpet to secure it into place.
 Groom away any loose carpet fibers from the edge of the hole. Check the fit before applying any glue. Then, put down a thin layer of carpet glue along the edges of the adhesive disk. Place the patch into the hole, taking care to make sure the fit is snug and even. Press lightly to allow the backing on the patch to come into contact with the underlying tape and adhere properly.


Align the patch so that the direction of the fibers in the patch match the direction of the fibers in the rest of the carpet.
You have about 15 minutes to position and align the patch perfectly before the glue sets, permanently anchoring your patch in place. Work quickly.
 Depending on the type of pile, this may be accomplished by brushing the fingers around the perimeter of the patch, or using a carpet brush to train the pile on the patch to move in the same direction as the rest of the carpeting pile.


You can also vacuum the section with an agitator attachment to lift up the pile.

