 Nothing cleanses your body like water, which flushes toxins out of your system all day long. Drink at least two quarts of water every day to keep the toxins from building up.


Carry a water bottle with you during the day so that you can stay hydrated on the go.
If you have trouble drinking glass after glass of water, get hydrated by drinking decaffeinated tea or eating watery vegetables and fruits, like watermelon, apples, berries, cucumbers, tomatoes, lettuce and carrots.;
, Certain types of food are difficult for your body to digest and end up harming your body instead of providing nutrition. Reduce or completely avoid the following dietary toxins:


Sugar. Fructose and glucose are hard on the liver, and consuming too much can lead to obesity and diseases such as diabetes.It may be difficult to completely avoid sugar, but you can start by limiting your intake of candy, sugary baked goods, juice and soda, and granulated sugar used to sweeten tea and coffee. Satisfy your sweet tooth by consuming whole fruits, rather than fruit juice.
Artificial sweeteners. Sugar substitutes actually lead to more sugar cravings, and can end up having an adverse effect on the body.Stop drinking diet drinks and other artificially-sweetened foods.
Saturated fats. Many fats are essential to your body's health, but saturated fats found in fried and processed foods are toxic. Limit fast food, processed snack foods, and food that is served in restaurants.
Caffeine. Some studies show that drinking a few cups of coffee a day is actually good for you, but when you're focusing on cleansing your body, it's best to eliminate all unnecessary substances.
Alcohol. Moderate alcohol consumption usually won't harm your health, but drinking too much causes weight gain, water retention and liver disease. Stay away from alcohol when you're focusing on cleansing your body.
 Fiber helps your digestive system function normally. Without it, your body isn't easily able to eliminate waste. During a cleanse, when you want to rid your body of toxins, its especially important to eat fiber at every meal.Eat fruits and vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, potatoes, and apples.
Eat beans and other legumes that are high in fiber.
Whole grains like oats and wheat bran are also good sources of fiber.
 The chlorophyll in leafy greens acts as a cleansing agent for the blood. Greens also contain protein, minerals, and a plethora of vitamins that help keep the body healthy.


Spinach, broccoli and seaweed all have high levels of chlorophyll.
Watercress, which looks like tiny spinach leaves, has been found to repair cell damage.Kale, turnip greens and swiss chard are excellent sources of vitamins K, A and C.