 The only thing you’re selling in a strip club is yourself, so it’s important to make your product stand out. If a guy only has enough money for one dance, it’s important he chooses to spend that money on you and not another girl.Choose a name that reinforces your brand. If you’re marketing yourself as a sophisticated woman, try a name like Gigi or Isabel.
If you’re going for more of a girl next door vibe, try Nicole or Ashley.
Let your song choices reflect your brand image. You’ll make the majority of your money on the floor, but a compelling stage set can set you apart from other dancers.;
, Strippers generally approach the customers and most of the time, they lead with, “Wanna dance?” Set yourself apart from the crowd by having several go-to lines to start conversation and convince patrons they need to buy what you’re selling.Ask a customer if he minds letting you rest on him for a second because your heels are hurting your feet. This will make him feel chivalrous and can open the door to further conversation and possible dance opportunities.
Lead with a compliment. If you make your customer feel like the most important person you’ve ever met, they’ll be more likely to ask you to stick around., Strippers are, by definition, independent contractors, which means their take home pay is directly tied to their work output. The more dances and private room visits you can accumulate in a night, the more money you make.Set clear, achievable goals for yourself each night. Decide you want to work for a set number of hours and get four dances per hour.
Show up to work well rested and well fed. You won’t be able to focus if you’re tired and hungry.
Don’t hang out on the floor by yourself or with other strippers. If you don’t look busy and in-demand, your value on the floor decreases.
 If you want to increase your income, having regular clientele is a surefire way to do this. Attracting them, however, is far more difficult. Treat your clients like people: ask them about their days, their job and their hobbies. Connect with them on a personal level and they may take a liking to you.Regulars treat their favorite dancers better, but it goes both ways. If you have regular customers, offer them discounts to incentivize them to keep patronizing you.
Be careful not to blur the line between regular customer and something else. Keep your relationship respectful and chances are they’ll hang around a lot longer.
 Bartenders and wait staff have a clear view of the patrons, so they know who the big spenders are. Make friends with the wait staff and they might share tips with you about which customers to target.Make sure you show your appreciation at the end of the night by tipping your friends who helped you out.
Pay it forward among your fellow strippers. If a guy is looking for a specific type and that type isn’t you, refer him to a friend of yours. She may return the favor someday.

