 The last day of school can be a great time to celebrate the year with a party, event, or game. If your school has planned anything, think about attending. Events may include some of the following:


Teachers vs. students trivia contest, baseball game, dance off, etc.
Class picnic, ice cream social, bake sale, etc.
Movies on the school projectors or in the auditorium.
Group mural or art project.
A party for all of the summer birthdays you wouldn't celebrate otherwise., As you spend time with your friends and family, take the opportunity to talk about the things that mattered to you in the past year. You can talk about the fun you had, the friends you made, your crushes, and more.


Get your friends to make predictions about each other for the following year. Write your predictions down and keep them in a safe place. In a year's time, revisit them, seeing which came true and which were way off.
List your high and low moments from the year.
 If your teacher allows it, take time near the end of class to give speeches. This can be especially great if you're graduating from elementary school, middle school, or high school. Have people volunteer to step before the class and explain what they loved about their school experience.If you can't do this in class, this can be a fun activity to do at lunch or an after school get together.
 After school, or during recess, have everyone meet at a park or playground and bring chalk. You can make a fun mural together commemorating the year and marking the beginning of summer.Draw images from the school year, such as pictures of friends, teachers, and memorable events.
Include summer plans. Have people draw pictures of vacations they're taking or fun events they're planning.
Have everyone trace their handprints and write their names under them.
 You can make classic summer hits, like hot dogs and hamburgers, but you can also get a little creative. Make a giant cookie and use different types of fruit as a topping to create the pattern of a beach ball. Make cookies shaped like things like umbrellas, fish, and other beach-related items. If it's allowed, you can pass your treats out at school. You can also have a get together after school to give out your treats.
Make sure you account for anyone's allergies or food sensitivities.
If you don't want to make food, go out for ice cream after school instead.
 Ask your teacher if you can have class outside to play some summer games. Have a water balloon fight, a relay race, blow bubbles, or throw frisbees. These can also fit into an after school party If you're going to be playing with water, bring your swimsuit or old clothes.

