 It's best to let an adult do this, since it requires you to use a knife. Use a small, sharp knife (a pairing knife works best), holding it against the thumb of your dominant hand so about 1/2 inch of the tip sticks out beyond your thumb. Hold the strawberry in your opposite hand.Insert the tip of the knife into the top of the strawberry--under the leaves, where the red turns white--at a 45 degree angle.Turn the strawberry and the knife in opposite directions.Cut until your knife reaches the starting point and you can easily remove the core from the strawberry., Have an adult help you with this part so you don't cut yourself on the blades or make a mess!


You can substitute frozen strawberries if you don't have any fresh strawberries. Frozen fruits are frozen when ripe, so they should still taste great.
You can also leave chunks of strawberries to add texture to your lollies. Use the "pulse" setting on the blender so you don't puree all the fruit. You can also add slices of strawberry to the puree later., You want to catch all the little strawberry seeds in the strainer, so make sure the strainer is fine enough to only let the juice pass through.It's okay if you don't strain out your seeds. Your lollies won't be quite as smooth and the seeds may get stuck in your teeth, but they will still be delicious.
If you decided to leave some fruit chunks in your puree, skip this step so you don't lose those big pieces of fruit.
 The mix should be the same color and consistency throughout. If there are white streaks from the heavy cream, you may want to mix a little more thoroughly.


If you don't like strawberry, feel free to experiment with other fruit flavors! Try watermelon, mango, blueberry--whatever you like best! Look for fruit that is ripe and in season for the best, sweetest flavors.Try coconut milk instead of heavy cream for a refreshing tropical flavor.
You can also improvise with your sweetener. Instead of simple syrup, try agave nectar, honey, or maple syrup.
 A little extra space also gives the liquid room to expand.


If you don't have molds, you can easily make your own. Just pour the mixture into a paper or plastic cup instead.
Do not try to make your own mold using a glass. Liquid expands as it freezes, and it may break the glass. This will ruin your pop and make a dangerous mess in your freezer.
 Usually, molds come with a lid that also acts as the handle. If your mold didn't come with a lid, you lost the lid, or you're using cups instead of store-bought molds, cover the top tightly with aluminum foil or plastic wrap. Then insert a popsicle stick through the wrap.


Don't move the popsicle stick around too much--the smaller the hole in the aluminum, the straighter your handle will stand.
You can also use plastic knives as handles if you don't have popsicle sticks--just be careful not to lick the rough part when you're eating!

, Leaving them overnight will ensure the pops are completely frozen, but they may be ready in as little as four hours., If you try to wiggle the handle, it should be firm in the juice and not move at all. You can run warm water over the sides and bottom of the mold to help release ice lollies in one piece.If you used a paper cup, you can try to just peel the paper off the lolly.

