 You'll need a computer, PS3, PS4, or the Windows 8 Netflix app.Log into Netflix and hover over the square profile image and name in the top right. Click Manage Profiles and you'll be taken to the settings described below. Once you make a change, it should apply to all devices, although you may need to restart them before they take effect.
 Create a new profile for each member of your household (up to five profiles) by clicking Add Profile and entering a name. Netflix will now prompt you to select a profile each time you log in, and keep your ratings and viewing history for that profile separate from all the other profiles.


Profiles are not password protected, so they are easy to switch between. This method is great for maintaining useful "Recently Watched" lists that only include what you personally watched, but it is not a reliable way to hide information if your family looks for it.
 Before you watch a show you wish to keep private, create a new profile by clicking Add Profile or the large plus sign next to it. Once you are done watching, return to the profile management page and click Edit next to the temporary profile's name, then Delete Profile. Click Delete Profile again in the popup message to confirm that this is intentional.


Note that you can only have five profiles active at a time.
 This will remove all your ratings and "My List" content, so be certain you don't want any of your old content to survive before you take this step. Create a new profile using the Add Profile button, then delete your old profile.
 Click Edit next to a profile for your child. The word Adults should now become a drop-down list. You can select Teens, Older Kids, or Little Kids, then click Done to save the change. Anyone using that profile will now see only movies and shows appropriate for that age, as determined by national rating systems and Netflix's own judgement.There is no way to password-protect a profile, so it is still possible for a kid to log onto another person's profile and watch mature content there.
In Germany, but in no other country, you can also create a password that must be entered before viewing mature (FSK-18) movies and shows.