 A very common way of cheating is submitting a modified exam for a regrade. Having a photocopy or scan of the original test will allow you to see if the resubmitted test has been altered. Should you catch a student modifying an exam and submitting it for a regrade, the photocopy or scan becomes hard evidence when you report the case for academic action.


This can often happen with students who are very close to the next grade up, who hope to potentially raise a B- grade to a B, for example. So, when photocopying or scanning a sample of exams before returning them, focus especially on those with scores near the grade boundaries.
 For example, with short answer exams you can draw a tight box around the response or draw a line across any blank space while grading. This prevents students from trying to add to their answer before requesting a regrade.For scantron exams, using pen, draw lines connecting the filled in answer choices before returning the scantron sheets to students. It is like playing "connect the dots" but it will prevent students from changing their answer and claiming that the machine made a mistake.
Websites like Gradescope allow you to return exams electronically. After all exams have been collected, you can scan them, match the submissions to students, grade the exams, and then release the grades online. Students will login to see their scores and a scan of their exam submission. This way, students cannot alter their exam prior to asking for a regrade. In addition, homework can also be submitted and graded on Gradescope, so this can prevent the altering of homework assignments after grading, as well as prevent claims of lost homework.
 Once solutions are released you have no control over where they can end up, and the copying of solutions is definitely a possibility for any homework attempted to be submitted after that time. To make up for this strict policy, you can choose to drop the one or two lowest homework scores.


If a student has a good reason for not turning in an assignment on time, they should be given a slightly different assignment from the rest of the class, so that no cheating can occur.
 Require that students show all of their work and/or provide reasoning for the answer they arrived at. It is very easy to simply copy a final answer off of another student on an exam.


If you suspect a student copied off of another student for an exam question or changed their answer after the fact, ask them to reproduce or interpret their solution individually in your presence a few days later. If there is a large difference in their ability to produce that solution during the exam and reproduce the solution individually in your presence, cheating may have occurred.
 Students should only require roughly one week to request a regrade after work is returned. Make the deadline the same for everybody, regardless of whether they picked the assignment or exam up before your set deadline. This way, once the class ends you are not pressured to review a ton of assignments that were returned months ago. Students, especially those near the course grade boundaries, may want to make attempts to seek extra points to raise their course grades at the end of the term.