 Spearmint tea affects the amount of male hormone in your body, so if you drink it enough, you might see less facial hair growth.


Studies published in scientific journals like Phytotherapy Research have found that women who drank spearmint tea reduced the amount of testosterone (male hormone) flowing through their blood streams. This reduction in testosterone led to less unwanted hair growth.
Consume 2 cups of spearmint teas for a minimum of 5 days per week. , Visit your dermatologist to get a prescription for a hair inhibitor. Hair inhibitors are plant-based products that change the structure of hair follicles so that the hair grows thin and soft and eventually it does not grow at all.


Apply the cream to the areas of your face where you want to reduce hair growth. The cream will remain on your skin. Follow the instructions that accompany the product to determine frequency of use.
Hair growth inhibitors can be used in conjunction with other hair reduction methods such as threading, waxing and tweezing.
Results may take 4 to 6 months. It costs about $100 for a supply that will last you two months. , This herb slows down facial hair growth. In addition to turning it into tea, you can find it in capsule form. With any natural herbs, it's a good idea to check with your doctor first.


To make the tea, you need 20 grams of dry black cohosh root, 4 1/4 cups of water, and a teaspoon of honey. Boil the water and root, and then let it simmer for 30 minutes. Strain it.
Put the honey into the concoction. Drink three times a day. You will need to refrigerate the liquid. Higher dosages of the tea can cause side effects, and it shouldn't be used if you have liver disease or cancer, so it's best to see a doctor before you try this regimen.
 Sometimes hair will grow more because of a hormone issue, such as during menopause. This is a condition that should only be diagnosed by a doctor.


Sometimes doctors will prescribe birth control pills to help address such issues.Some underlying medical conditions can cause facial hair growth, such as polycystic ovary syndrome.
Eat foods with phytoestrogen. If you eat foods with this ingredient, it can help cure an estrogen imbalance, although again you should check with a doctor. More estrogen can slow down hair growth. Licorice, alfalfa, fennel and flaxseeds are natural products that contain phytoestrogen.
Basically, phytoestrogen mimics the role that estrogen plays in the body.

