 A good habit to get into is reading the nutritional information on food labels. If a food has a high saturated fat content, stay away. You could try to eat wholesome food that doesn't have a label, such a fresh vegetables and fruits, this can make for a really good looking you.;
, Should you be a wheelchair user, you can find an activity that burns as many calories as running, walking or biking hat you can do on a daily basis for 15-30 minutes every day. As long as you are moving, it is good enough. Ask someone to do this with you so you will have someone pushing you do this.
 Carry a compact mirror, Chapstick/ lip gloss, a small brush, a small amount of makeup, and breath mints or sugar free gum. Use these products as often during the month as you wish.
, Carrying around a water bottle is a good idea and draining from it even better. Learn how to drink more water everyday.
 Don't wear an evening gown to the park, or a tee and jeans to a wedding. Make sure you are happy with whatever you wear, don't be afraid to experiment with new styles, and make sure your clothes are clean. Don't look easy, yet don't look like the stereotypical minister's daughter. Wear clothing that flatters your figure, but stay away from the skin-tight. If you bulge out the top of your pants, they don't fit! Wear flattering colors -- usually the ones you feel best about wearing. If something doesn't look good on you, you won't look good no matter how trendy that item may be.
, Buy whitening toothpaste and brush three times a day for a good amount of time, this may seem time-consuming, but you will be so glad you did it at the end of the month.
, Every morning improve your skin with the application of a body lotion on your arms, shoulders and legs and a facial lotion for your face and neck. Every night, wash your hair in the shower using a quality shampoo and conditioner that's good for your hair, as well as a loofah and moisturizing body wash. Once out of the shower, moisturize with body lotion.
 Acne pads are about $5 at Walmart in the USA, and no more than a £10 at Tesco's in the UK, so get some. Use a cleanser on your face followed by facial moisturizer.
 Have a good style picked out in the morning in a way you can wear your hair up.
 Be ready for an honest opinion, and don't get mad if you don't like what you hear.
 Wear attractive and simple bracelets or rings to add a little something.

