 Using a sharp utility knife, make a cut perpendicular to the flat areas of the bale that stretches from one end to the other at a height that is around chest-height to you or lower. The way some balers wrap it is easier to cut on the side it needs to unroll. If unrolling make sure stems are pointing toward the way it needs to be unrolled. it will unroll just like a carpet if turned the right way. You may have to make several cuts if the knife is dull or if the strings are buried deep in the bale. Double and triple-check that you've cut all the twine or netting that is attached to the bale.

With some bales, the string may be embedded a few inches (centimetres) into the bale, which may make it impossible to cut. You will need to use your fingers to find the string before making the necessary cuts.;
, Do not pull off until you have reached your desired destination Go to the opposite side of the bale and pick the strands off the bale a few lengths at a time, only taking enough that you can gather all the string in your hand whilst leaving most still on the bale. Most string is applied in separate groups of two to four strings set apart about two to six inches (5cm to 15cm), which makes it relatively easy to gather up in your hands if you've cut all the strands on the other side of the bale.

Netting is usually much easier to gather, since it is joined together and will come off without having to gather much up. It also won't hide from you like twine will.
It is this point where you can tell if you missed any strings you cut. If this is the case, then go around to the side you had cut the strings and find the strand you missed, or you can simply cut the strand right where you are gathering them up.
 Beware of any thorns or sharp objects when grabbing the string. Once you've got all the strands in your one hand, pull out the strings from the bale, using your body weight and strength in your arms and legs, to free difficult strands. You can just pull the string as is, or form a simple knot to bind the string together and use the loop you formed from the knot as a means to help better pull the string off the bale on one fell-swoop.

If you are taking off netting, you can apply the same procedure as above. You'll find though, that older net wrap tends to tear easily than baler string does, which will make it a little more challenging to gather and pull off the bale.
During the wintertime (especially if you are in an area where you get snow and ice) you may find it a bit more difficult to pull twine or net wrap off of the bale. Ice formed on top of the bale tends to hold the string or net wrap a bit more fast than if you were doing this in the spring or fall when there is no ice or snow to be had. You just need to use a bit more muscle force to remove the string, or if it's particularly stubborn, the knife to help free it. If needed you can wrap twine around a stick and pull on the stick with more force to free the twine up.
 This way you will be able to make sure no loose string is left behind for your livestock to accidentally consume. Start by gathering it into a loop, similar to that as a cowboy would gather a lariat or a lasso (diameter is best to be around a foot or the length of your forearm from the space between your thumb and forefinger to underneath your elbow), except that you must leave a fairly significant portion of at least two to three metres (or over six to nine feet) of loose string trailing from this loop. Now take each side of this loop and pinch it together so that both edges of this circular loop are now held in one hand, forming loops both above and below your fist. Then take the trailing end and tightly wrap it around the middle of where you had pinched the loop together in your hand, and keep looping the trailing end until there is no loose string left. You have now formed a bundle of twine. Always be aware of where the bundles are placed.

Do the same thing with net wrap for the same reason as mentioned above.
 Make sure you gather up the strings for each bale, and even keep an eye out for extra strings on the ground that you may have missed. It's a good idea to do a regular walk around the area where hay is strewn to pick up any stray string and dispose of it properly.