 Open the box of Pomona's Pectin powder and take out the small packet of calcium powder. Dump the 1/2 teaspoon of the calcium powder into a small mason jar and pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of water. Screw the lid onto the jar and shake it until the powder dissolves. You'll only need 2 teaspoons of calcium water for the green or herbal tea jelly.You can store the rest of the calcium water in the refrigerator for other recipes.
 Wash 3 half-pint canning jars, lids and screw bands. Set the clean bands on a cloth and put the jars into a water bath canner or large pot with a rack on the bottom. Fill the pot with water (leaving the top third empty). Bring the water to a boil over high heat for 10 minutes. Turn the heat off and let the jars stay in the water while you make the jelly.Put the lids in a small pot with water. Keep them simmering gently until you're ready to process.
If you live over sea level, add 1 extra minute of sterilizing time for each 1000 feet (300 meters).
 Bring 2 ¼ cups (530 ml) of water or apple juice to a boil in a small saucepan. Measure out 1 packed cup (25 g) of fresh herbs (including the leaves and stems) or 3 tablespoons of loose green tea. Stir the herbs into the boiling water or apple juice and turn off the heat. Steep the tea for 10 minutes and strain the tea through a fine-mesh strainer.You can use fresh mint, basil, chamomile, jasmine, or lavender.
 In a small bowl, mix together ¼ to ½ cup (85 to 170 g) of honey or ½ cup to 1 cup (100 to 200 g) of sugar with 2 teaspoons of Pomona’s Pectin powder. Ensure that the sweetener and pectin are completely mixed. Set it aside.You'll need to use the low-sugar Pomona's Pectin, since tea jelly doesn't contain as much sugar as most jellies. You'll need the low-sugar pectin to ensure that the jelly sets properly.
 Measure out 2 cups (473 ml) of the herbal or green tea and pour it into a large saucepan. Add ¼ cup (60 ml) of apple cider vinegar or lemon juice. You should also stir in 2 teaspoons of the prepared calcium water.Use the vinegar, if you used apple juice instead of water to make the tea.
 Bring the tea mixture to a boil over high heat. Stir in the sweetened pectin mixture and continue to cook the tea jelly for 1 to 2 minutes. Stir the mixture constantly to help dissolve the pectin. When the jelly begins to boil again, turn off the heat.If you boil the mixture after the pectin is added, your jelly may firm up too much which could make it difficult to spread.

