 Although there is no specific educational prerequisite for serving in either the House or the Senate, both chambers of Congress are engaged in the writing of laws and the crafting of public policy. The actions of these lawmakers have real-time consequences on large numbers of people, and many of the skills required of legislators are too important to learn on the job.As of 2015, almost all of the 535 members of Congress have a Bachelor’s degree. A little less than half have law degrees. About one hundred had a Master’s degree and another twenty had Doctoral degrees. There is no one educational path to Congress, but most Congresspersons have advanced degrees.
 There are three Constitutionally mandated requirements to serve in the House of Representatives or the Senate, and they are the exclusive qualifications for the office. These are:Age. A Representative must be at least twenty five, while a Senator must be at least thirty.
Citizenship. A Representative must be a citizen of the US for at least seven years, while a Senator must be a citizen for at least nine years.
Residency. Both Representatives and Senators must be residents of the states they represent.
 It doesn’t really matter how charismatic, good looking, or well-funded you are if you aren’t running in an area where you can be successful. Some areas (districts or states) are highly partisan, some lean in the direction of one party or another, and others are toss-ups. The partisan loyalty of an area can be measured by its Partisan Voting Index, or PVI. The PVI of a jurisdiction indicates how much more partisan it is compared to the nation as a whole.For example, if the US has a party identification of 55% Democrat to 45% Republican but your district has voted 55% for the Republican candidate the past two cycles, the PVI of your district is R+10, meaning your district is 10 points more Republican than the nation as a whole.
If the PVI of your district or state is strongly at odds with your own political leanings, it’s extremely unlikely you’re going to win. If you’re trying to run to “make a statement,” or “send a message,” that’s your own business, but running for a seat in Congress is very hard work. It strains personal and familial relationships, demands countless hours, and can open you up to all manner of embarrassment, humiliation, and antagonism. Think long and hard about whether you want to embark upon a fruitless quest .
 Political parties provide support with fundraising, get-out-the-vote efforts, volunteers, and a rich network of individuals who can help you win your race. The instances of a non-incumbent running against their own party and winning are vanishingly small, and the candidate would almost certainly have a special quality (like celebrity) giving them a special edge.If you think you’ve got that “it” factor, the party leadership is weak and disliked in your area, and you are running for an open seat, you might have a shot at pulling out a victory. But it would still be an uphill battle.
 An incumbent is an individual who holds an office. Whoever currently occupies the seat you’re looking at running for is the incumbent. When an incumbent retires, is impeached, appointed to another office, dies, or is imprisoned, the seat will vacate. That makes it an “open seat.”An open seat is much easier to win than a seat held by an incumbent. Incumbents are re-elected about 85% of the time. When they aren’t, they’re usually defeated after their first term.

