 If an employee requests reasonable accommodation of their disability under the ADA, you are within your rights to require the employee to submit written documentation of their disability.You also have the right to ask disability-related questions or require the employee to see a qualified healthcare provider if you receive information from someone else.
For example, if one of the employee's co-workers tells you that the employee has a disability, you have the right to ask that employee.
Keep in mind that the information you receive must be reliable and cause you to have a reasonable belief that the employee has a disability that requires reasonable accommodation.
If the information or documentation comes directly from the employee, it must include sufficient information to trigger ADA requirements. In particular, the diagnosis and necessary accommodations must be confirmed by a qualified medical professional.
This isn't an issue if you're ready to provide the necessary accommodations anyway. But if the employee demands accommodations that would be cumbersome or expensive to your business, you do have the right to require more information.
 If the initial documentation supplied by the employee is insufficient, you must provide the employee with a written explanation as to what was missing from the initial documentation, and give them time to get that information to you.This may mean asking the employee to get a medical examination, or to visit a specialist to have their condition evaluated.
You also may require the employee to get additional information from their doctor, such as proof that their treating physician is qualified to diagnose the disability or provide an opinion on necessary accommodations.
At this point, you aren't responsible for footing the bill for the employee's examinations or evaluations. You aren't asking for supplemental information. You're only asking for the amount of information to which you're entitled under the ADA.
 The ADA does not prevent you from sending the employee to another doctor or to a specialist to evaluate the employee's condition and provide an opinion on the employee's disability.Keep in mind that if you require the employee to get a second opinion, you typically have to pay for this examination or evaluation.
Be prepared to explain to the employee why you are requiring them to take this additional step to certify their disability.
Seeking a second opinion shouldn't be abused. However, it can be helpful when you aren't satisfied with the outcome of any attempt to verify the original doctor's certification given to you by the employee.
 Once you've received sufficient documentation of the employee's disability and the accommodations that will enable the employee to successfully perform the requirements of their job, you have a duty under the ADA to make those accommodations.The ADA only requires you to make reasonable accommodations. If the accommodation the employee needs, as certified by healthcare professionals whose opinions you've verified, are excessively disruptive or expensive, you may be able to refuse to provide them.
If you plan to refuse a request for accommodation, you may want to consider hiring an employer defense attorney.
Expect the employee to file an administrative charge or lawsuit against you for failing to accommodate their disability.

