 You can purchase prepaid credit cards online. If you want to pay with a check, however, you will have to go to a brick-and-mortar store to make the purchase. Many drug stores, such as CVS and Walgreen, sell prepaid credit cards. Discount stores such as Target and Walmart also sell them. You can find them in most major supermarket chains and gas stations, too., Visa offers many different prepaid credit cards. They are easy to use and reloadable. If you buy with cash, you don’t even need a bank account. No credit check is necessary. Go to the Visa Product Locator website. Enter your location, and it will tell you where you can purchase Visa prepaid credit cards in your area.Although Visa does not require you to have a bank account to purchase one of their prepaid cards, if you want to write a check to the retailer, you will need to have a checking account.
 You can use MasterCard prepaid cards anywhere you use a MasterCard credit card. This includes online shopping, bill payments and everyday purchases. You can purchase them online or at participating retailers.Visit the MasterCard Prepaid Cards site to find where you can purchase one in your area., Some cards charge activation fees, initial load fees or monthly fees. Sometimes you will also pay fees for certain kinds of transactions, such as ATM withdrawals or bill-pay services. Read the packaging on the card to learn about the fees that come with it. Compare several different cards and choose the card with the lowest fees. Sometimes activation and initial load fees are added to the purchase price. For example, suppose you are purchasing a $100 prepaid card with a $6 activation fee. You will need to write a check for $106 to pay for the card.
Sometimes the activation and initial load fees will be deducted from your available balance. For example, if you are purchasing a $100 prepaid card with a $6 activation fee, you will write a check for $100, but your available balance will start at $94.
Transaction fees, if applicable, will be automatically deducted from your balance as you use your card.
 The credit card is not worth anything until you fund it and the cashier validates it. When you take your card to the register, the cashier will ask you how much money you want to put on the card. Sometimes the cards have predetermined amounts printed on them, such as $25, $50, $100 or $200. Other cards allow you to choose any amount you wish. Look for a display rack in the store that holds the cards. You can choose from a variety of different designs.
Choose the card you wish to purchase, take it to the register and pay the cashier.
Tell the cashier how much you want to load on the card.
Write a check for the total amount you are loading on the card plus any activation fees.

