 There are two common styles of shower doors: sliding doors and pivoting doors. Although they work differently, the installation process is nearly identical for both, so your decision should be based on personal preference.


It is highly recommended that you choose a shower door with a frame. Some shower doors are frameless for a more elegant look, but are much more complicated to install.
Some people prefer to use a sliding door for wide openings and a swinging door for small openings, since swinging doors tend to be a little narrower and can accommodate smaller spaces.;
, Using your tape measure, measure horizontally and vertically between the surfaces where the door hardware will be mounted, across the tub or the opening for the shower, and up the wall. Record these numbers to take to the store and shop around for a kit that's big enough to fill the space you need to fill.


For the most part, the metal tracks of shower doors will be slightly longer than the space you need to fill. They're made this way, to allow the same kit to be used for multiple projects. By cutting the tracks to size, you should be able to make most commercial kits work fine for the job.
 Take the measurements with you to your home center and ask for assistance in selecting the correct door kit. These should come with the glass door itself, the track pieces, rollers, and wall screws necessary for mounting the door on the wall. The other necessary tools and equipment are discussed in the next step.
 Shower door kits will come with a set of metal tracks that seat the shower door, so most of the assembly process involves installing the metal frame. This will be secured by a metal threshold that fits onto the front lip of the tub, two side columns that will be secured into the tile walls, and a single cross-member to connect the columns on top. Most shower kits should be universal, but hold the pieces up to the shower before you start installing them to make sure they fit. If the pieces are too long, you might need to trim them to size with a hacksaw. You'll also need some basic tools to complete the job:


Silicone-based caulk and a caulking gun
Tape measure
A power drill
3/16 and 7/32 drill bits (add a 3/16 masonry bit if drilling into tile)
Tile screws
Plastic wall anchors
Hammer
Masking tape
Permanent marker
A level

