 Join a 12" section of pipe with a 18" section of pipe using a T joint. Cap both ends in L joints. Make a second, identical piece. Join these two sides together at the L joint on end closer to the T joint using a 26" pieces of pipe. Make a separate piece with a T joint at the center and two 12" pieces. Then, join at the upper ends together with this piece.


All pieces should be dry fit before doing any trimming. Your end shape should be a rectangle. If your pieces aren't fitting together right, they can be trimmed down.
The long side T joints should be facing into the inside of the rectangle. The upper T joint will need to be adjusted but will likely be around a 45 degree angle from the line of the long side.
 Place a 2" section of pipe into the long side T joints and cap with a mirrored T joint.
 Make the long sides the same as with the vertical section (12 and 18" pipe sections capped with L joints). However, join the ends closest to the center T joint with an 18" section and the other end with 8" sections and a T joint. You should now have two rectangles, one inside the other, and joined at their lower third point.
 The seat is formed between the short portion of the horizontal section and the long portion of the vertical section. The chair rests on the long end of the horizontal section and the short end of the vertical section. Adjust the angle that the two pieces meet at until you like the angle of the back and seat. Measure the distance between the remaining T joints on the long sides needed to create the angle you want.
 Cut a piece of pipe to your desired length and insert it into the two T joints.
 A sling which reaches between the top part of the chair and the front edge of the seat creates the space for you to sit down. You can make this sling out of fabric or you can even make it out of something like Duct tape. All it is is a long section of fabric with tubes at either end that you fit onto the PVC pipe. You can sew these tubes into place or you can even cheat and use iron on velcro.
 Your PVC beach chair is now done. Don't forget that you can change any of the measurements to make the chair larger or smaller, or even use thinner PVC pipe.

