 When drawing any of the characters, it’s good to look at a picture so you have a reference. You also want to you use a pencil for the initial drawing so if you make any mistakes, you can erase.


Finn’s character is essentially made up of an oval shape at the head, and rectangles for the body, legs and arms.;
, To begin, draw an oval shape that’s wider than it is tall.


You want your oval to be a decent size, but not too big as Finn wears a helmet that matches the width of the rest of his body, which you'll draw around this oval.
Your oval doesn't have to be perfect because you'll be drawing over it as you continue. Right now, it just provides an outline.
 Draw a cross in the center of the oval, and add another horizontal line above the one forming the cross. You should have two horizontal lines and one vertical line.These facial lines will help you to place Finn’s eyes and mouth.
If you plan on drawing Finn at an angle, move the vertical line farther to one side in the direction you want Finn’s body to face.
Draw these lines lightly as you will erase them later.
 Start at about the middle of your oval's height for Finn’s head and draw a rectangle that is about twice as long.You don’t need to make the corners of the rectangle perfect right angles. Finn’s body is usually curved slightly to show the character in action.
 Finn’s arms and legs look slightly like noodles. For the right arm, start below the head, just inside of the rectangle. Draw a line slowly curving upward, like an “L”. Then draw another line following the same path to create the arm. Start the left arm at the same height as the right. Draw a “J” shape curving out, away from the body and then back in. Each leg is made up of two lines that start wide at the top and get more narrow toward the feat.


Don’t put the legs too close together. Finn’s legs are as wide as his body.
If you don’t like how your arms or legs look, erase and try again.
The hands are made up of three fingers and a thumb.
The feet look like bloated “L” shapes with donut shaped socks on top.
 Finn’s white helmet/hoodie is as wide as his rectangle body, and goes around the oval shaped head. Start just above the arms and draw upwards along the widest part of the oval. The top has two little bumps like rounded cat ears.


The top of Finn’s helmet should be only slightly higher than the top of the head.
 The first oval you drew is for Finn’s head, this second one makes the opening for Finn’s face.


The oval you draw here should be large enough so you have room to draw Finn’s face.
 Inside of the oval you just drew, you’ll draw the eyes and mouth. Finn’s face is easy to draw because the eyes are just two small black circles and a curved line for the mouth.


Use the facial lines as your guide. draw one eye on each side if the vertical line, and in between the two horizontal lines.
Draw the mouth just below the eyes.
 You should now have the helmet, the face, and the body drawn. Follow your outline and add in Finn’s shorts. The waistline is at an even height with Finn’s left hand. The legs of the shorts go about ⅓ the way down his legs.


Draw the legs of the shorts slightly wider than Finn’s actual legs.
Erase any lines, like the line that you originally drew as the bottom of Finn’s body, to make the shorts look like clothing.
 The top of the backpack should start at the same level as your top facial line. Draw a half circle around Finn’s left arm to form the shape of the bag. Then add two more lines over his shoulder to create the strap.


Add a small curved line about halfway down the backpack.
 Finish adding the shoes, which are made up of two small donut like circles at the ankles, and reversed “L” shaped feet. Make sure that you have Finn’s helmet, shirt, and pants completed. These should be made up of three rectangular sections.


Add sleeve lines for Finn’s shirt about ⅓ the way down his arms.
Erase any of your sketch lines like the facial lines, oval for the head, and any part of the legs that are above the shorts.
 Adventure Time characters don’t need shading and use simple colors. Finn can easily be colored in using greens, blues, and black.


Finn’s helmet and socks are both white and can be left uncolored if you are using white paper.
For the shirt, use a lighter blue, and for the shorts a darker blue.
The top half of Finn’s backpack is light green, while the bottom half is dark green.
Color the shoes in black.
 If you want to place Finn in a scene, you can draw a simple hill of grass and a blue sky, or get more creative with a detailed background of your choosing.

