 It is possible to steal a boyfriend you are not attracted to, but if the boyfriend stealing is being performed as revenge on a girl you dislike, be warned, it will backfire!;
, It can be for anything, homework/work help, chatting on the phone, advice on something, etc. Make it something where he will be helping you but won't have to go out of his way to do so. If it's a major inconvenience, he may say no.
 Show him how much you enjoy listening.
 Compliment him on how well it was done. Tell him that if he ever needs anything at all, you are there for him.
 Be ready to listen to him moan about all his problems, especially relationship problems.
 In general, however, take note of anything he mentions about her that he dislikes and try not to be like her. Sympathize with him when he is upset and remind him you will always be there when he needs you.
 If he thinks she shops too much, tell him you hate shopping. If he's upset that she doesn't like watching football, ask him to come to a match with you. If he thinks she's too uptight, engage in childlike pranks with him. But don't change yourself too much because he should always like you for who you are and who you're not. If he is going to leave his girlfriend for you then he should be leaving her for a good reason rather than for a false personality. Just engage yourself in his hobbies.
 He will be beginning to see you in a different light. Yet, do not engage in serious flirting with him at this point. Try to leave him some clues but don't be obvious with him, it could harm your chances of him leaving her, as he will no longer see you as a challenge. Don't wear anything too short, be classy, and don't show too much skin.
 Anyone. Your crush is beginning to see you in a new way, and this will make him jealous. Continue to tell him how happy you are. Now, when he moans about his relationship woes, reassure him there is better out there, and that perhaps she is overly high-maintenance. He should be at the tipping point of his relationship.
 Your hair will be shiny, but don't have it look too done. Have your makeup done professionally, get your nails done, and whatever you need to do to look natural. Find the most flattering casual outfit you can. Have all your waxing done, and try using Nivea to remove any dry skin. Make your skin look as soft and delicious as possible.
 If you don't, you could be caught out, as you are lying. Tell him, and the boyfriend you are stealing, that your man wasn't who you thought. Stick to that story and refuse to elaborate. Whatever you do, try not to change your story.
 Tell him everything is messed up with your man, and that you could really use him just now. Ask him to come over. You have your hot but natural look.
 Ask him for a hug. Watch DVDs you know he likes. Pretend to enjoy them.
 By all means kiss him, but sleeping with him would be counterproductive at this point.
 Do not stick with the natural look. Show a "little" cleavage. At this point, his relationship with his girlfriend should be damaged beyond repair. Be honest about your feelings, if he does not share his at this point share them, then walk away. He may even follow if he doesn't don't get all upset and angry with the guy.
 Use caution.
 Try not to be anything like his ex, and whatever you do, don't point out the wrongs in his ex.
