 Some facial wounds are caused by the pressure of something rubbing on the delicate skin of the face. This may be due to an oxygen tube or even eyeglasses. If this is the cause of your facial wound, remove the source of the wound for periods of time, especially while it is healing.If you are not sure how to change the way you wear your eyeglasses or oxygen tubes, talk to your doctor.
 Diet can affect your body’s natural healing properties. To help make sure your face wounds are healing as quickly as possible, increase your protein intake. Try adding meats, dairy, whole grains, legumes, and vegetables to your meals.Lean meats are a great source of protein. Try chicken breast, fish, pork, eggs, or lean beef.
Dairy products also contain a lot of protein. Greek yogurt, cottage cheese, and lowfat cheese can make good snacks to increase your protein.
Whole grains, like quinoa and bulgur, contain a lot of protein, as do black beans, lentils, soy beans, red beans, or kidney beans. Try green vegetables for protein, such as spinach or broccoli.
Avoid junk food that increases inflammation and hinders healing.
 One way to help sores heal quickly is to improve your immune system with dietary supplements. This includes vitamins like vitamins C, B, D, and E. Fish oil and zinc are also help to promote healing and to stop infections of the skin., When your open wounds start to scab over, don’t pick at the scabs. Picking at them can slow the healing process and lead to scarring. Leave the scar alone.Continue adding petroleum jelly to the wound to help keep the scab moist.
 When treating wounds on your face, don’t try to clean them with harsh solutions. This can damage the injured tissue or irritate the wound, which will slow the healing process.Don’t use antibacterial solutions, hydrogen peroxide, or iodine solutions.
 As your wound is healing, try to limit how much you use the muscles around the wound. If you move your muscles, you could irritate and pull at the wound, which can slow the healing process.Try not to smile, chew, or talk with exaggerated movements. Take it easy as your wound heals.
 If your open wound has swelling around it, try using an ice pack. Take a cold compress or ice wrapped in a towel and place it on the wound for around 10 to 20 minutes. You can do this multiple times a day.Never place ice directly on the wounds. This could cause your face to burn.
 To reduce irritation and swelling around your wound, you should avoid applying heat to the area. Do not wash your face in hot water or take a hot shower. You also shouldn’t use heating pads, eat hot or spicy foods, or drink hot fluids.