 A little soap and water is all you need. You can even let the razor soak in a cup for a few minutes. Then give a quick rinse to let the leftover gunk wash away., Shake away the excess moisture, then dab the razor on a soft towel. You can also use a blow-dryer or fan, or even just hang it upside down to let the water drip off., A strop is a thick piece of leather used to sharpen the blades of straight edge razors. They can be either the common hanging strop (just the leather with handles at each end), or the loom or paddle strops (with the leather attached to a block of wood for a flat surface.If you are using the hanging strop, make sure you attach one end to a fixed object, and hold the strap taught.
Hold the razor blade in your dominant hand with the back of the razor facing you, and the strop in your other hand. Applying moderate amounts of pressure, quickly pull the razor blade down the length of the razor strop. Apply 10 strokes to ensure sharpness.
Turn the blade over and pull in the other direction.
Let the razor rest. The strop works by realigning the imperfections in the blade. Let the blade sit for 24 to 48 hours before using again to let it straighten up. Razor strops should be used at least once a month for best results when it comes to keeping your straight edge razor sharp and effective.
 This is also called a "whetstone" or "stone hone." This is a flat stone used to sharpen straight edge blades. Different stones have different levels of grit, different strengths for sharpening different blade sizes and thicknesses.For your razor, you will want a very fine grit, 4,000/8,000.Place the stone on a flat surface. You will want it somewhere, such as a table or counter top, where it won't move.Wet the stone. A little bit of water, oil, or shaving cream will do the trick. This prevents the stone from heating up and warping your blade, and cleans it off before you use it.Drag the blade over the stone. Place one edge of the razor on top of the stone, and using diagonal strokes, pull it towards your body. Move at an angle so the entire blade makes contact with the stone. Flip the razor over so that the other side is on the hone, and repeat the process.
Unlike strops, you should only use the stone once every six to eight weeks. Using this tool more often can decrease the life of the razor blade.