 This is especially important if you've packed the heaviest items on the bottom and the most fragile items in the center. The amorphous walls of the duffel will not provide much protection for the contents. Thus, you will need to need to handle your bag with particular care. Avoid stacking heavy items on top of the duffel, and try to keep it from taking too much wear.
 It can be a pain to dig through the depths of your duffel bag just to find one item – especially if you are using a particularly large bag. If you think that you might need to access anything over the course of a given day, take care to arrange that thing in an easily-accessible position near the zipper. On the other hand: items near the top of the bag will be easy picking for would-be duffel thieves. Pack your most important and sensitive belongings deep within the bag, ideally inside socks or other containers.
 Over the course of a trip, you may find that your belongings become jumbled and mussed from the day-to-day demands of living out of a duffel. Sometimes, you will need to take heavy items from the bottom of the bag, which can disturb the carefully-layered strata of clothing and travel necessities. Do not hesitate to take everything out of your bag and reorder it! It won't take long, and the belongings within will be much safer from the wear and tear of travel.


Consider taking everything out of your bag each evening when you arrive at your place of lodging. Then, take a few minutes to thoughtfully repack the bag in the morning before you leave. This way, you can ensure that the most important items for each day remain at the top of the bag.
 Consider using smaller, also-amorphous bags to divide up the space within your duffel. Use a bag for your toiletries, a bag for your food, and a bag for your dirty laundry. This way, you won't need to rifle through the main compartment each time you need something. You can take out the appropriate "compartment bag," then quickly sort out the needed item., If you'll be staying in one place and heading out for day-trips, take along a smaller bag so that you don't need to lug your duffel everywhere. Stuff the day-pack into your duffel. Each day, leave the large duffel in your place of lodging, and fill the day-pack with only the essentials.


The day-pack can even function as a separate, modular "compartment" within the main duffel chamber. Store your toiletries, or your electronics, or your food in the day-pack to keep these items apart from the other contents of your duffel.
The day-pack may be easier to pack into the duffel if it, too, is amorphous rather than rigid in structure. This way, you can pack the day-bag within and around your other belongings – it won't take up a commanding space.

