 If you don't know your stuff ahead of time, you're going to be bored to tears in class because you won't understand what's going on. When you're bored, time passes more slowly. If you are ready ahead of time, class will seem more interesting, and time will pass faster.








Do your homework before class, including all the reading. It can also help you to review your notes from last class when you're waiting for class to start so you remember where you are.It can also help to be physically ready for class. That means that you've eaten a good breakfast or lunch and gotten enough sleep, so that you can focus on what's going on., When you're given a chance, speak up in class. Join in with what people are talking about. If your teacher doesn't allow small group discussions, she probably at least encourages you to ask and answer questions. Being engaged instead of sitting there bored can help time pass faster.
 Engaging in class doesn't just mean you talk more. It also means you listen better.








Try to block out other sounds besides what your teacher or other students are saying. That is, try not to listen to the pencil tapping in the back of the round, the student next to you rustling paper, or the car alarm going off outside. Force your attention on the teacher., Note taking is not a skill you are naturally born with. You have to learn how to do it well, and it takes some practice. Fortunately, you have time to do that while you are still in school.








Focus on the main points. It's impossible to take down everything your teacher says word for word, unless you can bring your laptop to school, and you're a super fast typist. That means you need to focus on writing down the main ideas. Your teacher should help you with this by emphasizing what's most important a few times. He or she may even say what you should be writing down.Additionally, pay attention to what your teacher writes on the board or projector. You know those ideas are important.
 One way to keep your brain going in class is to think about your crush or someone you like. Maybe think about memories or write your notes in your own words. If you're just writing it exactly as the teacher says it, you may not be actually taking it in. Plus, you're not engaging your brain, so you're more likely to get bored. However, if you try to put it in your own words, you'll be more engaged and learn more at the same time.








For instance, if your teacher says, "One of the major wars of the 20th Century was World War II." You could write, "Big war, 20th century, World War II." You don't need to write complete sentences, just enough to get the idea down.
In fact, don't be afraid to use abbreviations you understand so you can get down more information.