 Feeling and perceptions are very closely linked.;
, You can do this in day to day circumstances, but this one is harder to see as its usually buried under all the other feelings and senses.
 Try to see the process of "recognition" or "awareness" or any words that mean knowing that a feeling has happened.
 The aim of the game is to see the micro-processes in action.


Think about this. Feeling requires contact of the body (nerve endings etc) and the sense object (such as tension, body chemicals, sound, sight, taste etc), if there is no perception of the contact or feeling, the mind doesn't recognize either and feeling just doesn't register.
 That distinction & link is perception.
,
After that comes the conscious states or any words that describes the mental states that support and dominate the others.
 Trying to understand does not make understanding happen, although exploring the ideas can start the process.
 You might find everything slots into these 5.
 They are more for the serious investigator of this subject, but make sense when you test them.


Materiality is like the sick room and the patient, feeling is the affliction of the sickness, perception is the provoking of the illness (because it makes you want it to go away), formations is the wanting of it to go away and the consciousness is like an incurable illness because it isn't ever free of feeling.
Materiality is the prison, feeling is the punishment, perception is the crime, mental formations are the punisher and the consciousness the punished.
Materiality is like a lump of atomic foam, feeling like a bubble on the water (because it doesn't last), perception is a mirage because it makes illusions (perception of the "me, mine" etc), mental formations like a banana or plantain trunk, because while it grows it doesn't have a core of solid heartwood. Consciousness is like a stage illusion. It isn't ever how it seems.
 Its not something we can turn on or off. When someone who studies perceptions with the angle of testing ownership, self or entity, they can make a breakthrough this way as they'll see the starting blocks of new thoughts, feelings and mental processes and that they are empty of any entity. Then illusions are broken and there are no mysteries left.

