 The number/shape method works fine with shorter numbers, but as numbers start to get longer, it can be difficult to remember what each image was supposed to represent. The phonetic method works by encoding numbers as sounds.


To start, assign a consonant sound or sounds to every digit, zero through nine. For example, you might assign the "R" sound to the number 4, since a capital "R" looks a bit like a backwards 4.You can assign whichever sounds you want to each digit, as long as you use the same sounds for the same digit every time.
If you don't want to take the time to create your own system, you can use one that's already been created. The Major Memory System has pre-assigned sounds for each digit.Do not assign vowel sounds (a, e, i, o, or u) to any digit. Vowels have no "value" in a system like this, as that makes it easier to create words later. "W," "h," and "y" are also usually left without a numerical value., This collection of sound associations is called a mnemonic system. Take some time and memorize which sounds correspond to which digits. This will make it easy to encode and decode numbers using this system later.


This may seem daunting, but most people mind they can memorize a mnemonic system in as little as 20 minutes., Next, create words using the sounds assigned to each digit in the number you want to remember. Since vowels have no value, you can add whichever vowels you need to form words.


For example, imagine you need to remember the number 4918217. In the Major Memory System, this would translate to r-b-d/t/th-v/f-n-d/t/th-k/c/g. There are lots of word sequences you could potentially make with these sounds, such as robot (491) fan (82) dog (17).
Choose words that will be easy to visualize. Concrete nouns usually work best.Note that numbers are converted into sounds and not actual letters. The number 95, for example, translates into "bl" in the Major Memory System. You could make the words "ball" or "bull" with those letters, since the double-L sounds the same as a single L.
 Words are typically easier to remember than numbers. You'd probably find "robot fan dog" easier to recall than 4918217. But many people find it easier still to create a mental picture using these images.In the case of our example, you could imagine a robot fanning a panting dog on a hot day.
 When you need to use the number, simply decode the words you have created from your numbers.


Early on in using this system, it might be helpful to carry a chart with the numbers and sounds, just until you have it completely memorized.

