 The UK government provides a copy of this form on their website. It is called Form AN, or Application for naturalisation as a British citizen. You can also request this form at many local government offices, such as a city or county council.


If the council offers a nationality checking service, you can pay a fee to have someone check your form for errors.;
, Indefinite leave, also called settlement, means there is no restriction on how long you can stay in the country. In order to receive citizenship, you must have spent at least the last 12 months under indefinite leave.You must also plan to continue living in the UK.


To see whether you can apply for indefinite leave, visit this interactive gov.uk web page. The requirements vary depending on your type of visa.
If you are a citizen of a country in the European Economic Area or Switzerland, you will need a permanent resident card or another document that proves permanent residence., To pass this requirement automatically, you must have entered the UK as a resident (or entered the UK armed forces) at least five years ago, and spent no more than 450 days of the past five years outside the country.The UK government will often overlook total absences up to 480 days.


Up to 730 days may be allowed if you have a family and home in the UK, your application meets all other requirements, and you have lived in the UK at least seven years.Up to 900 days may be allowed if you meet the same criteria but have lived in the UK at least eight years, or if the absences occurred due to you or your spouse or civil partner serving in the UK armed forces, or due to business travel for a UK job.
 Officially your time outside the country over the past 365 days should total no more than 90 days, but up to 100 days is usually not a problem. Up to 179 days may be allowed if:You have a family and home in the UK

and either meet every other requirement in the application.

or have a compelling reason for your absence (e.g. UK business travel, UK armed forces).
Exceptions for 180 days and above are rare, and require all three of the criteria above.
 You must be at least eighteen years old to apply for naturalised citizenship. You are also required to answer all the questions in section 3 of the application form, "Good Character". Note that these questions apply to events in any country, not just the UK, and include all civil and criminal penalties including minor traffic offenses. If you answer yes to any of these questions, describe the events in detail in the space at the end of the section, and on additional sheets if needed.Serious crimes or unresolved bankruptcy usually lead to a rejected application.


If you have court endorsements on your UK driving license, print a copy of your record and attach it to your application.
You do not need to describe family legal proceedings such as divorce. However, you must mention offences committed by your children, as well as any court orders against them.
 If you are over 65, you do not need to pass the life in the UK test, or prove your English proficiency. If you are under 65 but have a long-term physical or mental condition that prevents you from passing these tests, check the box on your application to claim exemption. Describe why in the "Further Information" section on page 22. Include a letter from a doctor with your application.Depression and other conditions that respond to treatment are usually not enough to claim exemption.
No other exemptions apply, even if you used one for your settlement application., This test has 24 multiple choice questions on UK traditions, history, law, and values. You must get 18 of these right in 45 minutes.To schedule the test for a £50 fee, visit this government website. After taking the test, wait in the building until you receive a graded copy of the test and a letter confirming that you passed. You'll need to attach this letter to your application. If you passed the test already as part of your application for settlement, you may attach the old letter instead of taking the test again.


The official study guide is called Life in the United Kingdom: A Journey to Citizenship.The photo ID you bring to the test must be the same one you use for your citizenship application. Write the exact name from your ID on the test. You will also need proof of your address.
 You can prove your English proficiency by passing an English test through the Home Office at level B1 CEFR or higher. Alternatively, contact UK NARIC to request the necessary documents to prove that your degree earned in English-taught courses meets this requirement. Finally, a passport from a country with majority English speakers will usually meet this requirement.If you plan to meet this requirement in Welsh or Gaelic instead, include a cover letter describing your proficiency in the language.
 As described on the form, one of these must be a British citizen. The other can be any nationality, but should have some professional standing, such as a civil servant position or a membership in a professional organization.Read the other requirements on the form carefully and find two people who qualify.
 This includes personal information, contact details, and employment information. Follow the instructions on the form to attach any applicable documents. All applicants should include a biometric residence permit or a waiver of the BRP; you should have one of these from your application of settlement.
 If you are in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, or most other countries, send the application to "Department 1 / UKVI / The Capital / New Hall Place / Liverpool / L3 9PP". If you are in a British overseas territory, send the application to the governor.Include a fee along with the form. For up-to-date information on how much the fee is, refer to this web page.
 You will typically receive a response within six months. If your application was accepted, the response will tell you who to contact to schedule the ceremony. You must attend a citizenship ceremony within 90 days to receive citizenship. At the ceremony, you will swear an oath of allegiance to the sovereign and pledge your loyalty to the UK.