 Measure your oil into a soup pot. Heat the oil over the stove on medium-high heat.To see if your oil is ready, drop something small like a grain of rice in the pan. If it sizzles, the oil is ready., While you wait for the oil to heat up, salt all your meats. This includes the pork shoulder or ribs, chuck roast or stew meat, and any other meat you're including. Salt all the meat generously on all sides.Wash your hands before and after handling raw meat.
 Once the oil is ready and the meats are salted, place the meats in the pot. Add the different types of meat at once. As you're working with a lot of meat, you'll likely have to work in batches. Make sure you can still easily move and flip the meat after adding it to the pan. Overcrowding will prevent the meat from browning properly., Use a wooden spoon to turn the meats over to make sure they're brown on both sides. Move the meats as necessary to get them completely brown on each side. Do not flip your meat over until the side touching the pan is completely brown., Once the meats are browned, remove them using a spatula or slotted spoon. Place the meats in a bowl and set them aside for now., Add your onions, peppers, celery, and carrots to the same pot you used to brown the meat. Turn the heat to high. Cook the vegetables until they're browned.You may need to add more oil if the vegetables start to steam or get stuck to the pan.
Cooking times vary depending on the precise heat of your stove and type of pot you're using.
 As soon as your vegetables brown, throw in the garlic. Cook the garlic for only one minute before proceeding with the cooking process., Take the bowl with the meats that you set aside earlier. Add the meats back to the pot with the vegetables and garlic., Once the meat is back in the pot, add both the chicken and beef broth. Then, add the can of crushed tomatoes. Stir all the ingredients until they're completely combined and then salt to taste., Let the mixture come to a simmer. Then, reduce the heat on the stove to a lower setting. Cover the pot and leave the ingredients simmering for two hours.Check the pot periodically while it's simmering and do not leave the pot unattended. This is a fire hazard.
 Use a spoon to fish out any pieces of meat that are attached to a bone. Strip the meat from the bones. Tear any larger chunks of meat into bite sized pieces and then throw them back in the pot.Wait a few minutes between taking the meat out of the pot and removing it from the bone. Meat will be very hot when it's just been taken out of the pot.
 If you have not already peeled and cut your potatoes, do so now. Then, toss the potatoes into the pot. Use a spoon to stir them into the remaining ingredients., Measure out your 4-8 tablespoons (60 to 120 mL) of Worcestershire sauce and pour it into your mixture. Then, stir it into the soup until everything is combined., Add your one pound (450 grams) bag of frozen corn and 14-ounce (392 grams) bag of frozen lima beans Stir everything together until the ingredients are evenly combined., After adding the corn and lima beans, let the soup cook for another 10 minutes. After 10 minutes have passed, you can serve your soup. Kentucky burgoo is traditionally served with hot sauce and corn bread on the side.