 Instead of focusing on goals like losing weight or looking trim, find an activity that you truly enjoy. Build your fitness goals around an activity that you really like, as opposed to focusing on abstract goals that you don’t feel connected to.


Instead of focusing on getting ripped abdominal muscles, find a sport you like and join the local recreation league.
Connect fitness to a hobby you enjoy. If you are a photographer, go for a walk with your camera and take pictures along the way.
Instead of focusing on losing a certain amount of weight, find an activity you enjoy that involves losing calories and devote time to this activity. If you enjoy walking in the park, spend more time walking in the park and worry less about the amount of weight you need to lose., Instead of focusing on one huge goal such as losing fifty pounds, focus on small and measurable goals. Your goals should be measurable on a weekly basis.


If your big goal is to lose fifty pounds, focus on the small goal of losing one pound per week.
If your big goal is to squat three hundred pounds, focus on the small goal of increasing your squat lift by five pounds every couple weeks.
If your big goal is to lose fifty pounds, focus on the small goal of going for a run every other day and avoid checking your weight more frequently than once a month.
 Instead of focusing on how much you want to squat at the gym or the distance you want to run, focus on your training process. If you make time to practice squatting a few times a week, you should be able to gradually achieve your desired outcome. Pay more attention to your fitness process., You should avoid the expectation to see instant results from your new fitness routine. Going to the gym three or four times a week should improve your overall condition, if that is your goal, but you are unlikely to notice immediate results such as a six pack or vast amounts of weight loss., You should allocate a proper amount of time for achieving your fitness goals. If you skimp on time, you may get hurt in the training process. Avoid injuries by giving yourself the proper time to train.If you want to run a marathon and you are a beginner level runner, you will need around twenty two weeks. If you don’t give yourself the proper training time, you may hurt yourself.

