 When you have an especially busy week, or simply don't feel like working out, it might help to focus on the reasons you made the decision to get fit. Exercise not only controls weight, it helps fight disease, improves the immune system, and gives you more energy. Exercise also improves your mood and helps you sleep better., Many people find that going to a gym several times a week is a convenient way to exercise, but there are many other ways to stay healthy and active. Running, walking, and swimming are all great ways to stay fit. You might also consider taking lessons for something you'd like to learn: dancing, surfing, or ice skating., Pay attention to all the elements of total fitness, including endurance, strength, balance, and flexibility.Try to build up gradually to at least 30 minutes of an activity that makes you breathe hard. Your goal should be 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise a week, or 30 minutes five times a week.Lift weights to improve muscle tone. Keeping your muscles in shape will make your daily tasks easier to manage, and will help you avoid problems later in life, such as a broken hip caused by a fall.Improving your balance will also help you avoid dangerous falls later in life, and will allow you to remain active and mobile throughout your life. One easy exercise is to walk in a straight line, placing the heel of one foot directly in front of the toe of the other as if you were crossing a river on a slender beam.Regular stretching exercises will improve your overall flexibility, making it easier to bend to tie your shoes or to reach something on a high shelf. Be sure to stretch your muscles gently, to avoid injury., Having an “exercise buddy” will help you both to stay motivated, and will make your workout time more enjoyable. For a fun weekend activity, get some friends together to play basketball, softball, volleyball, or tennis., Setting goals for yourself will help keep you motivated, and meeting your goal milestones will give you a wonderful boost of confidence and a feeling of accomplishment; however, be sure to break your overall goals down into small, manageable steps, so you won't become discouraged., It isn't necessary to work out first thing in the morning, if you are not a morning person. If you feel most active in the afternoon, schedule your workouts for the afternoon hours., If you aren't sure where to start, enlist the help of a professional fitness trainer. Some gyms offer free consultation with a fitness trainer as part of your enrollment fee. If you don't belong to a gym, seek out an independent trainer to work with you. A trainer will assess your strengths and weaknesses, and suggest a regimen that will achieve your particular fitness goals.