 Spiders are attracted to dark, quiet places, which is why they're commonly found in basement corners. If you have a lot of clutter in your home, you're creating more comfortable places for spiders to inhabit.


Remove old furniture. If you have chairs, couches, and other old, dusty furniture that never gets used, consider letting it air out and taking to a donation center. Little-used furniture makes a good home for spiders.
Don't use the space under your bed as a storage area. Forgotten clothes and shoes, stacks of papers, and other items you might have under the bed might be attracting spiders.






Throw out recycling promptly. Storing old bottles, cans, and newspapers is a sure way to attract creatures, including spiders, to your home. Recycle these items promptly after using them.
 Spiders tend to crawl into the comfortable spaces provided by boxes, bags and other storage items. Since items are usually stored in rooms and closets that don't get daily use, making sure to store things properly is especially important.


Don't store boxes on the floor. Placing them on a shelving unit makes them less accessible to spiders.
Don't use cardboard boxes. Using plastic boxes with tight-fitting lids stored on shelves deters spiders from moving in.
 Spiders prey on insects, and insects are attracted to crumbs, sugar, and other human food items. Keep your kitchen clean and your food sealed in airtight containers to prevent insect infestation from happening.


Vacuum your house once a week. Cleaning the carpet sucks away insect eggs and removes tiny bits of food that might attract bugs.
Use a cleaner to scrub your windowsills, baseboards, and other areas every few weeks.
 Different spiders are attracted to different sorts of traps, so choose the type that will work for the spiders that live in your area. Spiders will walk across the traps and get stuck, and you can dispose of the traps later.
 If you have a lot of spiders in your home, spraying a pesticide around entryways might be the right option for you. Pesticides are generally effective, but because they are poisonous, they should not be used if you have children or pets.

