 In almost every major city in Japan, vendors, advertising agencies and businesses hand out pocket tissues. You will find pocket tissues on almost every corner. These pocket tissue packs almost always have advertising inserts, and are a great way for advertisers to get the word out about their products. You get free tissues and companies get to market their businesses — everyone benefits., Handkerchiefs are typically reserved for wiping sweat off of your head, tears from your eyes, or drying your hands. They are never used for nose blowing. Because of this, you need to use a tissue to blow your nose. Often, people who live in Japan will carry a tissue and a handkerchief with them – one for drying and one for nose blowing., In Japan, mucus is as vile as other body excretions are in the Western world. So, you’ll want to take care that you dispose of your tissue properly. Find a trash bin, typically located near the exit to every restroom or building, and make sure that your tissue is fully in the waste receptacle.If you miss the bin and the tissue falls to the ground, pick it up quickly and try again.
Wash your hands immediately after disposing of the soiled tissue.
 Never use a tissue more than once, and certainly don’t save all or part of a tissue to use later. This is the equivalent of reusing toilet paper in the Western world. Use a clean tissue every time, and remember that tissues are readily available throughout Japan, should you need more., If you absolutely must, you may discreetly wipe your nose with a tissue. You still don’t want to face anyone while dabbing your nose, and you definitely don’t want to make any sound. Remember to use a tissue, not a handkerchief, and excuse yourself if a discreet wipe isn’t sufficient.Fortunately, the need to blow your nose rarely sneaks up on you, which will give you ample time to find an appropriate place to resolve the issue.
 You might find yourself in a position in which you’re unable to excuse yourself to blow your nose. Your companions will understand your predicament. Simply turn around, ensuring that you’re not facing anyone, and blow your nose as quietly and quickly as possible.Facing someone while performing a crude action like blowing your nose is considered disrespectful.
It’s best, of course, to excuse yourself to a restroom and return to the table after you’ve blown your nose.
As an adult, you don’t need to offer an explanation for leaving the table. Simply say, “Excuse me, I’ll be back shortly.”

, In Western cultures it is considered rude to sniffle, but this is accepted and expected in Japan. You might encounter people snorting loudly or sniffling repeatedly, and both are acceptable alternatives to blowing your nose in public. So, if you find yourself without tissues or in a public space, sniffle as much as necessary to keep your mucus at bay.If you’re not in a public space, it isn’t necessary to sniffle. Instead, simply excuse yourself and blow your nose.
 It is expected that you will wear a surgical mask if you are sick. This is so that you don’t spread germs to others, and also so that others will not see your runny nose. Masks are abundant in Japan and you will have no difficulty finding one. Remember that masks are an expected courtesy in Japan, and you will stand out more if you have a runny nose and don’t wear one.Wearing masks is pretty commonplace in Japan, and they aren’t just for colds. Some people wear masks for fevers, to block out pollen, and to avoid getting sick from others.
 Sometimes, the more you focus on not being able to do something the way you're habituated to can cause it to become more of an issue than it ever need be. Blow your nose (or not) discreetly, politely and get on with your day.
 There are a multitude of ways to apologize in Japanese that are based on how well you know the person to whom you’re apologizing and how severe the offense is.Blowing your nose in front of people is considered quite rude, but not isn’t the worst social offense that you could commit. If you feel that it’s appropriate, apologize for your behavior, but understand that it isn’t expected.


You could say, “Shitsurei shimasu,” which means “I’ve been rude.”People in Japan don't say "bless you" or "gesundheit" after a person sneezes — usually nothing is said. Still, you may wish to apologize if you sneeze.
 You may come from a Western culture that finds sniffling and snorting to be the height of rudeness. Or you might come from a culture that finds wearing masks to be a bit strange. Your reaction may be to give reproaching glances to those who are sniffling, or wearing masks, or handing out pocket tissues, but you must be mindful of Japanese culture and appreciate cultural differences.