 The main difference between a basic roundhouse kick and a side kick is that the latter is delivered from in front of the target, rather than from the side. Starting from your basic guard stance, raise your rear leg out in front of you (not out to the side like you would for an ordinary roundhouse kick), bending at the knee as you do so.
 Before you deliver your side kick, you want your leg to be parallel with the floor — in other words, the inside of your leg should be facing the floor and your knee should be pointing directly to the side. This requires you to make a few separate movements at once — though they sound complicated, they should actually feel quick and natural after plenty of practice. Do the following:









Pivot with your foot on the ground to turn your body so that your bent kicking leg comes in line with your target.
Lean away from your kicking leg with your upper body to keep it elevated and maintain your balance.
Use your hip muscles to pull your kicking leg up. It should be basically parallel to the floor (or as close as you're able to get it) before you make your kick — the strength of the side kick is in its quick, direct forcefulness.
 In a single smooth but sudden motion, extend your leg as quickly as you can, making contact with the outer bottom edge of your foot. Ideally, for maximum kicking force, you want your upper body and kicking leg to make a straight line to your target roughly parallel to the floor — this will require you to keep your leg high, lean with your upper body, and turn at the hips as you deliver your kick.









As you make your kicking motion, continue to pivot on your standing foot. A full side kick requires about 180o of rotation — your foot will start facing toward your target and end facing away from it as you kick connects., When you feel your kick connect firmly, withdraw it immediately (as you would for a normal roundhouse) for the greatest possible striking force. Return to a standing position by pivoting your standing foot back forward and lowering your kicking leg to the ground (or, alternatively, perform more kicks).









Not only is the side kick quick and powerful — it's also versatile in terms of striking targets. Depending on how high you're able to raise your leg, it's possible to deliver a side kick anywhere from an opponent's leg or groin to their face. Hip flexibility is essential for raising your leg high enough to hit upper body targets. If you can't get your side kick above an opponent's waist, try starting a regimen of hip stretches to improve your flexibility.

