 Children who have Asperger’s can be hyperactive, inattentive, and disorganized, however, many of them also have special interests at which they've become experts. If you have special interests of your own, you have an innate advantage over many other people. You just have to learn how to harness your special interests and steer them towards employment or job skills.For example, if you love animals and have a special connection with them, you might consider a career as a veterinarian. As a vet, your relationship with animals will be far more important than your relationship with people, so your social skills won't be as important. You also have many opportunities to prepare for your career and work with animals by becoming a veterinary assistant or volunteering at an animal shelter.
Many other special interests also translate into specific career paths. Even if yours doesn't, you may be able to find something that relates to it in some way, or enables you to use skills similar to those you've developed pursuing your special interest. For example, if autism is one of your special interests, you might consider working as a tutor for autistic children or becoming a counselor who specializes in helping people on the spectrum.
 If you have skills in math and science, as many autistic people do, you might consider using tech programs to develop job skills. Often you can take these classes even while you're in high school.If you're already out of high school, trade schools still offer an affordable way to get job skills. Many trade programs are less expensive than a four-year degree at a traditional university, and trade schools or community colleges often have resources to help you find employment.
Consider getting a catalogue for your local community college or trade school and looking at the programs they offer. If you see something that interests you, see if you can sign up for a single class without formally enrolling as a student.
You also might be able to send an email to the instructor of a class and ask if you can sit in on a single class session. Just write something like "Hi, my name is Sally. I'm interested in computers and I'm thinking about getting training to become a certified programmer. Would it be possible for me to sit in on your class Monday night to see if it would be right for me?" You don't have to mention that you have Asperger's Syndrome or that you're autistic.
 If you do go to a four-year college or university, you may be required to take classes in subjects that you don't like or have any motivation to pursue. Likewise, you may find you have to do similar tasks as an adult in the working world.For example, you may be in a career or profession that requires a certain number of hours of volunteer work or continuing education every year. If you leave these requirements to the last minute, you won't have as many options. However, if you start as soon as possible you'll have a better chance of finding a way to fulfill those requirements that you can handle without too much difficulty.
When working with school general education requirements, talk to a professor to find out if there are other options available to fulfill those requirements. There may be alternative classes available, or projects you can complete instead of taking the class.
 When you're autistic, you may find that neurotypical people are able to advance in ways that don't appeal to you or that you never considered. Rather than using your Asperger's Syndrome as an excuse, come up with your own ways to move forward and succeed on your own merits.For example, you may find interviews difficult. Nonetheless, most employers require you to successfully complete an interview before they will hire you. If you can find a way to get your work in front of someone so that they see what you can do before they meet you, the impression you make personally may not make as much of a difference.
If you have trouble talking to or socializing with others, consider sending emails to employers or executives instead. Express your interest in a particular field or position, explain your qualifications, and provide work samples if possible.
You also may consider explaining yourself up front and telling people that you are autistic. The risk in doing that is that some people may not react well because they have some misconceptions about what being autistic means.
 Both at work and at school, you may have the legal right to accommodations because your autism means you aren't able to do things in the same way, at the same speed, or in the same environment that neurotypical people are.If you need accommodations, you have to be able to speak up and ask for them. This means you must be able to explain your problem to someone who has the authority to do something about it. This could be a teacher or administrator at school, or a supervisor at work.
Seek out an ally who is willing to help you if you're uncomfortable seeking accommodations on your own. This could be another teacher, a co-worker, or even a friend. Explain to them the problem you're having, and how it could be improved.
For example, suppose you got a job in an office where you work in a cubicle surrounded by other cubicles in a room lit with fluorescent lights. The noise from the other cubicles makes it impossible for you to concentrate, and the lights give you a headache and make it difficult for you to focus. Several times, you've gone into the bathroom and banged your head against the door of the stall in an attempt to make everything stop.
Look around the office and see how the situation could be alleviated. Maybe there's a conference room or another area where you could work that doesn't have fluorescent lights. This would help your sensory issues. If the noise problem wasn't improved by moving to another part of the office, maybe noise-canceling headphones would do the trick.

