 Leafy green vegetables have high levels of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. Importantly for liver function, they can lower the level of fat deposits in the liver.Leafy greens include spinach, collard, beet, turnip and mustard greens, kale, the cruciferous vegetables (cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, Brussels sprouts), Swiss chard, dandelion greens, and all lettuces.
 Beets alone won't lower your liver enzymes, but they're high in "flavonoids" that act as antioxidants that support liver function.Avocados can also be helpful, as they have a lot of vitamin E, which is an effective natural antioxidant. Avocados and walnuts have precursors for the body’s primary antioxidant — glutathione.Walnuts are also a good source of omega-3 fatty acids, which can reduce liver inflammation.Other nuts, including walnuts, Brazil nuts, pecans, and almonds also contain B vitamins and minerals in significant amounts.
 Foods that are high in fiber prevent your body from absorbing cholesterol. By reducing the amount of cholesterol your liver has to process, you increase liver health and lower enzyme levels.Fiber also increases the liver's bile secretion, improving fat digestion and preventing liver disease down the line. Foods high in fiber include:Oat, wheat, corn, rice bran
Beans (lima, adzuki, black, red, kidney, white,navy and pinto beans), lentils (red, brown and yellow) and peas
Berries (raspberry, blueberry, strawberry, blackberry, loganberry, gooseberry, boysenberry, salmonberry)
Whole grains ( wheat, oats, corn, rye, teff, buckwheat, brown rice)
Leafy green vegetables (Greens of turnips, mustard, collard, beets and Swiss chard, kale, and spinach)
Nuts (almonds, pistachios, cashews, walnuts) and seeds (sesame, pumpkin, flax, sunflower)
Fruit (especially those with edible rinds such as pears, apples, prunes, plums, peaches, apricots)

, Eating citrus fruits or drinking their juices will help the liver heal, bringing enzyme levels back to healthy levels. Citrus fruits are also known to reduce the risk of liver cancer.Find ways to work oranges, grapefruits, lemons, and limes into your diet. When buying juices, look for products fortified with extra vitamin C.
 The family of vegetables called "cruciferous vegetables" are known to balance the production of detoxifying liver enzymes. These "phase two detoxification enzymes" neutralize cancer-causing carcinogens in the body. These vegetables also have plenty of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and fiber:Broccoli
Brussels sprouts
Cauliflower
Radishes
Horseradish
Rutabaga and turnips
Wasabi
Watercress

, But because the liver is the organ processing the protein, you may overwhelm it with too much protein. This causes even more strain, further elevating your enzyme levels.


Speak to your doctor and/or nutritionist about how much protein you should be consuming. They will be able to provide you with a plan specific to your body's needs.
 Drinking enough water will help your liver flush out waste products, reducing its work burden.Drink eight to ten 8 oz. glasses of water every day. Take special care to drink water at the following times:When you first wake up.
Before and during meals.
Before and after physical activity.
Right before you go to bed.
 Too much fat, salt, sugar, or oil can overburden the liver. If you already have high enzyme levels, you need to give your liver a break for a while. Avoid the following foods to balance your enzyme levels:


Fatty foods like lamb, beef, chicken skin, foods made with shortening or lard, and vegetable oils.Salty foods like most processed and prepared foods, snacks like pretzels and chips, and canned foods.
Sugary foods like cakes, pies, or cookies.
Fried foods.
Raw or undercooked shellfish (these may contain liver-damaging toxins).
Alcohol (though it’s not a food) should be avoided as much as possible, especially if you already have liver disease.

