 Follow school rules and show appreciation for the teachers and staff. Teachers will be impressed if you follow the rules, despite the many temptations to break them. Following the rules shows that you can respect what is deemed appropriate in a certain environment, even if you don’t agree with the policies.


School rules apply both in and out of the classroom. Remember that your teachers are not only watching you in class but also see you in the hallways and cafeteria.
Try showing appreciation for your teacher by saying, “Wow, Mr. Taylor, I like the way you decorated the classroom.”;
, Your middle school teacher might set his or her own rules or be given a set of standardized classroom rules. Either way, the expectations for the classroom are usually meant to help students do their best work at school. Your teacher will appreciate your cooperation when you consistently follow his or her rules., Be kind and greet your teachers every day. You do not need to be friends with your teacher, but you should develop a respectful relationship. That way, your teacher will be able to do a good job teaching and you are more likely to be a good student in his or her class.Be polite. Greetings are polite and show maturity. Remember to thank your teachers for the work that they do. Teachers will be impressed if you look them in the eye and say things like, “Good morning” or “Thank you for showing us that film.”

, It is normal to be wrapped up in your life as a middle school student. Remember that teachers are people that have lives outside of school too. Impress your teachers by thinking beyond your experience in middle school. You might have questions about high school or work life. Teachers will be impressed if you show the ability to discuss topics outside of what happens in the classroom.


You might ask your teacher about his or her life outside of school. Try saying, “Hey Mr. Taylor, how was your weekend? Did you do anything special?”, If your school has a dress code, follow it. If not, wear clothing that doesn’t distract from being an engaged student. Teachers appreciate students who dress appropriately because it makes the teacher’s job easier. No one likes to tell someone that their clothes must be changed.


Avoid clothes with profanity or drug-related references.
Make sure that your clothing completely covers your butt, thighs, and chest. Remember that your purpose in school is not to draw attention to your wardrobe or your body.
 It is natural to have conflicts with your peers (and with teachers too). Teachers expect this to happen, especially in middle school. It is truly impressive when students have a conflict but are able to resolve it before things escalate. If you have a social in a conflict in class, tell your teacher what is going on. You might be able to change seats or step out of the room for a moment. Teachers will appreciate that you talk to them instead of lashing out in the middle of a lesson.


Talk to your teachers about bullying. Having a positive relationship with your teacher can help you talk to them about bullying.If you are being bullied or know that someone else is being bullied, talk to a teacher or guidance counselor. Adults know that it is difficult to talk about being teased, so they will be impressed with your bravery.
 It can be difficult to show your true colors in middle school. It takes practice to be genuinely you! Students stand out when they are true to who they are, so try to accept yourself and let your personality shine.


Remember to be respectful of others. Being yourself is great, but it should not come at the expense of others. Remember to think twice about any hurtful actions or comments.

