 Women are often very uncomfortable asking for things during sex. Just because she feels uncomfortable does not mean that she doesn’t have preferences.


If she is really too embarrassed to talk about herself, try to find a middle ground. Maybe she can touch you a certain way when you do something right or wrong. Maybe she just needs to talk about it later, and doesn’t like talking in the moment. Whatever it is, make sure that you find a way to understand her needs and her body.
 The difference between passion and desperation can seem difficult to discern, but to your partner it will be obvious. If you seem to want her specifically, you will seem passionate. If your focus is on sex in general, you will seem desperate.


Passion is about making a woman feel wanted. Instead of talking about wanting to have sex, talk about how much your partner makes you want to have sex. Compliments are the best way to go about this. Say, “The way that shirt looks on you drives me crazy!” or, “You smell so good, I just want to eat you up!”

, Kissing is usually the gateway into other forms of intimacy. It is also a way to experiment with sexual style without as much fear of rejection.


Try starting slow, being aggressive, and using your hands on other parts of her body while you kiss. If she recoils at sudden aggression, she will also recoil from it during sex. If she melts when you build up to aggression, the same will hold true during sex.
Kiss and touch other parts of her body. This holds true at all times. No matter what part of her you are kissing, make sure that she feels connected to her entire body.


Oral sex and fingering, while encouraged, are not the same as foreplay. Caressing, kissing, and other forms of touch are foreplay. Explore her body before beelining for her underwear.

Flirty exchanges can also act as foreplay. Light teasing and wrestling works for some couples. Massages and romantic dates also factor in as foreplay. If you touch her during a date, you will subtly remind her of intimacy later.
 Whether or not women like their partner to be vocal during sex is a matter of personal taste. However, if you are completely stoic during and after sex, she might feel insecure.


Even if she is not insecure, she may get bored. Sex is a shared experience, and some women need to know that you are enjoying sex in order to be able to enjoy it themselves.

