 The reason luck happens to the lucky is that lucky people go into a situation expecting success and expecting a lucky outcome. It's just like grandma always used to say: If you think it's going to be boring, it will be. If you go into work expecting a rough day, chances are it's going to be a rough day. If you go into an experience expecting that you're going to have an opportunity for success, you're going to make it happen.


Expecting a lucky outcome will make you more aware of advantages and opportunities. Like the lucky people looking through the paper, you'll be more aware and on the lookout for that little thing that's going to get you ahead of the game, rather than giving up prematurely, because you feel unlucky.
 At the end of each day, reflect back on what you've accomplished. Each thing ticked off your to-do list, each goal finished for the day should be celebrated with a mental note and a reward. Don't think about things you wish you would have done, or the things you'd liked to have made time for. Think about what you actually did. Focus hard on your accomplishments and celebrate them.


List big accomplishments and small ones. Cleaning up the kitchen without a fuss? That's an accomplishment. Getting out of bed and riding the bus to work? Huge deal. Feel lucky about it.
 Take a little time out of each day to celebrate the things you've accomplished. It doesn't have to be a blowout party with champagne and cake, but some quiet reflection over new accomplishments and old successes is very important to help you feel lucky.


Learning to look back over each day to examine your accomplishments will also help you to move forward and set yourself up for more accomplishments. Get addicted to that pleased feeling of having done something productive today.
Make sure your celebrations aren't counterproductive. Celebrating a hard day at the office with a long night at the bar won't make tomorrow very easy on you.
 We tend to compare ourselves to people in our social circles: siblings, Facebook friends, or high school classmates. All too often, we may not feel we "measure up". But the only person you have got to please with your accomplishment is yourself. Feeling that you do not compare with others make you feel that you are somehow unfortunate, too. Social networking can be a real downer. People tend to post the good things, and not mention the ordinary or the bad as much. As a result, you may see your ex-roommate's awesome photos of his trip to Puerto Rico, and feel jealous. But you may not hear about how he fought with his wife the whole trip!
Remember your qualities if you compare yourself to others. Maybe you do envy your friend's artwork. However, you are the person she comes to when she needs her computer fixed -- a practical skill that she lacks. That is every bit as admirable as artistic ability!

, Learning to put yourself out there can help you make connections and feel fortuitous and fortunate. Expect that every interaction you have with a stranger, even five minutes on the subway, could be life-changing and critical. Maybe the bored guy chatting with you at the post-office might be a like-minded musician you could start a band with. Maybe the cute barista is "the one." Don't let opportunities pass you by.
 Having plans is a good way to feel unlucky and disappointed. No one will feel lucky all the time, or experience good fortune every day, but learning to roll with the punches and be at least a little flexible will help you to get the best out of those situations that don't go the way you want.


Try to stay focused on the bigger picture. If your peaceful Sunday at home, a day you wanted to devote to cleaning, or spending with your partner, has been interrupted by your friend needed a ride to the airport, don't overreact. Celebrate the chance you'll get to hang out with your friend before a trip. Go into with positive energy.

