 Look at the clothes in your closet – the stuff you have from one store is probably not the exact same size as the stuff you have from another. This is normal, if frustrating - clothing sizes usually vary from store to store and brand to brand. Getting the right size jeans is the most important step to making sure your skinnies are comfortable!Take three pairs of jeans into the fitting room with you – your usual size, one size smaller than your usual size, and one size larger. This gives you some options right there in the dressing room without having to change back into your clothes and exchange your jeans for another size if they don’t fit.
Remember that depending on the cut of the jean, you might wear a different size in two different styles from the same brand.;
, Because the actual measurements that correspond to sizes vary from store to store and brand to brand, you’ll have to take your own measurements and then check out that brand or store’s fit guide, which can usually be found online.


To measure your waist, use a piece of string around the narrowest part of your waist, but don’t pull too tight! Measure the string against a ruler to determine your measurement. Measure the fullest part of your hips with your feet about 6 inches apart for your hip measurement., Aside from knowing what numbers you should be looking for on the tags of your skinnies, you also need to know if you should be looking for petite, regular, tall, or curvy jeans. These different fits correspond to the measurements of your hips and waist.


Petite jeans generally have slightly smaller waist and hip measurements than regular jeans in the same size.
Tall jeans tend to have the same waist and hip measurements as regular jeans in the same size, but will have much, much longer inseams.
Curvy jeans normally have the same inseam as regular jeans, but slightly larger waist and hip measurements.
 How often have you tried on a pair of jeans that you loved, but they were either too short or pooled around your shoes? The perfect pair of skinny jeans should come to just below your ankle, without spilling onto the floor.


If you’re under 5’4” tall, you’ll generally want to look for a “short” length jean.
If you’re between 5’4” and 5’5”, you’ll generally want a “regular” length jean.
If you’re taller than 5’6”, try a “long” length jean.Whatever the length of your skinny jeans, skinnies should hit you at the same place. Perfect-length skinnies should work with flats, heels, and sneakers, and you should also be able to tuck them into boots without bunching up the material., A good general rule to follow is to find mid-rise skinny jeans, which shouldn’t hit you too high or too low at the waist. Focus on finding this type of fit rather than a specific size.If you’re looking for curvy skinny jeans, try something with a slightly higher waist.
If you’re looking for petite skinny jeans, try something that’s got a slightly lower waist., This will take some experimenting too, because some people look better in a dark wash and some look better in a lighter wash.


Dark washes tend to have a slimming effect, hiding the imperfections we might not want easily visible. Dark wash jeans are also the easiest to take from day to night, so you might want to go with a dark wash if you need a pair of skinnies for an event right after work.
Light washes are great for summer skinnies because they pair well with the lighter and brighter colors we tend to wear then. But some light washes can make your legs look bigger and some are see-through!Skinny jeans also come in a lot of different colors and patterns, rather than just denim washes. Small patterns – like polka dots or a leopard print – won’t add any heft to your leg, and vertical stripes will actually slim them. Stay away from overly large prints and horizontal stripes!

, When buying comfortable skinnies, stretch is going to be the most important factor. You want skinnies with enough stretch that allows you to breathe but also clings to you in the right places. This will vary from body to body and person to person, so you’ll have to experiment to find the perfect stretch. But if you pick up a pair of skinnies and they feel super stiff, they probably won’t work for you!

, If you find your skinnies are a little too tight at the knee, look for a straight leg or pencil cut. This will give you a straight cut all the way down and free up your knees!

, If your skinnies tend to sag at the waist after a few wears, try a pair with a two-piece contour waist. This means that the waist of your jeans is made from two, slightly curved pieces, rather than one straight piece that goes all the way around., This is the worst consequence of skinny jeans. You love the way the jeans fit through your legs but they’re just a bit too tight at the waist and the part of you that doesn’t fit into the jeans spills over the top! This easiest way to avoid this is to make sure you have a mid- or high-rise jean.
 Unless you want to draw attention to your butt, avoid pockets that are overly large. They shouldn’t fall lower than the crease between your thighs and butt.


If you’re a little flat in the back, go ahead and get jeans with big pockets! They will be more flattering., Skinny jeans are the most popular type of jean that retailers sell, but there’s a huge variety in what skinny jeans look like. Once you know what size, fit, and inseam will give you the perfect pair of skinnies, decide what you need the skinnies for! Maybe you need skinnies to wear for a night out on the town, or maybe you’re looking for skinnies that will easily tuck into the boots. Knowing what you need ahead of time will save you a lot of time.


For a more formal look, try a darker wash. As mentioned above, that wash tends to be slimming and it also looks great with dressier shoes.
For an edgier look, try skinnies that have interesting details – rips in the legs, a distressed wash, or an embroidered pattern can make your skinnies stand out.
 Everyone’s body is different so the same pair of jeans will fit you differently than they fit your best friend. Don’t be afraid to buy a pair that’s a little too long or a little too big in the waist and have them tailored to fit your body perfectly! Nordstrom’s offers free hemming on jeans that you buy from them!

, Being comfortable in skinny jeans is not just about the jeans, but about what you wear with them.If you have a curvier figure, try tucking your skinnies into mid-calf or knee high boots and pair them with a longer tunic shirt. This will flatter your body by evening out your proportions!
If you have a slim and straight figure, try a low rise that’s tailored to be tight at the ankles. This slims your legs and gives your hips the appearance of being wider.
If you have a petite figure, high rise skinnies can make your legs look much longer, particularly if you pair the skinnies with a tucked-in shirt!
If you’re on the taller side, congratulations! Skinnies will look great on you regardless of how you style them. If you’re self-conscious about the length of your legs, a low-rise skinny with a long shirt can help them appear shorter.