 This is the screen that first appears when you launch Snapchat, and you'll see the image from your device's camera when it is open.;
, You'll see this button in the upper-left corner. Tapping it will switch between the front-facing and rear-facing cameras on your device.
 You'll record as long as you're holding the button, up to 10 seconds in length. This is the maximum limit for Snapchat videos.
 The recording will stop automatically after 10 seconds. After the recording is finished, you'll see your recorded video loop back.
 If you toggle the audio off, the recipient will not hear anything. If audio is enabled, which it is by default, the recipient will be able to hear the audio of your video.
 There are a variety of filters that you can choose from by swiping left and right. Some filters will change depending on your current location. See Use Video Filters on Snapchat for more details on getting the most out of Snapchat's video filters.


By using the slow motion filter, you can effectively double the length of your video. This is the only way to send video Snaps that are longer than 10 seconds., This will enable Drawing mode, and you can use your finger to draw on the video Snap. You can change colors by using the palette in the upper-right corner. See Draw on Snapchat for tips on using the drawing feature., This will add a caption bar and open your keyboard. You can move the caption bar around the screen, and rotate it with two fingers. Tapping the "T" again will make the font bigger.
 This will open a menu with lots of different sticker and emoji options. You can swipe left and right in the menu to view different categories. Tap a sticker to add it to the Snap. You can then tap and drag the sticker to move it around.


Press and hold a sticker for a moment to pause the video. This will allow you to "pin" the sticker to an object in the video, and it will track that object throughout the entire video. See Use 3D Stickers in Snapchat for detailed instructions., This will open your friends list, and you can select the people you want to send it to. You can select as many people as you'd like to send the video to. You can also send the video to your Story, where it will be available for your followers to see for 24 hours.

