 Although you won’t begin actively researching or writing a dissertation until you reach the final part of your doctoral program – usually after several years of graduate-level coursework and exams – you should start thinking about potential projects well in advance. Your first few years of graduate school are crucial because they will introduce you to the important scholarship in your field. As you work to master this material, you might as well consider what you might be able to add to it. Keep a running list of your ideas. Ask yourself:


What areas of your field need further exploration? Is some of the existing scholarship lacking in nuance?
Could you apply an existing scholarly model to new situations or difference evidence?
What existing scholarly arguments might be effectively challenged, given appropriate evidence?
Are there important scholarly debates in your field that you might be able to address, using a different focus?;
, Even within the same field, different departments approach the dissertation project in a variety of ways. You need to know what a satisfactory dissertation looks like in your field, from your university, written with the support of your department – and ideally, your particular advisor and committee members. Doing some basic research will help you feel more confident and make the process seem a little less shrouded in mystery. You will be more likely to choose a project that will enable you to fulfill your department’s expectations.


Ask questions. Your advisor or Director of Graduate Studies should be able to give you some information about departmental standards for the dissertation and answer any general questions you have.
Examine completed dissertations from your department. Many universities put doctoral dissertations online or shelve them at the library. Look at a few recent ones. How long are they, on average? What kind of research do they contain? How are they typically organized?

, Be open-minded and receptive to their suggestions.


Remember that people who have been through the dissertation process already may be in a better position than you are to recognize the potential problems with some of your ideas. If they advise you that a particular idea is overly ambitious or that you will be unlikely to find evidence to answer a certain research question, listen to them and take their input seriously.
 You want to choose a project that can be completed in a reasonable amount of time, given the resources you are likely to have.Unfortunately, this sometimes means that you’ll have to set aside some of your most exciting and ambitious ideas. Remember: if you cannot complete your dissertation within the time constraints, then it won’t matter how brilliant or revolutionary your ideas were.


Consider department and university timelines. Most programs limit the number of years you can spend on your dissertation. Know your time constraints, and factor them into the process of choosing a project.
In many fields, you will have to factor in your funding possibilities. How much travel, archival research, and/or laboratory work will your project require? How will you fund that work? How much money, realistically, will you be able to pull together? The answers to these questions will help you determine how realistic a given idea might be.
 Once you’ve solicited advice, considered practical issues, and narrowed down your options, think about which potential projects fascinate you the most. The dissertation process is a long one. You will be living and breathing this project for a long time. Make it something that excites you.
 Once you’ve tentatively chosen a project, you need to read whatever scholarly material already exists on your topic (and even on subjects closely related to your topic). Do exhaustive searches in whatever databases your field typically uses. There is nothing worse than realizing, halfway through your dissertation research, that someone else has already published something that answers your question, or that someone else has already attempted to do so and determined that the evidence does not exist.
 Once you’ve chosen a project and done the necessary background reading, it can be hard to figure out where to start.You haven’t yet undertaken the research necessary to formulate a solid argument, so, for the time being, think of your project as a scholarly question you want to answer. Later, when you think you have the answer, it can become your thesis – the original argument that your dissertation will make.


In general, “how” and “why” questions work best for dissertations, as they will yield richer, more complex answers.
 Once you know where you’ll need to go and what kind of work you’ll need to do, start applying for all available funding – from your department, from your university, and from external organizations.Academic funding moves slowly: you might, for example, apply for a grant in October, receive notice that you’ve won the award (or not) in March, and get to use the money at some point beginning in June. If you don’t cast a wide net and get an early start, you could add years to your dissertation timeline.
 Your advisor will be the person who guides your research, supports you emotionally and mentally through the development of your project, and ultimately signs off on your work. You should select someone whose work you respect, who is relatively easy to get along with, and who communicates effectively.


You should try to find an advisor who is happy to offer guidance but still allows your work to be your work.Someone who is overly rigid may not be easy to work with during revisions or if your work goes in a new direction.
 In general, you want people with whom you’ve already worked closely and whose specific fields of expertise vary. Different perspectives are valuable.Be aware that, depending on your institution, you may not be able to select your committee members. It is common to form your own committee in the US, but in other parts of the world, the dissertation advisor often puts together a committee for the student.
 It’s important to come up with a system that works for you early in the dissertation process – this way, you’ll stay organized and able to keep track of what will quickly become a huge amount of material. Your advisor, committee members, and fellow graduate students are good sources of advice about which kinds of systems work best for your kind of project.


Electronic note-taking systems like Zotero, EndNote, and OneNote are life-savers for many graduate students. They will allow you to keep bibliographic references and research notes organized and coded, and they make searching for specific information much easier. Unless you very strongly prefer paper and pencil, one of these programs will be beneficial. Experiment to see which you like best.
 Using the proper formatting for writing, references, works cited, and footnotes from the start of your project will make your final stages much easier; do not wait until the end and go back to re-format everything.


The appropriate style will vary from field to field; the most common styles are APA, MLA, Chicago, and Turabian.
In addition to the “parent style” of your discipline, your institution may have specific formatting guidelines for your dissertation (such as end notes instead of footnotes). Some even provide templates to use while composing the dissertation. Check with your advisor or the Director of Graduate Studies before you begin writing to find out information about formatting.
 Perhaps your preliminary laboratory test results don’t show what you think they will, or the archive you visit doesn’t have the evidence you think it has. Maybe, after extensive research, you realize that you’re asking an unanswerable question. This is not necessarily a crisis. Most graduate students have to adjust their dissertation plans in some way.


It is quite common from the final dissertation to differ significantly from the prospectus/proposal. As you research, the direction of your work may necessarily shift or change.
 Make sure that you contact your advisor and other committee members with updates on your work and any questions that arise.This will prevent unpleasant surprises down the road – if, for example, a committee member does not like a new direction that your project is taking, it’s better to know that early than to find out when you submit your manuscript.
 Try to think about one chapter (and even one sub-division of one chapter) at a time.
 Even before your research is complete, you can start outlining and writing small parts of your dissertation. Do it! A year in the future, when all you’re doing, it seems, is writing, you will be very, very glad that you did.


Don’t assume that you need to start with your first planned chapter and move straight through the projected manuscript. If your first solid research yields something that speaks to your third chapter, start there! Move back and forth between chapters if that’s what works best.
 Be flexible and realistic when necessary, but try to meet major deadlines. Many people find a reverse calendar quite helpful for dissertation writing.
 Write for an hour or two as soon as you get up. Are you a night owl? Promise yourself you’ll spend two hours writing during that window. Whatever your most productive time of day is, use it for your most difficult work.
 Having a space that is limited to productive work can help you focus and be in “work mode.”

, Don’t wait until you have a completed draft to solicit feedback. At the very least, send chapter drafts to your advisor as you finish them. Even better, share chapters-in-progress with other grad students or trusted mentors in your field.


Many departments offer writing workshops for graduate students. If yours does, take advantage of it! This is a great way to get feedback on your work during its earlier stages.
 Ideally, you’ll want to aim to take one day a week completely off from your dissertation work. You’ll have time to recharge, and you’ll return to your work with more energy and a fresh perspective. So get together with friends or family, go to the movies, take a yoga class, bake something delicious – whatever makes you feel rested and happy.


Consider building larger breaks into the process. If you wait until your dissertation is complete to celebrate your work and take a break, you’ll have a long, grim road ahead of you. Take a three-day weekend when you finish a chapter draft! Celebrate the end of a long, difficult research trip with a week of relaxation! This time off might feel lazy or frivolous, but it’s not – it’s necessary for your well-being.
 Doctoral candidates are notoriously unhealthy. They suffer from anxiety, stress, and depression; they eat poorly, skip exercising, and don’t get enough sleep. But you will be stronger and more productive if you take care of yourself, so don’t fall into this trap!


Eat well. Get enough protein, fiber, and vitamins, and drink plenty of water. Avoid sugary junk, fried foods, and excessive amounts of alcohol – all of these things will make you feel worse.
Maintain an exercise routine. You may think you don’t have time, but if you make it a priority, you can carve out thirty minutes a day for some kind of exercise – running, biking, even just walking.
Get enough sleep.Don’t be a martyr to the dissertation cause: you can get it done without staying up all night. Get your eight hours, and you’ll feel much better.
 While you are still working on your dissertation is the time to become active in your field. Talk to your advisor about the potential of publishing parts of your research prior to finishing the dissertation. Attend and present at conferences. Deliver presentations or poster sessions about your research. Discuss your work with other people in the field and ask for advice.Dress and act like a professional, not like an undergraduate student, while you are at conferences.
The prospect of becoming a professional academic can help you stay motivated in the final stages of your dissertation work.
 Once the end of your dissertation is in sight, you’ll need to know what your department and your university require in order to award you the degree. Do you need to schedule a defense of your dissertation? Who needs to approve your work? What paperwork will you need to turn in? Once you know the answers to these questions, you’ll be able to plan the final stages of your doctoral program.
 Meet with each committee member. Let him or her know that you are approaching completion, and ask what they’d like from you. How far in advance of the defense do they need to see a manuscript? Do they foresee any problems passing you?


This process will be much easier if, as suggested above, you kept in contact with your committee members throughout the dissertation process. Ideally, this will be a formality: there shouldn’t be any surprises.
 If you will have to defend your dissertation to your committee members, practice explaining your argument succinctly and, especially, describing the value of your work. This will come in handy at your defense, but it will also serve you well afterward, at conferences or in job interviews.


Practice answering, especially, the “so what?” question.Imagine a committee member says to you, “So, you’ve demonstrated that . So what?” How would you answer? Know why your work matters in your field.
 Dissertations are long, and you’ll likely be exhausted by the time you get to the home stretch. Have several people read your draft before you hand it to your committee members. This will eliminate unnecessary mistakes and identify unclear passages that need work.
 As you complete your writing, you may start to worry about what your committee will think of your work. Keep in mind that no one knows your material as well as you do. Have faith in yourself. You are now the one and only expert on this small aspect of your field.
 As you finish your dissertation, you may feel especially anxious – worried about your defense, concerned about your work’s value, stressed out about finishing graduate school and moving on to a new phase of your life. These feelings are normal, but don’t let them get out of control. Talk to a trusted friend, and practice the healthy habits described above.
 Whether you have a formal defense or not, completing your dissertation is a massive, once-in-a-lifetime accomplishment. Enjoy it. Be proud of yourself. Share the moment with friends and family. Celebrate a job well done – you are now a Dr.!

