 Study at Oxford is highly rigorous, and they want students who can handle a demanding academic workload. Prove you've got what it takes by investing time in your studies every day.


If you need help balancing your academic load with other commitments (work, family, etc.), talk to your academic advisor for suggestions.
Some Oxford departments require a minimum of a 3.7 GPA (on the 4.0 scale), while others require a minimum of 3.5., You can become a more attractive candidate for graduate study if you've shown a strong interest in your area of study. Chances are your current university offers opportunities to go beyond the required coursework, including clubs related to your subject, extra research opportunities, and internships.


If you're unsure about what opportunities are available to you, ask your academic advisor to point you in the right direction.
Don't forget that your university's library is a major resource. Check out books on your subject and read up on topics that interest you.
 You can do this via the university's website, which has specific pages for each course. Application requirements vary from course to course.


The course pages also provide information about what makes you eligible, particularly with regard to your university grades.
 This guide is available through the graduate admissions page and differs from year to year, so make sure you're reading the guide for your admissions year. Familiarize yourself with the application process and note any and all requirements, including standardized tests, undergraduate transcripts, references (letters of recommendation), and any written work you need to submit.


On the whole, if there are discrepancies between what the course page and the Admissions Guide state regarding the application process, the Admissions Guide takes precedence.
If you have questions, contact the Graduate Admissions and Funding office through the website.
Specific application processes apply to the following programs: the Postgraduate Certificate in Education, said Business School courses, Software Engineering courses, Clinical Medical degrees, the Doctoral Program in Clinical Psychology, and the Foreign Service Program., Graduate students belong to both their department and a college or hall. The colleges and halls are smaller communities within the university, where you'll be assigned a tutor who'll provide academic support. Each college has its own facilities, including accommodation, library, dining hall, and common room.Find out which colleges accept applications for your course of study. You can do this on the course webpage.
Other factors when choosing a college include: accommodation for couples, families and/or students with disabilities; funding opportunities; location within Oxford; and whether it is specifically for graduates (some are a mix of undergrads and grads).
Your application status does not depend on the college you choose. However, you may be reallocated to a college different than the one you've applied to.
Note that you can also make an "open application," and you'll be assigned to a college by the university. In this case, use the code provided on the application to indicate you have no college preference., Unlike US universities, Oxford does not always provide funding for its graduate students, and teaching opportunities, though there are a few, are not institutionalized. You'll need to consider how to finance your graduate study at Oxford, which can be a big investment.


Fortunately, there are a number of funding opportunities available to UK and international students. Learn more on the Fees and Funding page of the university's website., You'll need to provide references as part of your application. Ideally, these should be professors or advisors familiar with your academic work who can speak to your ability and potential for graduate study.


Don't be afraid to ask for letters of recommendation: this is something professors do all the time.
Be sure to ask them well in advance of the deadline.
Give them clear instructions as to the process (for Oxford it's all done online), and when the deadline is. You'll need to register them on the Oxford online application, and then they will receive a reference request.
Oxford does not send reminders about reference deadlines; you are responsible for checking that your referee has submitted the letter on time.
Do not get references from friends or family., Make sure you do so before the deadline for graduate admissions. You may or may not be asked to do an interview, depending on your department.


Use the checklist on the Applications page to ensure you've submitted all necessary application materials.
 Ideally, you should have this done before the application deadline; however, if you complete it after the deadline, have your results sent to Oxford as soon as they're available or submit them yourself electronically. Tests recognized by Oxford include:


English Language Testing System (IELTS)
Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT)
Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE)
Cambridge Certificate in Advanced English