 Think about what type of scene you want to make. Will it have planets, stars, nebulae, asteroids, or galaxies? Look through pictures in science books for ideas. Do a quick, preliminary sketch of the space scene you’re envisioning. The sketch doesn’t have to be perfect! Its purpose is to help you decide where you want everything to go before you start painting.


Be sure to include a light source, whether it's a sun or a self-lit object, like a galaxy.Draw arrows showing which way the light is traveling. Remember that light travels in straight lines out from the source.
If you are having trouble visualizing your scene, use a light bulb and a ball to help you see the shadows and light.
 Fill in your background with black paint, then add tiny white stars all over the black background. Be sure to make your stars different sizes. There should be small ones and large ones. Use white initially and then tint a few of them blue, red, and yellow.


Create space dust by loading your paintbrush with white paint and flicking it onto your painting.
If you are using water-based paints like tempera or watercolors, white areas are a bit more difficult. Plan out what will need to be white ahead of time, and don't paint anything over those parts.
 Space art always includes funky colored nebulae, so pick a vibrant color like green to work with. Paint wisps of green around the stars, working in a diagonal direction across your canvas/paper. Then paint wispy black strokes through and around the green wisps, which will add depth. It's perfectly fine to cover some of the stars with this.Covering up some of the stars will make them appear to recede, creating the illusion that the nebulae is in the foreground. This adds additional depth to the image.
Choose a few other shades of green, such as lime green and greenish yellow, and add a few strokes of these colors here and there in your nebulae.
 This will be a giant gas planet. Just make it a simple color, like orange, for now. Paint some wisps in shades of gray, red, and brown around the planet. You’ll go back to the planet to add details a little later, but leave it like this for now.
 This will be the sun lighting the planet. Place it diagonally across from the planet – about 1/3 distance from the side and up a little from the center. Don't worry about drawing rays coming out of the sun. A simple white ball will do.


By making the white circle smaller than your planet, you are creating the illusion that the planet is in the foreground.
This means the planet is "closer" than the sun in the image.
 You want your light source – the sun – to appear accurately in the image. By darkening one side of the planet, you are creating the shadow that the sun’s light would cause. Make the outer edge really black and go lighter and lighter until you have a good shadow on the dark side of the planet.Add a small white crescent on the lit side of the planet.
Make the thickest part of the crescent in line with the sun, so that it looks like the sun is lighting the planet.

