 You can do this however you like, from boys versus girls, old-school gym style and more. Just try to make the skill level about equal.;
, You can use anything from a real football field to pylons marking the corners. The players should be able to run end-zone to end-zone in about 10 seconds, and sideline to sideline in about 5-7.
 It can be a coin toss, rock paper scissors, or whatever you can think of.
 Back up to your back quarter (halfway between the half of the field and the end-zone) in the centre, pick a thrower, and show a thumbs up to show you and your team are ready. When the other team responds, set your defenders in motion, and throw the ball. The ball must travel at least 10 yards (or 10% of your field) before the kicking team can try to collect it, or it's a minor penalty. The receiving team will collect it, and attempt to run down the field, until they're tagged like in normal baseball. The play stops at the site of tagging.
 Every play starts either with the centre passing the ball to the quarterback or the QB starting with it. The QB says "Hut" and the play begins. If you traverse 10% or more of your field, you get a first down and an imaginary line 10% in front of you for another one. See the rules of football for more rules.
 If they do before, it's a minor penalty.
 A touchdown is worth 6 points and a field-goal attempt from the goal line for an extra point, and a field-goal that isn't after a touchdown is worth 3 points.
 If you go for it, you must get a first down, or the other team gets the ball at the line of scrimmage (where the play starts.) Punting is basically a kickoff from the line of scrimmage, and see about field-goals above.
 Mid-play turnovers are interceptions (a defender catching a pass) and fumbles (an offender drops the ball before being tagged and a defender gets it). Kicking turnovers are kickoffs, punts, and missed field-goals. Turnovers also occur if you fail to get a first down on 4th down.
 Yardage penalties can be reversed (forward instead of backward) if the defense incurs the penalty. Play always stops at the point of infraction.
 The team with the most points at the end of the game is the winner.

