 Wolves are known to be cool, because many Jammers think Greely is the best skilled alpha.;
, It is best to start with a simple party theme, like a dance party or talent show. For a dance party, use halloween lights, ice cream cones, and a table. For a talent show, use halloween lights, chairs, and a table for the stage. When you are a more experienced decorator, start by having an epic regular party, and maybe having a sleepover. Make sure you have lots of activities planned!, When you get there, you can write in all capital letters and say something like this: "Super cool dance party! Come and Jam on!" or "Epic school talent show in my den! Ice cream and really skilled and talented students! Have fun and play wild!" If these places are full, go to Coral Canyons , You can say something relevant to your theme, such as, "Hi miss and mister Tiger! I am so glad that your talented son, Tiger Boy, is in my class this year! He really does a good polka!" , If you want, invite over some buddies and say that you are having a sleepover, and put some beach towels around. Put some ice cream cones on your table, and put what you would put in your house if you were hosting a sleepover. It can be themed! , You can say something like, "Sees amazing Bald Eagle soaring high in the beautiful red sky." You can also go to Mt. Shiveer and say, "Sees wonderful fast footed Mountain Lion running against snow peaked Himalayan" to impress your buddies , You can find a boyfriend or girlfriend, or you could also marry your significant other and invite some "family" to your wedding, as well as some of your buddies. You also could go and have or adopt a baby or two. You can even make a lot of babies, if you want, but you should never cheat on your husband or wife or remarry. Of course, you can also stay singleCheating on your boyfriend/girlfriend is fun, especially if you are dating a celeb, but don't do this; he/she will dump you for another celeb, and your previous love interest will break up with you.
 If you did get a significant other and have some kids, you should never abandon them. You should only remarry if your spouse dies. 