 Try to wash your hair every two to three days, rather than every day. When you over-wash your hair, the water and products you use can strip away the natural oils produced by your scalp; these oils help to keep your hair healthy. When these oil are stripped away, your hair can become brittle and may begin to over-produce oils, which could make your hair very greasy.


When you decrease how often you wash your hair, your hair will feel cleaner for longer after you do wash it.;
, Taking a very hot shower can cause heat damage to your hair, much like using a blow dryer can. To avoid this, try turning the heat down to a lukewarm temperature while you wash your hair.


In particular, use cooler water when rinsing out shampoo and conditioner, as heat can counteract the nourishment the conditioner has just given your hair. Cool water can also help to make your hair look shinier.
 Many drugstore products contain chemicals such as sulphates which actually cause more damage to your hair. Also make sure that your conditioner doesn't include silicon which can clog up the pores that produce natural oils and dry out your hair. Look for natural products that contain less harmful substances.


Finding out what products work best for your hair is generally a trial and error experience. If you feel like a certain product is making your hair look flat or dull, try a different product. Keep your hair type in mind when considering products (if you don’t know what your hair type is, see the last section of this article).
Ask your hairdresser for their recommendations for your hair type.
 Shampoo helps to get your hair clean and free of dirt and built up oils. To use shampoo properly, try applying a small amount of the product to the top of your head and scalp. Lather the shampoo and work it into your hair with your fingers. Try to avoid rubbing your hair harshly, as this could cause damage.


You can also try applying shampoo to your hair by putting some shampoo onto your fingertips. Use your fingers to comb the shampoo into your hair, rather than rubbing your head vigorously.
Purchase dandruff shampoo if you have dandruff.
 When applying conditioner, try to only apply it to the longest parts of your hair, rather than directly on to your scalp; if you put conditioner on your scalp, it can make your hair very greasy. Work the conditioner into your hair with your fingers, leave it on your hair for a few moments, and then rinse it out.


You do not necessarily need to use conditioner every time you wash your hair, particularly if you are prone to oily hair, but it can help to protect your hair against split ends.
 While you do not need to use conditioner every time you wash your hair, you may find that your hair becomes more healthy if you deep condition your hair once a week. To deep condition your hair:


Lather conditioner along the length of your hair. Let the conditioner soak into your hair for 10 to 15 minutes before you rinse it out. Once it has been rinsed out, use your shampoo and conditioner as you would during a regular shower. When washing the conditioner out for the second time, use your hands to smooth down your hair, rather than rubbing your hair to get the conditioner out. Blast your hair with very cold water once the conditioner has been washed out.
 Along with washing your hair regularly, you should also wash your brush regularly. When your hair is oily, that oil can get on to your hairbrush. When you brush your hair, that oil can then get spread through your hair.


Wash your brush with warm water and soap.
 Try to avoid towel drying your hair, or using a blow dryer. When you rub your hair with a towel, or wrap your hair up in a towel while it is still wet, the towel can actually rub against your hair and cause split ends.


Instead, use an old t-shirt or a pillowcase to dry your hair off. These fabrics are softer than towels and are less likely to do damage to your hair.

