 This function allows you to create shortcuts by pairing short abbreviations, even symbols, with longer phrases or even images which will be inserted in the text. Go to Settings, select General, select Keyboard, and you will see Text Replacement. You will see a blue plus sign located in the upper-right hand corner. Tap this sign and you will see two text fields: Phrase and Shortcut.


In Phrase, put the longer statement that you want inserted automatically. In Shortcut, put the text that you want to type originally that will be replaced by the longer statement that you put in Phrase. For example, you might put, “I don’t know,” in the Phrase box and “idk” in the Shortcut box. Every time you type “idk” it will be replaced by “I don’t know” automatically.When you first arrive at the Text Replacement page, prior to tapping the plus sign, you will see a search bar to navigate your shortcuts. You will also notice a list of shortcuts presented below the search bar. This is a good way to refresh your memory as shortcuts are only useful if you stay familiar with them.
Some iDevices will show the label “Shortcuts” in the iDevice keyboard menu instead of “Text Replacement.” The function is essentially the same.
The shortcuts that you established will apply in Messages and in other applications such as Calendar and Reminders.;
, Once you have the standard iDevice keyboard open there are a variety of shortcuts that are built-in, that you do not need to install. Most of them use a tap sequence that then prompts a certain action, cutting down on your keystrokes.You can double-tap your space bar to insert a period at the end of a sentence, allowing you to move on to the next one seamlessly.
You can double-tap your shift button to start and end a period of caps lock.
If you tap and hold a letter, you will see a handful of accent options. You can then slide your finger over to select one.
Adding symbols will often slow down your typing. To include a symbol quickly, select and hold the “123” button. Then, move your finger over to the symbol that you want to include. Once you let go, it is added in.
You are not limited to just the symbols showing on the initial page. To see more options, tap and hold one of the keys. For example, the dollar sign key will expand to show you the Euro symbol as well.
 Go to Settings, select General, select Keyboard, and you will be presented with a handful of customization options. As a general rule, you want to enable all of the items listed in order to increase your typing speed. Auto-capitalization, auto-correction, caps lock, predictive, character preview, and spell check should all be activated.
 You can also turn on dictation via the keyboard settings menu. Siri will take dictation for those iPhones (4s or newer) and iPad (third-generation or newer). To activate the dictation process, simply tap the microphone button on the keyboard. Then, you can begin speaking and Siri will type it out for you.Siri’s dictate function allows you to add punctuation as well. For example, if you state, “how does ten work for you question mark,” it will appear as, “How does ten work for you?” The capitalization process is automatic as well.
Always check your transcriptions for accuracy as additional noise can interfere with the dictation process.

