 7 Card Stud is a high-card game. Standard poker rules apply (e.g., full house beats flush, etc.), but big hands are difficult to come by. High pairs and 2 pairs often take pots in 7 Card Stud.
 In order to continue playing the hand, you should have a stronger starting hand than just a straight or flush draw. View a split low pair, where one of the cards is face down and the other is showing, skeptically. Low pairs usually have to be improved upon to win pots.
 The cards that are showing help determine the viability of your hand. This is crucial if you're playing a flush or straight draw, or have a low pair.


Flush draw: You should have 2 or more high cards to continue. If you don't get a suited card or a high pair on 4th Street, check or fold. Fold if 3 or more cards of the suit you are pursuing are showing on the table. Such cards are called dead cards.
Straight draw: Employ similar tactics to the flush draw. You need at least 2 high cards. Fold if you don't continue the straight draw or get a high pair on 4th Street.
Low pair: Proceed cautiously to 4th Street. Fold if 1 or both of the key cards are dead, or if the 4th Street card doesn't provide you with a 2 pair.
 Use 1 of 3 basic approaches to maximize your chances of taking the pot.


Fast play: Use this strategy when you want to force other players out of the game early. The tactic involves aggressive betting, including raising and re-raising at maximums. Fast play when you have a high pair or high trips (3 of a kind) in your starting hand.
Slow play: This tactic is more nuanced and keeps you in the game without taxing your bankroll. In slow play, you check and call bets in the hope of moving into the next round of betting, where you might get a card that transforms your hand into a formidable one. Slow play most hands, including low trips. The strategy here is to draw other players into the betting against your strong hand.
Check/fold: Use this strategy when you have a low pair and are searching for a card to make a 3 of a kind. Check when you can, but fold when another player bets.

