 The antibacterial properties and the sugar content of honey will help to reduce the itchiness your child feels because of her blisters, while also speeding up your child’s recover. Honey helps to hydrate the skin, which will relieve the irritation the blisters cause.


Wash your hands with warm water and soap. Use your finger to apply honey on to each of the itchy blisters three times a day.
 Oatmeal can soothe your child’s itchy skin. The protein, fats and sugar content in oatmeal help to protect and hydrate the skin so that the blisters become easier to deal with. If you do not have oatmeal, you can also use cornstarch has it has a very similar effect.To make an oatmeal bath:


Grind two cups of plain oatmeal into a fine dust using a blender or food processor. While this is not necessary, it does help the bathwater absorb the oatmeal when you make an oatmeal bath.
Run a warm bath and pour the oatmeal in. Stir and let the mixture sit for 15 minutes or so.
Let your child soak in the bath for 20 to 30 minutes. Help your child to towel off after the bath.
 Baking soda is a natural acid neutralizer, which means that it can help to soothe your child’s itchy skin. It does this by restoring the natural pH of your child’s skin. The chickenpox virus can throw off this pH.To make a baking soda bath:


Draw a warm bath and then dissolve a cup of baking soda in the warm water. Stir the mixture together and then let your child soak in the bath for 15 or so minutes. Help your child to towel dry.
 Turmeric and ginger are both antibacterial herbs that can help to keep your child’s blisters bacteria free. When chickenpox blisters get infected, they become even more itchy. Both of these herbs can also help your child’s skin to heal once the virus has been treated.


Turmeric: You can add three teaspoons of turmeric to your child’s warm bath. This will help to soothe your child’s blisters.
Ginger: Have your child drink ginger tea. You can also add three teaspoons of dried ginger to your child’s warm bath to help your child’s skin to heal.
 Cooked green peas contain vitamins K and B, protein, zinc, magnesium, and potassium, among other essential vitamins and minerals. While the vitamins and protein promote skin health, zinc aids in the regeneration of skin, which can keep your child from having serious chickenpox scars. To make a green pea paste:


Crush 200 grams of boiled green peas and make a paste. Apply it on the blisters and leave it for one hour. Wash the paste off with warm water.
 The molecules produced by neem leaves aid in soothing different skin conditions, including itchiness caused by chickenpox. The leaves have antiviral, antibacterial, antifungal and anti-inflammatory properties. Neem leaves also help to purify the blood and detoxify your intestines so that your child’s body can properly fight the chickenpox virus. To use neem leaves:



Method 1: Take a bunch of neem leaves and grind them to make a paste. Apply the paste on the blisters.

Method 2:You can also add a handful of neem leaves to boiling water and boil the leaves for several minutes. Allow the water to cool and use a washcloth to rub the water on your child’s skin.

