 Begin by cracking your eggs into a bowl and lightly mix together with a fork. Whisking the mixture adds air, which is fine for "fluffy" scrambled eggs, but for something creamier just gently bind the yolk with the white. You can add the milk or cream at this stage for the creamier taste come up.;
, If adding other ingredients to the mix, such as chives, wash and finely chop them and set aside until you are ready to use them.
 Set up a frying pan (preferably non-stick) over low-medium heat and add a three tablespoons of butter. Wait for it to melt; It should start lightly sizzling but not too much.
 Pour in your egg mixture and gently move it around the pan with a spatula (rubber is best). If the heat is too low, you can turn it up gently but be careful that the eggs don't cook too quickly. The idea is to have a very soft, almost smooth, concoction so you don't get large lumps of cooked egg to form. You will need to be very attentive while cooking and keep moving the eggs around the pan.


If the eggs are cooking too quickly, move the pan off the heat and try to break up any large lumps.
 If you want to toast some bread, now is the time to do it. Place two slice of bread in a toaster and toast until browned.
 Keep stirring the scrambled eggs, being patient and cautious. As an approximate time guide, it should take about 5 minutes to cook if making with up to 4 eggs (1-2 people), but closer to 10 minutes for 6-10 (3-4 people).
 When the eggs are almost cooked to your liking (they should still be glistening and moist), take the pan off the heat and keep stirring. It is important to remove the pan early because the residual heat will continue cooking the eggs and otherwise they will turn out dry and rubbery.
 At this stage, and only now, season with salt, pepper, and chopped chives if desired. Mix with a spatula or wooden spoon and taste.


Be cautious with salt, particularly if serving with smoked salmon or bacon which are already salty.
 Serve on hot, buttered bread, with whatever accompaniments you fancy. Excellent on a good sourdough bread with bacon or on top of a bagel with smoked salmon. Enjoy!

