 If you are diagnosed with sleep apnea, the most common treatment is to use a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine to help regulate your breathing.A CPAP machine may take some getting used to, but it will allow you to get a full night’s rest.


Ask your doctor about other devices as well. There are a number of appliances and devices other than the CPAP that may help keep your nose and throat open and help prevent sleep apnea. These include tapes that help open the nose or head straps that keep your jaw forward.
Make sure that you talk to your physician and dentist before you try any devices. They will be able to give you recommendations on the best devices available.;
, If you are overweight, then losing weight may significantly improve or even cure your sleep apnea.To lose weight, you will need to burn more calories than you consume. Doing things like keeping a food diary to keep track of calories, eating more fruits and vegetables, and replacing high calorie beverages with water can all help.


Talk to your doctor for recommendations on a weight loss plan that will work for you.
 Exercise can help you lose weight and also help to maintain cardiovascular health, but it can also help ease the symptoms of sleep apnea.Start out easy and work your way up into more strenuous exercise.


Start by trying to get 30 minutes of moderate activity, such as a brisk walk, at least five days a week. You can also join a gym, do aerobics, strength training, yoga, tai chi or chi gong. Find something that you will enjoy so that you will stick with it.
 The way that you sleep can also aggravate sleep apnea. Avoid sleeping on your back because this can cause your throat muscles to tighten up and your tongue to drop back into your throat. This will increase the risk of sleep apnea.Try sleeping on your side with a pillow propped behind your back to keep you from rolling onto your back.
 Smoking can make sleep apnea worse, so it is important to quit smoking if you have sleep apnea.If you are a smoker, ask your doctor about smoking cessation programs in your area. Many communities offer low or no cost help to quit smoking.
 Alcohol and tranquilizers increase the risk of sleep apneas, so it is best to avoid these altogether if you have sleep apnea.If you have trouble falling a sleep at night, try drinking a cup of warm milk or herbal tea instead.

