 Courts rarely grant a voluntary petition to terminate parental rights, even if both birth parents agree, unless there is a third person who is willing and able to assume those parental rights and responsibilities.The most common solution is to have a step-parent adopt the child, which ensures that two parents will continue to be responsible for the child's welfare. If you have a child from a previous relationship, the other parent's new partner may be willing to adopt the child as his or her own.
 In order to terminate your parental rights, you and the child's other parent must agree, and the prospective step-parent must agree to adopt the child. The prospective parent will effectively take your position of financial responsibility for the child before your child support obligations will be terminated., Search online to locate the family court or court of general jurisdiction in the county where the child lives. This is the court that has jurisdiction over issues relating to the child's relationships with its parents.
 Your county should provide pre-printed forms for step-parent adoptions. You can find those forms at the court's website online or at the court clerk's office. The website may also feature an interactive online program that creates your documents based on information you provide.Call the court and ask about self-help programs. Your court have a self-help center where you can ask an attorney to help you with your paperwork for free.
 Once your forms have been completed, you will need to sign them. If any of the forms have a place for a notary public to sign and stamp them, sign those forms in the presence of a notary. Make two copies of the completed documents.
 Give the original set of documents to the court clerk. The clerk will notify you of your hearing date. The clerk will also charge a filing fee, which varies by state. (For example, the fee to file a petition for step-parent adoption in Dallas in 2015 is $333.)


Ask about how to file for a fee waiver if you cannot afford the filing fee.
 Each parent must receive formal notice of the proceedings. You may be able to request that the court clerk give notice on your behalf. Otherwise, you will need to do one of the following:


Pay the sheriff's office or a professional process server to serve the parent; or
Arrange for a friend or relative over 18 years of age and not involved in the case to hand-deliver your documents to the other party. This friend or relative will need to fill out a Proof of Service form verifying that he or she served the other party., Dress professionally, arrive early, and wait for your case to be called. The judge will ask the adopting parent if he or she understand the parental rights and responsibilities he or she is requesting. The judge will also ask you to verify that you understand and wish to relinquish your own parental rights and responsibilities.

