 Be careful not to disturb or damage them while working around them.

Barely loosen (break loose) each of the 11 bolts (10mm) connecting the OHC (overhead cam) valve cover to the engine. Loosen the 9 bolts around the edge of the cover that connect it to the block (one in on the very end). Two of those 10mm bolts are upon the cover with one about 3 times longer and (it was covered up by that power steering hose) and the one in the center is about 4 times longer than the ones around the edges. Once all are just loosened then finish removing them.,, The engine should be easy to turn with a socket wrench on the crankshaft bolt since the spark plugs are out and all pressure is released., aligned with the top of the engine head while at the same time you line up the timing mark on the crankshaft harmonic pulley pointing straight up at the same time as the cams are aligned (or use the crankshaft key and slot later in the process when the harmonic pulley is off).




 On the right is the distributor found on older models with its cap removed to check that it is pointing toward the number one spark plug terminal to check that the timing is on the compression stroke.

Caution: the TDC could be 180 degrees off of the correct TDC even when the crankshaft mark or crankshaft key is correctly pointing straight up ("It would then be at the top of the exhaust stroke."); so then align it as explained next.
Caution: check timing is at the correct TDC (top dead center of the compression stroke) and find the marks are on the back of the sprockets and align them with the edge of the engine head.
The older models have a distributor and you can remove the distributor cap to see if it is pointing at spark plug cable terminal number one (for cylinder number 1) when the mark on crankshaft pulley shows it is at TDC. If it points to the opposite side of the distributor then turn the engine slowly 360 degrees on the crankshaft to be back around to TDC ("top of the compression stroke"). Newer engines do not have a distributor and so the correct TDC can be found while the harmonic pulley timing mark is approaching TDC. This is done using the compression stroke air pressure measured in the "number one spark plug hole" by a "compression gauge" to know when the piston is on the compression stroke and then turning slowly and carefully to exactly the TDC as shown by the crankshaft and the cam sprockets timing marks. Compression pressure means that the piston in cylinder one was on the compression stroke not the exhaust stroke which also comes to TDC.
Required: securely place a "plastic/rubber" stop-block (you may use a bottle stopper from a wine bottle preferably "not real cork" which might crumble) to put it in place to jam the cam sprockets with the "rubber stop-block." Use the stop-block before releasing the tensioner pulley to remove the timing belt, or else when the timing belt is removed the cams will "turn" (in opposite directions) about two notches--pushed by the valve springs pressure off TDC of the cam lobes. Later before the timing belt is re-installed use two "open-end" wrenches or adjustable spanners for 1 inch (25.5 ~ 26mm) on the hex part of the camshaft (not on the sprocket bolt) to slightly nudge the sprockets back and forth (small wiggling) to get the stop block to hold both cam marks correctly aligned while the stop-block is between the two cam sprockets. So it holds both cams at the same time in TDC position (You may purchase a special stop-block made for this purpose if you prefer.).
 Put on the parking brake.,, Then use a jack-stand to support the car. Do not depend on the jack to support it. You will be removing the wheel adjacent to (next to) the pulleys only.,, Watch your head., It should work under the air conditioner bracket which is massive on the older models. The engine being supported is because you will remove (not yet) the motor mount in steps when you get to it in a later step; that mount is between the top and lower halves of the timing-cover and is very much in the way of working on the accessory belts, timing belt and water pump., The two toward the firewall of the auto are difficult to reach and even to see. Use a short, small ratchet drive extension., You probably can wiggle and jiggle the pulley while start gently prying and pulling it off the crankshaft. If not, then you may need to use a steering wheel puller or similar puller., This was necessary to be able to remove the lower timing cover., One screw is hard to see in the middle of the cover, right below the motor mount.,