 A mission statement is a list of goals and objectives that you set for your club. This is the initial set of guidelines that will help members, staff, and players make decisions. The mission statement will include whether the club is recreational or aims to be more competitive, and what the ultimate goals of the club are.An example of a mission statement would be "Crazedball Volleyball is dedicated to competitive, high-level play at the high school level. Our staff is dedicated to the emotional and physical development of the players. Crazedball Volleyball Club puts an emphasis on developing each and every player on the team.";
, Most leagues will require your volleyball club to have a governing committee that will include a chairperson, secretary, and treasurer. Have a discussion on which people would be the best candidates for each position before holding an election for the committee.A committee should be elected by the prospective members of the club.
Once the members have been elected into their roles, they can create sub-committees to help them achieve the club's goals.
The chairperson is the person who is in charge, the secretary deals with administrative details, and the treasurer helps manage the club's money.
 Once you have a committee elected, they can help create a name for the club. Listen to everyone's recommendations and suggestions and then have a vote on the best name. Try to think of a name that describes what you're aiming for in your membership or a name that embodies the spirit of your club. If you are associated with a local school, you can name your club something that relates to the school.If your club is more recreational than competitive, you should think of a funny or clever name.
Some examples of club names include Performance Volleyball Academy, Momentum, Lightning, and Strikers.
 The club constitution will act as the club's bylaws and will explain certain procedures, goals, and membership guidelines. It is what staff and leaders will use when making decisions for the club.Check the governing body of your club to see if they have examples of club constitutions that you can use as a reference.
The constitution should also outline the steps to amending the constitution as well as the rights and powers of the committee.
You can download a template for your club constitution by visiting http://www.sportenglandclubmatters.com/club-planning/governance/policies-procedures/constitutions/.
 To be an official club, you must register your club as a business. Decide whether you want the club to be a corporation, partnership, non-profit, or sole proprietorship and apply the club with your local government. Filing your articles of incorporation will differ depending on which state you live in.Refer to an attorney if you're not sure what kind of business you want to create.
There is typically a fee ranging from $50 - $300 to file for a business license.
 Most leagues require a club to have a separate bank account. Do research on banks around you and open up a business account for the club. Certain banks may also provide you with a line of credit that can help you pay for the club's startup expenses.