 You can play Candy Crush online on Facebook or on your mobile device using its app. Open the game, then hit the “Play” button on the welcome screen.;
, Use the game map to navigate to level 247. Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, check how your board is laid out. Analyze if there are any good matches to quickly get a Candy Bomb or two. How about other special candies, can you easily create one or two with the current board?

, If you don’t like your board, you can exit and restart it. As long as you haven’t made any moves, you won’t lose a life., It may be tempting to match all the other candies for points, but your priority should be on the required colored candies. Do not waste moves matching the others you don’t need.
 You can make a Striped candy by matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. You can use this to take out multiple candies of the colors you need from the same row or column.
 If you match 5 candies in a row, you will get a Candy Bomb. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row. Take out all the yellow, purple, or blue candies on the board with one move by matching a Candy Bomb with the same colored candy.
 Put a Striped candy, ideally a yellow, purple, or blue one, and a Candy Bomb side by side and match them. All the similar colored candies will be turned into Striped candies and clear out lots of columns and rows on the board.


If you the Striped candy you matched was yellow, purple, or blue, you will have cleared lots of the required number, on top of clearing all other colors found in the surrounding columns and rows.
 Watch the two chocolate wheels at the bottom corners. Chocolate will begin spreading as early as your second move. You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board. It will be very difficult to complete the level if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads.
 As early as your second move, licorice will drop to replace some of the cleared spots. Licorice can take lots of space that should be given to the candies you need. Make matches beside them to clear them out. Do not let your board be filled with licorice.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move. Keep your focus on the required colored candies, and use your special candies well. Eventually you’ll beat the level!