 If you are not on the home screen, press the Home button. In both the iPad and iPhone, this is the physical button at the middle of the bottom of your device.;
, Doing so brings you to the Spotlight Search screen. You will see a search box at the top left side of the screen. On the Spotlight Search screen, you can either type your query on the search box or speak your query.


Do not swipe down from the very top of the home screen. Doing so will bring up the notification center, not the search screen. Swipe down from just below the space where the time and battery indicators are or swipe down from the spaces in between the app icons.
The Spotlight Search screen is to the left of the primary home screen. So if your home screen has more than one page, and you are not in the primary home screen, you will have to swipe right more than once to reach the Spotlight Search interface.
 At the top left of the screen is the Spotlight search box. Tap inside the search box and type a search word or phrase. In iOS 9, you can use “everyday” language in defining searches in Spotlight Search. You can, for example, type “memo edited last Monday” or “photos of team building exercise” to search for these in your Apple device.
 As you type, search results appear below the search box. These are Spotlight’s suggestions from the contents and apps in your Apple device . As you type further, the search suggestions narrow down. These recommendations will appear classified under headings such as “TOP HITS,” “MUSIC,” “PICTURES,” “VIDEOS,” and others. No suggestions will appear if the search word or phrase you typed does not correspond to any content or app in your device.


Spotlight will expand your search to third party apps if the developers of these app are eligible for search. When a developers informs Apple that their apps are available for Spotlight Search, Apple will create “deep links” for the app. For example, if you install a news app from a media organization, you can type the name of a prominent person or place, and Spotlight Search will show links to the news app that mentions this person or place. Results of these “deep links” searches will appear after the search results from your device.
 Tapping on one of the search results launches the app or opens the content using its default app.
 If what you are looking for is not in your Apple device, you can search the web, the App Store, or the Maps app. Type your query. Below the search results (or below the search box, if there are no suggestions), you will find three elongated boxes labeled “Search Web,” “Search App Store,” and “Search Maps.”


Tap “Search Web” to open Safari (or your default browser) in your default search website where the search results from the web will be listed.
Tap “Search App Store” to launch Apple’s App Store where you will see the search results listed.
Tap “Search Maps” to launch your default Maps app, and you will see the search results there.
Note: Tap “Back to Search” if you want to go back to the Spotlight Search screen. This is located on the top left side of the screen preceded by a small black left arrow.
 If you type a simple arithmetic calculation, the answer will appear below the search box. This works for mathematical operators found in the symbols keyboard such as “+” (addition), “─” (subtraction), “✕” (multiplication), “/” (division), and “^” (exponentiation).
 If you type a contact’s name, you will be presented with a list possible people you want to contact. Tapping on a contact brings up options for calling, texting, emailing, or messaging that contact.
 If Siri is activated, then you can speak your query instead of typing your query on the search box. If you see a microphone icon on the right side of the search box, then Siri is activated. By default, Siri is activated, but if not, then you have to enable Siri.


To enable Siri, press the Home button then tap “Settings.” On the left pane of the Settings screen, tap “General.” Options will appear on the right pane. On the right pane, tap “Siri” to reach the Siri pane. On top of the “Siri” pane, you will see the “Siri” slider (or toggle switch). Tap the slider, and it will turn green. A pop-up will ask you if you want to “Enable Siri.” Tap this (note: if the “Siri” toggle is already green, then you don’t have to do anything else since Siri is already enabled). Go back to the Spotlight Search interface, and you will see the microphone icon on the right side of the search box.
 When you do this, you will hear a chime (or any sound indicator), and shortly after, you will see an animated representation of sound waves at the bottom of the screen.
 Speak the search word or phrase near the internal or external microphone of your device. You can use “ordinary” language when you tell Spotlight what you are looking for.
 As soon as you finish speaking, you will see the search word or phrase that you told Spotlight Search written on the search box. Suggestions will appear below the search box. Or you can tap “Search Web”, “Search App Store”, and “Search Maps” to search the web or app store or your default maps.


If what appears in the search box does not correspond to what you told Spotlight Search, you can edit what appears in the search box, or you can delete what is written in the search box by tapping the “✕” sign on the right end of the search box, tap on the microphone button, and speak the search word or phrase again.
 Tap “Settings” from your primary home screen. The Settings screen is divided into two panes. On the left pane are the features you can configure. On the right pane, you will see the settings options for whichever feature is chosen (highlighted) on the left pane.


Tap “General” on the left pane. The settings options for this will appear in the right pane.
Tap “Spotlight Search” on the right pane. The right pane will open to the “Spotlight Search” screen.
 With Siri Suggestions enabled, Spotlight Search will do “proactive checks.” Before you even type a search word or phrase, Spotlight Search will list down “pre-search” recommendations based on the time of day, your location, your frequently used or recently used apps, and your contacts.


On top of the right pane, you will see a slider (or toggle switch) labeled “Siri Suggestions.”
If the toggle is already green, then Siri Suggestions is already enabled and you can leave the Settings screen. If the toggle is grey, tap on it and the slider/toggle will turn green, and Siri Suggestion will be activated.
 Go back to your primary home screen and swipe down from the top to open Spotlight Search.
 With Siri Suggestions enabled, Spotlight Search will provide suggestions the moment you access the search screen even before you type anything on the search box. Siri Suggestions anticipates your search interests by collecting information on what app you usually use, who you usually contact, your current location and even the time of day. These suggestions will differ depending on how you accessed Spotlight Search.


Once you access Spotlight Search, Siri Suggestions will display a list of app (in the form of icons). You will see these app suggestions below the search field under the heading “SIRI APP SUGGESTIONS.” Spotlight Search bases these suggestions from your recently used apps, apps you frequently use, or apps you often use on a given time or a given place. Tapping an app icon will launch the app.
If you swipe right to reach the Spotlight Search interface, you get not only app suggestions but also other suggestions.as well. You will see a list of frequently used or recently accessed apps, contacts or contents. There could also be icons for maps to nearby places as well as news stories and some other items. You can see app suggestions and contact suggestions under the heading “SIRI SUGGESTIONS,” suggestion on interesting places near your location under the heading “NEARBY,” and news items which may be of interest to you under the heading “NEWS.”

, If Siri Suggestions is enabled and you have a lot of apps with deep links, the list search results may become unwieldy. To make searches more manageable, you can disable some of the search items. To do this, first go to the home screen and tap “Settings.” This will open the Settings menu.
 The right pane will show the Settings options for this section.
 This will transfer the right pane to the “Spotlight Search” settings options. You will see several items with toggle switches. By default, all search items are enabled; you will see that all toggle switches are colored green. Tapping the toggle button turns off or disables the item (the toggle switch becomes grey). Tapping on a greyed toggle switch turns this into green and enables the item.
 First among these items in the right pane is “Siri Suggestions.” By default, “Siri Suggestions” is enabled. If the “Siri Suggestions” toggle switch is grey, Siri Suggestion is turned off. Tap the greyed toggle switch to turn it on. If the toggle switch is green, tap this to turn it off.
 Below the “Siri Suggestions” toggle, under the heading “Search Results,” are the apps that will be covered by the search. By default, all the listed apps will be covered by Spotlight Search.


The search results you get when you use Spotlight Search are controlled by the items enabled in the “Search Results” list. If too many items are enabled, the search results may become unwieldy. Thus it would be wise to leave enabled only those items you desire, and turn off all others by tapping on its green toggle switch.

