 Don’t wash the rims right after driving. Let the car rest with the engine off. It can take hours for the entire car to cool, but you can test the rim temperature by moving your fingers close. When the rims feel cool to the touch, you can clean them.

On warm rims, water and cleaner may leave stains.;
, Get a mop bucket or other large water container. Fill it ¾ full with lukewarm water. This only needs to be done if you plan on using a liquid soap.

Spray-on cleaners are also available and can be used to avoid having to mix soap and water. Look for brands such as Eagle One, Meguiars, and Mothers., Add a teaspoon of wheel cleaner for every gallon (3.79 L) of water. Wheel cleaners can be found at general stores or automotive stores. You may instead use a neutral pH, non-abrasive detergent such as Dawn.

Remember to stick to an all-purpose cleaner unless you know what type of wheel and rim you have. Aluminum is the most common rim variety, but there are also others, such as chrome. In addition, there are various wheel coatings that can be worn away by using the wrong cleaner., Work one rim at a time. Before applying the cleaner, spray down the rims with a hose. If you don’t have a hose, at least fill a bucket with clean, warm water. Use a rag or sponge to dampen the wheel. Rinsing removes some debris and helps loosen the rest, so let the rim soak for a couple of minutes., Water should have soaked into the debris, making scrubbing easier. Use a wheel scrub brush, rag, sponge, or spray bottle to cover the rim with your cleaner.

When using a commercial cleaner, be sure to read the label. Look for the recommended amount of time the cleaner should be allowed to rest on the rim.
 Wheel brushes of various sizes will help you reach every area in the rims. Start at the topmost opening and use a large brush to reach the back of the rim. Use smaller brushes to clear dust from bolts, lug nut holes, and the air valve. Afterwards, scrub the front and back of the rim and its spokes.A rough rag or sponge can be used instead of specialized brushes. Also, a wheel wash mitt can help you reach behind the rim and a toothbrush can help you clean hard-to-reach areas.
If you are using brushes, you may wish to soften them first. Soak them in your soap mixture for a few minutes.
 As you scrub, you will notice your scrubbing tool gathering soap and debris. Dip the brush in a bucket of clean water to clean it. Make sure all of the soap and debris is gone before you return the brush to the soap mixture.By not rinsing your scrubber, you may reintroduce brake dust, snow salt, and other grime which can permanently discolor or even corrode your rims.
 As soon as you are finished scrubbing, remove the cleaner. Spray down the wheel with a hose or dip a rag or sponge into clean water. Don’t allow the soap to sit on the rims. Be sure to rinse off the back side of the rims as well as the outside of the tire., Move on to the next rim. Rinse it off and then scrub it with soap and water. Do this for the remaining three rims., When you’ve finished cleaning all four rims, use a microfiber towel to remove leftover moisture from the rims. To remove water from tight spaces, such as the lug nut holes, you can try compressed air, a leaf blower, or a quick drive around the block.Make sure you note which rags you’ve used on the wheels. These may have gathered brake dust, which will scratch your car’s paint. Save these rags for wheel cleaning only.
 Wax can be bought at auto-part stores or wherever else you may have found your rim cleaner. Look for a wax jelly such as carnauba wax. Applying the wax after each cleaning protects your wheels from brake dust and makes future cleanings easier., Dip a clean cloth into the product. You may also do this with a wheel wash mitt, which can make reaching behind the rim simpler., Spread the wax over each rim. Don’t forget to reach behind the rims. Get the front and back of each spoke along with the faces. Also cover the outside edges and the spaces between the spokes. Let the wax rest for three minutes., Use a clean cloth to go back over the rim. The wax should have settled onto the rims, leaving a protective coating.