 Have you ever sat down to a movie with a pint of Ben and Jerry's, and before the opening credits have ended, you've finished the whole container without even realizing it? This is called “unconscious eating” and it’s very common. It happens when we simply are not aware that we’re eating.Think about the food you put in your mouth, including not allowing yourself to take another bite until you’ve swallowed the existing mouthful.Savor each bite - which will also slow down your eating.
Don't eat ice cream while you're engaging in other enjoyable activities (like watching a movie or surfing the internet). Instead, savor the moment itself, and let the joy of the activity be enough.
Before putting one spoonful of ice cream in your mouth, ask yourself these two questions: If I eat this ice cream, will I feel like I lost control? If I eat this ice cream, will I feel shame, blame or guilt? If you answer yes to one or both of these questions, put that ice cream aside and have something else., One of the many reasons we crave foods like ice cream is because it makes us feel better. But one of the reasons we want to feel better is because we don’t allow ourselves to truly experience our emotions.Rather than trying to ignore or push aside what we’re feeling, allow yourself to feel the emotions. Cry if you have to. Talk to someone about what you’re feeling. Write down your feelings in a journal. Allow yourself to experience emotions rather than comfort yourself with ice cream.
 While it is sometimes used as a mean joke or a stereotype, it is true that some women might crave ice cream during the few days leading up to their period, as a part of a cluster of symptoms known as premenstrual syndrome. Recognizing the correlation between your ice cream consumption and menstrual cycle can save you from being a slave to ice cream during those days.


Eat something else. The truth is, most women burn up to 15% more calories during their period, as the body works hard to cleanse the womb and prepare for another month.It is normal to feel hungrier during this time, since you need more calories. Instead of wasting the calories on sugar and fat in ice cream, eat something more nutritious like frozen yogurt, a smoothie, or a glass of chocolate milk. Those things will satisfy your craving for something cold and sweet but provide more nutritional bang for the buck.
Don't keep it in the house leading up to your period. If you know you typically crave it, don't buy it in advance, so that it will be harder to access when you find yourself wanting it.
Think of other ways to soothe your body and emotions during PMS: a hot bath, a good book, or even a small glass of wine can be preferable to a pint of chocolate ice cream.
 Don’t feel the need to order that ice cream for dessert just because everyone else at the table is ordering ice cream for dessert! It doesn’t matter what they think about you. Do what you want to do, not what everyone else is doing., If you’ve tried other methods of eliminating ice cream from your diet, but none of them have worked, consider the possibility that you might need to get some expert help. You might want to reach out to a doctor, therapist, and/or a registered dietitian for help.A counselor or doctor can help you identify the root causes of your addiction, and set you up with a personalized plan to eliminate the problem.
If you do have a food addiction, remember that food manufacturers purposely make food, like ice cream, with a combination of ingredients that creates feelings of pleasure and satisfactionObviously they want to sell and re-sell their product as often as possible, so they create a product that people will crave.

