 Your Ragamuffin cat will need access to food and water. You should purchase two ceramic or metal food dishes – one for food and one for water. For the food, you can purchase a regular bowl, or a more complex food dispenser that allows your cat to self-feed. However, keep in mind that Ragamuffin cats are a bit prone to fat bellies, so you may need to quit allowing your cat to self-feed if the cat becomes too overweight.Make sure you clean the food and water dishes regularly so that you Ragamuffin cat has a healthy place to eat and drink.;
, Due to the Ragamuffin’s inquisitive nature, you’ll want to make sure there is nothing harmful lying around your house that could hurt your cat. This means that you should keep all cleaning supplies and pesticides in a place that is locked away or totally inaccessible to the cat.Try keeping these materials in the garage or in a separate closet that has a door you can keep closed at all times.
 Ragamuffin cats are playful, but have a fairly calm temperament. This means that they are happy to play and be played with, while also being fairly easily trainable. Try purchasing some cat toys that you can teach your Ragamuffin to play fetch with. This will help your cat get exercise while they are also spending time with you.You can also try purchasing some balls to play with, some feather toys, or anything with catnip in it.
Chasing a laser pointer can be another great way for your cat to get exercise.
Avoid toys made of potentially harmful or ingestible materials like rubber bands, ribbons, or pieces of plastic (like plastic eyes on a toy).
Ragamuffin cats are also great with kids and other pets. If you have young children, they will probably end up carrying your Ragamuffin around and enjoying hours of fun playtime together.
 To ensure that your beloved Ragamuffin cat doesn’t get lost, you should purchase a collar and an ID tag for your cat. You can even get a leash to add an extra level of safety if you ever need to take your cat outside.Only purchase cat-safe, breakaway collars. Cats can become caught and strangled while wearing a regular collar.
On the ID tag, you should include your cat’s name and your phone number. You can also list your home address if you wish.
Because a collar can become lost or removed, consider having your cat microchipped.
You should also try to keep your Ragamuffin as an indoor-only cat to prevent your cat from getting lost or stolen while it’s outside your home.
 Ragamuffin cats are often naturally prone to weight problems, so it is usually better to choose a healthy wet food that you can easily regulate for your cat rather than allowing it to self-feed. Choose a wet food that contains natural ingredients and lists a meat item as the first main ingredient. Anything with a “byproduct” or “meal” first ingredient won’t give your Ragamuffin cat the healthy nutrients it needs.A wet cat food will also provide another source of hydration for your cat.
If you prefer to feed your cat dry food, you should look up the calorie content and measure meals so that you only feed the amount that your cat needs. If you are unsure how much to feed your cat, consult your veterinarian.
 Your Ragamuffin cat needs to stay hydrated, so make sure you provide it with constant access to fresh drinking water. Try to leave the water near your Ragamuffin’s food so that it is easy for your cat to locate.Consider making several sources of water available in case your cat spills one of them. This is especially important when you are going to be away from the house for several hours at a time.
 Ragamuffin cats are especially cuddly. They will often turn into limp dolls on your lap, hence the name. Be sure to spend lots of quality time cuddling with your Ragamuffin cat so that it feels loved and cared for.Let your cat sit on your lap and take naps next to you. This will help strengthen the bond between the two of you.
 Ragamuffin cats, as with all other cat breeds, need to be vaccinated as kittens to protect them from getting potentially harmful diseases. Your veterinarian will vaccinate your Ragamuffin kitten for you starting at around six weeks and then every three to four weeks until your kitten is 16 to 20 weeks old.If your Ragamuffin is an adult cat, you will need to get it vaccinated annually at the cat’s yearly vet checkup.
 Ragamuffin cats actually don’t reach sexual maturity until around four years of age, but they should still be spayed or neutered in the first year of their life. Consult with your veterinarian about when the right time will be to spay or neuter your Ragamuffin cat.De-sexing cats helps control cat populations, prevents unwanted kittens that may be hard to take care of or place in appropriate homes, and helps you take better care of your existing cat.
 Just like any other cat, your Ragamuffin kitty will need to get regular veterinarian checkups every year. These visits help make sure your cat is healthy and happy. It will also help ensure that your cat lives a long life by giving the vet an opportunity to catch any problems that may be developing over time.


You should also consider asking your vet to clean your cat’s teeth during their annual vet visit since Ragamuffin cats can sometimes be prone to periodontal disease.Ask your vet if your Ragamuffin cat is at an appropriate and healthy weight. Ask your vet if your cat seems to be getting enough exercise. Ask if your Ragamuffin seems to need additional dental care to prevent periodontal disease.

