 A good cry often makes you feel better.If you’re too embarrassed to cry in front of your loved ones, do it in private. Shut your bedroom door, curl up on your bed, and let the tears flow.;
, Pick one or two close friends to discuss your feelings with. If other friends ask you to bring your ex along to an event, simply say, “We’re not together anymore,” and leave it at that. Giving everyone a blow-by-blow explanation can make you seem bitter, even if you’re not.
 Meditate on your grief. This will help you to release any feelings of anger, which only makes grief worse. You could also start a journal to write down how you feel. Don’t worry about grammar or spelling. Just write. Like meditation, journaling will also help you to release negative feelings., Vigorous exercise releases endorphins, which help to heal emotional pain.Go for a run or a power walk. Sign up for a kickbox cardio class. If you enjoy playing sports, ask your friends to play a game with you.
 Contact with nature can do wonders to lift your mood.Walk in the park. Help your parents in the garden. Even if you just sit under a tree and watch the local squirrels steal food from the birds, you could do yourself a world of good.
 Unless your parents were each other’s first loves, they had to deal with broken hearts, too. When they see that you’re hurting, they’ll want to help. Accept their offer. Express your feelings the same way you would with your friends.


Talking to other people you trust is a great way to get a different perspective on the relationship. Talking to someone can be especially helpful when the person is older than you.
 Grief is a natural state that happens to everyone. Depression, on the other hand, can be deadly. When you’re grieving, you acknowledge what still matters. In depression, nothing seems to matter. Seek professional help if:


You lose interest in things you used to be passionate about.
You close yourself off from your friends.
You engage in destructive behavior like self-mutilation.
You think about committing suicide.
 Don’t call or text your ex. Back away from their friends and family, as well. It’s okay to eventually work on a friendship, but it’s best to back off in the beginning. This will allow you to get used to life without your ex.If you and your ex had friends in common before you started dating, it’s up to you whether to keep those friends in your life. Choosing to keep them means accepting that they’ll still want to hang out with your ex. Stay civil about the matter. Don’t bad-mouth your ex or their new significant other.If you have mutual friends, make it clear to those friends that you do not want to hang out unless your ex is not around. It is important to set these boundaries and expectations ahead of time so your friend will know.
 Unfollow or delete your ex from your Friends list. Stop checking their feeds. Don’t accept their private messages. Make your own posts private so that your ex won’t see them.
 Give back your ex’s class ring or jacket. Donate the teddy bear they gave you to a children’s charity. Pawn or donate any jewelry they bought for you. Separating yourself from these reminders will help you make a clean break.It’s up to you if you want to get rid of photos and love letters. If it was a bad breakup, delete or recycle them. If you’ve agreed to be friends, you could stash them away in the garage or attic. For digital mementos, you could save them to a flash drive and ask your parents to hide it for a few years.
 It is normal and healthy to take some time to yourself after a breakup before you begin dating again. If you rebound with someone new, you risk experiencing unresolved anger for your ex.Tell yourself that it’s okay to be single, and believe it. Work out your old feelings for your ex before you start dating again.
 Invite them to your house for a pool party. Catch the latest blockbuster, and grab some pizza afterwards. Go ice skating or play a friendly game of soccer. Spending time with your friends will boost your self-esteem, occupy your mind with fun things, and remind you that you can enjoy yourself without a romantic relationship.
 Maintaining your interests is an important part of moving on. Keep on doing the things you enjoy after your breakup. For example, if you like to paint, then continue to paint. If you play an instrument, keep playing. If you play a sport, keep playing that sport.
 Be honest about why you’ve contacted them. Explain your feelings calmly and maturely. Don’t yell or insult them. If this is your first conversation since the breakup, keep it short, and don’t expect instant friendship.You could say:


“Don’t freak out. I’m not trying to win you back. I just think we’re both entitled to some closure.”
“I’m just trying to get some perspective on our split. Tell me honestly why you broke up with me.” (Be aware that this question may bring up some unresolved feelings, so you may encounter some criticism if you go this route.)
“We might not be a couple anymore, but I hope we can be friends eventually.”

, Don’t spend too much time alone together. Instead, hang out with mutual friends. Avoid physical contact, which could stir old feelings. If you’re trying to rekindle the flame with your ex, you shouldn’t try to be their friend., You don’t have to become best friends. However, you’ll at least show your ex that you’ve accepted their new significant other. When you feel comfortable, just smile or say, “Hi” as you pass each other in the hall. If they’re with your ex when you hang out, include them in conversations.