 Meet with your siblings as early as possible to discuss how you will care for your parents. In your family discussions, focus on keeping everyone up-to-date on your parents’ current health and their wishes for their care in the future.It’s best to start talking about elder care options before your parents have a health crisis or become otherwise unable to take care of themselves. This may not happen, of course, but it is a proactive way to handle caring for an aging parent.
 Getting together in person will help all your siblings feel involved in your parents’ care, if they are not closely involved in care-taking. Try to schedule your family meetings on long weekends or at other times when everyone can be present. If it’s not possible for all your siblings to be at a meeting, schedule a conference call so that you can still talk face-to-face., If your parents are still of sound mind, have them come to your family meetings and give their input. Including your parents in the decision-making process will ensure they get the kind of care they want, and it can head off some sibling disagreements before they develop.As a rule-of-thumb, it may be best to have a pre-discussion to analyze options and hash out disagreements before the parents enter the conversation. Disagreement between siblings may cause anxiety or frustration in elderly parents. What's more, they may be overwhelmed by too many options. Narrowing down the choices between you beforehand can help the discussion go more smoothly.
Use your judgment about when to make decisions without your parents’ input. Avoid involving them in conversations that might upset them. For instance, if you and your siblings think your father shouldn’t drive anymore, it’s probably best to discuss the issue without him at first.
 Elder care is an ongoing process, so it’s important that everyone is kept updated. Schedule regular meetings, either in person or via conference call, to stay in touch with any caretakers and stay informed about your parents’ health and needs.Avoid leaving some siblings out of the loop about your parents’ care, even if they live far away or don't seem very interested. This is a whole-family process, and leaving them out can lead to resentment and hurt.

