 Make attempts to manage and reduce stress in your life. Sources of stress might include having a lot to do with work, school, or taking care of someone else. Identify what you have control over, which is usually just your reaction to the stress.Practicing relaxation techniques will increase energy, motivation, and productivity. Some simple techniques to reduce stress include:

Taking 5-30 minutes every morning for quiet time or meditation.
Using imagery by finding a quiet spot, closing your eyes, and using all of your senses to imagine a deeply relaxing and peaceful scene. Imagine a space that’s meaningful and calming for you.
Trying progressive muscle relaxation, where you alternatively tense and relax the muscles throughout your body.
Practicing deep breathing.
Trying tai-chi or yoga.
Keeping a journal.
Taking a hot bath or shower.;
, Spend time with friends, family, and others who make you feel good about yourself. Choose people who respect your needs and boundaries. Make sure the people you spend time with are considerate, reliable, and supportive of your goals. Avoid people who drain you, belittle you, or stress you out., It’s important to make time for fun and leisure, especially when you’re stressed. Remember to engage in a variety of things for fun and involve other people. Try one of these ideas:


Have a date night once a week with your spouse or with your friends.Re-read a favorite book.
Watch a favorite movie.
Find a hobby to enjoy.
Listen to peaceful music.
Buy an adult coloring book.
 Know when you’re feeling overwhelmed and don’t be afraid to seek professional help. Needing to talk to somebody doesn't make you broken, it makes you human. Put effort into finding somebody you can trust and connect with. If you're not able to form a relationship with your therapist, the arrangement won't be beneficial. Counseling is beneficial to self-care because it:

Gives you a safe place to talk and process.
Helps you deal better with daily stressors and worries.
Allows you to get an objective opinion.
Encourages you to live a better life.
 Encourage and validate yourself by saying something affirming to yourself. Pick a phrase or saying that’s positive, personal, powerful, and precise. Some examples you can try:“I can do this.”
“I believe in myself.”
“I love and accept myself.”
“I am doing my best.”
“This too shall pass.”

