 It is a great idea to let your rabbit out of her cage now and then so that she can run and play, but make sure that the environment is safe before you do so. Some things that you will need to do include:Hiding or covering electrical cords. Rabbits will chew through electrical cords, so cords need to be hidden with spiral wrap, hard plastic tubing, and or by keeping them out of reach.

Watching your rabbit around wood. Rabbits will chew on wooden objects including wall trim, door edges and wooden furniture legs. Rabbits may also chew on wallpaper, sheetrock, and carpeting. Watch your rabbit around these items or keep your rabbit away from them.

Providing chewing alternatives. Always make sure that your rabbit has some acceptable chewing alternatives. If you catch your rabbit starting to chew on something he shouldn’t, then give him the alternative. You can give your rabbit items like alfalfa cubes, untreated pine boards, cotton towels, or apple branches., Rabbits need about two to three hours of exercise per day to stay healthy, so ensure that your rabbit has plenty of opportunities to run and play. You will need to let your rabbit outside of your cage to let him run and play.Make sure to supervise him during this time.
 Do not wait until your rabbit is sick to take her to the veterinarian. Take your rabbit for a checkup once per year to make sure that she is healthy. Of course, if you do notice signs of a problem, then take your rabbit to a veterinarian right away. Signs of a problem include:watery diarrhea
not defecating
runny eyes
runny nose
dark red urine
fur loss
lethargy
drooling
not hopping
fever of 105 degrees Fahrenheit or more, Rabbits can reproduce often and fast, so spaying and neutering are essential to preventing unwanted litters. Female rabbits are also at a much higher risk of uterine cancer if left unsprayed. Spaying and neutering can also prevent your rabbits from engaging in spraying and other negative behaviors due to sex hormones.If your rabbits are not spayed or neutered, then you will need to keep the males and females separated to prevent unwanted litters.

