 Prepare the list of words you need to memorize. Either get them from your teacher, your textbook, a play, song lyrics, or whatever source that you’ll be taking them from. It is best to print out the words and then write the word out next to the printed word before you even begin. This will be your first step in memorizing them.
 After you’ve got your list, arrange the words in a way so that you can create a couple sentences or a story with the words. You don’t want to just build clunky sentences, though. Consider:


Rhyming words.
Pairing words cleverly.
This works best if you don’t have to know the words in a certain order.
You will be keeping the meaning of each word.
 Finding a memorable tune to accompany your arranged words will help you remember them more easily. Think about popular songs or songs that you can easily remember the tune to. Consider the tunes from:


Your current favorite pop songs.
Traditional folk tunes like “Molly Malone” or “John Brown’s Body.”
Pledges, anthems, or hymns, like the American Pledge of Allegiance, the American Marine hymn, or Hail Britannia.
If you're trying to remember song lyrics, you'll of course use your own tune. Try pairing your lyrics and tune with a picture story., After you’ve arranged your words, say the words to yourself out loud. Afterwords, sing or rap the words. This way, you’ve taken your word list, associated with a tune, and now have your own song to memorize! You can sing it to yourself when you’re taking a test or trying to remember your word list., As you go about your daily chores or travel, sing or repeat the song or tune over and over again. If you've recorded the song or tune (you singing/saying the words over and over), play it back while you're resting, or even sleeping. If you do record it, put the tune, rap or song on loop., Keep doing this until it feels as if the words and their meanings have stuck in your memory. Music is a great aid to memory, which is why it's so easy to remember pop songs. As a result, this should be a very pleasant and potentially enjoyable way of getting your work done.

