 This is seen in 60% to 70% of the patients in the chronic phase. These patients do not have heart, gastrointestinal (esophagus or colon), and neurological (brain or nerves) symptoms of Chagas disease. Nevertheless, around 2% to 5% of these patients later have heart, esophagus and/or large intestinal or colonic symptoms. This form occurs eight weeks to ten weeks after the start of infection and is asymptomatic phase, which means it is without symptoms or signs of illness.
 Heart issues caused by chagas are referred to as Chagas Cardiac disease. If left untreated, the parasites gradually damage the heart. Heart muscles are destroyed with fibrous tissue formation. Heart chambers are dilated and muscles cannot contract rhythmically and efficiently, which may lead to heart failure.If you feel irregular heart beat or missed beat, it may be an early sign of heart malfunction.
If heart failure develops, there will be accumulation of fluid in the lungs. You will experience breathlessness, fatigue and nocturnal cough with frothy sputum.
 Long standing infection may damage nerves in your digestive tract. The esophagus (gullet) and colon are most commonly affected. They become dilated as there is loss of peristalsis, or the contraction of the intestine to propel food bolus from the mouth to the anus. You will either have issues with your esophagus or your colon., Megaesophagus is defined as the dilatation or enlargement of the esophagus. Symptoms of megaesophagus are difficulty in and painful swallowing to solid and/or liquid foods, difficulty of breathing, regurgitation, weight loss, and food aspiration. Due to this condition, previously-eaten food may go back towards the mouth and may pass through the windpipe and cause cough and pneumonia.
 Megacolon is defined as the dilatation or enlargement of the large intestine or the colon.Megacolon presents as constipation, impacted feces, or twisting of the large intestine. Symptoms of colonic infarction would be pain on the whole abdomen, passage of watery to loose stools (diarrhea), fever, and vomiting. Both colonic infarction and obstruction are emergencies requiring surgery.

