 If you think you can't run a fast mile, then you probably won't. Think positive thoughts, especially while you're running, and have someone in your family, or maybe just a friend, tell you positive things. (i.e "this race is all yours!" "That kid in the red is your only competition, but you can leave him in the dust.") You will be surprised how much faster you will run with positive thoughts in your head.;
, Your mind is most of it but your body is important too. If your muscles are tight, your legs are hurting and you didn't stretch, you are probably not going to do very well. Always stretch before the race! This is important for any race. Your legs are one of the most important parts to stretch, but make sure you stretch your whole body before the run. You'd be surprised at how tired and sore your arms could get while running!

, As stated before, your mind plays a huge part in the race, so tell yourself what you are going to do. The mile is considered distance running so tell yourself your plan (i.e, "I'm going to sprint the first 150 meters to get ahead, and keep a solid pace the rest of the race." or "I'm going to take it easy in the beginning and pass people during the race, then sprint the last 200 meters or so."

, Water is one of the most important part of race preparation. Do not drink Gatorade before a race; the sugars will cause your body to slow down in the middle of the race. You should drink water throughout the day of the race, but not too much or you will get a cramp. Generally drink about 30-35% of you daily water needs before a race or about 3 or 4 cups of water.
 If you decided to sprint out at the beginning and someone passes you, tell yourself, "He will die off before the race ends." Or at the beginning if you take it easy and pass people and a few are too fast, say to yourself " I'll catch them at the end."

, Have a place and a time goal for yourself. If you wanted to finish 3rd at the worst with a time of 6:00 or better, and you are at 5th and you're at a pace for 5:50, you should keep your pace until the end then sprint to get to 3rd.
 Don't kill yourself though, because if he isn't running hard he is saving energy for the end. So you'll need some energy to pass him.
 Just remember, when you're running and you begin to get tired, just keep going, remembering that you can do it. At the end, as soon as you see the finish line in front of you, sprint towards it. You can do this!

