 There are many types of boomerang designs to choose from and a good pattern can be found online. You also need some sort of saw that can cut curves, such as a band saw, coping saw or bow-saw.









Not all plywood is the same. Use Baltic or Finnish birch; something sturdy.
If making the standard "V"-shape boomerang, the 107 degree angle size is not critical, just optimum. It can be more or less than 107 degrees. If you make the angle greater than 107 degrees, know that the rotation plate becomes small and it can be difficult to keep the boomerang spinning.;
, Use a sanding block (and a lot of elbow grease) or an orbital sander to give each side of the boomerang an airfoil shape. The direction the airfoil faces depends on the hand with which you throw.









First, mark the top of the boomerang. As with airplane wings, the airfoils on a boomerang have a leading and a trailing edge. The leading edge is a quarter-round shape and the trailing edge tapers off the top of the boomerang like the cross-section of a typical airplane wing. Mark the two leading edges and the two trailing edges so you do not file them incorrectly. The bottom face of the wing is completely flat.
Lay out the leading and trailing edges of the wings based on which hand will do the throwing. A marking gauge can be used for this (or the old trick of holding a finger against the edge). Mark in on the top the distance that the contour retreats back from the boomerang’s edge to its top surface.
The quarter-round shape generally extends about 1/4″ (6 mm) from the edge, while the trailing edge extends about 1″ (2.5 cm) to 1 1/2″ (3.8 cm) into the material. Note that you only have to shape one face of the plywood. The other face is left flat.The traditional Australian boomerang has positive dihedral (an angle formed by two plane faces). The best choice is to find a position in which the boomerang wings tips are up., The boomerang needs leading and trailing edges, just like an airplane. In addition, you want the whole surface to be smooth. Remove all the rough wood protrusions.









Shape the airfoil with rasps, files and sandpaper. There are a variety of rasps available out there. No. 49 and 50 cabinet rasps are good places to start. The optional finishing touch to shaping the airfoil is to slightly bevel the back edge of the wing (if you wish).
 Then, apply a thin coat of spray paint or clear lacquer to help protect the boomerang and make it look nice.









Don't decorate the boomerang until you're sure you're all finished. Take it out for a test drive before you break out the paints.

