 Remind yourself that you are only human—you cannot do everything, all the time. You can, however, still be a great mom, just by being an ordinary, loving mom. Don’t get down on yourself or feel guilty if you make a mistake—everyone makes mistakes.


If you start feeling guilty or upset about a mistake you made or something that happened, remind yourself of the things you’ve done write or accomplished recently. Shifting your focus to something positive can help you to combat feelings of depression and anxiety.;
, After you have given birth to your baby, it is important that you eat a balanced diet, as you may be lacking some nutrients. Talk to your doctor about what vitamins and minerals you might be deficient in. Try to eat a balanced diet that includes:


Lean protein.
Fresh fruits and vegetables.
Low-fat dairy products.
Complex carbohydrates.
Unsaturated fats.
 It is important to slowly work your way back into exercising, rather than jumping right back into training for a marathon. Your exercise could be as simple as taking your baby for a half hour walk.


Try to exercise at least three times a week because when you exercise, your body releases endorphins that can both make you happy and relieve any stress that you feel.
 Whenever you feel panic or anxiety creeping in, get some water, sit down, and focus on your breathing. Clear everything else from your head and simply focus on your breath flowing in and out of your body. You can also practice breathing exercises like:


Breathing in slowly, for 10 seconds, holding your breath for a moment, and then releasing the air slowly for another 10 seconds. You should count the seconds in your head while doing this. Repeat this process until you feel calmer.
 When you are suffering from postpartum anxiety and depression, you may find it challenging to sleep, particularly if you baby wakes up throughout the night. Despite these challenges, it is important that you try to get at least eight hours of sleep throughout the night and day. Getting enough rest will help you to be able to

, When your vitamin D levels drop below normal levels, you can become depressed and feel anxious more easily, so it is important to get the vitamin D that you need each day. One of the most effective ways to do this is by spending some time in the sun. When sunlight gets absorbed through your skin, your body produces vitamin D.Go out for a hike in the daylight. Spend some time gardening, or take your baby for a walk (but make sure to protect your baby from the sun).

