 Start your cornrow by sectioning off a long, narrow section of hair. This section should be in a straight line from your scalp to your nape. Make sure to separate the edges as crisply as possible.Use rubber bands, clips, bobby pins, or another styling tool to secure the hair not in the cornrow section. You want to make sure hair from the rest of your head doesn't get integrated into the cornrow.
Make sure to comb the hair in the tract straight back before you begin.
 To start your cornrow, you need to make the base for the braid. Begin by taking a thin, even section from the very front of the section - right next to the scalp.
 Position the hair extension around the natural hair so the natural hair rests in the direct middle of the extension. This will produce three strands to braid - the extension on the right, the natural hair in the middle, and the extension to the left.








Prepare these strands to braid by placing the three strands between your fingers on one hand. One strand should be between your thumb and index finger, the middle between your index and middle finger, the last between your middle and ring finger.
 Get your fingers as close to the scalp as possible. Start with the strand of hair resting between ring finger and middle finger. Take that strand between your thumb and index finger on your free hand. Wrap the strand around the base of the hair in the direction of the hand you are wrapping with. Keep the hair tightly close to the scalp. Keeping that strand secure between your thumb and index finger, place the middle strand between the index and middle finger, while the outside strand is between your middle and ring finger.









The strands have now shifted position. The hair that started in the back is now in front, the original middle strand (your natural hair) is in the back, and the original front strand is in the middle.
 Now with the other hand, repeat the same steps, wrapping around the other side of the strand. Take the strand currently between your ring and middle finger and wrap it around the hair using the thumb and index finger on your free hand. Make sure you wrap it around a different side than in the previous step; you are wrapping it around towards your free hand. Now place the middle and outside strands between the index and middle and middle and ring finger, respectively.









If you are wrapping with your left hand, the hair will be wrapped on the left side of the strand. If you are wrapping with your right hand, the hair will be wrapped on the right side of the strand.
 Continue braiding the hair this way for 3-4 more turns. You want to establish a tight, secure base braid for the rest of your cornrow.
 Now that the base braid is ready, start adding hair to the braid. Pick up a small amount of hair from the tract and add it to the strand between your thumb and index finger. Braid a complete turn, which means you wrap hair around both sides of the hair.









Continue adding small sections of hair from directly below where the braid is, braiding complete turns each time.
 When you have incorporated all the hair from your scalp into your braid, keep braiding in the same way until you get to the end of your hair. Secure your hair with a small rubber band.







