 Everyone has their own idea of what cute means to them, so do your best to wear outfits that make you feel attractive and confident. You don't need to spend hours in front of a mirror every day, just take the time to choose clothes that brighten your mood.


For example, wear a t-shirt from a band you enjoy even if most people won't recognize the band.
Wear quirky accessories that you love regardless of whether they're in style or not.
Try going to thrift stores to find unique clothing that makes you stand out without breaking the bank.
 Even the most sparkling personalities can't go very far without good hygiene. Keep your breath fresh, your body odor under control, and shower regularly so your appearance makes people want to stay. , Don't cross your arms and legs if you can help it. Look people directly in the eye, smile to show people you're happy to see them, lean into conversations with your body, and don't be afraid to show an appropriate level of affection with people you know well, such as a friendly hug.
 Use assertive, 'I' statements to talk about your feelings and avoid speaking negatively about others. Spreading gossip is often indicative of self-esteem issues and tends to isolate others.
 Everyone can be self-conscious about their own laugh, but being bubbly means owning that laugh so you can show people you're easy-going. You should only try to crack positive jokes that don't come at other people's expense. Laugh genuinely at other people's jokes, even if they aren't the funniest thing you've ever heard.


Find the humor in daily life. Every day watch a funny video or find a funny headline that you can share with people. Make a concerted effort to seek out humor so you can keep you and your friend's spirits lively.
Don't worry about being the funniest. You don't need to be a comedian in order to have a good sense of humor. If you can't think of a joke to crack, just laugh at someone else's joke or find existing humor in your surroundings, like laughing at an awkward situation or a funny dog.
Don't force a laugh. Learn to make your laughs sincere even if you're finding the humor in someone's joke that isn't the best punchline of all time. 