 This doesn't mean that you should hop into bed with your partner every chance you get to make up after fighting. It does mean that you should be intimate as much as you can, whether it means cuddling, caressing each other and laughing about nothing, or just spending time on the couch holding hands and watching your favorite TV shows. Make time for intimacy at least a few times a week, no matter how busy you are -- this will help you when the time comes to talk about the difficult stuff.


Being intimate has a more significant meaning than being physical. It's about seeing into another person and trying to create a space in your mind for your partner's words, body language, or actions.
 Sure, it would be great if your partner let you know every time something important was really troubling him. However, that's rarely the case. If you want to build a solid foundation for communication, then you have to start recognizing the non-verbal or verbal cues that let you know your partner is upset. Get to know your partners' signs and be comfortable with saying, "Hey, you look upset. Is something bothering you?" He might not always want to talk, but making him aware that you know he's upset will make him feel more cared for.Every person will demonstrate this differently, from staying conspicuously quiet, saying he's not hungry, making passive aggressive comments, or complaining about something minor when something major is really on his mind.
This doesn't mean that you should say, "Hey, what's wrong?" if your partner isn't acting 100% happy -- maybe he or she is just tired after a long day of work. Recognizing the signs of knowing when your partner is truly okay is different from asking him if he's okay every five seconds; this could get annoying.
Sometimes body language can convey more than actual words. If you are caught in a misunderstanding, it's important to establish your willingness to communicate.
"I'm trying to understand, but I'm not getting there. Am I doing something to upset you?" "No." "Is someone else doing something to upset you?" "No." "Are you just upset?" "Yes." "With me?" "No. Not really." You're narrowing it down. It seems like a lot of effort, but it may be worth it in the end.
 You don't have to have a fight over every little thing that is bothering you, but you should be able to bring up the tough problems when the time comes. Don't get passive aggressive and let your anger boil up, or you'll find yourself having a full-blown fight at an inopportune moment when you least expect it. Learn to bring up the big questions so you can be comforted when you find a compromise, instead of letting yourself simmer.


Both members of the relationship can offer solutions until you find one that is mutually acceptable. A true compromise is one in which both partners feel that their thoughts and feelings are addressed while adhering to real constraints: feasibility, time, cost, etc.
 Find time together to just have fun. If you spend all of your time working and then fighting about your problems, you won't enjoy your relationship very much. If you store up a lot of points in your "fun bank," and have lots of positive feelings and memories with your partner, you'll be less likely to explode in the middle of an argument. Building a solid foundation of mutual love and happiness will help you get through the hard times.


Laugh together. Whether you're making corny jokes, watching a comedy, or just cracking up over nothing, laughing will really help you enjoy your relationship more and prepare for the hard times.
 If you're both shouting, hurting each other, and not getting anywhere, then yeah, the conversation is no longer productive. There's no need to keep fighting if you're just making things much worse. Instead, take a breath, tell your partner that you should both calm down and pick up the conversation at another time, if you're talking about something really important. This is a mature way to keep your communication from getting out of control.Just say, "I think this topic is really important to both of us, but we should return to it when we're both more calm."
Don't walk away by slamming doors or shouting hurtful things. Leave on a positive note, even if you're still feeling angry.
Sometimes, you may just be arguing about nothing to get a reaction out of each other. If this is the case, then point it out. Say, "What are we even fighting about?" This can help you both take a step back and take stock of the situation.
 In any good relationship, being happy should always be more important than being right. Don't spend all of your time trying to prove that you're right or fighting to get your way, or your romance will fizzle out -- and fast. Instead, work on finding a productive solution that can make both of you (reasonably) happy. This is much better for your relationship long term and will help you communicate your true needs.Sometimes, you just won't be able to get your way when it comes to a black and white discussion, such as finding a new place to live. Still, make sure that you get your way next time, or that you're happy with the resolution of a conflict the next time around.
Take turns. One person shouldn't always get his or her way.
Making a pros and cons list can also help you reach a solution in a more logical and less heated way.
Sometimes, when you're having an argument, it's important to consider which person really cares more. This can help you figure out how to assess the situation. If something is really important to you, but only sort of important to your partner, let it be known.
 If you want to keep up a healthy stream of communication, then you and your partner have to take the time to compliment each other, send each other sweet notes, tell each other what you love about each other, and to make time to do the things you love. A weekly date night, and as many nightly dinners as you can have if you live together, can really help you enjoy each other's company and get used to talking to each other in a positive way. This will make it easier for you to have an argument when the time comes.


In any healthy relationship, you should give your partner much more positive than negative feedback. Even if you feel like he's doing everything right, let him know that.

