 This always comes in handy, because now you have an actual guy to help you know what's so pretty about other girls.;
, Don't make it look like you think that the girl's are ugly, and you feel prettier. Just act curious, as if you're casually asking him who he likes.
 Normally, you'd think that you'd be able to ask him yourself, but if he's a nice guy friend, he will say that you're perfect the way you are, and you shouldn't change. When that friend asks him, tell her to take note of what he says about you that's different to the pretty girls.
 You're prettier than you think, and you will see in the following steps how to make yourself more appealing. If the guy says stuff like, "She's nice, but not my type", that means that he's trying to hide the fact that you're unappealing to him.
 In the last step, if you weren't known as pretty, read on. There may be many reasons why that guy friend found you unappealing. You may be fat, you may be ugly, you may have acne, braces may be a factor, maybe it's your hair, you never know! That's why EVERYTHING has to be taken care of, just in case.
 Check online what the average weight is for girls your age/height, and then compare it to your weight. If you are equal to, just above (meaning 2-3lbs more), or below, that means you're okay. If you're far more than it, then you should be hitting the gym, or running around the neighborhood every evening. But take note: there is a difference between fat, and curvy. Let's say your chest and your backside are big, but your stomach and your legs are average, that means that guys will really like you. Guys are usually pervs/horny little things, so the more skin you show, the more guys will come running.
 See if you have any blemishes, black spots, unwanted facial hair, etc. If you have blackheads and/or blemishes, your first step would be to use facial cleansers and makeup. Clean and Clear, Pro-Activ, Neutrogena, etc. are all really good brands of facial cleansers/exfoliators and blemish removers. Really good foundation can be found at Shoppers Drug Mart, Sephora, and other makeup stores. DO NOT GO CHEAP, OR YOU WILL LOOK TRASHY. If you have unwanted facial hair, the worst thing to do is shave it. It grows back longer, thicker and hairier. Go to your nearest beauty salon, and wax or thread it off. Waxing hurts less because it takes out the hair in one go, while threading takes out hairs one by one. Also, shaping your eyebrows would be a good choice as well. Try looking at your body for other unwanted hairs and wax them off.
 There are some that say it makes your body more compelling to the guys. They like a girl with a face and a personality, but a body boosts your image up much higher. If you have that huge chest, or huge backside, work it! Wear tight tops/pants (preferably tights), and your shirts should have a V-shaped neckline. Also, a good sense in style helps.
 Ask opinions on which people think look better, curly or straight or wavy. Try a different hairdo/haircut that may be more appealing. A stylist helps. Guys usually don't like it when your hair is tied up, so try keeping it down. Conditioner helps keep your hair luscious and silky. Herbal Essences are a really good brand of shampoo and conditioner.
 Just because you're all pampered and pretty, doesn't mean you have to be stuck up and snobby! Keep yourself real, guys love a girl who's true to herself.
 If you go to study hall every lunch, or eat in the library, guys will NEVER notice you. Get outside, play some ball with the guys, or just chill with people you don't really know. That way, people will start to know you, and you'll be the buzz.

