 You may be surprised to learn that this isn't just what everyone thinks it is, such as singing, dancing or acting. You might be brilliant at math, superb at oration or terrific at drawing. Whatever your talent, taking it to superstar status requires finding what you're best at, then working it.;
, Improve it by learning supporting skills, practicing or studying or doing whatever it takes to really hone your talent and ensure that you're the best at it by a long shot.
 There is no point aiming to be the best at something to garner attention, only to hate what you have become or what you're doing. Be absolutely sure this is what you want.
 Enter competitions, shows, contests, auditions, whatever is relevant. If it's acting, try auditions, if it's math, enter math competitions. And do your level best to win. And even if you don't do your level best to be interesting so that the media notices you.
 Do covers, talks, dances, art shows, videos, websites, etc. to show off your talent in its best possible light.


If you need help with design, get someone good to do the work for you. Good work will show you in your best way and will earn support from readers and viewers, your potential fans.
 Start following people and have them follow back. Leave updates that are half telling people what you're doing and half helping people with news, information, ideas and advice in response to questions. Don't bore people to tears with self-absorption; aim high from the start, aim beyond yourself.


Interact! Answer those comments (the pleasant, well constructed ones at least). Say hi back to people and ask how they are doing too.
 Send letters to the makers of the shows letting them know what you're doing and why. Weave them a whole story, and a good, strong and positive one at that.


Be truthful in explaining your talent. Pretending you can do things that you can't will be just plain embarrassing and could harm your reputation.
 Be personable, approachable and willing to engage in casual banter. Communicating is a large part of becoming a superstar. If people feel that they can relate to you and you're easy to talk to, that's half the battle won.
 Notice and listen to what people like and give them way more of it!

, Whether you're communicating science, math and technology, or dancing, singing and tap-dancing your way to fame, present yourself well so that people are impressed and see in you someone they'd like to emulate. Be resourceful, be relevant and be original in the clothing you wear, the appearance you adopt and the fashion statements you put forth.
 Don't rest on your laurels and don't get stuck in a rut. Keep learning, keep reinventing and keep up-to-date (or ahead of it all). Lifelong learning counts, no matter what your superstar status.
 There will be plenty, there always have been, there always will be. Without such people, there would be less chance to be at the top showing what you've really got because everyone would be too busy being their best. Realize that some people will be unkind, mostly because they can be. Learn to respect only comments that come from people you respect, and this does not include anonymous commenters or people with clear trolling or lopping tendencies. Have inward pity for these people but show no outward reaction; protect yourself and move on, focusing on the people who get what you're doing and really appreciate your talent and uniqueness.


Realize that as you age, perceptions of you will differ too. This can be good and bad, depending on how you play to it. The best approach is to direct the perception and help others in your same age group benefit from you as a spokesperson for your era.
 When you gain sufficient status to be recognized, use this to benefit your fans and followers. Consider what you can give back to them. Perhaps it is about giving a concert in your local town hall, perhaps it's about giving a speech supporting people who are doing it tough in some way, or perhaps it is by donating your time, money or skills to a cause you really care about.
 It is enough that you're recognized and fêted in your own area or country. If your fans spread word of you worldwide, that's just an added bonus, not a necessity.