 Several weeks before attempting to move your baby into his or her crib, introduce set cues and habits that will let your baby know when bedtime has come.


A set routine will help your baby know that it's bedtime, regardless of where he or she is sleeping.
You can vary the routine as desired, making it as short or long as you need in order to help baby wind down. The elements you introduce into your routine should all be of a calming nature, however.
Beginning the process before moving your baby to his or her crib will help your baby to associate the new routine with bedtime. As a result, your baby will still know that it's time for sleep even when one aspect of the routine—sleeping in your room—ceases.
Be consistent. The only way to establish certain actions as a routine is to do them every night. If you skip some nights, you might give your baby mixed signals.
Even if you have no pre-set cues that tell your baby when it's time to go to sleep, there might be signs and signals you unknowingly give to your baby that indicate the arrival of bedtime. Analyze your bedtime habits and determine if there are any habits you have established for your child. If there are, continue these habits as much as possible.;
, For babies over six months of age, you could also try giving them 1 or 2 Tbsp (15 or 30 ml) of cereal before bed.


Stuffing your baby with too much food will only cause discomfort, but giving him or her a little before bed may help your baby feel more comfortable and last a little longer into the night before waking up.
 A short, warm bath can help soothe your baby, easing him or her into sleep.


Note, however, that some babies will feel invigorated when given a bath. If yours falls under this category, then you should do the bath earlier in the day rather than making it part of your bedtime routine.
Follow the bath by wrapping your baby in a warm towel or blanket. Holding your child close will also add an extra level of warmth and comfort, further soothing your baby in preparation for sleep.
 Choose a simple book designed for babies and read it in a calm, gentle voice.


Even though younger babies may not understand the story as you read it, your baby can still appreciate the routine of being held while mom or dad speaks in a calm, rhythmic voice. Additionally, the rhythmic, sing-song quality of the text found in most children's books can have a soothing quality in itself.
Consider selecting a children's book themed around sleep. Once your child grows old enough to understand the story, the routine may have an even stronger effect.
If your baby has not relaxed after a single book, you can also consider reading several books before bedtime. Do not allow this part of the routine to last past 5 or 10 minutes, though, since it may actually cause your baby to feel more awake if it continues too long.
 Lullabies exist for a reason. Singing a gentle lullaby or similarly calming song might help your baby wind down, and the rhythmic quality of music makes it a great aspect to introduce into a bedtime routine.


Singing to your baby while holding him or her against your chest allows the child to feel the soothing vibrations of your voice as they listen. This may help maximize the calming quality of the song.
When the time comes for you to move your baby into the crib, sing the lullaby while still holding him or her. After a week or so passes, change this practice so that your baby is already in his or her crib when you begin the song.
 Choose a simple toy, like a stuffed animal, that can act as a symbol of security.


Avoid stimulating toys designed to help babies develop. While these toys are great for daytime play, placing them in the crib at night might prove too stimulating for your baby and may keep him or her awake.
You could also try a toy specifically designed for bedtime. For instance, stuffed animals that play soothing music are a popular choice.
Security blankets often have the same effect and may be used in place of a toy.
For younger babies who have not established independent head control, you should position the toy far enough away so that it can be seen but not grabbed. Doing so will prevent your baby from accidentally rolling into it and suffocating.

