 Exposure to sunlight will lighten your hair, especially in the summertime. This is the reason many people claim that their hair color is darker in the winter, when there's less sunlight and people spend less time outdoors.


The more time you spend outside in the sunlight, the lighter your hair will turn.
If you plan on going swimming and spending time in the sun, get your hair wet in the pool first and then let it dry in the sun.;
, Unfortunately, this will only work if your hair is already somewhat blonde. If you're a brunette, it will turn your hair a reddish-orange color.


Apply lemon juice sparingly to your hair, and expose your hair to sunlight for 30-60 minutes.
Alternately, mix the juice of 1 lemon, 1 lime, and 1 orange, and run the mixture through your hair.
While lemon juice will naturally lighten your hair, it will also dry it out. Try mixing it with water to dilute it, and be sure to wash and condition your hair after you go outside.
 Not only is beer great for your hair, but it also lightens it. And because you mix the lemon juice with beer, it won't dry out your hair that much. All you need to do is take lemon juice from half a lemon, 3 tsp of honey, and mix it with beer (golden colored beer), until you have enough to cover your hair. Sit outside in the sun for about an hour, and then wash and condition your hair. Afterwards you can go back outside and let your hair dry in the sun. If you do this a couple of times, your hair will become much lighter, but will look natural.

If you have red in your hair, you should be careful, because this mixture could make your hair a lot redder, even orange. This works best on natural blondes, who had lighter hair when they were little.
 This method is also inadvisable for brunettes, because it will give your hair an orange, brassy looking color. If you have blonde hair already, though, and you want to bleach it a bit more, peroxide will work just fine!


Put a little bit of hydrogen peroxide in a dark spray bottle. Spray sparingly on the parts of your hair you want lighter. Alternately, wet a cotton ball with hydrogen peroxide and brush cotton ball through hair for highlights. Most people leave the peroxide in their hair for about 40 minutes, but you can leave it in there longer for lighter hair. After allotted time, wash hair with cold water and condition hair afterward.



You can buy cassia dye prepackaged at your local drugstore or supermarket.
You can also buy cassia powder and mix your own dye. Mix cassia powder with chamomile tea to form a paste. You can add different herbs for different results. Add cinnamon to give your hair faint red or auburn tones. Unbleached chamomile leaves can boost the blonde in the cassia mix. Powdered cloves can help mask the scent. Whatever combination you try, always perform a strand test before dyeing your hair.
,, Use warm water.
, If you're a lighter brunette and want more of a bleached blonde look, consider this potent combination.


Mix chamomile, rhubarb, marigold, lemon juice, mullein, and a tiny bit of hydrogen peroxide.
Combine with water, and let it steep overnight.
Apply to hair, and sit in the sun ideally from 11:30 AM to 2:45 PM. It works on blondes, too, but if you're a light brunette who's tired of reading about natural dyes that only work on blondes, try this, and don't be afraid of the rhubarb. After several tests we've determined that it doesn't turn your hair orange or urine-yellow.



Start with 1/2 cup of lemon juice and mix it with 1/2 cup shampoo and then 1/2 cup of water in a bowl. (Sour cream will also act as a thickener if you don't wish to use shampoo.)
Get the mixture and put it in a spray bottle.
Evenly spray the solution on your hair once a day, before you go outside for best results. You only need to spray your hair until it is a little wet, not soaking.
Do this everyday until the solution runs out, and you will notice your hair getting brighter and blonder. Works like a charm!

