 You should stay proactive in treating your ulcerative colitis. This helps keep flare ups and symptoms to a minimum, which can reduce your stress and worry. Following your doctor's treatment suggestions, taking any medication, and making lifestyle changes should reduce the risk of symptoms.


You don't want to have to worry about the unnecessary stress that comes from not taking care of yourself. When you have ulcerative colitis, you have enough to worry about. Try to limit the amount of stress you add to yourself by taking care of yourself and following your treatment.
 There are some stressors that you can’t avoid, like work related stress. If possible, avoid any stress that you can. Some stresses are not necessary, and reducing your stress load can help reduce any flare ups of your ulcerative colitis.Say “no” if you have to. Don’t agree to more work at your job if you don’t have time, or don’t agree to help out with a community project if you don’t have the time. Put your health first and say “no” when you need to.
Limit exposure to people who cause you stress. If you have to cut ties with someone because they stress you out and negatively affect your health, then do so.
Make adjustments in your daily life to lessen stress. Leave earlier for work if you have a habit of running behind. Make lunch and gather school supplies together the night before for your children.
Keep in mind that studies have shown that stress is linked to UC, but does not cause the onset or beginning of the condition.“Life Events” or the association of perceived stress is linked to rectal mucosal abnormalities, and is strongly suggestive of an association between psychosocial events and ulcerative colitis.Short term stress is not associated with the exacerbation of UC; however, long term stress is associated with increased exacerbations over months to years., Doing something soothing when you feel stressed out can help you feel better and lift your mood. This may be listening to soothing music, like classical or instrumental, or putting on your favorite upbeat playlist. You may want to watch your favorite television show or movie.Make time to do something fun, happy, and soothing when you feel stressed out.
 Having a positive attitude can do wonders for your stress. Though you may not feel positive about your ulcerative colitis or your flare ups, try to tell yourself that you will get through this and it’s not as bad as you think. Try laughing and smiling. Laughing lifts your mood, and a smile can help you trick your brain into looking on the bright side.Accept that there are some things you can’t change. Stay positive by reminding yourself that you are doing everything that you can do. Giving your all is enough.

