 Consider making your own dress or tuxedo. However, this will require sewing skills and a sewing machine, plus a pattern unless you can make one without it. While this is the hardest route to go, if you do it right, it will guarantee that you get what you want, it will fit perfectly, and you won't be lining the pockets of some morally questionable corporation.;
, Thrift stores and consignment shops can be used to find great deals so you won't feel guilty about modifying a couple hundred dollar piece. Colour and size aren't really important right now, but if you can't tailor it yourself, it will have to fit, and if it is made out a material that will be tricky to dye, it will have to be the right colour.
 You'll need your article of clothing, scissors, a seam ripper, a cheese grater, a razor blade, safety pins, paint, fabric, dye, buckles, studs, zippers, chains, mini stuffed animals, hair bows, and whatever other stuff you want to decorate it with or need to help you do so. A sewing machine/needle and thread can be helpful too as can a grommet puncher. Lay all of your supplies out on a large table covered with newspaper. Go to the bathroom, grab a snack, and get ready to begin.
 Take out the seams and reattach it with safety pins or lace it with ribbon, string, shoe laces, or caution tape. Cut off the hems, shred the fabric and rip holes in tulle. Punch a line of grommets along the bottom of a dress so it looks like a Converse shoe and lace it. Dye your fabric using the directions on the back of the dye container. Throw on some paint artistically or randomly. Cut of buttons and replace them with mismatching ones that show some off your style. Write on it with markers or fabric paint. Pull it apart, make a statement, and really show your personality. After all, that is what your life is about, isn't it? Leave the above suggestions behind and do whatever you want to do or think is right. Any mistakes can easily be fixed with safety pins and duct tape.
 When you like what you see and you feel great, you're all done. If you get to prom and they don't let you in, hit the nearest concert with your friends. If there isn't one immediately available, go hang out in one of your basements or try bowling. It's amusing to see how people look at you when you show up to bowl in your outfit.
 Keep your punk spirit about you and you'll have fun, no matter what you are wearing.

