 A citation to a periodical article, whether in a law journal, magazine, or some other publication, starts with the full name of the author, written in order of his or her first name, middle initial, and last name.Include any suffixes, such as "Jr." However, omit any initials or titles used to indicate degrees or affiliations, such as "Dr." or "Ph.D."
If there are two authors, list them in the order listed on the article, connected by an ampersand.
If there are more than two authors, you can cite them using the name of the first author followed by "et al." You also can list all authors if you choose to do so, or if the names of all authors carry some significance.
Institutional authors should be listed using the same rules, such as if the article has a company or educational institution listed as the author rather than an individual person.
Do not reduce middle names to middle initials unless that is how they appear in the article itself.
 After the author's name, put a comma and a space and then write the full title of the article you wish to cite. The article's title typically is underlined in court documents such as briefs or motions.All words should be capitalized, except articles, conjunctions, or prepositions, unless these are the first word in the title or the first word that follows a colon.
Do not omit words or abbreviate any words in the title.
 How you format the name of the periodical depends to some extent on what sort of periodical it is. Law journals typically begin with a volume number, then the name of the journal, then the first page on which the article appears.If the periodical is a law review or journal, its name should be abbreviated using the rules in Table 13 of the Bluebook.
How you format the page number depends on the way the periodical itself is paginated. Many law journals use consecutive pagination – while there may be four issues of a single volume, the volume starts with page one in the first issue and the pages continue in order for each issue.
In other words, the journal doesn't start over with page one at the beginning of each issue, as most magazines and other periodicals do.
If the periodical uses consecutive pagination, you simply follow the name of the periodical with the page number, as in "12 Case W. L. Rev. 392."
For periodicals that do not use consecutive pagination, but instead start page numbers over with each issue, the page number on which the article appears should follow the date of the periodical and be preceded by the word "at," as in "National Geographic, Mar. 2005, at 17."

, The next portion of a periodical citation is the date of publication, although the format differs depending on whether the publication uses consecutive pagination.For periodicals that use consecutive pagination, you will place the year of publication in parentheses immediately following the page numbers.
If you're citing a periodical, such as a magazine, without consecutive pagination, the date of the issue should be included between commas before the page number.
The citation for periodicals with consecutive pagination looks like, and follows many of the same rules, as a citation to a judicial opinion. You start with the volume number, then the name of the journal, then the page number where the article starts. If you're providing a pinpoint citation to a particular page, add a comma and a space and then follow with that information.
 If you want to add a parenthetical description that explains the significance of the article or provides additional information regarding the reason you cited it, you can include this information in parentheses following the citation itself.As with a citation to a judicial opinion, you can add parenthetical information that assists your reader in understanding why you cited a particular article, or what relationship it has to your text.
These descriptions typically are written as phrases beginning with a gerund such as "stating" or "arguing."
You also can provide a brief quote or beginning of a quote from the text, particularly if you want to point your reader to specific language in the article.

