 Go to the nearest park and throw a Frisbee back and forth. Make it challenging enough that you both have to run to catch it. You can burn 200 calories an hour just playing! Or, take your dog instead. Throw it to him and run to a new position for him to bring it back. You will bond while teaching him to listen to commands and give him some needed exercise too.If you have several friends, organize an Ultimate Frisbee game, which turns Frisbee into a sport incorporating elements of football.At least 30 minutes of playing gives you a great workout and will improve your overall mood.Recreational Frisbee can burn over 100 calories in 30 minutes, and Ultimate Frisbee can burn nearly 300 in the same time., If you love being outdoors, hiking a trail or walking a forest path are great ways to enjoy nature and get some exercise at the same time. Make it a family activity by asking your parents to find new trails to visit on weekends. Check rules to see if you can also bring your dog to include the whole family.


For your first few hikes, pick shorter trails (less than 1 mile or 1.6 kilometers) that are mostly flat and have lots of natural features to look at along the way, like lakes or waterfalls, cool rock formations, or animal habitats.Make sure to check the weather when planning your hike and also that morning. Bring layers if part of the day will be cooler.Remember to bring plenty of water.
Hiking isn’t really a daily exercise because of the time and preparation it requires. Make sure you engage in other activities at least four days out of the week. Along with a weekend hike, you will meet your weekly requirement for activity and stay on track with daily exercise.
 Find a nearby skating rink and schedule a date with a friend. Skating is good for strengthening muscles and burns up to 500 calories an hour. It's also good cardio for your heart and easy on your body since it's low impact.Skating is a great cross-training activity. If you play a sport, incorporate skating on your off days to maintain daily exercise and strength. It’s as good for your muscles as jogging!When you get really good at skating on four wheels, get some inline skates to challenge yourself. They teach you better balance and more precise movements.
You don’t need a rink to skate. Skate through your neighborhood or in a nearby park. (Watch for traffic on streets!) Bring your headphones and music player to keep your speed up with music and make it more entertaining., Choose a sport that makes you sweat when playing. Basketball, soccer, lacrosse, tennis, and hockey are all good choices. In addition to regular practices and games, an advantage to joining a team sport is having a coach to help you stay motivated and encourage you to work harder.Scheduled practices may only be once or twice a week, so make sure to fill off days with 60 minutes of another activity to lose weight and improve health.Basketball burns around 285 calories in 30 minutes.You don’t have to join a formal team to play, either, just get a group of friends together and visit the local gym or park.
Competitive soccer help you burn over 350 calories in 30 minutes. On days when you don’t have practice, do another individual exercise on your own or get your friends to join you in an informal game at the local park.Tennis only requires two people to play, although you could also play with three friends in doubles. Depending on your current weight, expect to burn around 300 calories an hour or more.Make sure to have a professional at a tennis store fit you for a racket so that is the right size and weight for you.Hockey, like football, is a contact sport, so be prepared for being hit or knocked over by other players. If this sounds scary or not at all fun, try soccer instead first., Unlike tennis or basketball, badminton requires less space and equipment that you can travel with and put up easily.Kickball is tons of fun and requires only friends and a ball.


Even if you don’t have a net, you can still play badminton! Choose nearby objects to mark boundary lines and agree on an imaginary line for the invisible net.
Badminton rackets are supposed to be light. Do not use a tennis racket to play. If you have the correct racket and swinging it hurts your wrist, hold it higher up the grip (but never above the grip!).