 Do not run away for kicks, adventure, or to teach your parents a lesson.Living on the streets is difficult, and nature will not provide you with blankets when you are cold or food when you are hungry. If you are being abused or neglected, the safest solution is to call Children's Aid or the police before trying to run away.


Some teens, especially those with troubled families, think that foster care is worse than running away.Whatever your experience may be, the majority of foster parents truly care about the health and well-being of their foster children.;
, Running away from home is hard. You will be separated from the places you are familiar with and the people who know and support you, and you will be completely responsible for satisfying all your basic needs.Even adults struggle with daily life - don't think this will be any different for you.You may feel like running away is your only solution, but this kind of thinking is never accurate.There are always many solutions to a problem, and running away should be a last resort.
As a teen, it will be difficult for you to make money to pay for food and shelter. Unfortunately, because of this reason, around 1 in 3 teens who run away resort to trading sexual favors for food or a place to stay.This will put you at risk for sexually transmitted diseases, sexual abuse and/or manipulation.
 You may believe that your reason(s) for running away from home are strong justifications for wanting to do so. However, when you feel strongly about something, it can be difficult to think clearly.Take time to carefully think about why you want to run away; get as much perspective on your issue as you can. Be sure you are not making a hasty decision.


It is never OK to run away because of your:

Alcohol use
Drug use
Feelings of failure



, There are hotlines available for teens in difficult situations, and these are well equipped to listen to your problem and offer specific advice to you. There may be solutions to your problem that you haven't considered that are safer than running away, and talking to someone can help you figure these solutions out.The National Runaway Safeline is open 24/7. You can call for advice at 1-800-786-2929, or visit the Safeline website at: http://www.1800runaway.org

Remember that, no matter how difficult your situation or how alone you feel, there are people who care deeply about your safety and well-being.
 Though running away might remove you from the problem you are facing, it will not solve it or make you feel better about the way you've been treated.In fact, by running away, you may cause whatever is happening to you to shift to someone else.

