 Several of the most popular cloud storage services allow you to upload and share files with others, and you may already have an account. Google Drive and Dropbox both allow you to quickly upload your music files and then distribute links to your friends.


All Google accounts come with 15 GB of Google Drive storage. You can log in or create an account at drive.google.com.
Free Dropbox accounts come with 2 GB of storage, plenty of space to upload and share some albums.
There are plenty of other cloud storage services that offer similar features if you don't want to use Drive or Dropbox. The process will be pretty much the same.;
, Uploading files is a snap for both Google Drive and Dropbox. Simply drag the ZIP file into the browser window that has your account open. The file will begin uploading to your account immediately.


Depending on the size of the ZIP file and the speed of your internet connection, the upload process could take a few minutes or several hours. Upload speeds are almost always slower than download speeds.
 This will open the link-sharing window.
 If you're using Google Drive, you'll need to click "Get shareable link" first. This link is a direct link to the ZIP file that you've uploaded.
 Once you've copied the link, you can send it to your friends via email or chat. When they click the link, they'll be prompted to download the ZIP file to their computer.If you want to text the link, you'll probably need to use a URL shortener so that it will fit in a message.
This method is best used to share a ZIP with just a few people. If too many people start downloading your file, you'll likely raise some eyebrows and action may be taken against your account. If you want to share your music with a lot of people, see one of the following methods.
If you've password-protected the ZIP file, make sure to give the password to your friends.
For more information on sharing files with Google Drive, click here. For more information on sharing music with Dropbox, click here.

