 This includes things that take up space and cost money. People who successfully work and travel are usually comfortable with living light rather than being loaded down with possessions. If you have an expensive car that requires expensive insurance, you will be required to always make money to pay for that car. Having less possessions means you have more freedom to make enough to live and travel as you like., Living in a large home was a huge part of the American Dream for so long, but now more and more people are realizing the benefits of inhabiting smaller spaces. The smaller the space is, the less room you have for excessive material possessions too, so it will aid you in the whole process of downsizing your life.Living in a smaller home means less maintenance for you, less stress about the upkeep of your home, and probably less money each month in rent or mortgage.
 Having the freedom to travel because of learning to live with less often means getting rid of your financial ties to your current home location. It is much easier to travel freely when you don’t have a mortgage, credit card debt, or a car payment weighing you down and always pulling you back home.Try to limit your spending on frivolous luxuries so that you can put some extra money toward your debt each month. This will help you pay it off sooner so you can have more freedom to travel.
If you plan on traveling for extended periods of time, it might even make sense to sell some of your possessions in order to pay your debts down. For example, if you wanted to move abroad for a while, you might sell your car (since you won’t be using it anyways) to help you get your debt to a manageable level.
 We live in a consumer culture that is obsessed with always looking for the next big thing – the newest car, the biggest house, the nicest clothes, etc. If you maintain these kinds of expectations and desires for your life, it will be hard for you to be satisfied by living with less.Work on realizing that happiness isn’t achieved through material possessions and that living with less might help you create a more sustainable, more enjoyable life.
But to make this work, you’ll need to let go of those old expectations.

