 Odds are you are not the only one who can't tell the two apart. They have probably gotten a version of that question (how to tell them a part) hundreds if not thousands of times in their life.


As long as you maintain basic social standards like being considerate, genuine, and generally easy-going, they should be more than happy to help! If you can't think of how to ask try something like, "How can I tell you two apart?" "Can you help me tell y'all apart?" or, if you're just talking to one of them, "What makes you different?" If you want to get to something beyond looks ask, "What really makes you different; as in personalities, likes, dislikes, etc?" It will work every time; the key is to be direct!;
, No, not in a creepy stalker-like way. If you really want to tell them apart and will not or have not asked them yet pay extra attention to one or both of them. You have to think of them as individuals for this to work. This means knowing their unique names and how to pronounce them.


Ask someone around you who one of them is which and try to identify distinctive characteristics about that individual that you could try to pick out when you look at them together.
Luckily for you, even identical twins are not completely identical! Look for things like hair color, eye color/shape, skin complexion, glasses, freckles/birthmarks/scars, the shape of their faces/parts of their faces, facets of their personalities, their voices, hobbies/skills, or even mannerisms. It may be super subtle to where you have to practice getting it right before you can do it like a pro, but if you work at it and spend time with them, you will get it down. Just be subtle.
 Honestly this is the best way to get to know their differences. To get to know them on an individual basis is the singular most important thing you can do to make them feel valued. Then you'll learn to tell them apart. Even if it's a only few minutes of casual conversation, it will help you identify distinctive memories and characteristics with each one. Who knows, you could end up with two very close and very unique friends!

