 If you're looking to reduce the fat in your favorite recipes, you can use powdered peanut butter instead of the creamy variety. Simply replace the peanut butter that a recipe is calling for with reconstituted peanut butter.Keep in mind that the texture of powdered peanut butter is different, and it will translate to the texture of your food.
When measuring the powder, keep in mind that 2 tablespoons (6.14 grams) of powder will create 1 tablespoon (6.14 grams) of peanut butter.
 You can use the powder in baked goods like brownies, cookies, and muffins. When making 12 servings of brownies, for instance, use 1 cup (294.7 grams) of powdered peanut butter as a replacement for flour in the recipe. You can also create peanut butter cookies, replacing flour with the powdered peanut butter and fruit puree, like applesauce., Use a half a cup (147.36 grams) of powdered peanut butter with a half a cup (60 grams) of flour to creating your powder coating. Add in spices like salt and pepper and sift the coating thoroughly. Once it's mixed, you can coat your proteins with the flour and the peanut butter mixture. After you're done coating your meat, fry or bake your food as you normally would. This will impart a subtle peanut butter taste to your coating.This recipe is especially good with poultry.
You may need to dredge your protein in an eggwash to better bind the coating to your meat.
 To create a frosting using powdered peanut butter, combine 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter with 1/2 cup (147.36 grams) of powdered peanut butter, 3 cups (600 grams) of sugar, and 3 tablespoons (44.36 mL) of milk or almond milk and beat the ingredients together with a food processor or mixer until they are light and fluffy., You can create a Thai-inspired sauce using powdered peanut butter. To create the sauce, combine 1/4 cup of powdered peanut butter with 2 tbsp light coconut milk and 2 tbsp of soy sauce. The finished result will taste salty and sweet.This sauce can be used as a dipping sauce for appetizers like dumplings.
You can also use it as a salad dressing.

