 There are many ways to cook chicken, but here are a few examples:

Blackening the chicken: Take a pan, put 1 tbsp (30 mL) oil (olive oil adds extra flavor!!) and heat up the oil. Meanwhile, season the chicken using whatever spices you like. Cover the chicken with the spices, and then place in the pan. Cook until no longer pink on the inside.
Oven-baking the chicken: Season chicken and place in a greased baking pan. Bake 30-40 minutes, or until no longer pink.
Grilling the chicken: Transfer the tenderized,seasoned chicken to the grill and cook until done.
Stewing the chicken: In a proper stew, it is virtually impossible to produce tough chicken. This is one of the many reasons chicken stews of various types are found throughout the world. This can use both plain or marinated cuts of chicken.
 Overcooking can lead to loss of moisture and proteins tightening up into bubblegum consistency. Experience will help you judge when chicken is done, but even professional cooks will still test with a thermometer to be certain. Test the temperature of the bird using a meat thermometer to determine whether it has reached the correct internal temperature. For most cuts of chicken, this will be 165ʡF (74ʡC).


Use a probe thermometer when cooking a whole bird, plunged into the deepest part of the breast. Use an instant read for smaller cuts like breasts and thighs.
 Though seemingly contradictory to the "do not overcook" warning, low, slow cooking breaks down proteins, allowing for a more tender experience. This type of cooking also allows time for flavors and juices to penetrate into the meat, giving even more juiciness. It works best with bone-in thighs and other dark meat, or you could roast an entire chicken this way., Cover it with heavy-duty aluminum foil and let sit for 5 to 10 minutes. This allows the juices to redistribute in the meat. If you cut it right away, the juices are more likely to drain out immediately instead of reabsorbing into the meat. This is especially important for whole roasted chicken or roasted chicken parts.


While this advice is absolutely true, be assured that carving right away will also not take your succulent chicken into a dry mess of a meal.
It also makes sense to wait until the chicken is cool enough to handle, anyway. A chicken just out of the oven is too hot to cut into without risking burns. Chicken that hot will also burn when bitten into.

