 Powassan virus is transmitted via a bite from an infected tick. It may take one week to one month for the virus to fully incubate and become an illness. Figure out if you have had a tick bite within the last couple of months. This means you may be at risk.If you find a tick connected to you, you know you have been bitten. If you don't find a tick, you may determine you have a tick bite if you have been in a high risk area and find a red welt-like bite. The bite may be oval in shape with a scab. The bite may itch.;
, Some people who get the Powassan virus do not develop any symptoms. If you do develop symptoms, they generally are neurological since the Powassan virus affects the central nervous system. You may experience confusion, coordination problems, weakness, speech problems, loss of memory, or seizures. In some severe cases, people can develop inflammation in the brain.You may also develop a fever and headaches. Some people may vomit.
You may experience muscle or joint aches, including a stiff neck.
 If you believe you may be infected with Powassan virus, you should go to the doctor for evaluation and diagnosis. The doctor will perform an exam, during which they will look for symptoms consistent with Powassan virus. They will also ask you about your outdoor activities and whether you have been bitten by a tick.If you are from an area where Powassan virus is not a problem, you need to tell them you were in an area where you may have been exposed. You should also include the dates of travel.
 If the doctor believes you have Powassan virus, they will do a lab test to confirm. First, they will take a blood sample. Then, they will take a sample of your cerebrospinal fluid. Using both of these sample, they will look for specific antibodies that occur if Powassan virus is present.You may have to wait up to two weeks for your test results., There is no cure for Powassan virus. The treatment given is supportive care that aims to help with symptoms. Supportive care includes respiratory support, IV fluids, and medication to target brain swelling. If you have severe symptoms, you will be hospitalized.Around 10 to 15 percent of cases of Powassan virus with encephalitis are fatal. Around half of the survivors will suffer from neurological problems and complications.