 Dehydration is common among people who exercise. You should steadily drink water before, during and after a workout to replace the water you have lost.


Other symptoms of dehydration include dry mouth, sticky mouth, thirst, decreased urine output, muscle weakness, dizziness and headaches.
Stay hydrated by drinking at least 2 cups (473 ml) of water 1 to 2 hours before working out. Drink 2 more cups (473 ml) 20 to 30 minutes before you start exercising. During your workout, drink 1/2 cup (118 ml) of water for every 15 minutes you exercise.;
, Gulping down large quantities of water can give you a relieved feeling; however, your body has a defense mechanism of causing vomiting if your stomach is too full. Drink water in steady sips during your workout.
 One of the largest causes of workout sickness is low blood sugar. If your body has already used up its stores of calories you may start to sweat more than usual, feel dizzy, nauseated, and pass out. The best prevention is to ensure that you eat a meal of at least 300 calories, which includes protein and carbohydrates, before your workout.


If it is not possible for you to eat a meal a few hours before you workout, then eat a small carbohydrate-based snack, such as a banana, and drink a protein shake after your workout. Carbohydrates are the fuel that is used during aerobic activity. Protein helps to rebuild the muscles after your workout.
 It is important to give your digestive system the time and energy to devote to digestion. If you do not, necessary fluids will be pulled away from your muscles and into your digestive tract.
 Although fruit and sweet drinks have high levels of sugar, they can help to raise your blood sugar to safe levels and hydrate you.
 Carbonation or even excessive shaking of a water bottle can increase the amount of gas in your stomach after you drink. Drinking from a glass produces less gas than drinking from a water bottle.
 When you do abdominal crunches, floor exercise, yoga, pilates and weightlifting it is common for people to close their eyes and focus on the movement. Open your eyes and focus on the horizon so your body can better understand the movement, just as if you were motion sick in a car.
 Controlling your breathing can help to lower your blood pressure. A sharp rise in blood pressure can create the feeling of nausea and induce vomiting.


High blood pressure is especially a problem among weight lifters. Lifting heavy weights can cause an extreme hike in blood pressure. It is important to breathe as you lift and avoid doing too much at once.
 If you draw in a big breath and bend over, your stomach can get the feeling of being too full and induce vomiting. Squat instead of bending, if you are breathing heavily.
 Overexertion often leads to exercise-induced vomiting. Prevent this by increasing your workouts incrementally, so that you stay between 70 and 85 percent of maximum heart rate.

