 Some people swear by this natural cold sore remedy. Vanilla is alcohol-based, so the presence of vanilla may make it hard for the virus to thrive. This may lessen the length and severity of the outbreak. If you do use vanilla, try to buy it organic so you're sure it's pure. Use a cotton swab to apply vanilla extract to the sore as soon as you feel the telltale tingling.First, soak a cotton pad or swab in vanilla extract until thoroughly saturated. Try to soak a concentrated area to conserve vanilla; you only really need enough surface area to cover the budding cold sore.
Apply the swab directly to your sore. If you can't yet see a sore, then try to find the source of the tingling. Hold the swab or pad in place for a minute or so, until the cold sore has thoroughly absorbed the vanilla.
Re-apply vanilla four times a day until your cold sore is gone. Vanilla extract can be expensive, so only use as much as you need!

, If your cold sore is puffed-up and painful, try holding an ice pack against the area. A single ice cube will suffice, if the sore is small enough. Press the ice gently into your skin until you can't stand it anymore. Pull it away to let your skin rest, then use it again as needed.


Consider using an ice pack (or a plastic bag filled with ice) instead of single ice cubes. This way, when the ice melts, you can refreeze the water in the bag rather than having to find a completely new ice cube. Make sure to wash the outside of the bag with water and antibacterial soap after each use.
 This home remedy can help ease your pain and speed up the healing process. Milk contains immunoglobulins, proteins that fight off and prevent viruses-like herpes. It also contains l-lysine, which may speed up the healing process and inhibit the amino acids that cause outbreaks. Drink whole milk often to help prevent cold sores. To fight cold sores that have already erupted, make a whole milk compress.


Soak a cotton ball in a tablespoon of milk. Make sure that the cotton is completely saturated with milk.
Press the cotton ball gently against the cold sore. Hold it there for a few minutes. Try not to squeeze out the milk; let the sore absorb the proteins gradually.
Dab the milky residue off of your cold sore. Use a clean rag, moistened with water. Consider adding a dab of petroleum jelly to protect the sore while it absorbs the milk.
 This home treatment is more painful than the other methods, but it may help dry out your sore. First, dissolve 1-2 teaspoons of sea salt into a small glass of lukewarm water. Stir the mixture thoroughly, then use a cotton ball to soak up a bit of the saltwater. Dab the salt solution gently onto your cold sore, and let the salt dry onto your skin.
 Hydrogen peroxide disinfects the sore, which speeds up the healing process and makes it harder for the sore to spread. First, soak a cotton ball in a tablespoon of hydrogen peroxide; use more if you feel it isn’t saturated enough. Press the cotton ball gently against your sore for a few seconds, and consider dabbing it around. Once you pull the cotton away, leave your sore alone for five minutes or so. Let the sore absorb the hydrogen peroxide, then rinse it off.

