 It's amazing how much the people around us influence our self-perception. If you hang out with other girls who are constantly reading food labels and complaining about themselves there's a very good chance that their insecurities are rubbing off on you! It's hard to end friendships but if they're damaging your self-esteem it's time to find new friends. Find people who genuinely like and respect themselves. Chances are their confidence will rub off on you.;
, Each morning,when you look yourself in the mirror, find a part of your body that you think looks especially awesome that day (ex: "wow, my eyes look really pretty today!" "today is a fantastic hair day!" etc). For every flaw you see in yourself FORCE yourself to find 2 good qualities.
 If you're a good singer join a chorus! If you're good at a certain sport join a team. Not only will you be able to take pride in your skills (and maybe even brag a little about your achievements) but you'll find people with similar interests who will respect you for your talent.
 Its hard to respect yourself when you don't feel your best and people are going to react negatively towards you if you don't take care of your body. Make sure you shower daily (preferably before school), attempt to treat those pesky pimples, brush your teeth every day, and make sure you smell fresh and clean.
 People come in all different shapes and sizes. If you're really conscientious of your weight maybe try hitting the gym to shed a few pounds. Plus, the natural endorphins will make you happier! Also, find clothes that show off your natural aspects. Avoid baggy t-shirts and jeans-they are NOT flattering on anyone, even guys.
 Don't feel bad if you don't have a boyfriend. Despite what facebook says, not everyone is "in a relationship". To be honest, most high school guys (especially 16 year olds) are more into hook-ups than actual relationships. Or they prefer to date younger girls because they think they can't get girls their own age (yep, guys get insecure too!). So shake off those Single Blues and focus on enjoying life for what it is.
 Don't change who you are! Being secure and confident doesn't mean being a social butterfly. If you're shy it's still possible to give off that vibe of self-confidence. In the end, you're personality is all you have and that's what is going to win people over in the long run.
 Help out at a local charity, library, or daycare. When you're busy helping others you don't think about yourself. Helping at places such as the Salvation Army or a soup kitchen will show you how great you have it. You'll come away from the experience feeling like a better person on the inside.
 Girls will often make fun of others because of their own insecurities. Please, don't do this. If you've ever had someone talk about you behind your back you know that it sucks. Its normal to be jealous of those perfect girls but don't show it. If you don't have anything nice to say don't say anything at all. Besides, no one likes a mean gossip.
 Remember that even the prettiest, smartest, most perfect girls have issues. Think of it like this: someone, out there, would give anything to switch places with you. But, my dear, the grass truly is never greener on the other side.

