 If you want to save time for the next few steps, place the flour and salt into a food processor.;
, You can do this in a food processor fitted steel blades or in a medium sized bowl with a pastry blender.Do not over mix, or the dough will get too soft and mushy.
 Again, don't over mix it. The butter, shortening, salt, and flour should just come together. You want the mixture to still resemble coarse crumbs.


If you are using a food processor, you can transfer the mixture into a medium sized bowl once you mix the butter in.
 Gently toss the dough while you add the water. The dough should just barely come together. If it is too dry, add a little bit more water, until it does. Don't worry if it looks too dry; it will dampen once you put it in the fridge.
 Scoop the crumbs towards the center, and press them into the dough. Make the disk about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) thick. You will be rolling it out later, so don't worry if it looks too thick now.


If the mixture is too dry and crumbly, spritz it with some cold water.
 This will help the dough keep its disk shape. It will also trap moisture and keep it from drying it.
 This will give the flour enough time to soak up the water and become softer.,, Unwrap the dough first, then lightly flour a flat, smooth surface. Place the dough onto the surface.
 This will be big enough for a 9 inch (22.86 centimeters) pie pan. You are making the crust larger so that it can fit inside the pan.


If the dough is too hard, wait 10 to 15 minutes so that it can soften up.
 Gently press the bottom of the dough until it lays flat against the bottom of the pie pan. Run your finger around the inside edges, so that the dough fits into the corners.
 Use your finger to gently press the top edges of the dough against the rim of the pie pan. If the edges stick out beyond the rim, tuck them under each other. Do not tuck the excess dough under the rim itself.


Consider putting a fancy edge on the crust. You can do this simply by pinching the dough all around the rim, or making shallow indents with a fork.
 The tiny holes will help the dough lay flat as it bakes.
 This will help the pie crust keep its shape while you bake it. If you don't have parchment paper, you can use a sheet of aluminum foil instead. If you can't find pie weights you can use dried beans or rice., Place it into the oven and let it bake for 20 minutes. Then, take it out of the oven, pull out the parchment paper/aluminum foil and weights. Place the pie crust back into the oven and back it for another 15 to 20 minutes. It is done when it is golden brown on the bottom.
 The pie crust should be cool before you add the banana cream filling. Do not take the crust out of the pan.
 There is no need to use any heat just yet.
 Do not pour it in all at once. Instead, slowly pour it into the mixture while you stir with a whisk.


If you don't have any half-and-half, you can use heavy cream instead

, If you have not already done so, separate the egg yolks from the egg whites. Discard the whites, or save them for another recipe. Stir the mixture until the yolks break.


If you have an egg separator, use that.
Another way to separate yolks from whites is to crack open an egg and pass the yolk between the two shell halves over a bowl. The whites will drain into the bowl and the yolks will stay in the shells.
 Keep stirring until everything is mixed together, and there are no streaks, swirls, or clumps.
 This will take about 5 to 10 minutes. Be sure to stir constantly, and do not try to rush through it by turning the heat up. After about 5 to 10 minutes, the mixture will look a little bit like pudding that has not yet set.
 Place a fine, mesh strainer over another medium sized saucepan. Pour the mixture through the strainer and discard and lumps or curdles.
 Stir often until the mixture has cooled slightly. Your pie filling is now done and ready to use. Don't worry if it looks a little thin. You will need to refrigerate the entire pie after you put it together. This will "set" the filling and make it thicker.
 You want the slices to be thin, about ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) thick.


Plan on having another extra banana so that you can slice it up and use it to decorate the pie with. Do not pre-slice this "decorating" banana, however, or it will turn brown.
 To get the most out of your sliced bananas, place the slices down flat, one by one. Don't just dump them all in. This will give you a 2-layer pie.


If you want a 3-layer pie, fill the bottom of crust part way with the pie filling first. Spread a thin layer of sliced bananas on top of the mixture. Fill the crust the rest of the way with the remaining pie pilling.
 You may need to use a spoon or spatula to help guide the filling into the crust. Keep adding the filling until it just reaches the top of the crust.


If you run out of pie filling, don't fret. You can always top the pie off with more sliced bananas and whipped cream.
 The plastic wrap will keep the pie from forming a "skin" on top.
 This will give the pie filling enough time to set into a thick, pudding or custard like consistency.
 Make "stars" with whipped cream all around the edge of the pie. Slice up a banana, and arrange the slices in a flower shape in the center of the pie. Finish off with a swirl of whipped cream in the middle of the banana flower.


You can make the little star shapes using a piping bag filled with whipped cream and fitted with a spiky decorators tip. You can also just use the kind of whipped cream that comes i a can with a nozzle.
 The pie will still taste just as good the next day, but the bananas may turn brown.