 You'll need to download a program that can guess the password on the zip file. Before you do this, be aware that this can infect your computer with a virus. Review safe browsing practices and install antivirus software before you continue.


The programs suggested below have been checked by several automatic malware scans, but this is not a guarantee of safety.
Most free trial versions will only crack short passwords. Be wary of free programs with no limitations — there is usually no incentive for a company to provide this, besides installing adware or other malware on your computer.;
, In most cases, the program will take several hours to guess the password, unless the password is a single word. Passwords with 9 or more characters (and that don't spell a word) may take multiple days to guess.There is no way to quickly guess the password within a few minutes.


The one exception is a ZIP archive that contains multiple files protected by the same password, one of which you already have access to. In this case, some programs can use a "known-plaintext" attack to figure out the password based on the file you have access to., Visit Elcomsoft.com to download the Advanced Archive Password Recovery program. Scroll to the bottom of the page, then click "Download free trial version." The trail version can only recover passwords 4 characters or shorter.The full version costs $49.


If the ZIP file contains two or more files with different passwords, you'll need to create several copies and delete files within them, so that each ZIP archive only contains a single password., You can download the shareware version here. This uses several good approaches, but the free version will only show you the first five characters. If this isn't enough to jog your memory, you may need to purchase the full version for $59, or purchase a single use for a smaller amount.This program has not been updated in a long time, so it may stop working after an update to your OS. It is made for Windows 2000, XP, Vista, and 7.
 The trial version of this software is free, but will only crack passwords under a certain length. Visit this website and click Download Now to begin. Open the downloaded file to install the program.

