 Many teams make the mistake of assigning specific tasks for specific members of the team. For example, if there is a strong sniper in the team, the sniper may be left to that one person.
 Having said that, players may fall under one or more of these categories.


Main slayer
Frenzied
Support
Objective

, As the main slayer you will usually be the one using the power weapons, and you will be expected to make a lot of sick plays and spearhead attacks. To be a main slayer you have to be proficient will all weapons, but most of all the BR and the sniper rifle. Don't get too big headed though, you may be the one getting the majority of kills, but if you start attacking without the support of your team, you will quickly be ripped to shreds.




All your team members should be around the same skill level, if you're not then your team is less likely to bond together as well and less like to work as a team. If you feel like you're the weakest link, then its up whether or not you want to Improve As an Individual in Halo 3. The main idea of this role is to get as many kills as possible, but there are different roles in this position.



Frenzied: Frenzied is a role that pretty much is self explanatory. The job of the Frenzied is to literally charge in with a power weapon into a mass of enemies and to cause as much chaos as possible. The Frenzied, however, usually dies in the act, but if you have support near by, it can be a 3-4 to 1 trade off. (Frenzied players are usually good when you need to end the game and you have at least 4 more kills then the enemy.)

Support: If you are the one who pushes the other team back into your sword/hammer equipped teammate then you are most likely a Support player. unlike the other two categories there are sub categories of support players

, A very good Sniper Support will actually be a Main Slayer in most games, and a passable one will usually find themselves coming in second place.



Heavy Support: If you can drive a tank so well that you never get boarded, you're heavy support. If you can hit a Banshee from across the map with a perfectly shot rocket, you're heavy support. Your job is to put such an impressive amount of ammo on target consistently that no one can leave the base, lest they feel your instant, explosive wraith. so when your team comes down on them, none are left in the base and any that come after their flag are instantly blown out of the map.

Light Support/Driver: These two jobs are often inter changed, as they have so much in common. Light Support players occupy turrets, both on the Warthog and stationary. Light Support often accompany the Objective players to their targets, and will often drive them out with the flag with a Warthog or Mongoose. The enemy team will curse at you, and make you their main target in all CTF matches, for they know that while the slayer slays, and the objective runner scores, it is you that is the glue that holds it together. In Slayer game types an Objective player is often a Light Support.

Stealth Support: Very popular when used in a game without radars or a lot of corners. The Stealth Support's job is to kill anybody who walks into their territory by STEALTHY means. I do not highly suggest rushing in with guns blazing when you see an enemy, rather have camouflage and let one of your teammates lure an enemy into your trap. This is effectively used on The Pit, on the yellow rafter right next to the Camo Hallway when you have Camouflage. Since the Camouflage hallway is one of the three most active parts of the maps (other two include Sword Spawn and Rocket Spawn), your job can be crucial.

Objective: Objective players have one simple goal: get the flag/ball/bomb and get it to home/target. They live for that simple, yet hard rush that comes with bringing back the flag to make a tie game one that you've won. It does not matter to an Objective player how many times they die, nor how many times they kill, all they do is get the flag and get it home. However there is also a subcategory for this position.

Linear Carrier: The linear carrier is as vital to the team as the Objective person is. The Linear carrier is the personal bodyguard of the flag carrier. The Linear Carrier should always have a Battle Rifle and a power weapon of some sort. He is to defend the flag carrier at all costs, even suicide sticking somebody. However, if the original carrier dies and the area is clear, the Linear Carrier will run with the flag and the old Objective man will become the Linear Carrier.

Guardian: This class is only used in Objective Games like 2 Flag, or Offense and Defensive Games. A Guardian is a special role which can be played either offensively or defensively. This is one of the only roles that can be interchangeable throughout matches. It is usually the second best person on the team who ends up being the Guardian. An Offensive Guardian is posted on the route the flag carrier is going to run to score. The Guardian should be just out of the line of sight of anyone traveling down the same path the carrier did. The Guardian will kill anyone following them in any means possible. The Defensive Guardian has essentially the same job, but from a defensive standpoint. The Guardian is posted at usually heavily populated parts of the map, or routes bomb carriers come to destroy your base, or those who are attempting to get the flag. A tip for all Guardians is after you get a kill there, move to another key point on the map.

