 Take butter in a medium size bowl. Beat the butter with a mixer on high speed until fluffy. Now gradually add 1/2 cup powdered sugar to the beaten butter and continue the beating process until combined. Similarly add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml). milk and 1 tbsp. vanilla to the bowl and beat until combined. Finally add flour to the beating mixture in a gradual manner to avoid mixing problem and continue beating with the mixer until you get desired dough.
 Mix 3-4 drops of red food coloring (3-4 drops of strong food coloring or 5-6 drops of normal food coloring) to the remaining dough and mix it at medium speed until you get dark red dough. You can also add food coloring according to your need to get desired color for your Santa., Using plain dough to make 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) ball and five 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) balls. Shape one of the 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) red balls into a shape of a cone. Gently press the cone to reduce the width and slightly tilt the pointy end to form the Santa's cap., Place the 1 inch (2.5 cm) red dough ball on the cookie sheet and gently press the ball to flatten it. Now Attach the remaining four 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) red dough balls at the corners of flattened 1 inch (2.5 cm) red dough ball by just pushing the dough together and not pushing hat hard to avoid deformed shapes. Place the four red dough balls such a way that two opposite sides are free and remaining opposite sides have two-two red dough balls attached to it with a slight gap to form the Santa's body with hands and legs. Gently press the four attached balls to flatten them to the width of the flattened 1 inch (2.5 cm) ball., Gently press the 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) plain dough ball to flatten them to the width of the flattened 1 inch (2.5 cm) red dough ball. Now attach the cone shaped Santa cap previously made to the Santa's head. Now attach the five 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) plain dough balls to the end of Santa's hands, legs and the cap by gently pressing the dough together. Place two mini chocolate chips on the Santa's head to form Santa's eyes and place three mini chocolate chip on the Santa's body to form the buttons., After baking is over remove the Santa's and keep them for complete cooling., For frosting beat the 1/2 cup shortening and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla together in a mixer until combined. Gradually add 1/2 cup powdered sugar and 1 tbsp. milk to make a proper frosting., Use a tip such as #4 or #3.,

Pipe the frosting around the base of the ball on the top of Santa's hat to form the fur around the ball.
Pipe the frosting around the rim of Santa's hat to form the fur around the hat.
Pipe the beard and downside of the front face of Santa to form the beard. Make sure to join the frosting of the rim of the Santa's hat to the beard of Santa. Place a red hot chocolate chip or red Jimmie in the middle of the face of Santa using the already piped frosting as the resting base.
Pipe the cloth strips for the Santa's shirt and pants along the buttons and end of the clothing’s. Use a tip of size #2 to pipe the strips.
 Decorate the serving dish with candy canes, candy bars and jelly beans with Santa cookies lying over the top, at the center of the serving dish.,