 Read the Bible frequently; it's an amazing "instruction manual" for life. It will teach you how to develop a relationship with God/Jesus Christ; what He expects of you; and what you can expect of Him.;
, Attend church regularly; attend bible studies; attend church picnics, movie nights, and other functions. Spending time with other Christians will guide your thinking and behavior, so you'll be better able to model Christ-like behavior (especially important when you're in a secular environment).
 Prayer is conversation with God. You don't need to use special words or a special voice. When you invite Jesus into your life, and ask Him to live through you, amazing things start to happen.


When praying you might begin by thanking Him for the many blessings you have. It's also good to ask Him how you can be of service to Him and others. When you reach out to Him, He will reveal Himself and His plan for you in any number of ways. It may be that "still, small voice," or a "coincidental" phone call or e-mail, or a shift in the circumstances of your life. People who are experienced at prayer will tell you that God tends to provide what you "need" rather than what you "want."
Be patient, and listen/observe carefully. And keep at it! Jesus tells parables about how important it is to be persistent.
 There is a scripture verse where Jesus says "Why do you call me Lord, and not do what I say?" He calls us to love Him, and love our neighbors. He tells us these are the two greatest commands. How do we love Him and our neighbors? By showing mercy, compassion and forgiveness.


Be a loving and considerate husband or wife. Be a good teacher and role model for your children. Focus on the rights and feelings of others, rather than your own.
Look for opportunities to be of service to your family, friends, co-workers, and community. You will stumble and sin; that's human nature; but as Jesus and His Holy Spirit takes you deeper into the process of transformation, you will do so less. The more you train with Jesus, the more "Fruit of the Spirit" you will produce. Empty yourself, so that you can be filled with Christ.
 You may be experiencing that firsthand. You can also read about that in the Bible - the book of "Ecclesiastes."


By making Jesus Christ the central character in your life (rather than yourself), you'll begin to experience a more stable existence and a life with much more meaning. Jesus promises us the "abundant" life.  
If you regularly complete steps 1-4, you will gradually notice some profound changes in your attitude and outlook upon life. It is the transforming power of the Holy Spirit that changes you. Life will start to make more sense. Jesus is the Good Shepherd. You will begin to know you are secure in His loving hands.

