 Using a small saucepan, heat the milk under low heat. Have the milk heat up until warm, about 95 degrees Fahrenheit or 35 degrees Celsius. It will usually take about 5-7 minutes.;
, In an electric blender mixing bowl, pour in the warm milk and attach the dough hook to prepare for blending. Pour in only ½ cup of sugar and add the yeast. Use a whisk to mix until well-combined. Cover the bowl with a towel and let it sit for about 5-10 minutes, until the yeast gets foamy and bubbly.
 Crack in the eggs and pour in the butter (only the ½ stick) and salt. Use a rubber spatula to combine the ingredients together. While you are combining the dough mixture, scrape the edges occasionally. Do note that there will be butter clumps and pieces in the mixture.
 Add the flour into the mixture and blend on medium speed until the dough forms and is soft. Depending on the type of blender, it could take between 6-12 minutes.


If you do not have an electric blender on hand, you can knead the dough yourself.
 On a floured surface, lightly knead the dough with your hands for 2 minutes. This helps make the dough easier to handle. Roll the dough into a ball and place it in a large greased mixing bowl. Cover the dough with a towel and have it sit for about 1-2 hours.
 Place the dough on a floured surface and roll it out using a rolling pin. Roll it out into a rectangle that's exactly 10 x 24 inches. Ensure the dough is smooth and broad. Even the edges.
 Using a food processor mix the sugar, milk powder, salt, and flour. Have it process for about 10 seconds. Add the butter and process again for 10 seconds. Finish the filling by adding the vanilla extract and sprinkles. Process for one more time at 10 seconds and pour filling in a small bowl.
 Spread the 6 tablespoons of melted butter over the dough. Sprinkle the cinnamon all around and then sprinkle the filling. Roll the dough tightly and use a slicing knife it slice 15 cinnamon rolls. Each roll should be 1.5 inches in width. Place rolls on a dish and cover them with plastic wrap. Have them rise for about 2 hours until they are puffy.
 Preheat your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit or 204 degrees Celsius. Cover a 9 x 13 inch baking tray with parchment paper.
 Before baking, cover the rolls with aluminum foil to prevent them from browning too quickly while baking. Have them bake for about 25 minutes, until they are golden brown.
 Use a spatula to remove the cinnamon rolls from the baking tray and set them on a dish to cool.
 In a medium-sized mixing bowl, whisk all the ingredients until glaze forms and is slightly sticky. If you want to make your glaze thicker add more sugar or heavy cream.
 Drizzle the glaze using a fork over the cinnamon rolls. Serve with a glass of cold milk. Enjoy your cake batter cinnamon rolls!

