 Arguing in public will only worsen your conflict. You or your partner may feel embarrassed, and you may not want others to overhear sensitive topics. As soon as possible, try to find a quiet, private space where you can both discuss your feelings openly.
 Do not let your anger stew inside of you. It is important to confront conflict as it arises. Bring up the issue to your partner in a calm, level tone, and ask them if you can take a few minutes to discuss the issue before you go on with your day.
 Arguing can be emotional, but to avoid escalating your fight, try practicing some calming techniques before and during your argument. Close your eyes and breathe in deeply. Visualize a calm, happy place. Step back from your partner to create some space between you. Slow down your speech so that you have room to breathe and think., It is key to remember that you are arguing about an issue, not about each other. While your partner may have contributed to the issue, it is unproductive to blame them for the issue. This will cause them to become defensive, and they may blame you right back, instead of working to solve the issue. Furthermore, do not call your partner names like “slob” or “idiot.” This will only make both of you angrier., Both you and your partner should submit ideas for a solution to the problem. These solutions should be practical steps both of you can take to solve the problem. Both of you must commit to these solutions. Do not place the entire burden on either yourself or your partner.


If your partner is being hesitant or stubborn, ask them open-ended questions to draw out answers. You can try asking, “What would be an ideal solution for you?” or “how do you think this would be best handled?”

, Recognize when you are wrong and apologize for it. Be specific in your apology. This will increase trust between you and your partner while opening up room for your partner to apologize as well. It is important to forgive your partner if they apologize, just as you would want them to forgive you.


After the argument, let go of your anger. If you both have reached a solution, honor your promise to do better. Don’t go to bed angry!

