 It is about helping a victim with anything such as donating blood, spending time with others, giving people presents, giving people education etc. so they can learn.;
, Tell them what it does to people and how much people from all over the world appreciate it. Do research and provide your child with the evidence about what the money from charity has went to so they can understand the truths of what it does.


Always tell them that if charity does not do anything, then why are people still constantly donate their money and time to people when they are negotiating with the phenomenon.
 You should tell the child to ask them what charity has done to them so they would understand the concept. Bring them to places where charity has turned into something good helping others.
 Tell them that they are lucky enough to have a happy life and then tell them how different their life is compared to a homeless or an orphan's life. It should give them a much better understanding.



Tell them how much it means to a victim. Without help from other people, they might suffer dramatically and tell that they need you.
They might also think: 'Why won't the people work for themselves' or: 'It's their own problem, not mine'. Remember that they just cannot work or they do work but they are paid less than $2 USD per day or they don't even get any funds. Ask your child is he/she wanted to work in the fields all day in places where there are dangerous animals and places where the sun is unbearable. Also, it is not their fault, it the way the world is organised.
For example: A person might not be educated because the place they are in lacks education therefore making it hard for them to find a suitable job.
 Don't wash the dishes and tell them to or don't let them have snacks. Remember not to make the punishment to harsh; it is just teaching your child!

, They can contribute by giving their old clothes, shoes, toys, helping an elderly or victim with jobs such as washing the dishes or even money or giving blood to other people. You can also tell your child to give in a toy to a child in need of support hand-to-hand.


Ask your child if he/she wants to compare life with a victim.
Read: How to Help a Children's Charity

Also read: How to Teach a Child to Help Others


, Your child should tell them how proud he/she is to contribute to such a large community.
 They should try much harder in their education and they should be happy of the situation they are in. They still have a huge chance to have a good job and life. Explain to them how significant education is and how life as a grown-up works.

