 Turn on the oven to 375 degrees F (190 C). While you don't have to bake the lasagna, it won't be as hot and bubbly as if you had baked it.;
, Heat a large pot full of water over high heat. Once the water boils, open two 7.5 ounce (206 g) packages of macaroni and cheese. Remove the powdered cheese packets and set them aside. Stir the noodles into the boiling water and let them boil for 7 to 8 minutes.Stir the noodles every once in a while to keep them from sticking. They should be soft once they've finished cooking.
 Place a colander in the sink and carefully pour the cooked noodles into it. The water should drain into the sink and you can transfer the noodles back to the pot. Stir in the cheese sauce ingredients until they're combined. You'll need to add:The two powdered cheese packets
1/2 cup (120 ml) milk
1/2 cup (115 g) diced butter

, Heat a skillet over medium-high heat and add 1 pound (453 g) of ground beef. Stir the beef occasionally and cook it until it's completely brown and registers a temperature of 160 degrees F (70 C). Drain off any grease or pat the beef with a paper towel.You could also substitute ground turkey or chicken, if you'd like a leaner meal.
 Pour 1 1/2 cups (340 g) of spaghetti sauce into the pan with the ground beef. Stir the sauce to combine it. Set this aside while you spray a casserole dish with cooking spray.Greasing the pan will make it easier to remove the mac and cheese lasagna. It will also make it easier to clean the pan.
 Scoop half of the meat sauce across the bottom of the greased pan. Spread half of the prepared mac and cheese evenly over the sauce. Spread the rest of the meat sauce over the noodles and spread the last of the mac and cheese on top. Sprinkle the casserole with 1/2 cup (56 g) of shredded mozzarella., Put the casserole in the preheated oven and bake it for 15 minutes. This will ensure that the lasagna is hot. Baking the casserole will also make the cheese melt and bubble.Consider serving the mac and cheese lasagna with parmesan cheese, a green salad, or crusty bread.

