 This may sound odd but that is exactly what you do. Determine the age of the children. See how they are acting before you walk over to the table.;
, You will greet them the same as you would any other table-introducing yourself and asking for drink orders. Talk to the child just as you would the adult, making them feel important too.
 Children always receive their drinks first. This is an important rule! Parents serve their children before they serve themselves and you should do the same. (The parents will for sure notice this!)

, Ask the children what they would like first. Most of the time the parents will order for them but asking doesn’t hurt anything. Continue with the rest of the order as usual.
 The order the food comes out is the same in most restaurants. Appetizers, salads/soup, entrees, and then dessert. When there are children involved you should always ask if they want it put in early or wait until the rest of the entrees come out. Parents notice the extra gesture and like the options you have opened up. How the parents answer the question will determine if you wait or bring it out first.
 If the food comes out with the others, hand out the children’s food before the others. The same rule that applied with the drinks applies with the food!

, When handing out the food, there is a good chance the plate will be hot. If that is the case, warn the parents and do not place it within arms reach of the kid. Every parent will be very unhappy if their child burns their hand because of the server’s incompetence.
 Depending on the age of the child will determine the conversation. If they are playing with a toy, comment on it. Ask questions and be interested in the answer. Parents love when the children are entertained, so that is exactly your goal. Entertain the kids even if it is just for a few minutes!

, Do not hover but do not be negligent either. Get them refills if necessary and anything else they may need to enjoy their meal.
 Always thank the people for coming into the restaurant and invite them back. Make sure you personally tell the children bye! Adults are fine with a group farewell but children are not.

