 One good way to block off areas you don’t want your dog to get into is to use baby gates. Baby gates can be placed across doorways or at the bottom of stairs to prevent your dog from moving beyond that area.Baby gates may not work for large dogs who can step over them or dogs who can jump over them.;
, Another way to keep your dog out of areas you don’t want them in is to keep doors closed to certain areas of the house. When you are not home or in another part of the house, close the door so the dog cannot enter it.For some dogs, keeping doors shut and not allowing them in certain rooms for a long period of time will train them not to go into the room. This means you may be able to leave the doors open after the dog is trained not to enter those areas.
 If baby gates won’t work and there is no door, find something else to barricade the area with. You may want to use plywood to make a boundary between the area the dog is allowed to go and the area that is off-limits.You may also want to place furniture in strategic places. Place a chair or couch so that the dog’s pathway is barred to the off-limits place.
 If your dog understands basic training commands, such as sit or come, you may choose to train your dog to know which areas of the house are off-limits. Place the dog on a leash and remove all the boundaries in the house. When the dog does not go into the forbidden areas, give them positive reinforcement with pets, treats, and verbal praise. Do this for about a week or two.After your dog has demonstrated that they will not go into the off-limits areas while on a leash, you can take them off the leash. Each time they do not go into the area, give them a treat or praise. If they try to go into the area, gently correct them and place them back on the lease.
Make sure the dog can’t get into any off-limits areas when you are not there.
 You may want to put up fences in your yard. This helps create different kinds of off-limits areas for your dog. You may decide to put fences around your gardens or particular bushes, or you can put up a fence breaking up your yard to include an area where your dog is free to go.Putting up a fence can also help keep your dog from going into other people’s yards or wandering off.

