 One of the most effective ways to help you get over your crush is by distancing yourself from them. Minimize any contact or the potential for contact so that you can get over them without having any lingering ties that could upset you or reinforce your feelings for them.Distancing yourself will be hard at first, but it’s ultimately for the better and will make the process of getting over them easier and faster.;
, One way to assure that you won’t have any contact with your crush is to delete his contact information from your phone. Also consider erasing any text messages from them that you may have. Deleting this information will not only keep you from contacting them in a moment of weakness, but won’t be an ever-present reminder of them, either.If you’re reluctant to delete their information entirely, consider writing it on a piece of paper that you won’t see every day and store it in a safe place.
Email copies of their text messages and then archive them if you aren’t ready to completely delete them.
Remember that even if you delete your contact, they may not delete you. If they contacts you, you can either not respond or choose to send a brief, polite response., The large number of social media sites, such as Facebook and Instagram, means increased accessibility to people, even those with whom you don’t necessarily want to be in contact. By removing your crush’s presence from your social media accounts, you can further limit the amount of contact you have with them.If you’re concerned that you might hurt your crush or leave others questioning your motives by unfollowing or defriending them on social media sites, find a way to minimize what you see on these apps. For example, on Facebook you can simply unsubscribe from their posts, which will make sure that you don’t get status updates., It’s natural when you have a crush on someone to talk about them and to think about them a lot, but this will only reinforce your feelings. Consciously not mentioning them in conversations and actively shifting your thoughts when you do think about them will help you get over them more quickly.It may be difficult to not mention them in conversations, especially if you have mutual friends, so try to not talk about them or ask how they are too often. You can also step away from conversations about them.
If you need to talk about them to process your thoughts and feelings, do so but don’t make it a regular habit., If your friends know that you have feelings for your crush, they may occasionally mention them. This will only remind you of them and may hinder your ability to get over them, so ask your friends to not bring them up or update you if possible.There will likely be situations, especially in groups with mutual friends, where your crush’s name is brought up. In order get over them more quickly, step away from these groups until they’ve moved on to a new topic of conversation.
 You and your crush may have many things in common, including friends, classes or workplaces, or favorite places. Avoid situations where you run the risk of seeing them.


If you take classes together or work in the same place, don’t sit near them. If they sit next to you, you can also find a way to relocate or decide to keep it cordial. Also do not engage in eye contact with them.Then it could make things awkward or spark a unwanted conversation.
If you like the same restaurants, for example, try out new places to eat.
 Getting rid of any reminders of them that you may have will help you get over your crush. You’ll want to remove traces of them from everything from your phone and social media to photographs and other mementos in your home.You can either take a gradual or cold-turkey approach to removing them from your life. It might be emotionally easier for you to remove reminders of them bit by bit, or you can also get rid of traces of them all at once. Doing this at all once will be very difficult, but can speed up the process of getting over your crush.
Delete emails or get rid of letters, cards, or presents from your crush. Holding on to these things make you hold on to your feelings for them.Delete any photos of them or the two of you together., Getting over your crush is a painful process and it’s completely acceptable to grieve over the relationship you had. But it’s also important to not get mad at your crush in the process- just as you can’t control your feelings for them, they can’t control their feelings for you.Recognize that your crush was something significant in your life. Even if you didn’t have a romantic relationship, you still had some relationship to them. It’s ok to be sad over the loss of this.Don’t be angry with your crush. They might not even know that you had feelings for them or they might be in a situation where they can’t reciprocate your feelings. Don’t get angry with them over something which they don't have much control.There are many reasons why you may have to get over your crush. Perhaps they found a boyfriend/girlfriend or perhaps they were always in a relationship or married. Maybe your parents oppose them, or and maybe it's something as simple as they're too old for you. Maybe you are wise enough to realize that you wouldn't be compatible in a relationship, even though you have romantic feelings for them. These are all factors over which you have very little control, and about which you cannot be mad at them.
If you’re having an especially hard time with the process, you can always get counseling to help you with your feelings., There are many fish in the sea and your crush may not be the right person for you in the end. You will find someone else who is great for you, and the quicker you get over your crush, the more open your heart will be to finding this person.Focusing on your crush’s flaws can help you get over them and possibly even find someone better suited for you.