 If you’re struggling to wake up in the morning, immediately turn on the lights. Flip on the overhead light or any other bright light you have. Bright lights help make you alert and more awake. Make sure the lights are on as you are getting dressed or eating breakfast.


You can try natural light by opening your blinds to let the sunshine in or eat breakfast outside.
 Working out can wake you right up. Even a relatively light workout, such as stretching along with some weights or a short time on the elliptical or stationary bicycle, can wake you up. You may consider going for a walk or taking your dog out for a walk, or going for a quick run.


You can also go to a class at the gym, go for a swim, do yoga or Tai Chi, or load up your favorite music and dance.
 A morning shower can help you wake up, but it needs to be a specific kind of shower. Take a hot shower, ending with a cool rinse. You should turn the temperature as cold as you can and stand under the spray for 30 seconds. Then turn the spray as hot as you can stand for 30 seconds, then turn the water as cold as you can stand it for 30 seconds once again.You can try just a cold shower instead of a hot shower.
This method is easily combined with the workout. Wake up, workout, shower, and more than likely, you will be wide awake.
 Essential oils can help you wake up in the morning. Some essential oils are traditionally used to wake you up, increase alertness, and keep you alert. Pour these scents into water and use a humidifier to spread them throughout the room, use an oil burner to spread the scent, sprinkle a few drops on a sachet, or simply sniff the oil in the bottle. Good scents to try are:


Lemon, Orange, Lime, or Grapefruit oils
Peppermint oil
Eucalyptus oil
Rosemary, Acupressure means you either apply pressure or gently massage certain points on your body. Apply pressure to the following points on your body for three to five minutes to help you wake up:On the top of your head.
The webbing between your thumb and index finger.
Right below each knee cap, at the front of your leg.
At the base of your neck right where the neck meets the spine.
On the ball of each foot.
 Make sure you get enough sleep each night. You need seven to nine hours of sleep each night. Caffeine is often used to stimulate because someone really needs the boost. If you get enough sleep, you may find you don’t actually need coffee every morning.Try going to sleep about 30 to 60 minutes earlier than you usually do every night and see if this helps to cut down on your desire for caffeine.
 If you feel like you need caffeine to wake up, then you might be dependent on it or you might be using it to treat an underlying condition. For example, depression can cause fatigue, which one might try to treat with a cup of coffee to get a temporary feeling of alertness and elevated mood.Talk to your doctor if you are having a hard time going without caffeine due to fatigue, inability to concentrate, or other symptoms that you are using caffeine to mask.

