 Whether you're using iTunes, Media Player, or a third-party music service, you'll need to open the program to view the music files in question.;
, Most programs allow you to click and drag any MP3 files not already in your library into your media player of choice to add them.


You can also highlight any MP3s you wish to edit, right-click (or two-finger click on Mac) a highlighted file, and select "Play" or "Play with... (default media player)". This will bring up your MP3 files in your default program as they are.
Use this as a chance to consolidate all of your MP3 files. In the interest of efficiency, they should all be in the same location--your default music folder is the best bet.
 While most of the tagging you'll do on MP3s is text-based, you also have the option of adding album art. If this appeals to you, try searching the album art for your selected MP3s in an image service like Google or Bing Images.


Try to find the highest quality photos possible; they may look good in a thumbnail, but lower-quality photos can become granulated when they expand to fit your screen.
 Again, depending on what kind of media player you're using, your specific process will vary slightly; however, most media players require you to right-click the MP3 file you wish to edit, find some version of "edit file" in the ensuing right-click menu, and click that option.


For example, iTunes has an option entitled "Get info", which opens the MP3's tag input; Windows Media Player's menu, on the other hand, simply says "edit".
If you're using Windows Media Player and your MP3 files are from a legitimate or primary source, you can select "Find album info", which will normally fill in the details of the selected music automatically.
 Tags include items such as artist name, track number in an album, and genre of music; feel free to edit all of these accordingly.


Fields such as "album", "year", and "artist" can be edited in batches. To do this, highlight all relevant MP3s in your media player, right- or control-click one of the selected MP3s, and select the editing option. To ensure maximum accuracy, consider looking up the album or track details as you go. This is especially helpful when entering the track number details.
 Once you finish tagging all of your chosen MP3s, exit out of your media player, reboot it, and try playing some of the edited MP3s. The changes should have been saved, and you should now have fully-tagged MP3 files.


You should also re-sync any mobile devices post-editing, both to update your library and to ensure that all the tags carry over correctly.

