 You won’t clean your electronic cigarette properly if you start in a dirty area. Make sure to start in a clean, sanitary area. Lay a clean towel on the table where you will be disassembling the electronic cigarette. Gather some fresh paper towels to use on the electronic cigarette.You may also need some cotton swabs for hard-to-reach areas.;
, Take off the atomizer from your electronic cigarette. If there is a drip tip, then simply remove it. Take away the atomizer cone or drip guard as well, if it is there.If you’re unsure that you’re removing the right parts, you can google an image of the structure of an e-cigarette. Or, you can find a YouTube video of someone disassembling one.
 Specifically, wipe down the drip tip, atomizer cone and atomizer. Push the paper towel in the direction of the battery end of your atomizer and your drip tip. Blow very lightly through the drip tip to force outdated e-liquid into the paper towel. If the electronic cigarette has a drip protector and an atomizer cone, fold the paper towel into a snug triangle and pressure it right through to absorb any stray e-liquid.Fold your paper towel into a square so that it can soak up a lot more.
 Refold the paper towel to uncover a dry section. It is advisable to push it inside of your electronic cigarette to clean inside the battery terminal. Use a cotton swab if the paper towel doesn’t work for you. Repeat this process a couple of times., Take your battery and keep it on the charger. When it is totally charged, you can use it again. Then, reassemble the electronic cigarette, and you are finished cleaning it., Even if you clean your electronic cigarette regularly, things like dust and fluff can quickly build up in the mouthpiece. This is unsanitary and blocks the flow of vapor. To clear it, just remove it and blow through the mouthpiece. You can also use a twisted up paper towel to clear away any build up and then rinse it in warm water., It is recommended to clean the electronic cigarette every time you change the cartridge for the e-liquid. This assures that gunk doesn’t build up and improves the life of the device. Depending on how often you smoke, you may have to clean the electronic cigarette every day., You may start to get a bad aftertaste. This could mean a couple of things. This could be because the cartridge is dry, but often, it is because of a gunk build up. Even if you think it is a dry cartridge, it is better to be safe and clean your electronic cigarette., This may not be necessary if you clean your electronic cigarette on a daily basis. But, if it takes you a while to go through your e-liquid, it is good to check for residue. E-liquid can seep out and cause build up in the atomizer and chimney of your device. Residue can also be caused by build up in the coil. Disassemble and clean the cigarette any time you start to see build up., You should not throw your electronic cigarette somewhere in your car or down in your purse. It should be stored upright in a sanitary place. Then, store the case away from sunlight, water and high temperatures. Ideally, you should have a case for the device. If you don’t have a case, you can ask the seller of your electronic cigarette if there is a case available for your brand.
 You should not wait until your electronic cigarette is completely dead before charging it. Doing this will reduce the life of your device. Instead, charge it when there is still some battery left—around 15 to 20 percent at least.You should also not store your battery when it has a low charge. Always store it when it has 50 percent or more battery.
 Acidic e-liquids are the worst for your electronic cigarette because they can eat away at the tank. E-liquids that are high in nicotine can also be dangerous for your device because the liquid tends to get volatile as it ages. If you’re unsure what type of e-liquid to use for your electronic cigarette, ask for the advice of an employee at a place that sells electronic cigarettes.Even if you think you’re using the right juice, check the type of e-liquid you’re using if you begin to experience problems with your device.

