, Although most players will be able to see it, enemies will not.

Build the pit right up against your door. Most enemy's AI will tell them to jump the pit, but if you build your door next to the pit, they'll bounce back into the hole.
 You can man them from inside with a Lever/Switch.

You can also install a pressure plate, which activates the Traps once stepped on.
 Dig a pit seven blocks wide and six blocks deep. On each side of the pit, dig out the fourth block up. Also, leave two blocks overhanging the pit.

This trap is, naturally, geared towards Zombies. Their AI will tell them to jump and escape, but thanks to the fourth block jut, they'll become confused, turn, and try the other side of the pit.
Alternatively, you can make the pit four blocks deep and have a one block jut.
If you have the Mechanic, you can place Active Stone Blocks on the hole to create a bridge. Make a Lever somewhere else.
 Just simply dig a hole, place over it a few Active Stone Blocks, and wait for any players or enemies to come through. When you see them, flip a Switch to make the Active Stone Blocks Inactive and kill them.

For an extra touch, you can put Lava in the hole.
 This is done by building a 9×10 room in front of your wall. On the lower three blocks of each end, place a door. Then, split the structure into two rooms with a dividing wall. Place in each room a series of ascending Wood Platforms.

This trap is geared towards Slimes. Since Slimes constantly hop, they will hop into the room and continue hopping, up the platforms. They cannot, however, hop down, and will be stuck at the top of the room.
 Enemies will fall in and die.

If you make the Lava pit shallow enough, you can collect the drops of your fallen foes.
 These are like Active Stone Blocks, but can blend in with their surroundings. Use these as trapdoors., Now, you can teleport between the two places.,,,

Make sure it's low enough that you can reach it, high enough so other players can't reach it, but low enough that Harpies and Wyverns won't spawn around it.
You can also convert a Floating Island to your personal base.
 This may be a bit risky, as you are in danger of Sharks and Orcas and drowning. However, it's ideal for trapping the Angler if he wanders around underwater., These can only be mined by the Picksaw, and are the strongest block in the game., Mark them and store different items in each., This will kill flying enemies., This is to prevent casualties.,, Fill them with something useless or commonly found, like Dirt or Wood. Even leave them empty! Hide your chest of real valuables somewhere else.

For example, you could hide it in a tiny structure barely visible on the map, like in a 4x4 room of Lihzahrd Brick.

