 Some of this is a stereotype; really you should just always feel free to be who you are. That being said, there are some sports that are regarded as more “butch” than others.


Archery, softball, boxing, kickboxing, roller derby, and other sports that require muscle or physical strength are good choices.
Avoid country club sports like racquetball and tennis unless you dress butch while playing them. Tennis skirts or ladies wear won’t do the trick. The same is true on the golf course.
 Always drink in moderation. Be safe. That being said, you want to avoid fruity drinks or anything with umbrellas.


Frozen daiquiris or the like are not very butch. Drinking hard liquor, like whiskey, bourbon, or scotch is.
Better yet, just grab a beer. Avoid drinks that have fruit in the glass or are made with juice mixed into them. Whatever you do, don't drink a Cosmopolitan! How about a Martini instead?

, Butch lesbians can sometimes be found in jobs that defy traditional stereotypes, and sometimes those jobs require physical labor or strength.


Again, you should always do what you prefer and not worry about conforming to some stereotype or expectation of what other people want. However, that being said, you may find butch lesbians more often in some professions.
Police work, firefighting, race car drivers, even the law are all professions that a butch lesbian might gravitate towards.
 A butch lesbian is unlikely to be spotted reading Danielle Steele or any romance novel at the beach. Stay away from chick lit.


Go for fantasy, spy, or thriller novels, things like Michael Crichton or Stephen King.
Care about serious issues, and read books related to history, politics, or social causes. Don’t be seen reading books that are too frivolous.
 You’re likely to see a butch lesbian enjoying or playing music in the metal, rock, hip-hop or similar genres.


Drums and bass or electric guitar are great choices. To go along with the rock genre, try getting a tattoo!
Instruments like flute, violin, harp, cello, violin – really any string instrument – aren’t going to make you look very butch.
 Masculine mannerisms can be hard to define. Traditional ways of describing masculine mannerisms, such as walking with confidence and stride or not slouching, don't actually tell you anything. In fact, people with feminine gender presentation also exhibit these traits. Instead, if you like how a masculine person carries his or herself, watch how they move, and then try to move like them.


Idealized masculine mannerisms do seem to have something to do with confidence (just as idealized feminine mannerisms have something to do with confidence as well). This means that at the core of moving and feeling like a butch is to have self-confidence while doing it.
Becoming a butch, and moving like one, is all about finding a gender presentation that feels right to you. The confidence that comes with feeling good about yourself and how you look will be visible to those around you in how you carry yourself.

