 Without any sort of concrete evidence pointing to the fact that the person you're reporting is in the country illegally, it's doubtful ICE will investigate the person.At a minimum, you need names and locations of the people you want to report. Otherwise ICE won't have much to go on. Specific names may not be as important if you have a solid location.
For example, if there's an abandoned house next door that you suspect is being used for human trafficking, take down the address of the house and make close observations of the people coming in and out of the house.
Take down the dates and times you see people coming and going, along with descriptions of those people. Get license tag numbers if you can.
You may want to look at ICE's tip form, located on the agency's website, to get an idea of the types of information sought.
Keep in mind that the more information you're able to provide, the more likely it is that your tip will be useful to authorities.
However, don't imperil your own safety or that of others to get information. You don't need to play detective, and your tip will be more valuable if the people don't suspect they've been discovered – especially if they are engaged in criminal activities.;
, Setting up a proxy or virtual private network can allow you to mask your computer's IP address so it can't be traced back to you. Although ICE accepts anonymous tips, you are submitting information to an investigatory agency, so masking your IP address ensures your report can't be connected to you in any way.You also can conceal your identity by using a public computer, such as one at a library, to file your report, or by using your own computer or other electronic device on a public Wi-Fi network.
Sending your report from another location also may be important if you fear that your home network has been hacked or your online activities are being monitored.
 ICE hosts a web form on its website that you can use to submit an anonymous tip. Although the form includes fields for you to enter your name, address, phone number, and email address, these fields are optional.Before you start entering your information, read the opening paragraphs regarding tips and how they're handled carefully and make sure you understand how your information will be used.
You may want to take this opportunity to rethink making an anonymous report. If you don't provide your name and contact information, you'll have no way to add to your report, and officers will have no way to get in touch with you if they need additional information.
You cannot attach files to the web form, so if you've taken photos or have any other documents that provide evidence that the people you're reporting are in the country illegally, you have no way of transmitting this information.
Making a separate email address that can't be traced back to you and entering that as contact information is one way to ensure you can continue to provide information or be available while still remaining anonymous.
 The tip form includes a number of fields that you should fill out as completely as possible, paying attention to the fields that are required and those that are optional.After optional contact information, the form asks you to check any number of boxes next to phrases categorizing suspected criminal violations. Keep in mind that you must check at least one.
You also must provide information about the violator, including whether the complaint involves a business, an individual, or both.
Although you still may remain anonymous, you are required to state whether you have submitted the same information to other law enforcement or government agencies.
If you've already contacted ICE to report the same individuals, you should not submit more than one duplicate tip. Only report about the same individuals if you have additional information that was not included in your original tip.
 Read over the information you've provided before you click the "Submit" button to send your tip. You may want to make a digital copy of your report for your own records, although you'll want to be careful to secure any print-outs or the digital file to protect your anonymity.Above the button to submit the tip, there is a warning that providing false information could lead to criminal fines or imprisonment.
Even though you're submitting your tip anonymously, do so with this warning in mind. Don't provide false information to ICE for the intention of harassing someone if you have no real reason to suspect they're engaged in criminal activity.

