 Find a comfortable position and rest as much as possible for a few days. Rest in small doses. For example, lay down for two hour stretches at a time. Avoid resting for too long or the muscles will begin to weaken. Aim for two to three days of rest followed by light movement.Start a light activity program during the first week, consisting of 20 minute walks three times a day interspersed with several hours of bedrest to avoid losing muscle tone.
Use pillows to support your back and legs while you're resting. Putting pillows underneath back of your knee joints can be especially helpful if you suffer from lower back pain. This can ease some of your back discomfort as it takes some of the pressure off your back.;
, Since back pain can differ wildly in people, some people find pain relief with ice packs while others get pain relief from heat packs. Many physicians recommend alternating cold packs with heat packs. To do this, apply a heat pack for about 20 minutes followed by an ice pack for 10 minutes.Heat therapy works well for muscle sprains or pulled muscles in the lower back. Ice packs are also recommended for strained muscles, but you should use them within 48 hours of feeling pain to get the most relief., Most OTC pain relievers like ibuprofen and acetaminophen reduce the inflammation that causes back pain. While you can take both of these at the same time, talk with your doctor about what medications you can take to deal with your back pain.It should be noted that acetaminophen provides equivalent pain relief compared to ibuprofen but with much less gastrointestinal upset.
Topical OTC pain relievers are also available. These work best to relieve isolated pain and should be used according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 Applying heat to your aching back can stimulate blood flow, reduce swelling, and relieve aches and pains associated with aging. To get the most health benefits, soak for 20 minutes in a hot tub, bath, or Jacuzzi. Use warm water since water that's too hot (over 104°F or 40°C) can put stress on your cardiovascular system.Add magnesium sulfate crystals, also known as Epsom salt. Magnesium is an important mineral that helps in bone and heart health. It also eases muscular tension.
Be sure to drink water before and after soaking so you stay hydrated.
If the bath is large enough or you're soaking in a warm pool, try to stretch while in the water.
 The chairs and bed on which you rest should support your spine. The pillows on your back should be high and full enough that they support your neck. Your ear, neck, and hip should form a straight line while you're laying on the pillows. Make sure your mattress is firm enough to support your back comfortably. If it doesn't, purchase a new mattress that provides good support or slide a thin sheet of plywood between the mattress and box springs.If you spend a lot of time in an office chair or at a desk, choose an ergonomic chair or tuck rolled up towels behind your lower back to support your spine.
 If you're still feeling back pain after two or three days of trying to reduce pain, call your doctor for advice. Your doctor may prescribe more powerful pain relievers or refer you to a physical therapist for treatments. You should also see a doctor if you have:Numbness or tingling
Severe pain even after resting
Pain plus: trouble urinating, weakness, numbness in the legs, fever, or weight loss (when not dieting)

, While more specific research is needed, studies suggest that regular massage therapy can reduce chronic lower back pain that you might experience as you age. Back massages combined with exercise and education were even more effective at reducing chronic lower-back pain.Check with your insurance company to see if massage therapy is covered. Massage therapy has been shown to improve your mood, reduce muscle tension, and help your muscles heal., Acupuncture is part of Traditional Chinese medicine. It involves inserting thin needles into the surface of the skin. A trained acupuncturist will insert the needles into key energy points in your body (especially your back) to relieve pain. Research suggests that acupuncture is effective at reducing pain for elderly back-pain sufferers.Studies on patients that have low-back pain disabilities found that acupuncture was effective at reducing pain and increasing mobility., Physical therapists use massage, manual manipulation, electromagnetic therapy as well as strengthening exercises and education on proper body mechanics to help relieve and prevent back pain. Your doctor can give you a recommendation for a physical therapist who can help you., If you've seen your doctor and tried prescription-strength pain relief with no luck, your doctor may recommend getting injections. Epidural steroid injections insert anti-inflammatory medication into a space around your spinal cord. This is an out-patient procedure and you'll need to rest for the remainder of the day.You may feel worse for two or three days after getting the injection. You'll begin feeling the pain relief around three days after getting the injection.
Injections will give pain relief for several weeks or months before wearing off.
Two injections are typically given, spaced three to four weeks apart, with a third given if relief is only partial from the two initial injections.
 Chiropractors are health care professionals who specialize in caring for the back and spine. During a back adjustment, the chiropractor will manipulate the vertebrae that make up your spine. Getting regular chiropractic care can increase your range of motion and reduce inflammation that causes your back pain.You may experience some soreness or aching immediately after your adjustment. This should go away within a day and is completely normal.
 If medications, therapies, or injections don't work, you may want to get back surgery. This is a last resort measure, because the outcome is uncertain and your back pain can become worse. You'll need to work with your doctor, chiropractor, and surgeon to determine the cause of your back pain before talking about what types of surgeries are available to treat you.People with back pain caused by aging often find that back pain worsens very slowly over several years. You should see a surgeon if you're having trouble functioning because your back is causing you pain or you can no longer walk easily.
 Drink six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day to prevent damage to the discs of your back. The discs between your vertebrae are largely made up of water, so being well-hydrated can reduce tearing and prevent pain. Drinking water will also help keep your joints lubricated and prevent stiffness.You can also drink juices, herbal teas, and milk. Remember that fruits and vegetables also contain water which can contribute to your overall hydration.
 Eat a healthy diet full of fresh fruits, vegetables and whole grains so that you can maintain a healthy weight. Foods that can fight pain include red grapes, ginger, soy, cherries, and salmon.If you're overweight or obese, try to lose weight since the heavier you are, the more strain there is on your back. Over time, this excess weight can cause back pain.Avoid smoking, tobacco products and alcohol. These are associated with back injuries and can prevent your back from healing itself quickly., You can reduce the pressure on your back by practicing correct posture. This will also distribute your body weight equally which can prevent back pain over time. Stand or sit so that the vertebrae of your spine are always aligned. Avoid slouching forward or slumping over which can cause strain to your back.You should also protect your back by practicing proper lifting techniques. To lift correctly, bend over and hug the item you want to lift. Use your legs and stand up, rather than lifting from your back.
 You can manage back pain by keeping the muscles of your back strong. If you're feeling severe pain, lay on your back and bring your knees to your chest or twist your knee over your leg while keeping your back straight. You can also do yoga poses that stretch and relax the back. Try:Child's pose
Cobra pose
King pigeon pose

, Be careful when twisting or stretching while exercising. Spend some of your exercise time slowly bending from front to back and from side to side. Exercise can reduce back pain because it increases blood flow to the area. Try to do any exercise that you can comfortably do, even if it is vigorous. Talk with your doctor or physical therapist about creating an exercise program tailored to your back needs.Good low-impact exercises for back pain include walking, swimming, hamstring stretches and stationary bicycling.