 No matter which herbs you pick, you can make them into a tea. Start by boiling water on the stove. While it heats up, add one teaspoon of loose dried herbs or one tablespoon of fresh herbs to a mug of boiled water. Let the herbs steep in the hot water for five to 10 minutes.


Once the herbs are steeped, strain the leaves out. You can add a little honey or lemon if you want to sweeten the tea.
You can also buy many herbal teas as prepackaged bags as well. Each tea bag makes a mug of tea.
For herbal teas, reputable companies include Alvita and Traditional Medicinals. For loose teas, try Mountain Rose Herbs or Gaia Herbs.
 If use the herbs in supplement form, try to ensure you buy quality supplements by buying only organic supplements, checking to make sure the expiration date is far off, and looking for correct contact information for the manufacturer. When you buy, also make sure the bottle has a seal of approval from the Natural Products Association (NPA), Consumer Labs, or the US Pharmacopeia (USP). These companies regulate supplements and help keep them safe.


You also want to make sure the manufacturer follows Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which means you will likely need to do some research.Always follow manufacturer’s instructions for any supplement you take.
 To help you sleep, try making a herb sachet. To start, measure ½ cup of hops, chamomile flowers, lavender flowers, and lemon balm into a bowl and mix them together. Pour the mixture into a small cloth bag or small pillow case. Tie it off and place it next to the pillow.


This method is extremely useful for children as well., To help you sleep, you can use herbal essential oils. Try a warm foot bath by adding one to two drops of chamomile or lavender essential oils into warm, but not hot, water. Put your feet in the oil infused water to let the scents and oil calm you.


You can also make an herbal balm. Mix one to two drops of chamomile or lavender essential oil to one ounce of shea butter or caster oil. Mix it together well and place a small amount of the balm on your temples.
These two treatments have been very effective with children., Melatonin is a hormone your body naturally creates when you aren't exposed to too much light. Considered the sleep hormone, melatonin helps regulate your sleep cycles.If you feel you aren't producing enough on you own, or if you are looking for a non-habit forming sleep aid, melatonin may be a good choice for you.


Melatonin may interact with some prescription medications. It also should not be taken if you are pregnant or nursing.
Do not use more than 1 to 3 mg of melatonin nightly, unless your doctor instructs you to do so.
As a non-supplement alternative, a glass of tart cherry juice has been shown to increase the amount of melatonin in your system., 5-HTP is used by the body to make serotonin, which is involved in helping your sleep. Taking supplements of it can help increase the production of serotonin, which will help you get to sleep better. Do not take more than 50 to 100 mg nightly, unless you are directed to do so by your doctor.


5-HTP is not recommended for pregnant or nursing women.