 There are many sites that offer online piano instruction. Find one that works for you by looking at several sites, and comparing their features. Great online sites may offer users the opportunity to ‘sample’ or ‘try’ lessons before buying a subscription or paying for lessons. Examine the site and the piano lessons to confirm that they seem professional, thorough, and genuinely educational.


Since any individual can start a piano-instruction website, you may want to take some time to vet the website for security issues. Look at the site’s security policy. In the anonymous world of the internet, this is extremely important—you want to be sure that the person who created the website—and who you may be paying for their service—is safe.
 In the first couple weeks of lessons—or even before lessons start— familiarize yourself with the technology that the website uses for instruction. You may need to download a new media player or use audio or video files you’re unfamiliar with. Also familiarize yourself with how the website handles the logistics of scheduling and paying for lessons or instructional material. Consider:


Does the site let you schedule a set of lessons up-front? You don’t want to keep having to add things to your calendar and then forgetting.
Can you get discounts when purchasing packs or lessons in bulk?
What is the site’s cancellation policy?
When making a payment, how secure is the site?
In the event of technical problems, how responsive and extensive is their customer support mechanism?

, Many websites that provide piano instruction will offer different “levels” of subscription, ranging from “basic” access, with limited features, to “premium” access, with extra perks and bonus features. Consider if you need the extra features, and choose the level of subscription which best suits your goals.


If you’re indecisive, start with the cheapest and most limited subscription level. You can always upgrade to a “premium” level, but it may be difficult to downgrade to a cheaper level.
 Must instructional websites will route you from simple lessons—such as identifying keys on the piano and playing a couple of scales—to more complex lessons, including playing with both hands simultaneously and learning all 24 major and minor scales.If the option is available, it could also benefit you to learn some music theory. Even if you’re not planning to compose your own music or to analyze chord structures, having some theory knowledge will help you to better understand the music you’re playing.

