 Put one tea bag of chamomile in a cup of boiling water. Allow to to steep for five minutes and cool slightly before drinking. Swish the tea around your mouth to sooth your gums before swallowing.


Aside from chamomile’s anti-inflammatory, anti-spasmodic, and muscle-relaxing properties, it can also be used as mouthwash to treat inflammation of the gums and supporting structures of the teeth.Its active ingredients come mainly from its leaves, which contain 1-2% volatile oils, flavonoids, luteolin and quercetin., Mouthwash made from saltwater can be effective in treating red and inflamed gums because it will cleanse the area and help to kill the bacteria that is causing you discomfort. Simply add a teaspoon of salt to a cup of hot water, stirring it until it is dissolved and then swishing it around your mouth as soon as it is cool enough to do so.Make sure that you don't swallow the saltwater. Simply spit it out when you are done swishing it around your mouth.
 Peppermint extract has 0.1-1.0% oil that is made up of menthol and menthone. These oils act as an analgesic that reduces pain when applied to an inflamed area, such as the gums.Use 3 to 6 grams of peppermint tablets or capsules and dissolve in 10 ml of distilled water as mouthwash. Use once a day.
Caution: If you have gallstones, consult your physician first before using peppermint extracts.
 Sage leaves can be used to treat inflammation inside the mouth, throat and tonsils.To make mouthwash, put 2 tsp of chopped leaves in half a liter of water and bring it to the boil. Let it cool down for 15 minutes before using as mouthwash. Swish for 5 minutes several times a day.


Sage contains alpha and beta-thujone, cineole, camphor, rosmarinic acid, flavonoids and tannins. These ingredients have antibacterial and antifungal properties.
 The use of myrrh in mouthwash has soothing effects on inflamed tissues inside the mouth.Myrrh can also be used to treat pharyngitis, tonsillitis, gingivitis and ulcers. It can be applied topically to mildly inflamed areas inside the mouth.


Myrrh contains resin, gum, and nonvolatile oils. The resin component has antimicrobial properties which help the immune system by stimulating activity of the macrophages (type of white blood cell).
To prepare the mouthwash, add 30 to 60 drops of myrrh tincture to warm water. Swish around your mouth for 30 seconds.
Alternatively, myrrh tincture can be applied directly onto sore parts of the gums. Use a q-tip to directly apply extracts of myrrh.
 It can also be used to cure viral oral lesions, ulcers, and gum abscesses.


After brushing your teeth, apply a small amount of natural aloe vera gel directly to the inflamed gums. They will feel instantly soothed.
Apply the aloe vera solution twice per day until the inflammation subsides.
 It helps to keep the gums stay moist and provides a protective barrier over them.


Honey can produce hydrogen peroxide and kill bacteria by dehydrating it. It can be used to treat sore gums, ulcers and other problems inside the mouth.
Use a q-tip to apply a small amount of 100% pure honey to sore areas inside your mouth. Do this three times a day for five days.

