 If your cat is showing new or worsening symptoms of paralysis, take them to the vet immediately. Your vet may be able to diagnose and treat the underlying cause of the paralysis. Common symptoms of feline paralysis may include:The inability to move some or all of the legs.
Limb weakness.
Dragging the rear legs while walking.
Pain in the neck, back, or legs.
Insensitivity to pain in the extremities.
Difficulty using the litter box. This could take the form of incontinence (urinating or defecating outside the litter box, or dribbling urine) or the inability to urinate or defecate.
 Feline paralysis can have many causes, including stroke, injury or infection in the spine, certain infectious diseases (like toxoplasmosis or an infection caused by a tick bite), blood clots, or cancer.Depending on the cause of your cat’s paralysis, treatment could involve surgery, or it could be as simple as a course of antibiotics.

Your vet may need to run laboratory tests on your cat’s blood or urine, or do diagnostic imaging (e.g., and X-ray, MRI, or CT-scan).
 You can help your vet diagnose your cat’s condition by providing any information you have about the cat’s symptoms and recent health history. For example:

Did your cat recently fall or experience some other injury?
Was your cat bitten by a tick?
When and how quickly did the paralysis symptoms appear?
Does your cat have any other symptoms aside from the paralysis (e.g., coughing, difficulty breathing, cold paws, dilated or unresponsive pupils, any unusual behavior)?

, Once your vet determines a likely cause for your cat’s paralysis, you will need to carefully follow your vet’s recommendations for treatment and aftercare.Depending on the severity of the paralysis and the type of treatment, your cat may need to spend some time in the veterinary hospital before coming home. This is especially likely if your cat is unable to urinate, defecate, or eat without help.
Pay careful attention to your vet’s instructions on caring for your cat at home, including information on how to give your cat any medications they might need, how to care for your cat after a surgery, and any trouble signs to look out for (like new or returning symptoms).
 In some cases, physical therapy can help relieve symptoms of feline paralysis. Consult with your vet before attempting to start any sort of physical therapy, as beginning exercise too early may aggravate your cat’s condition and make recovery more difficult or even impossible. Talk to your vet about how long to wait before starting physical therapy, and ask about what kinds of exercises might be appropriate for your cat.