 Swamp Hibiscus can grow a bit too leggy and look straggly. Pruning and pinching can promote bushier growth and flower production. Once the plant gets to be about two feet in height, pinch off the growing tips so that the plant height is cut in half to about one foot.


When flowering starts, you should pinch off the dead flowers. This will be covered in the next step.
 Each flower of the swamp hibiscus will generally only last for one day. Try to remove dead flower heads every few days to help your plant produce the most flowers it possibly can. Doing this will keep seeds from forming, rather than flowers.


If you want to collect hibiscus seeds later in the year, leave a small number of dead flower heads on the plant so that the seed pods can eventually form. They will need to mature and turn brown on the plant before the seeds can be harvested.
 Cutting the plant back will help the plant to continue flowering into the fall. Right at the end of winter, cut the whole plant right back to the ground. The remaining stalks will be woody. Next year’s growth will emerge on fresh shoots so it is fine to remove the old ones around December.


Make sure to use a sharp blade to cut the plant back. Pruning shears work well.
 You can stake the plant if it is leaning too much. To do this, use a sturdy garden cane. Drive the stake deep into the soil and loosely tie the plant to it using string or garden ties.Don’t tie the plant too tightly against it and try to allow for some movement on a windy day. Swamp Hibiscus can also get support from a tree, post or fence.
 A swamp hibiscus generally does most of its growing in the spring, summer, and fall. You can use a general all-purpose garden fertilizer.


Try to use a water-soluble fertilizer along with your regular watering schedule.
 More established plants won’t need as much watering as younger plants do. However, you should still check your plant regularly; if you notice that the soil is getting dry, water your plant right away.


It is particularly important to keep an eye on the soil in dry seasons. Swamp hibiscuses do not do well without boggy soil.
 At the end of the growing season, apply mulch to the area so that it covers the base of the plant. This will help to protect the plant in the winter and stop weeds from growing.


Well-rotted manure or leaf mold are suitable mulches.
 Many gardeners like to divide these plants at the roots every decade or so. This is a good way to get more plants and share with neighbours. Divide plants in the late winter when the plant is dormant. The new root crown should be planted about three inches below the soil surface.

