 Snails need plenty of calcium to keep their shells strong and healthy. You should provide a source of calcium in the tank at all times. Cuttlefish bones are available for purchase at pet stores, but you could also use egg shells. The snails will run their bodies over the calcium source and wear it away over time.
 Snails eat a great variety of different foods, many of which you might have in your refrigerator or pantry to feed your family. Place some food in the snail's tank every day. You can use a small food dish to keep the food separate from the substrate. If you notice the food there a few days later, remove it, since letting food rot in the tank will cause mold to grow and attract insects. Keep these tips in mind when it comes to feeding your snail:


You can buy a snail food mix or turtle food to feed your snails. Fresh food contains more nutrients and is healthier, but it's good to have dry food on hand in case of an emergency.






Feed snails fruits and vegetables. Snails will eat most any type of produce. If they don't like something, they simply won't eat it, so experiment with different fruits and vegetables until you find a combination your snail likes. Try berries, squash, lettuce, cabbage, apples, pears, broccoli, beans, cucumbers, kale, and all kinds of other fruits and vegetables.






Feed snails small quantities of crushed seeds. Oats may also be fed to snails after soaking. You can also feed snails small quantities of milk powder, raw meat and crushed dog bones.
Snails also enjoy bloodworm as an occasional treat, remember snails are omnivores and also indulge in raw meats on occasion. Make sure the meat dosen't contain salt.
Avoid foods that are dangerous for snails to eat. Rice, millet, pasta, and other starchy foods can cause the snails to get bloated and die. Avoid foods that contain salt. Finally, don't feed snails food that has been treated with pesticides or other chemicals.
 This isn't mandatory, since snails get the moisture they need from the substrate, but snails like to drink water and bathe every now and then. Choose a very shallow water dish that will allow the snails to easily climb in and out. If you use one that's too deep, the snails may drown.

