 Staying natural doesn’t mean you have to avoid buying products from the store. Look for products that use natural ingredients.


Opt for unscented products – fragrances are often chemical-based.
Choose moisturizers, makeup, and deodorants that are paraben-free.Check the ingredients for anything ending in –paraben, such as ethylparaben or propylparaben.
Look for products that are noncomedogenic, meaning they won’t clog your pores.;
, Some companies make cosmetics and beauty products that are natural and organic. They may be pricier than a regular store-bought product and you may have to shop for them online, but if your goal is to stay all-natural then consider some of these brands:Herbivore Botanicals, 100% Pure, Ilia Beauty, RMS Beauty, Alima Pure, Elate Cosmetics, Au Naturale, Gabriel Cosmetics, Lotus Pure Organics, Tata Harper, Beauty by Earth, Afterglow Cosmetics, Zuii Organic, Vapour, Nudus, Jane Iredale, Nu Evolution, and Biba Lips.
 Even if you choose products that aren’t 100% natural, you should still check the ingredients label. Some chemicals are very common in everyday products and, according to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), may be harmful. Check labels and only purchase products that do NOT contain the following:Butyl acetate, butylated hydroxytoluene, coal tar, cocamide/lauramide DEA, formaldehyde, diazolidinyl urea, ethyl acetate, petrolatum (petroleum), triethanolamine, triclosan, toluene, talc, sodium laureth sulfate, propylene glycol, and phthalates.
Be careful! Some products labeled as “natural” may still contain these chemicals, so be sure to check.
 Treat acne breakouts with gels that contain at least 5% tea tree oil. This may be as effective as using the harsher chemical benzoyl peroxide.Many people are allergic to tea tree oil, so test it on an inconspicuous area first.
Don’t use tea tree oil if you have rosacea.
Don’t drink tea tree oil – only use it on your skin.
Stop using this, or any product, right away if it causes skin irritation.
 Wash one to two times a day with a gentle, oil-free cleanser to remove dirt and bacteria. Use warm water to wash, then splash your face with cool water to tighten your pores.
 Always use a natural moisturizer on your skin after bathing to keep your skin fresh and healthy. Get a moisturizer that suits your skin type, whether it’s dry, oily, or combination. Pat yourself dry after your bath or shower and apply lotion liberally.Choose a moisturizer with an SPF for everyday use.
 Always use shaving cream, lotion, or gel when you shave. Otherwise you can irritate your skin and are more likely to get breakouts, razor burn, or ingrown hairs. Use a clean, sharp razor.If you’re prone to skin irritation, shave in the direction your hair grows, not against it.

