 Ask a customer service representative whether call blocking is an available feature.


If call blocking is available, request that it be activated. There may be a monthly fee for using the call blocking feature.Most telephone service providers offer a variety of call blocking services, though blocking specific numbers may not be an option.;
, When you pick up a landline phone, wait until you hear the dial tone to dial these characters. This will activate the call blocking feature on your phone.


Listen for a recorded voice to tell you whether your call blocking service is turned on or off and how many phone numbers are currently blocked from calling your phone line. Listen for instructions on how to turn the call blocking service on, if it is currently turned off. With most phone providers, you can activate call blocking by pressing 3.
 This number will remain in this directory until you manually remove it or disable the call blocking feature altogether.


Follow the instructions of the automated message for adding phone numbers to the blocked call list for your phone. The specific instructions vary depending on your phone provider, but typically they involve pressing one keypad button to add a number.
Enter the area code and phone number of the first number you wish to block from calling you and then pressing the # button. Repeat this step until you have entered all the phone numbers you wish to block.
Some phone service providers limit the number of phone numbers you can block from calling you to 6 or 12.
 If you decide that you want to unblock a number, dial *60 again and follow the automated prompts.


The exact instructions for deleting numbers vary depending on your phone service provider, but typically they involve pressing a specific number on your keypad and then entering the phone number that you wish to delete from your blocked call list.
Review the numbers listed on your blocked call list by pressing the corresponding number on your telephone keypad as dictated by the automated instructions. Listen as the voice reads the phone numbers on the list.
Removing numbers is necessary when the blocking directory is full. To add a new number to the directory, you must first delete an old one., When you have finished making changes to your blocked call list, end the automated call.


Blocked numbers will now receive messages stating that the phone service provider is unable to complete their calls. Your phone will not ring when individuals attempt calls from these numbers.
To disable the call blocking feature, dial *80 when you hear a dial tone.

