 You might think that one fish oil supplement is like any other, but you’d be wrong. In fact, you can find two kinds of fish oil supplements: those derived from the fish’s body, and those from the fish’s liver. The former—often called omega-3 supplements—is thought to be safe to consume during pregnancy, while the latter—due to the presence of retinol—is not.The oil's source will be listed on the label, so just read the label and contents to make sure it's not liver oil.


That being said, you should always consult your OB/GYN before taking any supplement, especially if you are breastfeeding.;
, Due to a recent surge in the popularity of fish oil supplements and products, there are many products on the market made by sub-standard manufacturers. In order to select a reputable, high-quality product, look for a manufacturer that can provide documentation of approval by third-party quality evaluators, such as the Norwegian Medicinal Standard, the European Pharmacopoeia Standard, and the USP.In addition, your doctor or pharmacist may recommend a particular brand.


You can also test the product’s quality for yourself by sniffing and tasting it. Studies have shown that good-quality fish oil supplements should not smell or taste fishy in any way, so toss those tablets if you get a bad whiff.
Note that supplements in the United States are not regulated by the FDA. This means that supplements, especially those that have not been inspected by a third party, have not been verified for content, labeling, or dosage, and could potentially contain harmful ingredients.
 Some people think that flaxseed oil contains the same long-chain omega-3 fatty acids found in fish oil, but this is not true. It holds the shorter-chain omega-3 acid ALA (alpha-linolenic acid), but not EPA or DHA. The body can convert ALA into EPA and DHA, but this conversion is inefficient and spotty at best.Additionally, studies have shown that olive oil and other vegetable oil supplements do not supply the same health benefits as those made of fish oil., The World Health Organization recommends that a healthy adult consume 300 – 500 milligrams of EPA and DHA every day, but you should be careful about measuring your supplement intake. Due to conflicting evidence regarding the benefits and potential harmfulness of fish oil supplements, ask your doctor about the advisability and dosage guidelines of taking fish oil.