 While you don't want to concentrate on the negative in a diet, it is important to know the boundaries as you adapt to a new set of habits.


Stay away from anything that contains yeast, like most breads, processed foods, and baked goods.
Sugar in any form (this included sucrose, glucose and fructose) is also a danger as yeast feeds and grows on sugar.
Refined grains, malted products, and fermented products (vinegar, soy, ginger, beer and wine), including all alcohol, either contain yeast or quick-acting carbohydrates which feed the growth of yeast.
Dairy products should be avoided, as with most cheese. The primary exception in this category is yogurt with living cultures.
Any mushroom or fungus is out.
It is recommended that you avoid stimulants like coffee, chocolate, black tea and so forth, as they release stored sugar into the body and so provide a breeding ground for yeast. The same applies for artificial sweeteners and spicy foods.
 Much easier than creating a list of foods you can't eat, is to create a list of foods that you can eat and stick to those. Find ways to make these foods interesting and broaden your horizons if any of these foods are ones you have yet to try. Essentially you are aiming for a diet of fresh greens and fresh proteins, with limited fresh fruits and dairy (as they are higher in sugars), and complex grains. But get to know the details so that you can make foods you enjoy! Things you can eat include:


Fresh meat, chicken and fish.
Eggs.
Garbanzo beans and lentils.
Avocado.
Walnuts, cashews, hazelnuts, macadamias, and coconut.
Brown rice (no white rice) and rice cakes.
All vegetables, fresh or frozen, including onions and garlic.
Fruit that is not bruised (but no melons or grapes).
Limited milk (125ml per day) or soya / rice milk.
Plain yoghurt with active cultures.
Low fat cottage cheese with no sugar.
Homemade popcorn.
Plain chips with no MSG.
Herbal teas.
 These are foods allowed weekly (only one item of each), that won't throw off your balance entirely in one serving, but will disrupt things if they become habitual. Foods like these include:Whole wheat pasta.
Tomato paste.
Cheeses such as Camembert or feta.
Tinned tuna in spring water (as opposed to fresh tuna, which is regularly acceptable).
Spices.
 At the end of this period, the system infection should be gone, and all the symptoms relieved. If you are not feeling fit and healthy after committing to the diet for this period, then a yeast infection may not be the underlying cause of your symptoms as that should be long enough for your body to retain balance


And, as with any allergy, removing the culprit from your diet for a set period is a perfect way to test for a sensitivity. The trouble can be that while some allergies have very clear, obvious reactions like a skin rash or asthma attack, you may consider the symptoms of a yeast sensitivity difficult to be sure about. It's important to remember to trust what you feel.
 If your infection has cleared up and you would like to start eating certain foods again, it is safe to do so slowly without triggering the same infection.


However, if you are sensitive to yeast infections in general your system will still react to a high level of yeast or yeast-generating environments. Therefore, it is sensible to add foods back slowly and be aware of any negative reactions. This way, you can determine whether it is a sensitivity to yeast or to something else you happened to stop eating.
You may find that you feel better on a yeast-free diet for the long-term, as some systems are prone to yeast imbalance. You can try it and see!

