 Think about how hard you've worked this year and all the things you've done to make other people's lives easier. Realize too, that if you've a history of family and friends not quite hitting the mark when it comes to giving you gifts, that the only way that you're likely to get what you truly want is to get it yourself.;
, There are so many possibilities, that only ideas can be suggested here. It could be something that you've always wanted, it could be something you really need or it could be something that will make your life or the life of others easier. Some ideas include:


A donation to charity in your name; or a gift of an animal/tools/teaching via a charity.
Pampering items, such as a spa set, a gift certificate for a spa/massage treatment, expensive spa products, etc.
Electronics that you don't think you'll ever be given as a gift.
Something tailored just the way you like it.
Clothing, shoes, accessories, jewelry, etc.
Travel, education, a dinner out, etc.
The services of a cleaner, gardener, de-clutter specialist, hair stylist, architect, etc.
Hobby, craft, art supplies, etc.
Membership or subscription to a gym, club, magazines, wine club, etc.
A basket or box filled with goodies and gourmet items.
A garden set of seeds, seedlings, garden gloves, spade and hoe, etc.
A comfortable new chair for work or play
Your New Year's Resolutions, already worked out clearly and already scheduled, booked in and saved up for!
A new diary with times blocked out in it just for you.
 This is a good opportunity to purchase something decent for yourself, by saving up well ahead and using this gift to present a savings goal. In order for you to set aside any guilt feelings over a self-purchased gift, this early saving-up approach will allow you to have the spare cash without eating into other needs.
 If you've been dropping hints left, right and center about it, then there is an increased possibility that someone will take you up on that and purchase the gift. Thus, it's best to stay quiet about the item or activity and simply set it aside as your goal.


You may need to check that nobody else is likely to purchase this gift for you. If you overhear anybody talking about it or suspect it might be purchased for you, it might be a good idea to wait until after Christmas to purchase the gift for yourself. It might even be on sale then.
 If it's a thing, wrap it up and put it away somewhere safe in your house in readiness for placing under the Christmas tree. When wrapping, this means:


Do not open the item in any way. Leave it completely intact. Part of the joy is discovering its contents on Christmas Day, not at wrapping time.
If it's an experience or service, place the voucher or invoice in a card and wrap that. Check carefully that it won't expire before Christmas or before you're ready to take advantage of it.
If you've given a gift to charity in your name, place the invoice or donor acknowledgement in a card and wrap that. Opening it can present a fabulous opportunity to talk to others at the time about the charity and the good things that it does.
 It's one of the bundle of gifts you're getting, the only difference being that you know what it is. The joy lies in knowing that it's exactly what you want, it's brand new and you've yet to make use of it/familiarize yourself with it. It'll still be enjoyable even though you know what it is.
 Tell others when opening it that you gave it to yourself. It might encourage them to be self-generous too!

