 There are several resources available to help you prepare for both certification exams. The NCBDE certification exam handbook has an appendix with an extensive list of resources.The AADE handbook also offers a list of useful resources in its appendix.Appendix 3 in the NCBDE handbook offers a content outline. The content outline describes broadly what the diabetes education test will cover. Examine this content outline closely. Seek assistance from a mentor or consult diabetes education literature to answer questions you might have about the material.
Appendix 5 in the NCBDE handbook offers a list of suggested references. Look over these references, taking notes as necessary, to sharpen your knowledge of specific content areas. Focus on areas that you are less familiar with in order to remedy any gaps in your understanding.
For a $55 fee, you can take a practice NCBDE examination through Psi/Amp.A practice AADE test is available online for $95.A test tutorial to help you familiarize yourself with the computerized testing system is also available online., Visit the test center at the time and date you selected. Arrive early so that you have plenty of time to find a seat and settle in. The NCBDE test consists of 200 multiple-choice questions. You’ll have four hours to complete the exam.The AADE test consists of 175 multiple-choice questions administered over three-and-a-half hours.Bring at least two types of valid, government-issued photo ID. You might bring a passport, driver’s license, military identification card, or state identification card with photo.
You should also bring a printout confirming your test site, date, and other relevant information.
Do not bring your phone, hat, electronics, or other personal items into the test center with you.
 The AADE exam results are mailed six to eight weeks after taking the exam. NCBDE scores are reported in two ways: raw scores and scaled scores.


The NCBDE exam’s raw scores will give you your score as a percentage of the total number of questions you got correct out of 200. For instance, you might get a raw score of 150/200. Scaled scores are reported as a percentage of correct questions on a scale of 0 to 99. You must score at least a 70 on this scale in order to pass the exam. Using the above example — 150/200 — you would earn a 75, giving you a passing grade.
 You must recertify your NCBDE and/or AADE credentials every five years.Recertification for the NCBDE requires that you accrue at least another 1,000 hours of DSME and that you hold the same position in the same medical field that you held when you obtained certification originally.


If you cannot meet the 1,000-hour practice requirement but wish to maintain your certification, you can substitute the practice requirement for 75 clock hours of continuing education.
When your certification is close to expiration, the NCBDE, and/or AADE will send you a reminder notification along with directions outlining how to renew your certification.Renewal costs $250 for NCBDE certification and $500 for the AADE certification (or $800 if you are not an AADE member).
 With your new credentials, you’ll have a legitimate claim to expertise in the field of DSME. With your certification, you should be eligible for a pay raise. Broach the subject discretely with your employer.


You might ask, for instance, what kind of financial benefits you’re eligible for as a certified diabetes educator.
Many medical professionals find that they are more confident, respected, and financially secure as a result of earning their certification.