 Protective orders, also called Orders of Protection or Protection from Abuse orders, are a specialized type of restraining order issued by the court. In order to qualify for an Emergency Protective Order (EPO), you will need to show the court that you or your children are in imminent danger from harassment, stalking, or physical abuse.Most states will allow you to file an EPO against an intimate partner. Other states will also allow you to obtain an EPO against a family or household member., You do not have to wait until you have been physically injured to file for an EPO. Credible threats of violence and ongoing psychological and emotional abuse may suffice as grounds for an EPO.You need to ask yourself some difficult questions to determine if you are living in a cycle of violence that is escalating:Is your partner extremely jealous and isolating you from your support systems?
Has your partner used physical force, (including grabbing, tripping, or shoving) during an argument?
Does your partner threaten to hurt you, your children, your family, or themself if you leave?
Does your partner belittle, demean, and humiliate you as a way to control your behavior?
Are you forced into sexual relations against your will?, When you file for your protective order, you will need to write out a description of the situation. It is easier to do it before you are talking with an advocate or sitting in the lobby of the courthouse. Be as specific as possible, including dates and locations. List any medical care you sought for yourself or your children. Do not exaggerate. When you sign the petition for an EPO, you will be swearing that it is true.
 You are at your most vulnerable and in the most danger in the two weeks after you leave a violent relationship. An EPO is often one of the first steps in that process.It is critical that you have a safety plan in place before you file for your protective order. At a minimum, you need to have important papers, your cell phone, car keys, and contact information for trusted friends and family in case you need to flee at a moment's notice., In order for the court to have jurisdiction, you must file the EPO at the courthouse that is in the county where either you live or where the abuser lives.


Most states do not require that you live in the county for a specific period of time, but you may be asked to show proof of residency, such as utility receipts, paystubs, or statements from family that you are living under their roof.
 Most counties have fill-in-the-blank EPO forms and packages. However, they can be complicated, especially when you are injured, exhausted, or under stress. Most counties offer some type of advocacy or assistance program to help you complete the documents you need to file with the court.


Legal Services Corporation is a national organization, created by the federal government in 1974 to administer the network of legal aid offices. Each county in the United States is covered by a legal aid office.Most legal aid offices offer assistance with EPOs free of charge if you meet the income requirements.
Connect with a local domestic violence program. Many areas, especially larger cities, have dedicated domestic violence advocacy programs. This programs may offer assistance with EPO forms and emotional support during the filing and court procedure. These programs can also often help with emergency shelter, counseling, and legal advice.These local organizations can be found by looking in the phone book, performing an online search for domestic violence, or calling local law enforcement. Sometimes the court clerk office will have business cards or brochures for the local office.
Consult with a private attorney. Most family law attorneys will assist with EPOs for either a fixed fee or their usual hourly rate. Consider asking for a reduced fee if you are low income. Private attorneys are most often involved with EPOs if there is an ongoing or planned divorce.
 If you are unable or unwilling to seek out assistance from an advocacy organizations, most jurisdictions have forms packages that you can complete either online or via a paper package from the courthouse.


To use the online forms, you will have to have reliable Internet and access to a printer.
Go to the LawHelp.orgforms directory and select your state.If there is a form package, follow instructions to complete, download, and print your EPO package.
The court clerk's office in the county where you will be filing will usually have a fill-in-the-blanks EPO application package.
 Whether you are working with an advocate or on your own, you must complete each section of the application. If a section does not apply for you, for example, you do not have children, then cross out that section.


You will need your name as the petitioner and the name of the person who is abusing you as the respondent. You cannot file anonymously.
There will typically be a section where you identify the nature of the relationship. For example, married, dating, living together, or former spouses. You must also identify if there are minor children and name them.
You must give an address for the abuser. This can be very difficult, but give the best information that you have. Suggestions include his/her work address, address of immediate family, address of very close friends, or any other place you sincerely believe the respondent may be staying. This information is used by the sheriff's office to serve the EPO. If the respondent cannot be located, the court may dismiss your protective order.
Summarize and describe why you need an EPO. Be succinct and specific with locations, dates, and any medical care you or the children received. Note if law enforcement was involved.

For example, "On I called the police after hit me in the face and told me that I was dead. I ended up with a black eye and chipped tooth."
In emotional abuse situations, you have to still be specific. "For the last three months, constantly screams at me and belittles me in front of the children. On he told me that if I died, it would be easier for him to accept that I filed for divorce. calls and texts me 20 times a day and I am very afraid that will hurt me."


Include any times the respondent physically or emotionally abused one or more of your children.
 After you have identified the parties and the scope of abuse, the EPO petition will usually have a section about where you're living and what relief you are requesting from the court.


You can ask the judge to order the respondent to stay away from your residence, even if it is jointly owned.
In some jurisdictions, you can ask the judge to grant you temporary custody of the children and forbid the respondent to have any contact with the children.
In some jurisdictions, you can ask the court to keep your address confidential.
 Sign and date the petition in blue ink to show that it is the original and not a copy. Some courts may require that your signature be notarized. In this situation, the advocacy organization will have a notary on staff or most banks will do it for a small fee.
 You will file it at the court clerk in the county where either you or the respondent live. It must be filed there, even if another courthouse is closer. Most counties do not charge a fee for filing an EPO.
 The court clerk will give you a time to appear before the judge. In smaller courthouses, it may be immediately, so be prepared. In larger counties, they may have a special docket in the morning or afternoon. Typically you will appear in front of the judge in less than 24 hours.


This is called an ex parte hearing, meaning the respondent is not present. The judge will review your application, may put you under oath, and ask you questions or for additional information. If you do not understand a question, it is critical that you ask the judge to explain.
 If the judge finds that you have alleged enough reasons to support a protective order, you will be issued an emergency protective order. Do not leave the courthouse until you have a signed and file-stamped copy of your EPO.


The court will send the EPO to law enforcement for service on the respondent. It will also be scheduled for a full hearing in approximately two weeks., You should give a copy of the EPO to both the local police force and the sheriff. Explain your situation and that you will be calling 911 if the respondent violates the EPO.
 Even though it may be embarrassing, the school needs to understand the situation. Establish an emergency contact list and a list of people who can pick the children up from school.


Some schools may not restrict the respondent from the school unless the EPO gives you custody or the judge specifically orders it.
 If you are being stalked or have reason to believe the respondent may be violent, carry firearms, or come to your job, you need to let your employer know. Many large companies have security and will establish a safety plan for you.
 It is a good practice to keep a copy on your person, in each car you may drive, and readily available at your house. If you are forced to flee your vehicle or home, you want to have a copy of the EPO on hand when you call law enforcement. If you move to another town, immediately inform local law enforcement.
 This will be about two weeks after the EPO. If the sheriff was able to locate and serve the respondent, this person has the right to appear in court and either agree or dispute the EPO.


The hearing is typically informal. However, if you have reason to believe the respondent will appear and have a lawyer, you should consider consulting with a private attorney. If you are working with an advocacy organization or legal aid, they may be able to represent you at the full hearing.
If the sheriff was unable to serve the respondent, the judge cannot grant the permanent protective order. Most judges will continue the EPO for 15 to 30 days to allow for continued service efforts. If you get any good information on where the respondent may be living or working, contact the sheriff's office immediately.
If the respondent was served, but does not appear, the permanent protective order will be issued.
Most permanent protective orders are issues for 12 to 24 months from the date of the court hearing. Distribute copies of the permanent protective order to the same places you had given the EPO.
If you subsequently file for divorce, give your lawyer a copy of the protective order so it can be incorporated into the divorce filings.

