 Your doctor should wrap the area when she is done with the surgery. Most likely, she will use a compression garment, hypoallergenic tape, or an elastic bandage around the area. You will need to continue this pressure for a day or two. Doing so will help to stop any bleeding and reduce your chances of bruising.Most doctors will provide you with something to use as compression on yourself post-surgery. Ask your doctor if she will be providing a compression garment or tape or if you will need to buy something appropriate.However, if the bleeding has already stopped under the skin, you do not need to apply pressure to the area, as it will not help., Press an ice pack against the site of operation during the first 48 hours after your surgery. Doing this can help to constrict blood vessels in the area, which will slow down the bleeding process and reduce your chances of bruising. Hold the ice pack against the site for 10 to 20 minutes.Do not apply the ice pack directly against your skin. Wrap it in something, like a washcloth, so that it doesn't make the area too cold. Don't leave it on for more than 15 to 20 minutes.
 Elevating the spot where you had your surgery done can help to relieve any strain being placed on the site, which can reduce your chances of bruising. It also helps blood not pool in that area. To elevate it, rest the part of your body on a pillow above your heart if possible. If you had surgery on your face, try extra pillows at night to lift up the top half of your body., Once you're two days past your surgery, you should switch to using heat. Heat will increase blood flow to the area, helping to remove blood that has pooled under the skin.Try a washcloth bathed in warm water or a heating pad. However, make sure to put a towel between yourself and the heating pad so that you don't make the site too warm, as you may burn yourself. Don't leave it on for more than 15 to 20 minutes at a time.
 After your plastic surgery you should try to rest in order to make the healing process go more quickly. Exercise can cause complications that can lead to bruising. Avoid activities that elevate your heart rate and blood pressure for one to two weeks after your surgery, such as cardio workouts.,