 Being respectful starts with a basic consideration of other people's feelings. Ask yourself how you'd want to be treated in a given situation, and make an effort to treat other people that way. Treat everyone you encounter - strangers on the street, coworkers, classmates and family members - with respect and courtesy.


Offer people food, water, or something else when you see a need that could be met.;
, The concept of etiquette and good manners seems pointless when you're a kid, but when you grow up you realize that these customs function as a way to keep society running smoothly. Practicing good manners is a way to be respectful of other people's space and time. If no one bothered being polite, everyday situations like eating in a restaurant, waiting in line at the post office or dealing with bad traffic would be completely intolerable. Here are a few ways to be polite:


Don't talk on your cell phone in a coffee shop, store, restaurant, or any other public place where it could bother other people.
Don't cut in line.
Don't cut people off in traffic.
Say please and thank you!
Follow rules intended to make life more pleasant for everyone, like limiting your time using a public computer so someone else can have a turn.
Don't eat or drink in places where there's a rule against eating or drinking.
Stop talking when the lights go down in a movie theater.
Throw away or recycle your trash instead of leaving it for someone else to clean up.
 Be respectful to everyone - not just people you know or those you perceive as having a higher status than you. Many people save their respect for people upon whom they want to make a good impression, and they're rude to everyone else. But there is truth in the saying, "You can judge the character of others by how they treat those who can do nothing for them or to them."This means you should be as kind to those who aren't as "cool" as you as you are to the most popular people you know.
Be kind to people you encounter throughout the day who aren't always treated with respect. For example, homeless people are often overlooked or treated rudely, but they deserve the same respect and courtesy as anyone else.
 Be respectful to people who are different from you, even if you don't understand them very well. The differences among us are what make life interesting, and besides, you probably have more in common with people than you know. Even when you really don't see where someone else is coming from, be courteous and civil. You don't have to love everyone you meet, and you certainly don't have to agree with them, but you can still show them respect.


Be respectful of people's cultural differences.
Be respectful of people with different religious beliefs.
Be respectful of people with different politics from you.
Be respectful of people on the team that rivals yours (and fans of the other team).
 Any space that you share with other people should be treated with respect. Your home (if you live with other people), your school, your street, your bus line - these familiar spaces are familiar to other people, too. You wouldn't appreciate it if other people trashed the places where you spend time every day, so be sure to clean up after yourself and do your part to keep them nice for others.


Don't leave wrappers and other trash lying around - pick it up and throw it out. If you make a mess, clean it up.
Don't graffiti public spaces (unless you're an artist, and you have permission).
 Being respectful extends beyond just being nice to other people. Remember to show respect to animals, plants and the earth itself. We're all living here together, and each one of us is deserving of respect. Treat every living creature as an individual worthy of courtesy.


Do your part to avoid polluting the environment.
Understand how your actions affect the rest of the world. For example, using pesticides on your lawn could contaminate the groundwater and have a negative impact on your environment. Try to make conscientious lifestyle choices.
 It is considered rude and inconsiderate to help yourself freely to anything that does not belong to you. Ask permission before using someone's property. If you don't, you might be accused of stealing.
 Personal space varies in different situations. Strangers (e.g. people on the subway) should be given a space bubble, and it's best not to strike up conversations unless they're showing signs that they're open to talking. Friends and family members usually are more open to touching, but it's still important to make sure they're okay with it.


When offering hugs and kisses, let the person see it coming so they can decline it if they don't want it for any reason.
Ask before prolonged contact, such as playing with someone's hair or rubbing their back.
Treat disability equipment (canes, wheelchairs) and service animals like extensions of a person's body. Don't touch without permission.

