 Place dried seasonings into a small bowl and stir them with a little bit of oil until they're combined. The seasoning includes flavorful ingredients (like onion and garlic powders) and paprika, which will give the turkey breast a little color as it bakes. For the seasoning, mix together:1½ teaspoon of garlic powder
1½ teaspoon of onion powder
1 teaspoon of paprika
2 teaspoons of salt
5 grinds of black pepper
1½ tablespoons of olive oil;
, Remove one fresh or thawed turkey breast from the package. It should weigh around 4 pounds (2 kg) and have the skin on. Pat the turkey breast with paper towels until the turkey is dry. Cover the turkey breast with the seasoning rub. Use your hands or a pastry brush to spread it along the sides and top of the turkey.Most turkey breasts will come with the bones, but you can also cook a boneless turkey breast.
According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, you should not rinse the turkey breast before you season or cook it. Rinsing the turkey can actually spread bacteria near your sink and work space., Cut one head of garlic in half horizontally and place it cut-side down in the slow cooker. Take one unpeeled garlic and cut it in half as well. Set the onion cut-side down in the slow cooker. Add 5 sprigs of fresh thyme or 2 teaspoons of dried thyme.There's no need to chop or mince the fresh thyme. Leaving the springs whole will make it easier to remove them once the turkey has cooked.
 Lay the seasoned turkey breast directly onto the garlic, onion, and thyme in the bottom of the slow cooker. The garlic and onion should raise the turkey up so that it's not touching the bottom of the slow cooker. Turn the slow cooker on low and cook it for 6 to 7 hours. If your turkey breast weighs more or less, use these guidelines:5 hours on low for a 2 pound (1 kg) turkey breast
6 to 7 hours on low for a 4 to 6 pound (2 to 3 kg) turkey breast
8 to 9 hours on low for an 8 to 10 pound (4 to 5 kg) turkey breast

, Test the temperature of the turkey using a thermometer. Once it's reached 165 degrees F (73 C), it's safe to eat. Insert a sturdy wooden spoon into the turkey cavity. Hold several paper towels in your other hand and press the paper towels against the end of the turkey while you lift up with the handle of the spoon. Carefully lift the whole turkey out of the crock pot and set it on your carving board. Let the turkey rest for 20 minutes.Allowing the turkey to rest will help the juices redistribute within the turkey breast. This will keep it from drying out.
You could also use two large meat forks to hold and lift the turkey breast out of the crock pot.
 Set a large measuring jug or cup into your sink. Place a mesh strainer over the measuring jug. Put on oven mitts and hold the crock pot. Pour the liquid from the bottom of the crock pot through the strainer and into the measuring jug. Remove the mesh strainer and discard the vegetables. You should have about 2 cups (475 ml) of liquid that you'll use for the gravy.If you don't have enough liquid, add chicken broth or water to get 2 cups.
 Melt 4 tablespoons (55 g) of butter in a medium-sized saucepan over medium heat. Stir in 1/4 cup (30 g) of flour and cook it for one minute. Slowly pour in 1/2 cup of your turkey liquid and whisk constantly to prevent lumps. Keep adding more of the liquid as you whisk. The gravy should thicken as it cooks. Taste the gravy and season it with salt and pepper to taste.If you like a thick gravy, cook it longer or use less of the turkey liquid. For a gravy that's easy to pour, you'll probably want to use all 2 cups of turkey liquid.
If you have lumps in the gravy, you can use an immersion blender to quickly blend the gravy until it's smooth.
 Turn the broiler on to high and ensure that your rack is low enough to allow the turkey to fit in the oven. If you can, try to place the turkey about 12 inches (30 cm) below the broiler. Set the cooked turkey on a sturdy baking sheet or dish and set it on the rack. Broil the turkey for 3 to 5 minutes. The skin should turn crispy and golden brown.Avoid walking away from the broiler while the turkey is crisping. If it browns quickly, you'll need to pull it out of the oven to keep it from burning.
 As soon as the turkey skin is golden, carefully remove it from under the broiler and carve it. Place the carved pieces on a warmed serving platter and serve it right away. Set the gravy out on the side so guests can serve themselves.If you choose to keep the turkey warm in the oven for a while before serving it, the turkey may become dry or even tough. If you must keep it warm before serving it, wrap it well and broil it just before you do serve it.

