 If you want to make your teacher happy, being respectful is really the best way to start. Especially if other students are disrespectful, you'll stand out and quickly become their favorite. You can do things like:


Don't be disruptive. Don't pass notes, talk to your friends, make jokes, or move around too much while your teacher is talking.
Be punctual (on time or even early) and definitely don't skip their class.
When you're talking to them, be polite. Address them as Ma'am or Sir and use words like please and thank you. Be serious when you use the words and don't let them feel like you're making fun of them by talking like this.
 Teachers like it when students ask questions. There are a few reasons for this. First of all, it tells them that you're paying attention. Second, it shows them that you think they're interesting and that you're enjoying the subject (even if you're not). Third, it makes them feel smart and helpful. Everyone likes to feel smart and helpful. Ask questions when you have them and you'll find your teacher liking you more and more.


For example, if your teacher is talking about chemistry and Avogadro's number, ask them how they memorize the number.
As a warning, however, try not to ask pointless questions. You don't want to ask a question just so you have a question to ask. Eventually, this will annoy your teacher and they'll think that you're doing it just for the attention.
Do not ask personal questions or something that is important only to you. You can ask about homework, pop quiz dates or something that does not bother you alone or if you don't understand. "What pages do we have to read for tomorrow?" and "Ma'am, is there a better method to memorize this?" will be appropriate. "Why did I get a D?" and " Ma'am, which boy band is the hottest according to you?" are definite nos. "Ma'am, do you have a boyfriend?" type of questions which are related to personal relationships of teachers are not to be asked at any cost. Teachers get ticked due to this and can get you suspended.
 You might think that asking your teacher for help will make them mad because it makes you look stupid. This couldn't be further from the truth. Asking for help actually makes you look smart and it will make your teacher happy. When you ask questions, your teacher knows that you'll work hard and understand what they're teaching much better. They'll be proud of you for taking the initiative to get the help you know you need.


For example, if there's a math test coming up in a few weeks, and you know that you didn't fully understand how to divide fractions, then ask your teacher if they can go over the instructions with you one more time and do two or three problems with you until you understand it.
Say something like, "Mr. Green, I'm having a hard time with the homework. For some reason, the genitive case is just really hard for me to get. Can we maybe meet after school or during lunch, so you can try explaining it in a different way?"

, Be a student that not only keeps out of trouble, but also makes the classroom a kinder place. This is about more than just starting fights and arguments (although you shouldn't do those things either). This is also about being a person that helps solves problems when they come up. For instance:


You remind others (without being bossy or rude) to keep to classroom rules.
If a fight breaks out, you immediately get the nearest teacher, or diffuse the fight, or whatever is appropriate to the situation.
You help the teacher with tasks such as handing out papers, materials, making copies, helping a student with a question, or whatever is appropriate.
You help classmates who are having problems. If a peer is clearly upset, you try to help him. You open the door for a teacher wheeling the AV cart. You do not pass on ugly rumors, even if it is juicy gossip.
 Do your homework on time. Get study guides and ask for help at least two weeks before a test, and not two or three days before. Take notes. When your teacher sees you working hard, even if you're not the smartest and even if you don't get the best test scores, they'll still like you best.

