 While there is no official list, Judaism has five main denominations:


Hasidic - Very strict and conservative, taking the religion upon themselves in every aspect of life. Incorporate Jewish mysticism into their teachings.
Orthodox - Most Orthodox Jews tend to fall into one or two sub-denominations; the most common being Modern Orthodox. In general, Orthodox Jews stringently adhere to all laws and customs of the religion, while Modern Orthodox Jews typically try to balance a secular lifestyle with that as well.
Conservative - More lenient in observance than Orthodox Judaism, but adherent to the basic values and tradition of the religion.
Reform - Very lenient in observance, though aware of the basic values and traditions of Judaism.
Reconstructionist - Very lenient in observance; pressing a mostly secular lifestyle.;
, In Orthodox synagogues, men and women sit separately to avoid "inappropriate" behaviors and distractions, and the service is mostly in Hebrew. Other synagogues may have mixed seating and services are in both English and Hebrew.
 It is not as difficult to comprehend as it may seem, and knowing even a few special words or certain phrases will help expand your understanding and appreciation of the prayer of the religion.
 These can be found at Judaic shops, Jewish bookstores, and online.
 This means that only foods that have been prepared according to the laws of the Torah may be eaten. You can call your local Orthodox rabbi and ask him to help you "kosher" your kitchen.

Fish with fins and scales
Fruits, vegetables, and some breads are "Parve" which means fit for both meat and dairy.
Not all breads are parve. Some contain milk, whey or dairy margarine which makes them dairy. Some contain ingredients that are not Kosher making them "tref" (not Kosher). It's best to buy breads that have Kosher certification (without a D for Dairy if you want parve bread). Or, if there's a Kosher bakery available you can ask the clerk for what you want.
, The Sabbath starts at sundown every Friday and ends when there are three stars in the sky on Saturday night. Observe the Havdalah, the ceremony after the Sabbath. The Sabbath doesn't allow work, travel, carrying money, discussing business, using electricity, lighting a fire, and making and receiving phone calls, but is cherished for its relaxing, spiritual separation from the busy workweek.
 The stricter in observance you are, the more holidays you will take on to celebrate or commemorate. Some of the major Jewish holidays include Rosh Hashanah (the Jewish New Year), Yom Kippur (the Day of Atonement), Sukkot, Simchat Torah, Hanukkah, Tu B'Shevat, Purim, [[Celebrate Passover, Lag b'Omer, Shavuot, Tisha B'Av, and Rosh Chodesh.
 Orthodox Jewish men wear "tzitzit" (a religious garment with fringes, worn underneath the shirt) and wear "tefillin" (phylacteries) during morning prayers, except on Shabbat and holidays. Observant women dress modestly and married women wear headscarves or wigs.
 He said that if the Torah could be summed up while balancing on one foot one would say, "Treat your neighbor as you want to be treated."

