 Look over your child’s schedule or syllabus at the beginning of the term, and make a note of important exam dates. At least 2-3 weeks prior to any major exam, talk to your child and make sure that they know what the test is going to be on. Have them communicate with their teacher and bring home any study guides or other study materials. Once you know what the test (or tests) will cover, you can formulate a plan together.Write important exam dates on your family calendar at home.
Teach your child to use a planner, and to keep track of important assignments, exams, and other dates.;
, Break down everything you need to know for the test (or tests) and create a timetable for your review. This is particularly crucial if you will be preparing for multiple exams at the same time (such as finals). For example, if you plan to dedicate one hour per school day to study over the course of two weeks (or ten days total), you can choose to cover one main idea each study day. In the event of multiple exams, you may choose to spend 2 days each on five subjects (e.g., Mondays = Math, Tuesdays = History, and so on)., For each day that you plan to study, be sure you’re your child brings home anything necessary for the study session to be successful. Examples may include review sheets, textbooks, class notes, or workbooks., Work with your child to formulate a practice test for each subject (or use one the teacher has provided). Once you feel that your child is ready, administer the test and grade it. This way, you will know which elements of the material your child has a firm grasp on, and which parts need work.If you have the test prepared early on (or the teacher has provided one), you may consider administering the test near the beginning of the study process, and then again near the end, to see how much your child has improved.
 Depending on the age of your child, you may want to explore different types of "study tools." This can include things like flashcards, games (like word-find or bingo), or even electronic resources (like computer programs or online games.) Try using a variety of methods until you find something that works for you and your child.
 Studying can be hard work for kids, and that’s OK, however you do not want to push them past their limits. If you child become visible agitated, very frustrated, or seems overwhelmed, it may be time to take a break. You child will learn better if they keep stress levels low.The better you are able to keep calm and communicate with your frustrated child, the better you can help them move through it.
Try asking them what they find so difficult about this task. If they are able to isolate a problem, you may be able to help them more effectively.

