 Go over your reading list and figure out exactly what books you need to read over the summer. Then make a list with the title of each book, and the number of pages that each one has. Finally, read the book jackets, or look online and find a quick summary of each book so you have some idea of what each one is about.


You may want to mark books your are excited about with a cross or plus-sign next to the title, and books that seem less desirable with a circle or a minus-sign. When you plan your reading schedule, alternate between books you are eager to read and those you dread. Putting off all of the books that you don’t want to read until the very end is the surest way not to get them done.;
, You can do so if you weren’t assigned a reading list but feel like you would like to do some summer reading to keep your mind fresh, or prepare for college. Ask a teacher or librarian for guidance, or go online for suggestions.


UC Berkeley publishes a summer reading list intended for incoming freshman and other reading enthusiasts.The American Library Association also publishes summer reading lists for younger children.
 If you are going to buy the books on your reading list, order them as soon as possible. If you are going to check books out from the library, remember that they may not all be there exactly when you want them, so start early, and be willing to reorder your list based on what is available.


Consider sharing books with friends in the same class. This will require a little more planning, but can really cut down on costs.
Think about buying electronic copies of your books so you can read them on an e-reader or your phone, and take them wherever you go.
 Are you normally the one who works on things a bit at a time, or do you usually finish assignments in brief flurries of activity right before they are due? You are not likely to magically change your productivity style, especially over the summer, so make a plan that works for you.
 Get out a planner, or make yourself a calendar showing the days until school starts. If you have any vacations or special activities planned, mark those in. You might still be able to read during those times, but you might read less. Then decide on an order that you will tackle your books, and write out a schedule based on your productivity style.


If you tend to be steady and methodical about the way you do things, plan to read a set number of pages each day. Calculate the total number of pages you need to read, and the number of reading days you have, and then divide the first by the second. Write this daily reading target on your calendar, and try to meet it every day.
If you tend to procrastinate and do homework in binges, a better approach is to set a fixed deadline for each book. For instance, you might plan to finish Old Man and the Sea no later than July 1, and Fahrenheit 451 by July 20, and so on. You should still try to read every day, but even if you end up staying up late to read each book the night before it’s “due,” at least you’ll be getting them done.
 A great way to motivate yourself to complete a difficult task is to plan rewards for finishing various steps along the way. Think about activities you can do to reward yourself every time you finish a book, or when you get the whole list done. Maybe you can go to a movie, or buy a new CD when you finish a book, or give yourself a day off to play video games or just do nothing.


Ask your parents to help. See if they will consider giving you an allowance bonus every time you finish a book, or some kind of extra privilege.
Capitalize on summer reading incentive programs. Local libraries and business often have summer programs that reward students for reading with prizes and raffles. There are also some national programs run by private companies that you might be eligible for.Be sure to mix up your list so you aren’t saving all of the books that you are really dreading until the end. Leaving the book you are most excited about reading until last can help you stay motivated through books that are less appealing.
 Of course, one of the great things about reading is that you can do it almost anytime and almost anywhere. But if you are not excited about what you are reading, it can help to set a designated time that you will get it done. Set your alarm, or create a reminder on your phone for “reading time,” and when it goes off, get your book out and get going.


Plan manageable blocks of time. If you read for an hour or more in one sitting, include short breaks to get up and stretch every twenty minutes or so.
Mix it up. You don’t always have to read in the same place. If it’s a nice day, try reading outside. If you are bored of reading in your house, try the library or a local coffee shop, instead.
 You never know when an opportunity to read might arise. You might get stuck waiting at the dentist’s office for half an hour, or arrive at swimming practice twenty minutes early. If you have your book with you, you can take advantage of this time, and get something accomplished.


E-books make this even easier, since you can read your book right on your cellphone.
 Regardless of how you wrote out your schedule, the best way to get your list done is to read a little bit every day. Not only does this help you make your way through the list, it also keeps you from forgetting what was going on in your book and from wasting time by re-reading.
 If you are working through an assigned reading list, chances are good that you will either be tested on what you have read, or have to write about it in an assignment. Taking notes will help you remember what you have read. You probably don’t need extremely detailed notes, but some basics to keep track of, including the names of the major characters, a bit about what they are like, and a brief summary of the events in each chapter., If you get off schedule or miss one of your deadlines, your workload can quickly pile up to the point that it feels impossible. If you get behind, cancel some other activities if you need to and get caught up as soon as possible. You will thank yourself come August.
 If your book contains words that you do not know, don’t guess; look them up in the dictionary! If you are having trouble understanding the plot of the story, ask around and see if anyone you know has read it and can help, or look for a study guide online or at the library.


Reading a study guide can help, but it’s no substitute for actually reading the book.
 If you know someone else who is reading the same book, meet up a few times to talk about what you are reading and compare notes. When you are both done reading, consider watching the most recent movie based on the book, if there is one. You can then discuss how it differed from the book and which one you liked better, and commiserate over the ordeal you have been through.
 It can be hard to get excited about compulsory reading assignments, but remember that most of the books on your list were chosen because they are really good. Ignore the fact that you are being forced to read the books on your list, and try to let yourself enjoy the experience. You might be pleasantly surprised at how fun and interesting this kind of homework can be.
 It’s hard to read quickly if you are distracted or uncomfortable. Reading in a quiet, well-lit environment will help you focus on your book better, and help you remember what you read, so you won’t have to take extra time to reread. Turn off the TV, put away the tablet, and silence your phone. Then make sure you have adequate lighting and a comfortable seat to read in.Some people find that listening to music helps them concentrate, while others find it too distracting. Experiment with both to find what works for you. Instrumental tracks are usually best.
Using noise cancelling headphones, and/or listening to a white noise recording can really help you concentrate in a noisy environment. There are many free white noise recordings available online., Your eyes dart around a great deal when you read, and every time they shift focus, and then have to find again the right place in the text, it wastes valuable time. Using either your index finger, or a rule as a pointer can eliminate this problem. Just place your pointer directly under the line of text you are on, and slide it down the page as you progress. Using a pointer might feel like it’s slowing you down at first, but once you get the hang of it, you should notice a drastic improvement in your reading speed.
 Many people either silently mouth the words they are reading, or imagine the sounds of each word in their head as they read it. This is called “ indirect vocalizing,” and while it is a great way to savor a well-written novel or poem, it makes for slow going. To get through material in a hurry, try to stop spelling. You will be amazed at how much faster you can read.Try chewing gum to stop spelling. This keeps your mouth busy, and prevents you from reading under your breath. You could also chew on a straw or toothpick, or other nonhazardous item.
Humming softly may also help some people stop spelling, but it may distract you more. Give it a try for a page or two and see if it helps.
 Get a stopwatch, or use a timer app on your phone, and figure out how long it takes you to read one page at your normal pace. Then set a timer for 30 seconds less than that time (so if it took you five minutes to read your first page, set your timer for four minutes, 30 seconds) and try to get through each of the following pages under that time. Once the new time becomes manageable, shave another 30 second off of your time, and so on.Reading quickly is more about concentration than anything else, and using a timer is an excellent way to trick yourself into concentrating better by turning reading into a race.
Practice makes perfect. You may want to use the timer for a few days, but eventually you will no longer need it, as you will have trained yourself to read more quickly and efficiently without it.
 There are dozens of free or low-cost courses and apps that are designed to teach you to read more quickly and efficiently. Most of these are based on one of a handful of tried and tested methods, and while you may never learn to read 1000 words per minute, as some courses advertise, you can still learn techniques that will significantly improve your reading speed and help you get through not just this summer reading list, but the ever-increasing amount of stuff you will be assigned in the future., It is not something that most people can do inherently or not, it is an ability that must be learned and can easily be improved with practice. The more you read, the easier it will get, and the faster it will go. By the end of summer, you should be zooming through that pile of books !


If you are really struggling and cannot seem to improve, a learning issue like dyslexia may be slowing you down. Talk to a school counselor, parent or doctor about getting screened. You may need to learn special techniques, or get help from teachers creating more reasonable deadlines.