 Before you make the decision to purchase a Siberian Husky puppy you should make sure the breed is right for you. Siberian Huskies are fun but changeling dogs. You should make sure your lifestyle matches up with the needs of a husky.


Siberians love people and tend to make loyal family dogs. They're intelligent and highly trainable breeds and love walking, hiking, and other athletic activities.Siberians are notoriously poor watchdogs as they tend to like everyone, even potential intruders. This can be a good thing, however, if you're looking for a people friendly dog.Siberians do tend to have predatory drives, which means they may chase cats or other small animals in your home. If you have cats, you might want to consider a different breed or discuss your concerns with a dog trainer.Siberians have some downsides. They tend to have issues with digging and running and sometimes do not come when called. They also shed a lot, in great amounts at least once a year.Siberians need a lot of physical activity to remain happy and healthy. If you're not committed to daily exercise, like running and walking, you should consider a different breed.;
, A new puppy is can be an exciting addition to your home, but also a big time commitment. Make sure you weigh the pros and cons of adopting a puppy before the beginning the process.


A new puppy will probably not be housebroken and while she might have learned a few basic commands from her former caregiver, she'll need a lot of training. It takes awhile for a puppy to learn boundaries and you need to be able to make time to train your new pet. If you have a very busy schedule, an adult dog might be a better option.
Another issue regarding adopting a puppy is that purebred Siberian Husky puppies usually much be purchased from a breeder. If you have reservations about buying from a breeder over a rescue, know you're unlikely to find a puppy through the many Siberian Husky rescues that operate throughout the country. Rescues usually house older dogs who have been abandon by previous owners. If your heart is set on buying from a rescue, you will likely have to adopt an older dog., If you want to buy a Siberian Husky puppy, you should avoid doing so at a pet store. Only buy from reputable breeders who practice good ethics in regards to caring for and raising their puppies.


Pet stores keep puppies in conditions many find unethical. Puppies are generally kept in cramped cages. While many pet store owners claim they only buy from responsible breeders, ethical breeders would never sell to a pet store.Reputable breeders do genetic testing on their dogs to make sure they're not passing down detrimental health conditions. The breeders who do business with pet shops usually do not perform genetic testing and a puppy you would get from a pet store might have serious health and costly conditions later in life.Buying from a pet shop means you will not get to meet a puppy's parents. You will also not get to see a puppy interact with her litter. This makes it difficult to get a gauge of a dog's personality and know whether or not a puppy is right for you and your home.Pet shop puppies frequently have behavioral issues due to being confined to a cage for a long period. They might nip and tend to be hyperactive and difficult to train and control., Many breeders boast their puppies come with an AKC registration. This may or may not matter to you depending on why you are purchasing a dog.


AKC stands for American Kennel Association. AKC registration papers are granted to any puppy as long as both their parents were also AKC registered. It does not say anything about the health or personality of the puppy. In other words, an AKC registration does not guarantee a higher quality puppy.If you don't plan on breeding or showing your Husky at a professional level, you probably don't need AKC registration papers. A puppy that's just intended to be a pet probably does not need papers. There's nothing inherently wrong with a breeder offering AKC papers, but if you're not planning on showing or breeding you don't need to limit your search to breeders offering AKC papers.You might want to ask to see the puppy's pedigree, however. In terms of gauging behavior and potential health problems, a pedigree is probably more important. You can see if there's been a lot inbreeding in your puppy's family history. Puppies prone to inbreeding tend to have more health and behavioral problems.