 Depending on where the bake sale is being held, it will be much easier if the table is already on the premises. If it isn't, a table with folding legs is your best bet for transporting with ease, such as folding tables used for camping, or a card table. School desks, the teacher's desk, an outdoor table, or even a small dining table could all work as a basic stand for the stall.

If you need a longer section for the stand than the table provides, and you're using a card table or small tables, arrange them in a row to make a rectangular configuration. Push the tables together closely, to avoid large gaps. If you need a really long configuration to fill a classroom or similar, consider an L-shape or U-shape consisting of many little desks (and lots of covers; see next).;
, If the tablecloth won't reach completely, cover with two, overlapping the tablecloths neatly. Clean, old sheets are another excellent option.

Use tablecloth clips or binder clips if the stand is outdoors and it's windy. This will help to keep the cloth in place.
 If the place you're holding the bake sale already has trestles, use one of theirs. If not, you will need to either hire or buy one. As these can be quite pricey to buy new, hiring is a better option, or look for a used one through auction sites, well before the event., Check that they are firmly clicked in place. Some tables may have printed instructions on the underside of the tabletop, to help you work out how to put the legs in place properly., Alternatively, cover with large sheets of butcher paper or similar large white paper.

If using paper, tape it down. It's also a good idea to have spare sheets, in case it rips and needs replacing.
If outdoors, use tablecloth clips to keep a tablecloth or sheet in place.
 Some of the following options might work to repurpose as a bake sale stand:

The most useful furniture would be an old cabinet base or a buffet/sideboard. Consider painting it or covering it with lovely fabric.
A smaller bookcase could be turned on its side, with a wide piece of plywood balanced over the top of the tipped-over bookcase. Line the plywood with a thin blanket, then cover with a sheet or tablecloth.
Turn children's old furniture into a stand. Children's furniture that no longer has any use might be perfect for a bake sales stand, such as using a toy box, a child's bookshelf, storage holder furniture, etc. If the item comes with drawers, boxes, etc., you might be able to make use of these creatively, to hold produce, non-food items, etc. or they could hold your spare baked goods ready to put out when gaps appear.
Push two old bedside tables together, put a sheet of plywood over the top and cover with an old blanket. Then place a sheet or tablecloth over the top.
 This can be done in various ways, depending on your skills:

Find two pole-style pieces of wood of the same height, higher than an average height adult standing next to them. Affix each pole to a square wood base. Use support wood chocks to keep the poles sturdily in place (nail or glue into place from the base leaning up onto the pole). Measure the distance of the stand and use this to determine the length of your bake stand sign. Cut the sign from plywood/scrap wood or very strong cardboard to this length, and a width of your preference. Affix this to each pole, the poles' width apart being the same as the stand. Use nails or wood glue to affix. Paint "Bake Sale" or such on the sign. To use, place the completed sign standing behind the bake stall.
Use the same method for making the pole stands as in the previous suggestion. However, instead of adding a wooden sign, add a flag bunting/garland. The bunting can be sewn with the words "Bake Sale" quilted on, or marked on with fabric pen.
 If your bake sale stand is outdoors and it's sunny, use a large outdoor umbrella to cover the baked goods and stop them from melting. If possible, situate some of the stall under the shade of a tree, building or other object, to give your stall the most shade possible.

If it is likely to be windy, ensure that the stand is placed near a form of wind break, such as a wall, a fence, or even your car if need be. Flying cakes and cookies don't sell well and tend to upset those who made the effort to bake them.
 Place the baked goods on disposable plates, trays, or inside cake boxes. Always cover food with plastic food wrap, cellophane bags or other food-suitable coverings. This helps to keep the food fresh and safe from bugs, dust, sneezes, etc.

If selling a large amount of cakes, such as for a school or charity fundraiser, purchase bulk quantities of things such as cake boxes and cellophane bags. This will keep down the costs, and they can be distributed to parents or other bakers prior to the sale, with a request to place all items that they bake inside of these, with ingredients labels, to make things easier on those running the bake sale.
 You can either hang signs over the front of the table or place them on the table, showing prices and perhaps the name of your charity, fundraising group, etc. Always firmly tape any signs that have been attached to the tablecloth or paper, as they'll blow away or get knocked easily if left unattached.

Be aware that if there are lots of people coming to the bake sale, labels that are hanging from the front will be blocked by line-ups or milling customers; messages you want to get across need to be placed at eye level (on a wall, pole, backdrop, etc. behind you).
 Keep like with like, so that customers aren't forced to go back and forth across the stall to find what they like. Encourage browsing by category:

Keep large cakes together, and cupcakes together
Keep cookies and slices together
Keep buns and pastries together
Keep savory pies together; have sweet pies alongside;
Keep brownies, treats and candies together. (And so forth.)

, If your bake sale stand is a long, large one, it can be a good idea to make an area for treats that attract children at one end of the stand. This allows children to hang around that end of the stand without getting lost amid the adult customers. It also makes it easier to keep an eye out for the kids; give one salesperson the role of caring for that end of the stand., Be realistic about the space availability of your stand. If it is smaller than the amount of items you and others have baked, have a separate area behind the stand for keeping the items that you'll put out as space becomes available. This is especially important for school and charity fundraisers, where constant refreshing of the stand's display will keep customers interested and may even result in repeat customers, if they notice new food being placed out after purchase.