 Before you buy the new RAM, you must know how many RAM and what kind of RAM you need since the new RAM should match the existing RAM’s specifications and configuration. You can either check the computer menu or look the existing RAM late.;
, Shut down the computer and unplug the AC power cord. Disconnect all peripheral devices, such as the mouse, keyboard, monitor and etc. from the computer.
 You can remove the computer cover by a screwdriver or your fingers.
 Before touching any electronic components in the computer, make sure you first touch an unpainted, grounded metal object to discharge any static electricity stored on your clothing or body.
 Locating the existing memory and expansion sockets on the mother board, if no extra sockets are available, you will need to remove the old smaller capacity memory to allow room for the new higher capacity memory.
 Finding out the old RAM and remove it by pushing outward on the white ejector tabs. The memory stick will pop up from the socket and then it can be removed.
 Check the mode of the memory and go to the computer store to get the matched RAM you want or if you already have it you can just start right away.
 Pick up the memory stick by the ends without touching pins or chips. Insert the memory stick straight into the available expansion socket so that it is perpendicular to the motherboard.
 Use slight pressure to the back of the stick and make sure the small holes on each side of the stick fit into holders. Fell or hear retaining clips lock the stick into the socket and then close the side clips on the stick. Gently try to pull the stick out to ensure it is locked in the position.
 Repeat step 8 and 9 for any additional memory sticks are installing.
 Leave the cover open and reconnect all the peripheral devices and AC power cord. Turn on the computer and it should automatically detect the new memory. Check the amount of the new installing memory by right-clicking the My Computer icon in Windows and choosing Properties. You can see the right amount of RAM.
 Turn off the computer and disconnect the peripheral devices again; Replace the cover back and reconnect all the peripheral devices.

