 This will help you identify the problem as a yeast infection. Dogs with a skin yeast infection will scratch relentlessly, so patches of hair loss and weepy, sticky skin within those patches is common. Look for:


Scaly skin.
Reddening or blackening of the skin.
Loss of hair in the afflicted area.
Strong odor coming from the skin.;
, In addition to showing specific dermatological symptoms, your dog may also exhibit strange behaviors; these are often caused by Malassezia. Look for these symptoms:Constant itching and scratching.
Shaking or tilting of the head (if the infection is on your dog’s skin or ears).
Loss of balance or hearing (if the infection is on your dog’s skin or ears).
Frequent walking around in circles (if the infection is on your dog’s skin or ears).
 The symptoms of a skin allergy and a yeast skin infection can appear similar: both involve your dog frequently scratching, dry skin, etc.The easiest way to rule out an allergy is to have your vet administer an allergy test to your dog.
If you have recently switched your dog’s food or shampoo, this could be causing an allergic reaction. Try switching back to the previous food or shampoo and, if the symptoms disappear, you’ll know that your dog did not have Malassezia.
 Because yeast infection can be mistaken for other health problems (such as skin allergies), it’s important to have your veterinarian’s opinion. Keep a list of all of your dog’s skin symptoms to give to your vet.Your vet may want to have a full medical history of your dog on file.
With this information in hand, your vet can conduct medical testing on your dog, including urine, blood, and skin analyses.
 Shampoo treatment is often all that is needed to get a yeast infection under control.These shampoos are very common; you should be able to find medicated pet shampoos at any pet store or vet’s office. As long as there is no secondary infection present, follow these steps:


Bathe your dog in an antifungal shampoo. The shampoo should contain the ingredients chlorhexidine, miconazole or ketoconazole.When bathing your dog, make sure that the shampoo is on its skin for a full 10 minutes before you rinse it off.
For full effectivity, give medicated baths for every 3-5 days, for 2-12 weeks (as long as symptoms last).
 If your dog’s yeast skin infection is in a small area, you can apply a medical cream directly to the fungal infection. You should be able to purchase an antifungal topical cream from your veterinarian’s office, or from a pet-supply store.


Apply a miconazole yeast infection cream to the affected areas a couple of times each day for 7-10 days.
Only apply enough of the cream to thoroughly cover the infected area. The cream packaging will likely include instructions for applying the cream to your dog’s skin—follow these instructions closely.
 In cases where the yeast skin infection is chronic or does not respond to topical-cream treatment, you may need to administer an oral treatment. Oral treatments are typically an anti-fungal medication prescribed by your veterinarian.Oral medications often include prescriptions which contain ketoconazole, fluconazole, or itraconazole.These medications often need to be administered for a long period of time: from 5 weeks to several months.Oral antifungal medications can have unpleasant side effects. These can affect your dog’s liver, and may need to be monitored by your vet.
 Ears are one of the most common locations for yeast skin infections, and it’s important to keep your dog’s ears clear and disinfected.Dog ear-cleaning solutions are not given by prescription. There are many retail brands available; check your local pet store or vet’s office. There are also home-made recipes online—most of these use safe substances (such as apple cider vinegar).
Apply an ear cleaner designed to lower pH levels, clean the ear gently with a soft tissue, and apply yeast infection cream inside the ear as directed.
If the yeast infection is deeper in your dog’s middle ear, it will need to be treated with oral medication, and perhaps even with surgery.
Serious yeast ear infections can take up to six weeks to heal., If your pet’s yeast skin infection worsens or is not better at the end of either topical-cream or oral treatment, contact your veterinarian. Plan ahead to ask your vet questions, such as:


“Is there anything I can do to keep my dog from scratching the infected area?”
“What’s the best way to figure out if my dog has an allergy that caused this infection?”
“Is it likely that this disease is congenital (present from birth) or genetic?”

, Although these infections are, to some degree, unpredictable, there are certain common stressors that may prompt Malassezia yeast to grow abnormally.These stressors include:


Excess heat and humidity (keep your dog indoors during these conditions).
Food and flea allergies.
 Certain breeds of dog are more susceptible to yeast skin infections, often due to their excess skin folds.Breeds such as pugs and bulldogs fall into this category. Other breeds that are genetically predisposed towards Malassezia infections are:Poodles and basset hounds,
Cocker spaniels,
Dachshunds.
 Malassezia yeast is commonly present on your dog’s skin, but usually only becomes pathogenic and causes harmful inflammation when your dog’s immune system is already compromised.Keep your dog up to date on all of their immunizations.
Check your dog for any injuries or cuts after she has spent time outside. These can become infected.

