


Look for directors that are familiar with the cause or that have a personal connection or passion for it. Find directors for your nonprofit that understand the cause and have some experience dealing with it, because they will be the most capable to understand the needs of the people you're helping with the organization.;
,


Enlist directors for your nonprofit that have experience working with nonprofit organizations and understand the financial and time demands that can come with this kind of work. These directors will be able to help you meet the challenges based on their past experiences with other organizations.



Work with directors for your nonprofit that have a sense of compassion and caring. A director must have compassion no matter what the cause of the nonprofit or they will not be willing to fully invest themselves in making the organization work. Compassionate directors will be willing to go the extra mile.



It's important that your organization have directors that have varied skill sets so that everyone is capable of helping out with different areas of the nonprofit. Be sure your board of directors can handle challenges with finances, special events, advertising, registration and public relations.



Bring directors to your nonprofit that understand the importance of being flexible with their schedules and work loads. Directors should be willing to help out with special events on nights or weekends and attend regular meetings to review issues pertaining to the nonprofit, as well as being willing to volunteer with last-minute projects or fundraisers.



Consult with administrators of other nonprofit organizations to get referrals for directors. Other nonprofit administrators will be able to recommend directors that know how to get the job done and possess the qualities you need.



Potential directors should be willing to submit to background checks and to provide you with references if you request them. Performing a background check will help you verify that the individual has the necessary experience to be a director and does not have any negative history that could reflect badly on your nonprofit organization.

