 Once you have a bad impression of a teacher, it’s easy to start hating everything about them. Which aspects of your teacher’s behavior are really impeding your learning? What things are just mildly annoying? Identifying the core problems is the first step to developing a plan to deal with them.For example, you might have a teacher who makes corny jokes and also isn’t clear about what the homework assignment is. You might be able to ignore the jokes, but you could ask your teacher if he could post the homework assignment on the board before the end of class.
A very strict teacher might be annoying, especially if you learn better in a more relaxed environment. But if your teacher deliberately frightens or humiliates students, you may need to talk to a parent or other adult in the school about the situation.;
, What are you doing to contribute to the bad relationship between you and this teacher? You need to hold yourself accountable for your own behavior. Even if a teacher is boring, for example, you don’t have any excuse to nap during class.


If you realize that you are contributing to a bad situation, change your behavior – and apologize for it. For example, you might say: “I’m sorry that I didn’t pay attention in class yesterday. I know math is important, and I want to do better.” Don’t turn your apology into an opportunity to criticize: don’t say, for example, “I’m sorry I fell asleep – it’s just that you’re so boring.”

, Ask him, sincerely and respectfully, how you can do better in the class. Listen to his advice as well as any criticism they offer of you. Don’t respond defensively. Instead, try to reflect back what you hear in order to be sure you are understanding correctly.


Teachers often appreciate students who take initiative. Rather than asking, “How can I get a good grade?” try approaching a difficult teacher with a specific plan and ask for feedback. For instance, you could say: “I’m planning to study for this exam by re-reading the assigned chapters and making flashcards with the vocabulary. Does that sound like a good plan to you? Would you suggest anything else?”

, Just as your teachers try to encourage you, you can encourage your teacher to provide interesting, relevant lectures and assignments. This is a long-term approach, but it can pay dividends in your learning as well as in making the class more bearable.But always be sincere: faking enthusiasm will only make the relationship worse.


Ask questions that show that you’re doing the reading and engaging with the material. Burnt-out teachers may become more engaged and lively if they see that their students are genuinely interested.
Don’t only talk to your teacher to ask for extensions on deadlines or other favors.
Thank her for a particularly clear explanation or an assignment that really helped you to learn.
 It’s easy to get caught up in passing judgment and developing theories about people you don’t like. But difficult people usually have some hidden reasons for their unreasonable behavior.Remember that you don’t need to be friends with your teacher. Keep your focus on how to succeed as well as possible in the class.

