 Rotate the sun visor as needed to drop it into its down position. Lift open the face cover to provide full access to the visor.


In most cases, the sun visor is controlled by a slide button located on the side of the chin or the side of the temple. Push the slide back to lower the visor.

Do not attempt to lower the visor manually if it is controlled by a slide button. You should only lower it manually if no such button exists.


Sit down and hold the helmet in your lap as you work on the visor. Alternatively, you can keep the helmet steady on a flat work surface while sitting or standing.
If the helmet has a separate chin section, you should open the chin and lock it into place before working on the visor.
 Locate the connecting tab on one side of the sun visor. Lift or bend the tab to loosen the visor on that side.This tab fixes the sun visor to the mounting pin on that side of the helmet.
Continue bending the tab outward until it snaps completely open and frees that side of the sun visor.
 Locate the matching connecting tab on the opposite side of the sun visor. As before, lift or bend the tab to free the visor.


Both sides of the sun visor should be very loose at this point.
 Lift both sides of the sun visor from their respective mounting pins. Pull the freed visor down and out to remove it from the helmet.


To prevent accidental scratches or fingerprints, you may wish to grab the visor with a soft, clean cloth instead of using your bare hands. A microfiber cloth is ideal.
Try to avoid scraping the visor against the inner shell as you remove it. If it strikes or slides across the shell, it may become scratched.
 The sun visor holders must be in the "down" position as you re-install the visor.


Check the controlling side button located at the side of the helmet. If necessary, push the slide back to lower the visor holders.
Keep the face cover and chin section open while inserting the visor, as well.
Hold the visor in your lap or on a flat work surface with the visor holders tilted up toward your face. This will usually be the easiest angle to work from.
 Carefully insert the sun visor in between the connecting snap tabs on both sides of the helmet.


If you cannot slide the visor into both tabs simultaneously, you may snap it into place one side at a time.
Hold the visor with a soft, clean cloth to avoid scratching or smudging it while you work. Guide the visor carefully into position while avoiding the inner shell, too, since it could easily get scratched on the hard surface.
 Once the sun visor locks into place, use the operating slide the rotate it back into the helmet.


Verify that the visor slides in between the inner and outer shells of the helmet. If necessary, use your fingers to guide it in between both shells for this first rotation.
This first rotation should help secure the visor into its proper position.
 Use the operating slide button to rotate the sun visor down and up several times. Check the visor each time to verify that it remains secure.


This step is crucial. If the visor isn't secure and you attempt to use it while riding, it may partially or completely fall off, blocking your vision in the process.
If the visor does seem loose, it's possible that you did not secure it back into both sockets correctly. Remove the visor and try re-attaching it again.

