

User-generated content sites often include lists of top items and the traffic they receive. In some cases, they also include overall summaries, or summaries by category. Look for these.
Starting July 16, 2013, subreddits within Reddit could make their desktop traffic statistics available online at https://www.reddit.com/r/<subredditname>/about/traffic.This includes desktop data at hourly granularity for the past week, daily granularity for the past eight weeks, and monthly granularity for the past year. Data is calculated directly by Reddit using its server logs. From May 15, 2017 onward, Reddit disabled public access to traffic pages, but it may reinstate public access later, after incorporating mobile traffic data into the pages.Websites on the Stack Exchange network have some basic statistics reported at the Stack Exchange sites list. This is in addition to the traffic data you can see for most of these sites using Quantcast Measure. The Stack Exchange traffic list also includes some metrics specific to Stack Exchange (such as questions and answers) that are not reported by Quantcast Measure.,

For public companies, look for information in quarterly filings. For instance, Facebook's quarterly report includes a number of details about its userbase size, including Monthly Active Users (MAUs), Daily Active Users (DAUs), mobile MAUs, and mobile DAUs.Websites sometimes publish year-in-review, quarter-in-review, or other similar blog posts periodically with traffic metrics. Examples include charity evaluator GiveWell,pornographic video site Pornhub,and sharing/discussion site Reddit.In addition to looking for such reports on the website itself, look for them on the website of the publishing company that owns the website, if it is different (this distinction is particularly important for websites owned by a publishing conglomerate that owns many such websites).
 You may be able to use the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine to get an estimate of when the page was last updated and how current the data is.


Some websites offer an email address for potential advertisers to get in touch with them. If you are an advertiser or can represent yourself as asking on behalf of an advertiser, you may be able to use email to get the website owners to share traffic data, or address questions about the nature of their audience.
Otherwise, try contacting the website owner or administrator asking for data, such as a Google Analytics data dump. There are two kinds of concerns you may ned to overcome: (a) unwillingness to share, and (b) effort of exporting data. You can reduce (b) by providing clear steps for how to export data, or even suggesting that they add your email account with "View & Analyze" permissions to their Google Analytics or equivalent solution. How you can overcome (a) is something you will need to figure out on a case-by-case basis.


Google Display Planner can be used to get traffic estimates for some websites.
We can use other ad networks sometimes.

