 If you aren’t in an emergency situation, you can apply for an AVO through the local court (if you feel a threat is imminent, apply for your AVO through the police). Although larger jurisdictions will have a packet of forms for you to fill out in order to apply for the AVO, some of the smaller jurisdictions will have you make a special appointment with a prosecutor.If you’re in a smaller jurisdiction, your appointment might be a few days from the time of application. Again, if you’re in an emergency situation or in immediate fear for your safety, go to the police.
If the protected person is younger than sixteen, you’ll need to get your AVO through the police and not the court.
If you’re seeking an AVO as a result of domestic violence, the Women's Domestic Violence Court Advocacy Service (WDVCAS) will help female applicants and (sometimes) female defendants.
 Whether you’re filling out forms or meeting with a prosecutor’s office, you need to explain the basics of the situation. The court will need to know much the same information as the police would, including:The address, name, and age of the person you need protection from (the defendant).
What makes you reasonably fear for your safety. If possible, provide evidence to corroborate your claim, such as doctors’ reports or witness statements.
The relationship between you and the defendant. An AVO can shield you from anyone who puts you in reasonable fear for the safety of yourself or your property, including spouses, domestic partners, neighbors, co-workers, or anyone else.
Aggravating factors in the defendant’s history. These might include poor mental health, access to weapons, or drug abuse.
The identities of anyone else who should be protected by the AVO, such as family members.
 Remember that your application is a sworn statement, and the information contained therein is the basis of the AVO. If the information is insufficient, your AVO won’t be granted. If you gave information that was knowingly false, you can be prosecuted for it. Read over it carefully to make sure it complete and correct.You need to show that you are in reasonable fear of your physical safety, the safety of your property, harassment or stalking. Tailor your statement to support those claims., Once your application is signed, the defendant will be served with a copy and you will both be given a court date. If the police file an AVO on your behalf, the police prosecutor serves as your counsel; however, if you file for the AVO yourself, you’ll need to make your own arrangements for counsel.If you are a woman seeking an AVO as a result of domestic violence, the Women's Domestic Violence Court Advocacy Service (WDVCAS) may help you with counsel. Contact them at http://www.legalaid.nsw.gov.au/what-we-do/community-partnerships/womens-domestic-violence-court-advocacy-program.
If you choose to represent yourself (which is highly discouraged), you need to consider the number of witnesses to call, any witnesses who will need to be subpoenaed (compelled) to testify, and their availability. Plan out what you’re going to say and in what order you’re going to say it in, how it relates to the defendant’s claims, and how your claims refute theirs.