 One character trait that can prevent you from thriving in the midst of chaos is believing that you need to do things perfectly. Trying to reach perfection in your job, your appearance, your relationship, or any other aspect of life wastes time that could be dedicated to accomplishing other goals. It also leads to procrastination; because if you’re worried you’ll never be good enough, you’re unlikely to get started.


Aim to be more flexible in your standards, and you’ll find that you have more time for what’s important in your life. Ask yourself “What level of imperfection am I willing to tolerate?” when doing a task. Then, try to come up with some realistic standards that allow you to still get the job done., Expressing gratefulness for the positives in your life is a significant habit to adopt all the time. Yet, it can be especially practical during times of chaos. Practicing gratitude can help you shift your focus to the good things happening in your life, and help you obtain greater acceptance for those that are negative or unpredictable.


Strive to write down or create a log in your phone three things that you are grateful for each night before you go to sleep. These can vary widely, from shelter to live in to a person like your best friend. Do this practice daily to start recognizing how fortunate you are., If you have faith in a higher power, deepening your spiritual connection can be beneficial during chaotic periods in your life. How you enhance your spiritual side will depend on your unique beliefs.


For some, spiritual practices may relate to organized religion with rituals such as attending worship services or praying. For others, spirituality involves connecting with their inner selves through yoga, chanting or meditation. Still, for others, they can connect with their spirituality by spending time in nature. Do what works for you., If, despite your best efforts, chaos in your life causes chronic stress, anxiety or depression, you should see a professional. Talking to a therapist, particularly one who has training in cognitive-behavioral therapy, can help you identify characteristics that are preventing you from thriving and build coping skills to more effectively manage chaos in life.