 In order to stay motivated, purchase an attractive blank journal that is easy to write on. Many stationery and book stores have journals for sale.Depending on your tastes, you can purchase a lined or unlined journal. You can also choose to purchase a journal with a plain, simple cover (such as a black leather cover) or one that is more decorative and whimsical.


If you expect to keep the journal for a long period of time, try to purchase one that has archival paper. This will keep the pages from yellowing and degrading over time., Encourage yourself to maintain your reading log by storing it in a safe place near your favorite place to read. This might be your bedside, your coffee table, or on an end table next to your favorite reading chair. Make sure it is easily accessible and that you store it in the same place consistently: otherwise you might lose or forget about it.


It is also wise to keep a working pen in the same location.
 In order to make a reading journal worthwhile, you will have to make the time to read. Introduce yourself to new ideas, authors, and concepts by reading a wide variety of materials in many styles and genres. This will help keep your reading log interesting. In order to encourage yourself to read more, you should:


Read every day, even if only for a few minutesTurn off the television and resolve to read insteadFeel free to stop reading books you hate--don't view reading as a choreGet recommendations for excellent books from friends and family
Join a reading group at your local school or library

, It can be tempting to read books at a fast pace, especially when they are page-turners. However, this can hurt your ability to think about what you read and can even make you more likely to forget you ever read the book. Slow down and take your time with the books you enjoy.Savor the phrases, reread your favorite passages, and take a few minutes to consider the meaning of what you are reading.
 Be disciplined about jotting down the important information for every book, poem, or essay you read. Note the author's name, the title of the piece, the year it was published, and the publisher's name.This will help you track down the book at a later date if you wish to reread it. It will also help you make recommendations to your friends and begin to understand your own favorite books and authors.


Do not skip over this part, assuming that you are bound to remember a book's title and author. People are liable to forget even these details over time, so they are the most important pieces of information to write down.
 Because your reading log is serving a journal-like function, write down the dates when you read. Understand how what is going on in your own life might affect your reactions to and thoughts about the books you read. Your future self will be grateful to you for taking the time to write down these dates., Especially if you own the book you are reading, be sure to write down the page numbers of your favorite passages. You will always be able to return to these excellent quotations if you have this information written down.If you like, you could even copy out your favorite passages into your journal, though this can be a more time-consuming task than jotting down your favorite pages.
 Reading is a complicated task, and your thoughts will be constant and ever-changing as you read.You will not be able to write down every thought you have, but you should try to keep hold of your most important observations so you can remember them. Every reader will want to write down different kinds of things, but you can use the following guiding questions to help you decide what to include in your log:


Who are your favorite and least favorite characters? Why?
Have your thoughts about any of the characters changed?
What do you find fascinating about the plot? Are there mysteries to solve?
Do you like the author's style? Are there any distinctive elements to the author's style that make it stand out?
What would you have changed about the book if you were the author?
Does the book help you understand something about your world, about another country, or about history?
How does the book remind you of what's going on in your own life? What are your personal reactions to the book?

, Your thoughts about a book might change drastically over the course of reading it. Take some time once you have finished the whole book to reflect on its meaning and significance. Ask yourself what your favorite and least favorite aspects of the text were.What surprised you? How did your thoughts change between the beginning of the book and its conclusion? Write for 10-15 minutes after finishing the very last page in order to preserve these reflections.
 A reading journal is most effective when you can go back and reread your observations and reactions. Every year or so, flip through your reading log. Do you see any patterns or common themes in your reading? Has your reading helped you process the events of your own life? Reading your journal will help you understand how your tastes have grown and changed as well as how your own life has grown and changed.