 Get at least four people together, and have everyone sit cross-legged on the floor or on the ground in a circle facing one another. Two of the advantages to the game are that it can be played indoors or outdoors, and you only need players, not equipment. The size of the circle formed depends upon two factors: a) the number of players and b) how far apart each player sits.


The larger the circle, the farther players will end up running.
When 2,145 students in a Missouri school district broke the Guinness World Record in 2011 for the largest game of duck, duck, goose, they had to form a massive circle outside the fenced perimeter of their football stadium.;
, “It” (sometimes referred to as the “picker” or the “fox”) will be the person saying “duck, duck, goose” and choosing who will be the goose chasing him or her. Because kids often don’t want to be “it” first, they might play rock, paper, scissors to decide. Or, if a parent or a teacher is overseeing the game, he or she might choose for the children.
 The person who is "it" will start walking around the circle and tapping the top of each player's head, saying either "duck" or "goose." Typically, "it" taps and says "duck" several times before selecting someone and saying "goose." This creates both suspense and an element of surprise for everyone sitting in the circle, wondering if they will be the "goose."


On the flip side, because this is what most people do, saying “goose” on the second or third person is unexpected and can give “it” an advantage.
 At a time of his or her choosing, "it" will tap a player's head and say "goose." "It" then takes off running around the circle, and the goose jumps up and chases after "it." The goose's goal is to tag "it" before "it" is able to sit down in the goose's spot.


If “it” makes it around the circle and gets back to the goose’s spot without being caught, the goose now becomes “it.”
If the goose catches “it” before then, “it” is “it” again and another round starts.A twist that is played a lot as standard duck, duck, goose but is actually called “mushpot” goes like this: If the goose catches “it,” the goose becomes “it” and “it” has to sit out the game in the middle of the circle until another player is tagged and they trade places.