 Cut your tuna into even-sized steaks if it isn't already divided this way. Pat each steak gently with a paper towel on both sides. The steaks don't need to be bone-dry, but you don't want any excess water beyond the natural moistness of the meat.


Water will turn to steam in the hot pan, effectively steaming your meat rather than searing it. This keeps you from getting the crispy, caramelized exterior you want.;
, Use medium-high or high heat for about five minutes or until pan starts smoking. Add cooking oil to the hot pan. It should start to shimmer immediately. Use canola oil or another oil with a high smoke point — not olive oil.The key to getting a good sear is cooking at high heat for a short length of time. Cooking at too low of temperature won't give you the crispy texture you want and cooking for too long will risk drying out the inside of the meat.
 Season the steaks lightly on both sides with salt and pepper to prep them for cooking. Carefully add the steaks to the hot pan. Lay the steaks away from you to protect yourself from getting sprayed with the hot oil. The meat should begin to sizzle immediately.
 As mentioned above, the key to searing is to cook hot and fast. Let each side cook without disturbing it for about 90 seconds. At this point, peek underneath and look for a brown, crispy exterior. This is a sign to flip. Cook the other side for the same length of time.You can adjust the cooking time somewhat as needed based on the thickness of your steaks. For example, if you have an especially-thick steak (over an inch or so thick), you may want to cook in the area of 2-3 minutes.
 Once the outside of the tuna is crispy and well-browned, the fish is ready to eat. Sprinkle the steaks with one tablespoon of the lemon juice for added flavor. When the meat cools slightly, cut it into strips by slicing against the grain of the muscle. This severs the tough muscle fibers, making the meat more tender.Note that it's not especially important for the inside of the meat to be all the way done. In fact, most restaurants will deliberately leave the inside of tuna steaks very rare — unlike fattier fish like salmon, cooking tuna all the way through tends to dry out the meat.
Good-quality tuna is safe to eat seared with the inside rare. If you're worried about the possibility of disease, use a cooking thermometer. Most cooking resources recommend an internal temperature of about 125 degrees F (51 degrees C)., Now, if you wish, you can prepare an easy and healthy side by cooking vegetables in the pan until soft. In the recipe above, ginger and scallions are recommended, but there are many other good choices — it all depends what you have in the fridge.


To make this side, toss the scallions in the pan with the ginger, adding a little more oil to prevent sticking. Cook until clear and soft. Add the soy sauce, rice wine, and remaining lemon juice. Cook for one minute. Season with salt and pepper and serve over the steaks.