 A tax-exempt organization is one that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has recognized as a charitable organization and has exempted it from the obligation to pay income tax. You can check whether an organization’s tax-exempt status and determine whether your donation would be tax deductible in the following ways:


Search the IRS tax-exempt database. The IRS offers a searchable database so that consumers may check on an organization’s tax-exempt status. You may access the database on the IRS website at: http://apps.irs.gov/app/eos/.
Check the IRS’ list of revocations. The IRS offers a searchable list of organizations whose tax-exempt status has recently been revoked. After verifying that an organization has been granted tax-exempt status, check the list to ensure it has not been revoked. You may search the list by visiting: https://www.irs.gov/Charities-&-Non-Profits/Charitable-Organizations/Revocations-of-501%28c%29%283%29-Determinations.
 Many online indexes offer free background and financial information on many nonprofit organizations. These organizations investigate nonprofits to determine how the company spends its money and whether it is a worthwhile investment for consumers., The NCCS is a clearinghouse of data for nonprofit organizations. The center works with government agencies, including the IRS, private organizations, and the scholarly community to develop its databases and provide the public with standard information regarding the activities of various charities.You may search the NCCS database of nonprofits at http://nccsdataweb.urban.org/.
 Charitable Choices provides nonprofits a way to promote their charities and organizations through their online index and through their four yearly charity guides. In order to be listed in a Charitable Choices guide, an organization must meet certain standards, including revealing the percentage of funds spent on fundraising and administrative costs and providing certain financial information on a regular basis. You can search Charitable Choices online index at http://www.charitychoices.com.
 The Charities Review Council provides a searchable index of nonprofits, all of whom have voluntarily met the Council’s accountability standards.You may search the index at http://www.smartgivers.org.
 Many consumer advocate organizations investigate nonprofits and charities, publish financial information and ratings, and expose scams and fraudulent organizations on their websites. Some reputable organizations that investigate nonprofits and publish their findings, free of charge, include:


GuideStar, which is a well-known and reputable nonprofit organization that gathers and publishes important information about other nonprofits on its website. You may search GuideStar’s nonprofit database at http://www2.guidestar.org/home.aspx.
Consumer Reports WebWatch investigates websites claiming to be nonprofits, or that claim to be collecting for and donating to a nonprofit. Consumer Reports publishes its findings on its site in a searchable database, which is located at: http://www.consumerwebwatch.org/non-profit.cfm.
The Wise Giving Alliance, which is run by the Better Business Bureau (“BBB”), investigates nonprofits and publishes reviews based upon 23 standards that include topics such as use of funds, public accountability, and ethical fundraising. The website is located at: http://give.org.
Charity Watch is a well-known organization that acts as a charity watchdog, evaluating and rating charities and publishing the results of its evaluations and in-depth background information in an A to Z listing on its website. You may search the Charity Watch website at: http://www.charitywatch.org/.
Charity Navigator is a reputable nonprofit organization that evaluates and rates charities. It publishes its ratings for hundreds of charities and nonprofit organizations on its website at http://www.charitynavigator.org/.
 A nonprofit's development director is responsible for the fundraising activities of the organization. While these employees will often be biased because it is their job to solicit donations and talk up their organization, you can often get a lot of information from them. Call the nonprofit you are investigating and ask to speak with their fundraiser or development director. Try to set up a time to talk with them face-to-face. If that doesn't work, talk with them over the phone.


Ask them about their role within the organization and the success they have been having. Ask them how many grants they apply for each year and how many of those applications are successful. You can also ask for dollar amounts regarding how much money they have asked for and how much they have earned. Asking these types of questions will give you a good idea of an organization's fundraising success.

