;
, Note the following:



Coloration: Corrientes, like Texas Longhorns, come in a wide variety of coloration except white. However, most animals of this breed are primarily black.

Body type and characteristics: Animals of this breed are relatively small in comparison to other beef and sporting breeds, with mature cows only weighing up to 800 lbs and bulls around 1000 lbs. Yearling bulls or steers reach only around 400 lbs. They are narrow and fine in conformation, with well balanced head, neck, forequarters and hindquarters. They tend to have a dense coat and a heavy tail switch that often extends below the hocks.

Head characteristics: All Corrientes are horned (except calves, which start growing horns when they are about a month old), and all tend to have hair in their ears along with their dense coat. Heads are typically large in length and size in comparison with the rest of their body, making them an ideal breed for use in the rodeo circuit. Special attention is made to their horns, which, though smaller than the Texas Longhorn or Florida Cracker/Pineywoods cattle, grow out straight, curving up to the front and up slightly, and are set fairly wide apart.

Other characteristics: Origins of this breed can be traced back to the first Spanish imports that came to the Americas and the West Indies in 1493. They were used as a beef breed up until the early 1800's, and had extended in population from the southern US to California. However, ranchers started to improve their herds with the use of more modern beef cattle, and the Corriente lost ground, except for use in rodeos.

It is interesting to note that the word "Corriente" didn't exactly refer to a specific breed. In parts of northern Mexico, not only was this term often referred to cattle of various descendants of early Spanish cattle (in South America, these same type of cattle are called "Criollo"), but it was also frequently used for any small cattle of indiscriminate breeding--not just for the type of cattle recognized by the NACA (North American Corriente Association). "Corriente" became the most common term used at the US-Mexican border to refer to those cattle that were purchased for rodeo use. Consequently, most cattlemen, bulldoggers and ropers knew this name, and so the NACA chose this name to be used in the registry of these small horned cattle.

Thus, this breed is used in rodeos for bulldogging (steer wrestling) and team roping competitions. They are often judged on strength, stamina, and performance qualities in the rodeo ring, which makes them a great sporting breed.


In Florida, cousins of these Mexican Corriente still exist, though they are referred to as Cracker cattle. In Louisiana, these same animals are often referred to as Scrub cattle.
Corrientes are small, yet very hardy and easy to tame. They are easy keepers (or good calvers), and tend to have a quality lean carcass characteristics. Because of their size, they easily out-do other breeds in terms of ability to live off of less feed and water required.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Corriente cattle, and compare them with pictures of Corriente on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

