 The simplest way to approach networking is with 2 primary goals in mind:
1) Get to know people; ASK questions about their business and how you may be able to help them.
2) Get them to know you; TELL them about your business and how they may be able to help you.
As you can see, the goal of networking is to build relationships, NOT trying to sell and grab as many business cards as possible by the end of the event! When you take the focus away from trying to get business from the contacts you meet and focus on building a relationship, they are more responsive, and over time they will start to become “referral machines” for you and/or “open doors” for developing business opportunities. Keep in mind that it’s important for you to return the good will by giving referrals as well. Key reasons for building relationships through networking are:


Partnering your products/service offerings
Referring business contacts and opportunities to each other
Asking for advice
Exchanging ideas;
, There is often a page on a trade show's site titled “Networking Opportunities and Orientation” where you can find a list of events. When you are at the show, look in the Show Guide; be sure to add the events you want to attend to your calendar. When attending other shows, the show site typically always has a list of networking events, but the page may have a different title than the Exhibitor Show’s event listing.
Some events offered at this show are listed on the website as: Opening Reception, Welcome Reception, Dinner With Strangers, The Square and Peer2PeerRoundtables. Don’t forget to be on the lookout for exhibitor sponsored events as well; invites may be received by postal mail, email or at exhibitor booths.
 Ask yourself the following questions: What will occur at the event? What type of people will attend this event? Are these the type of people whose business I can help and whom can help my business? Ask if a list of attendees or companies is available. If yes, review the list.
 This can range from general items such as "Title", "Company", "Industry", etc., or can be specific names of contacts.
 Below are some examples you can use to get started:


What does your company do?
What industry do you serve?
Who are your key prospects/clients?
What type of products do you have?
What is your competitive advantage?
What got you started in this industry/job?
What do you enjoy most about the profession you are in?
What trends do you foresee in your industry/profession?
What marketing/sales activities have you found to be the most successful for your business?
Can you refer me to someone that does ___?

,


Is there anyone here you can refer me to who needs a ____type of product/service?
I was looking to meet with ____, can you point me in their direction?
Do you have any suggestions for who I can speak with about ____?
One of my goals for the evening is to meet with someone who does ____, are you aware of anyone here that does ____you can introduce me to?

, Create a list of statements you can use when offering an introduction. Below is a list of examples.


Let’s “work the room” together and see if there is anyone here I can introduce you to.
Your product/service is a good fit for my colleague ____. Let me introduce you to him/her.
The speaker was very interesting, let’s go introduce ourselves, I want to tell him/her about your fascinating product/service.
Let me introduce you to an associate of mine.
My colleague ____is here, let’s go say “hi” and I will introduce you.
 Ask yourself: can you help them AND can they help you? When considering if this contact can help you, remember that the purpose of the relationship should not be to get their business, but to get business from everyone they know!

,


Learn more about the contact(s) business, products and personal interests; consider setting up an initial in-person appointment for about 1 hour, or via phone if that works better.
Further educate them on your company, products and your personal interests.
Touch base often; try getting together in person whenever possible. #*After you have built a relationship and developed a level of trust, start introducing them to other appropriate contacts of yours; in turn they are likely to do the same.
When looking for referrals, vendor recommendations and general business advice, turn to your base of contacts.
 Just like in your personal life, maintaining a business relationship takes work too; keep these helpful tips in mind, so a contact doesn't "break up" with you.


Touch base often, particularly with your "most valuable" contacts; go to lunch or dinner, attend an event together, or simply pick up the phone and chat a bit.
Check in with all contacts periodically to maintain the relationship; even a simple quick email or card will do the trick.
Prioritize contacts every so often; as your contact base grows, evaluate which contacts you should be in touch with frequently, or just periodically.

