 If you aren't already signed into your primary Google account in the Maps app, you'll need to do so with your Google email address and password.;
, It's in the top right corner of your screen.
, There are several ways for you to earn points through contributing to Google Maps. Each of these ways are listed as a tab in the middle of your screen:



Contribute - This tab allows you to search for places to review from within the Google Maps app.

Reviews - You can look over and make changes to your existing reviews from this page. To alter an existing review, tap ⋮ on the right side of the review and tap Edit or Delete.

Photos - Your uploaded photos appear here.

Edits - Any edits you've suggested will appear here.
 This is above the contribution tabs. Doing so will give you an overview of your current points (e.g., where they're coming from).


If you don't have any points yet, you won't see any data listed here.
 It's in the top left corner of your screen. Now that you're familiar with how points work, it's time to earn a few!

, In some outlying cases, you may not be able to add certain types of information (e.g., photos) to certain establishments or locations.
 You can enter an address or a business name here.
 If you see the location pop up in the drop-down menu, you can also tap it.
 Doing so will display the business' information.
 You can do this by scrolling down until you see a row of stars and then tapping the star you wish to use to review the location.


For example, if you want to give your selected location a four-star rating, you'll tap the fourth star from the left.
You can also add a description or a photo to your review.
When you're done, you'll need to tap Post in the top right corner of the screen to post your review.
 You can do this by tapping Suggest an edit below your selected location's contact information, though you may need to scroll down first. Your edit options include the following:



Place is permanently closed or doesn't exist - Tap this slider to alert Google that the location in question is either closed or nonexistent.

Name - Edit the business' name.

Address - Update the business' address.

Category - Change the business' category (e.g., "restaurant", "entertainment", etc.).

Phone - Update the business' contact information.

Website - Add or update an official website for the business.

Hours - Edit the hours during which the business is open.

Add a note - Alert Google of a change not listed on this page that need to be made.
When you're done, you'll tap Send in the top right corner of the screen to send your report.
 You can do so by scrolling down and tapping Add a photo. This option is below any existing photos, which are below the contact information section. After adding your photo and any additional information, you'll need to tap Post in the top right corner of your screen to submit your photo for review.


You may have to allow Google Maps access to your camera roll first.
Possible photo options include Take a Photo and Choose from library.
Tapping the Add a description box will allow you to type in a brief summary for the photo. You can also tap Add Another Photo at the bottom of this screen to add a series of photos.

