 Jenny Craig has two main programs. The cheaper option overall, which actually gives you more benefits, is the All Access Premium Membership. The other option is the As You Go 30 Day Membership.The All Access Premium Membership requires that you pay a fee up front to join. In 2016, the fee is $50, and then you pay $19 a month. It gives you a $50 coupon for food, as well as access to eTools, unlimited one-on-one consultation, support materials, and personalized menus.With the As You Go plan, you pay $39 a month, but you don't need to pay an upfront fee. You get most of the same things you do with the other plan, but you only get one consultation a week.
With either plan, you are able to buy food from the website.;
, Most major cities in the United States have at least one local center for Jenny Craig. Jenny Craig prefers you sign up in person, so you'll visit the center closest to you to sign up for the program you want.If you need help, you can always call (866) 706-4042 to talk to someone.
When meeting with a consultant, you'll talk about your weight loss goals and how the program works. Support is very important for long-term weight loss, and your counselor can offer this support.
 If you don't have a center nearby, you can call for Jenny Craig Anywhere. This program provides consultation over the phone instead of in person. The number to call is call (800) 597-5366, option 2., Generally, you must order two weeks of meals at a time. The first time you order, the foods are chosen for you. After the first time, you can change your food up.However, if you're not quite ready to commit to two weeks, they do have a three-day sample you can try, which comes with nine meals (three each of breakfast, lunch, and dinner), three snacks, and three salad dressings. As of 2016, this sample is $40., On Jenny Craig, you can stick to preplanned meals, meaning the company will just send you meals based on plans they've decided. Some customers find this easiest because they don't have to make decisions. However, if you prefer to have more can control, you can also customize your plan., Jenny Craig allows you to decide what meals you'll eat each week. You can customize your meal plan by discussing it with your consultant in person or over the phone or by going online.You will need to supplement your meals with fresh fruits, vegetables, and dairy. Jenny Craig foods are meant to be consumed with these "Fresh and Free" additions.
Fresh and Free additions are added for nutritional value and variety, and include foods like salad greens, non-starchy vegetables, and a Jenny Craig soup you can make, which is full of vegetables.
The meals are all priced differently, so if you're on a budget, you can buy meals that are priced less.
 To order food online, you'll need to register your account information. You'll also need to set up a username and password so you can access your account again next time. Beyond that, ordering food works much like any online buying system. You add items to your account based on how many meals you have left in your plan, and then pay for them., Once you decide on your meals, they will be shipped to your center or to you. If you have them shipped to you, you may pay extra for shipping. The meals mostly come frozen, with the exception of some of the bars and breakfast items., Another option is to use recipes provided by Jenny Craig. The ultimate goal of the program is to teach you how to eat and control portions in real life, so these recipes help you learn how to cook for yourself.You can also use Jenny Craig's meal planner to incorporate these recipes into the other foods you're eating, such as meals from Jenny Craig and the fruits and vegetables you supplement the program with.
The benefit of using recipes is that you can just pick up food from the grocery store, though you'll need to prepare it yourself.
Many recipes are available for free on Jenny Craig's website, though you may be required to register (for free) to access some of them.

