 Each letter has its own specific way of being pronounced, though, and you must study up on how to pronounce letters correctly before you can speak words correctly.


Lowercase "b," "ch," "j," "l," "m," "n," "p," "t," "v," and "w" are all pronounced the same way in Klingon as they are in English.
Lowercase "a" is pronounced like the English "ah," or like the "a" in "father."
Lowercase "e" is pronounced like the short "e" sound in English, as in the word "led" or "bed."
Capital "I" is pronounced like the short "i" sound in English, as in the word "hit" or "bit."
Lowercase "o" is pronounced like the long "o" sound in English, as in the word "note" or "wrote."
Lowercase "u" is pronounced like the long "u" sound in English, as in the word "prune" or "you."
Capital "D" is pronounced similarly to the English "d," but you must touch the tip of your tongue to the highest point in your mouth, rather than near the teeth as you would with its English counterpart.
The capital "H" is a harsh sound made in the throat, similar to the "h" in the German "Bach." Leave it unvoiced. Similarly, the "gh" sound is considered one letter in Klingon. Produce it in the back of your throat as a gargle, similar to the Klingon "H," but voiced.
The "ng" is treated as a single letter in Klingon but is pronounced the same way "ng" is in English.
Lowercase "q" is similar to the English "k" but is made further back in your throat. Your tongue should actually brush the uvula or the opening of your throat. Capital "Q," on the other hand, is similar to the Klingon lowercase "q" but must be immediately followed with the Klingon "H" sound.
Lowercase "r" is similar to its English counterpart, but slightly rolled.
Capital "S" is similar to the English "sh," but is made by moving your tongue near the roof of your mouth rather than near the teeth.
The "tlh" is treated as a single letter in Klingon. Begin with a "t" sound, but drop your tongue to the sides of your mouth rather than immediately down. From there, hiss out the "l" sound.
Lowercase "y" is pronounced like the English "y" at the beginning of a word, as in "you" or "yet."
The single apostrophe (') is treated as a letter in Klingon. It is the same sound produced in English for words that start with a vowel, as in "uh" or "ah." The sound is, essentially, a catch or soft pause in the throat. In Klingon, this can be used in the middle of a word.;
,"It is the equivalent of "hello," but translates more closely to, "What do you want?"

, The former to mean "yes," while the latter means "no."

, Roughly translated, it means "I understand." Similarly, "jIyajbe'" means "I don't understand."

, The former means "Good!" The latter means "Well done!"

, It literally means, "Do you speak Klingon?" If someone asks you that question but you do not feel confident in your Klingon speaking abilities yet, you can answer, "tlhIngan Hol vIjatlhaHbe’," or, "I cannot speak Klingon."

, This translates into, "Today is a good day to die," and is a valued phrase in Klingon culture.
 The phrase translates into, "We are Klingons!" Similarly, you can use "tlhIngan jIH" to state simply, "I am a Klingon."

, Every race needs an occasional bathroom break, and Klingons are no exception. If you cannot locate the nearest restroom at the next convention you head to, you can ask a Klingon-speaking Trekkie this phrase, which translates into "Where is the bathroom?"

, Roughly translated, it means, "What time is it?" More literally translated, it means, "How many times has it been heard?"

, This translates into, "Your mother has a smooth forehead!" Klingons are known for their forehead ridges, and stating that one's mother has no such ridges is considered a very strong insult.
 Translated into English, the phrase means, "Fire the torpedoes!"

, The phrase translates into, "Where is a good restaurant?"

, If you want to sit next to a Trekkie whom you are not formally acquainted with, you could use the phrase to ask them "Is this seat taken?"

, It could also be spelled "p'tahk," "pahtk," "pahtak" or "p'tak." The term is a common insult that has no direct translation into English, but roughly translates into "fool," "coward," or "dishonorable person." Use it to describe someone who lacks Warrior Spirit.

