 You can tell the difference between love and friendship by thinking about the amount of attention you give someone. If you love someone, you’ll likely think about them often and want to stay in regular communication with them. You probably won’t think of a friend as much throughout the day and won’t have the same longing to talk to them.


You might think of your friend when something reminds you of them during your day—maybe a song you both like or a story that reminds you of an experience with them. W
When you love someone, they’ll likely be on your mind throughout the day, whether you’re reminded of them or not., You can determine if you have feelings of love by reflecting on how comfortable you are with the attention they give you. You may want someone you love to contact you more or hope that they think about you often throughout the day. Not hearing from a friend throughout the day won’t be as disappointing as not hearing from someone you love.


If you are excited to hear from one of your friends frequently throughout the day or get butterflies in your stomach when their name pops up on your phone, this could indicate that you want to move the relationship in a new direction., It can be difficult to be objective about your own life. It might helpful to talk to someone you trust. This person can give you an outside perspective on how the person acts toward you and whether or not they believe it is just friendship or whether it could be love.


For example, a friend may notice that the person you love looks at you when you’re not paying attention. They might also notice that the person talks about you a lot when you’re not there—another indication they think of you as more than a friend.
 It can be difficult to truly understand what you’re feeling for another person. Doing so often takes a great deal of self-reflection. In order to figure out if you have friendly feelings or loving feelings for someone, be honest with yourself about how they make you feel.


Make a list to keep track of your feelings throughout the week. Write down how you feel when you talk to this person or when you think about them. For example, you might write that you felt excited when this person called you or nervous when you were hanging out with them.
 Take a few minutes every day to write about your interactions with the people around you. This might help you see if you are acting differently toward this person than you are toward your other friends. It could also help you uncover whether or not they are treating you like a friend or lover.


Try to reflect on specific situations. For example, think about a time you saw this person talking to another girl or guy and reflect on how it made you feel. Did you feel sad? Did it not affect you at all?