 First, take some time to brainstorm. Write down anything that comes to mind. Anything can lead to a writing prompt, so just start writing down ideas. Some ideas to help you start generating random ideas include:


What’s something funny that’s happened to you in recent memory? Maybe you saw a dog ride down the street on a skateboard.
What’s a unique story you have from childhood? Maybe you stuck tweezers in an electrical socket and lived to tell the tale.
What’s a weird situation you’ve found yourself in? Maybe you literally ran into the CEO of a company and both bumped your head, while you were walking to your interview with that person.;
, Alternatively, you can create something not based on your experience. Try to come up with an odd or interesting situation or simply a “What if?” question, such as


“What if dolls came to life when you left the room?”
”What if people had tails?”
”What if the sky was electric purple?”

, When you come up with an idea that you like, develop it a bit. If you think the weird situation you found yourself in could be a good prompt, start branching off from that idea. Write down all the details you can. Ask yourself:


What about it made it weird?
Would other people find it weird?
How did the situation turn out?

, Writing prompts don’t have to be stories. Try using a quote as a writing prompt. For instance, you could use a funny quote, like this one from Yogi Berra: "Half the lies they tell about me aren't true." You could also use a piece of someone else’s writing, such as this one from Jane Austen’s Mansfield Park:


"There will be little rubs and disappointments everywhere, and we are all apt to expect too much; but then, if one scheme of happiness fails, human nature turns to another; if the first calculation is wrong, we make a second better: we find comfort somewhere."

, They can place them all on a table at the front of the room, and then the writers can choose what object they want to create a story around.


Also, try using something visual. You could use a piece of art or an interesting photograph.
 Try using a distinctive smell to see what memories it dredges up for the writer, which can then be used to start a story.
 Now that you have a general idea of what you want to focus your prompt on, you should try to write it out. Begin by writing out the story. Use all the details you can think of in order to start figuring out what is necessary to the story, and what is not.
 Next, think about what’s most important to the story. For instance, is mentioning your shoes important? Unless they caused you to fall in front of the president of your company, they’re probably not as important as other details so you should take that info out. In fact, take out any information that isn’t completely necessary to the story.
 You don’t have to stay true to the original story because this is simply a way for other people to start generating their own stories. You can change up things to make it more interesting. Add aliens if that’s your thing; it’s all up to you.
 This tip may seem counter-intuitive. After all, the ending makes the story. But that’s exactly the idea. You want to leave the writer hanging, so they are inspired to come up with a story of their own based on your prompt.


Where you cut the story is up to you. Give enough details to intrigue the writer but not enough to discourage them from being creative.
 Writing prompts can be used for any kind of writing. However, some are more appropriate for nonfiction writing than others. This is because nonfiction prompts have to be true and fact-based.


Most of the prompts listed in this article would work well with fiction or poetry; for nonfiction, use a question to spark an idea based on something that happened in the writer’s life, such as “What’s the most interesting thing that ever happened to you?”

