 The best types of fish bones to make stock with are those from lean, white, mild-flavored fish such as halibut, cod, flounder, sole, turbot, sea bass, haddock, hake or pollock. You can use a combination of these in your stock, if you wish.;
, You should avoid using the bones from oily, fatty, brown-fleshed fish like salmon, trout or mackerel to make your stock, as the flavor from these fish will be overpowering.
 If you don't want to fillet a whole fish yourself, speak to your local fishmonger. They are usually happy to sell fish bones (and heads) at a relatively low cost., Rinse the fish bones thoroughly under running water to remove any traces of blood. Use a sharp knife to rough chop the bones into 2 inch (5.1 cm) pieces.
 Add enough water to cover the bones, approximately 2 US quarts (2,000 ml).


Bring the contents of the boil, periodically skimming the white foam from the surface using a ladle.
Once the pot is boiling, reduce the heat to a low simmer.
 Once you have reduced the heat, add the celery, onions, carrots and herbs to the stock pot.


Add a little more water -- just enough to ensure that the vegetables are completely covered.
Leave to simmer, uncovered, for about 20 minutes.
 After 20 minutes of simmering, remove the pot from the heat and give it a good stir.


Leave the stock to steep for 10 minutes, before pouring it through a fine-mesh strainer.
Season the stock with sea salt, to taste.
 If you are not planning to use the fish stock in another recipe within the next hour, quickly chill it in the refrigerator.


You should only cover the stock (with a lid or plastic wrap) after it has completely cooled.
Fish stock will keep in the refrigerator for up to three days and in the freezer for about two months., Fish chowder is a delicious, warming dish that is greatly enhanced when you use your own homemade fish stock.
 Bouillabaisse is a type of traditional French stew that originated in the town of Marseille amongst the poor families of fishermen.
 Bonne Femme soup (which literally means "good woman soup") is a simple, creamy soup that dates back to the Victorian era.
 Fish velouté is a simple sauce made from fish stock, flour and butter that is used as the basis for many French seafood dishes.
