 When brainstorming your cake design, consider incorporating your color scheme into the cake’s icing. Bringing in your color scheme to your cake ties in the other elements of your wedding into this delicious focal point of the reception. Using colored icing is also an easy, simple way to dress up a wedding cake. Colorful icing may be all the decoration you need for rustic and elegant dessert.


You could go for an off-white or brown icing.;
, Rustic wedding cakes do not need to be neat and polished. The icing’s uneven texture can help create the cake’s rustic, rough-hewn, and effortless style. An imperfect swirl or an uneven layer of icing in one section lends itself to your handmade motif. Enjoy the imperfections and the creativity behind the design!


If you have a brown chocolate cake, for example, you can put off-white icing on top imperfectly so that a few bits of brown show up

, Adding interesting textures and indentions can help enhance your rustic theme. Use a fork to create a crisscross or basket pattern in the icing. Gently press the tongs of the fork vertically into the cake icing. After you have removed your fork, rotate it so that the tongs are horizontal. Press the fork into the icing again over the vertical stripes you just created.


Add these flourishes along the base of the cake for an understated stripe of texture, or cover the entire tier for a bolder look.
 To create a stunning, vertical-striped design, drag your knife, spatula, or the back of a spoon from the bottom of the cake toward the top. Repeat this motion around the entire cake.This simple design brings a unique movement to the cake while still retaining the natural ease of a rustic theme.
 Cakes that use a minimal amount of frosting are gaining in popularity. To boost your rustic theme, showcase the cake’s individual layers with a barely-there layer of icing—or with no icing at all!These bare layers will offer a fresh and unique look for the sweet focal point of your reception.


You can leave the body of the cake icing-free but cover the tops of the layers in white icing.
Choosing a cake that is not covered in icing or fondant will help ensure its freshness. The cake’s frosting acts as a barrier that prevents the cake from drying out too quickly. Without this layer, the baker will need to bake the cake on the day of your wedding, ensuring that the naked wedding cake is as fresh as possible.