 For situations where you may have gotten a business card, letter, and/or hand out at a meeting, these are good documents to find such information.Look out particularly for the company's letterhead at the top of any letter and/or legal sized documents. Usually these have the company's name, address, phone number, and perhaps e-mail and website also in the layout. The company's social media contact info may also be in the display.
Business cards can be more varied, so you may only get some of the information from a company such as phone number, e-mail, website, and/or address--in some mixed and matched layout.
If the document you have is something entirely non-standard, still attempt to extract contact information out of it or at least the company's name. You can use the other search methods later on in the article to find the company.;
, This is the best way to introduce yourself to the company and get an understanding of what sort of business you are dealing with at the moment--even if you have dealt with them before.You can use the telephone or e-mail contact in this instance. If you are contacting a particular individual you met before, for example at a job fair, you can try addressing or asking for them directly and reminding them of your prior meeting.
For example, you may have met the human resources director of the company and are calling the number he gave you on a business card. You can ask to speak with him directly and say something to the effect of, "Hello, do you recall our meeting at the job fair your company held last week..."
You may be able to put more details within an e-mail than a phone call, but the phone call is a bit more personal.
 This is after initial contact, and you are pursuing some further business with the company.Whether your business is employment, sales, communication, etc... you need to establish two-way written communication with the company.
You may be able to get the postal address from the company's materials as mentioned in the earlier steps.
Another way to get the postal address during this method is to ask for it some time after the initial contact phase--in a follow-up phone call or e-mail. This has the added bonus of showing your continuing interest in the company. You can also let the contact know in advance that you will be making formal written requests.
An example of this might be you intend to partner your business with the company you located, so need to send legal documents in written physical form.
 After you have learned the location of the company, you can learn about the area itself.You don't need to learn the minute environmental details, unless that is a direct bearing on the business at hand, but learning the general climate and its impact on the company may help.
For example, if the company you are locating is an amusement park--finding out the time of year it general gets warmer and colder would be beneficial.
 This should be done once communication between you and the company is well established, and you have a decent understanding of their locality.


Expect that some of your impressions of the locality, business, and employees will change upon arrival.
Exercise polite business etiquette at all times. Show respect, but be firm in your own requests.
For example, if you've located a cafe you want to partner with your bakery, then you need to make a persistent offer without offending them.

