 When buying Cabbage Patch Kids, Walmart and Zellers sell best in Canada. In United States, Target and K Mart also have great Cabbage Patch Kids.;
, He or she probably feels really distressed and would need a big hug from mommy or daddy (you!).
 Give him/her a name. Cute names are Sarah, Alice, Faith, Iris or Elizabeth for a girl. Cute names for boys are Michael, Clyde, Sammy or Daniel. Pick what you like just make sure you are both satisfied. Remember: If you got one from Babyland general, the website or a shop, your cutie probably already has a name and birth certificate. This step isn't necessary if you got one from there but it is if you got one from eBay or Amazon.
 Put something babyish on the TV. Good toddler programmes would be Winnie The Pooh, Chuggington or Teletubbies. If your cabbage patch starts crying, switch it off immediately! Don't let him/her watch scary or inappropriate movies.
 Make pretend food from coloured clay or paper. Feed it gently and if she/he is thirsty, get her/him a pretend bottle with milk.
 If you go to the playground make sure your cutie gets a turn on the swings! If you go on the slide hold him/her every second! Another good way of getting exercise is going for a walk in the woods.
 PRETEND to fill the bathtub with water and give it a fake wash. Try not to get soap in your cuties eyes!! When you're done wrap them in a fluffy towel and get them in their pajamas

, Sit in a chair with them on your lap and give them maybe a cookie and milk. Don't make it to big, just a little thing to fill their rumbling tummies!

, On their first night read a selection of books and see which one is their favourite. When you find out, try getting a series of those books and read a different one every night. When you run out of those sorts of books, try getting them to enjoy a different series.
 Tuck them up in a fake cot. If they are terrified of the dark, don't get mad with them, they are only little and who knows what is lurking about in their precious little minds. Just turn on a night light and all will be well! If they enjoy it, sing them a little song.

