 You can use any web browser to visit this site.
 Under the Sign In box, type in your Gmail email address and password. This is your one Google ID for all of Google’s services, including Google Docs. Click the “Sign in” button to proceed.


Upon logging in, you will be brought to the main directory. If you already have existing documents, you can see and access them from here.
 Click the large red circle with a plus sign on the lower right corner. A new window or tab will be opened with the web-based word processor.
 There’s no native template in Google Docs. However, you can install some add-ons that contain the templates that you need. For this instance, you need a calendar template. Click the Add-on option from the main menu bar, then click “Get Add-ons.” The Add-ons window will open.
 Look for “calendar.” Type it in the search box on the top right corner of the window, and view the results matching your search.
 Click the “Free” button right beside the selected add-on. Most of them are free. A good add-on that contains some calendar templates is Template Gallery by Vertex42.com. The add-on will be installed to your Google Docs.
 Click the Add-on option from the main menu bar again. You will now see the add-on you just installed here. Click it then click “Browse Templates.” If you chose Vertex42’s add-on, you will see a lot of categorized templates under its gallery.
 Click “Calendars” from the template gallery. The names and previews of all available calendar templates will be displayed. You can choose from yearly or monthly calendars in various formats and templates. Click on the one you want to use.
 The selected template’s details will be displayed. You can read its description to see if its purpose meets your needs. A bigger preview will also be displayed so you can see it better. When you’ve decided on this, click the “Copy to Google Drive” button on the window. The template will be created as a new file under your Google Drive account.
 Go to Google Drive, and you should see the file for the calendar you’ve just made as part of your files. Double-click on it to open it on a new window or tab. You now have your calendar.

