 You'll need to be version 9.25.0.0 or later of Snapchat in order to access the birthday Lens features. This update was released in February 2016. You can check for app updates using your device's app store.;
, In order to be able to use the Birthday Lens on your birthday, you'll need to enter your birthday into the Snapchat settings.


Tap the Ghost at the top of the Snapchat screen.
Tap the Gear button in the upper-right corner. This will open the Snapchat settings.
Tap "Birthday" and enter your birthday. You can only change this a few times. The date you enter will be the date that your Birthday Lens is available., This will give you access to the Happy Birthday lens on your birthday, and will enable the birthday cake emoji next to your name on your birthday, allowing others to send you special birthday snaps. This will not reveal your age.
 After a moment, a wireframe outline will appear and the Lens selection will load.


Make sure your face is completely in the frame and that you are in a well-lit area.
If the Lenses do not load, your device may not be able to use Lenses. This feature requires a newer device running the latest available system software. Older devices may be slow or may not work at all.
 If it's your birthday, the Birthday Lens should be the first one in the list. Make sure that you've entered the correct birthday if it isn't appearing.


To send a Snap to a friend on their birthday using the special Happy Birthday Lens, you'll have to double-tap their name on your friends list. See the next section for details.
 When the Birthday Lens is selected, you'll see "Happy Birthday" in balloon letters at the bottom of the screen, and confetti will fall. You can tap the circle button to take a photo Snap, or press and hold to record a video Snap.
 If it's your friend's birthday, and they've enabled Birthday Party for their Snapchat account, you can send a Snap with a special birthday Lens.Tap the Ghost button at the top of the screen and select "My Friends."

, This indicates that it's that person's birthday. This will only appear if the other person has entered their birthday into the Snapchat settings and enabled Birthday Party.
 This will automatically apply the special birthday Lens to the Snap that you are about to take.
 You can tap the circle to take a photo Snap or press and hold to record a video Snap. You'll see the special birthday Lens effect, and you can send it off when you're done making edits like drawing or adding emoji.

