 In order to develop people skills, your child needs to know how to listen. Listening is a very important part of all social interactions. One way to ensure that your child is listening, is by asking them to repeat what you say to them. This will force your child to stop and focus on what you are saying. It will also help them to remember requests when you ask them to do something.For example you could say “Can you clean your room after school today?” and have your child repeat the request to demonstrate that they were listening. They could say “you want me to clean my room today.”

, In order to teach your child listening skills, you need to model good listening behaviours. It is easy to get busy working, completing household chores, and running errands, but is important to set aside time to actively engage with and listen to your child. For example, put away your phone and other distractions and listen to your child. Show that you are interested by asking “How was your day at school?” or “What did you do while I was at work today?” This will give you the opportunity to model good listening skills to your child.In order to demonstrate that you are listening, you should maintain eye contact, ask them follow up questions, and take an interest in their stories.
 You can also teach good listening skills by playing games that require children to listen. By teaching skills through games, you will make the task of listening seem fun. Your child will likely not even know that they are learning a new skill. Try out some of these games:


Play telephone with a group of kids: Start by whispering a short story to your child. Then they have to pass the story in the exact wording to the kid sitting next to them. The story gets passed down the line to the final child who announces the story out loud. It should be very close to the original if everyone was listening carefully.Tell a group story as a family. Start telling a story and then stop partway through and have another family member continue the story. Try and get three to four people involved in creating a story together. This promotes listening skills and is a fun family activity.
Play Simon Says. In this game kids have to listen carefully to the instructions that are called out and complete the commands that one of the players says.

