 In the picture to the right, Alex Russo is wearing a striped tank under a vest. Wearing a striped tank (any solid color would work) under a solid colored vest would be good. A long, draped vest would be best.;
, In the Season 4 Wizards of Waverly Place episode "Alex Tells the World", Alex is wearing a taupe-colored, ruffled, patterned tunic that has a purple diamond pattern with a black neckline. Of course, you don't need the exact top, but something similar would be good.



In Season 4, Alex loved wearing floral blouses, for example, in the episode "Alex Gives Up", she wears a black blouse with a purple and white floral pattern. In "Journey To The Center Of Mason", Alex wears a short sleeved patterned blouse. The blouse is lavender, dark purple, and red with a wide black belt at the waist with a rose on the right. The hem is dark purple and wavy. The blouse is short so you can see a bit of Alex's white tank top underneath.
Another top Alex wears in "Journey To The Center Of Mason" is a grey and white floral tee. The sleeves, neckline, sides and back are light grey while the front of the tee is white with purple and dark blue florals. The bottom is sparkly silver. You could also add a little something extra to your outfit by wearing a patterned short sleeved shirt under a tank top. In "Lucky Charmed", Alex wears an almost see-through v-neck lavender short-sleeved shirt with light yellow oval patterns and a dark blue floral pattern on the neckline. Alex is wearing the shirt over a white solid tank top.
Get some patterned tank tops. Another top in "Lucky Charmed" is a white tank top with thin straps, a ruffled neckline, and a red and brown circular pattern.
 In "Daddy's Little Girl", Alex wears a dark purple short-sleeved top that has buttons and lace at the front.
 Another top she wears in "Daddy's Little Girl" is a navy and white wide-striped shirt with sleeves that end at the elbow.
 In another episode, Alex wears a light green skirt as a top! The "top" has a red ruffly band, is light green, and covered in red cartoon ladybugs. She wears it with a black cami underneath.

