 The holidays bring parties and dinners where you and your loved ones often have rich foods. These foods may be tasty for you, but they are not good for your pet. This is even worse for your cat, because she can jump on tables or counters and grab food without you being aware of it. This means you need to be very aware of where your cat is when you have food lying around, and you should also be sure to close your kitchen doors. There are certain foods that are especially toxic for cats, including:


Grapes and raisins, often in holiday treats such as mince pies, fruit cake, and Christmas pudding
Chocolate
Alcohol are all toxic to cats;
, During the holidays, you may be serving turkey or other large meats. Make sure that you do not feed any turkey carcasses to your cat. The small bones in these could get stuck in her throat or puncture her stomach wall. This is true of the scraps of chicken, ham, or other meats.


Make sure you also have a cat proof trash can. Your can may want to get the scraps out of your trash by knocking down your trash bins. A bin with a screw top is best for this, because it will not open is she knocks it over., You may also serve rich sauces during the holiday season. These rich sauces, especially those containing onions and garlic, are dangerous to your cat. These can damage her red blood cell and may cause serious anemia.


Rich sauces that contain cream or other dairy can also cause your cat to have bad diarrhea. These high fat sauces are a possible risk factor for pancreatitis, a potentially serious condition that may cause your cat to die., Holiday parties may mean there is alcohol around your house. While you are having a party, make sure you keep your cat away from these alcoholic beverages. The relatively small size of your cat means that just a few laps of the alcohol could cause alcohol poisoning.


Try to make sure your guests also keep their drinks from your cat as well., If you cat happens to eat any of the foods that are toxic to her, you need to get her to the veterinarian immediately. Your vet will make your cat vomit the bad food up to ensure they are out of her stomach so she cannot digest them.


If this is done within two hours of ingestion, it could potentially save your cat from the possibility of medical issues.