  If you are someone who felt defined by your career, you may experience a significant sense of loss upon your retirement.  Also, the thought of somebody replacing you at work can make you feel unimportant.  It can be difficult to validate yourself without the connection to a career.  Over time, you may begin to feel depressed or anxious, and you may even begin to second-guess your decision to retire.Build a new identity for yourself by using your time to find meaningful ways to connect with other people and use your talents in a positive way.

 Some retirees find second “careers,” either paid or on a volunteer basis, that they find very gratifying.  


,  When you are both working full time, you and your spouse may have become accustomed to your independence from each other.  The changes to your daily routine in retirement may cause you to feel you’ve given up some of this autonomy.  Remember that with time you will learn to adjust to spending more time at home with your spouse.  However, it’s important to schedule some activities apart pursuing your separate interests.,  Think about how many hours per week you devote to your job.  Not just the 40-hour work week, but also commuting and spending time at home getting ready for work.  All of these hours will be free during your retirement.  Plan how you will spend that time being productive to avoid boredom.Do volunteer work.  Many people feel find fulfillment by devoting time to meaningfully giving back in some way.

 Spend more time being active.  Participate in outdoor activities that you enjoy such as golf.  Exercise frequently.  The physical activity will have an emotional and physical benefit.

 Plan to travel.  Plan to visit children and grandchildren who do not live nearby.  Schedule vacations to places you’ve always wanted to see.
  Some people are homebodies and relish the idea of spending time on their own at home.  Others are social butterflies and thrive on being around other people.  Whichever you are, you will need to schedule activities that give you social interactions.  Joining clubs or groups, taking classes or getting a part-time job can provide you with the relationships you need to feel vital.