 Give the hair a deep side part. The part should be on the side of the hair opposite from the shoulder you want the hair to hang over. For example, if you want your hair over your right shoulder, part it on the left.


The part should stop at your crown. It should not continue all the way down the back of your head.
 Take a small triangular section of hair at the part and separate it from the rest of your hair. Divide this into three sections. The hair should be gathered on the side of the part where your side braid will be., Take the three strands and French braid them. Take one of the outer sections and cross it over the middle section. Then take the opposite outer section and cross the strand over the middle section. This will give you a beginning anchor braid.As you continue to braid, add a small section of hair as you start each level. Add the hair from along the hairline in front, and from around your ear in the back. Don't add hair from the very back of your hair.
Tie the braid off with a hair band when you get to the ear.
 Take the remaining hair and pull it over the shoulder you want the braid to hang down. All of your hair should be in one place now.


Tug a bit of hair out around your face to give the style a softer, messier look.
 Divide the hair into two distinct sections. Take a section of hair from the back of the right side, cross it over the right side to combine with the left side. Grab a section of hair from the back of the left side, cross it over the left strand to combine with the right side. Continue braiding this way until you get to the end of your hair.


Pull tight after each level is complete. Keep the two strands tight and separate by holding them widely apart.
Do not keep the new sections of hair separate when you cross them over. Every time you start a new level on the braid, you should have two distinct sections.
 When you get to the end, place an elastic around the end. Tug on the braid to loosen.


You don't have to end the fishtail braid at the end of your hair. You can finish the braid at any length you'd like.
