 Your natural instinct may be to look down at the keyboard as you’re typing. However, looking at the keys actually slows down your typing and increases the chance of errors. As you type, keep your eyes on the screen instead to use the technique known as touch typing. You may see a slight increase in errors when your first start using this method, but you’ll quickly learn the layout of the keyboard and position of the keys, which will improve your typing speed.When learning how to type without looking at the keyboard, consider covering your hands with a cloth, piece of paper, or cardboard, so you're unable to see the keys even if you peek.
While you should try to keep your gaze on the computer screen as much as possible, it’s okay to cheat occasionally and glance down at the keyboard to ensure that you know where the keys are.
 If you want to see how efficient your typing is, you can use a variety of online typing tests to see how you rate. In most cases, you’ll be asked to type a certain passage of text, and the website will time you to determine how many words per minute (wpm) you type and how accurate your typing is. These programs are an effective way to track your progress as you work to improve your typing speed.Some online typing tests that are available for free include Typing.com, TypingMaster, and TypingWeb.
 You'll be able to type most quickly if you do it by feel instead of sight. That's why it helps to use touch typing software to help refine your typing skills so you can work more quickly. They usually include helpful exercises and even fun games that can make increasing your typing speed more enjoyable.


While you can purchase touch typing software, there are also a variety of free programs, such as TypingClub, TypeRacer, Klavaro Touch Typing Tutor, and Rapid Typing.
If you've already learned the touch typing basics, use free online typing games to help you improve your typing speed. Try some of the fun games at FreeTypingGame.net or WordGames.com. They're more enjoyable than practicing the same old passages, so you may find it easier to stay committed to improving your typing speed.
 If you’ve tried to improve your typing speed on your own and haven’t seen the results that you’d like, you may want to take a typing or keyboarding class. Instructors can make sure that you know the proper finger positioning and posture to type quickly and accurately. If you’re in high school or college, check to see if your school offers a class. If you’re out of school, your local community college or continuing education program may have a typing course that can help.If you don’t have a typing course available to you in your area, there are online programs that may help. You won’t have the opportunity for in-person assistance, but the instruction can still help you improve your typing speed.

