 You need to not be afraid while on the air.Don't have the attitudes like "you won't gain listeners" and "your show will be a big boring mess".;
, Make sure you have at least 100 songs, obtained legally of course. Make sure you have a wide variety of genres.
 How can you be successful without one?

, Most fan-sites have links to where you can get this, But if they don't, the 30-day free trial works, as most DJs get bored after that. Winamp works too, but it's extremely different, and the seniors, heads and managers won't be able to help with technical difficulties.
 Lots of people listen for chances to win free furniture and tell their friends.
 Listeners like to get to know the Dj's. Its never fun when you walk up to a DJ who you like on the air, and they are mean when you talk to them.
 It's nice to gain some credibility with the listeners right?

, Just ask another Dj to lend you their room, Or ask if there's a standard room for all the Dj's.
 When you apply they want to hear a quick sample of you "Deejaying" Record yourself for under thirty seconds as if you were Deejaying. This step is a sample recording you could do. "Hey Its Your Girl/Dude DJ *insert DJ name here* And you're tuned into *insert fan-site name here* So keep it locked because *insert funny saying here*" That's a pretty good dj application. Then when you're done recording, Don't add music, Don't add sound effects, They want to hear you. Upload it to Mediafire.com and post the link in the link spot. Upload it if they have that option.
 Play music to match the theme of your show that night. Make it fun, interesting, and memorable, Remember there's tons of other DJs and you want the listeners to remember you, Not others.
 No. So don't play them on a habbo fansite. Especially if they are looking for more official fansites, That wouldn't help your chances of becoming official, and you could get infracted/fired for doing so.
 You need to know what to do and what not to do, to make sure your first few shows goes well.
 Don't use the same ones which all other DJ's have used. That annoys the listeners

, Be exciting, Introduce yourself. Have a great time.

