 If symptoms are present and the patient has a risk of hyperkalemia because of kidney dysfunction, adrenal gland disease or medications, physicians should monitor for the condition.


Severe cases of hyperkalemia require immediate medical attention. An extremely elevated potassium level is a life threatening condition that requires medical intervention.
The doctor can determine levels of potassium in the body with a blood test. In most cases, the physician orders blood tests to monitor for elevated potassium because of a medical condition or medication.;
, Mild cases of hyperkalemia may be controlled through diet or discontinuing a medication, but some patients require treatment in a hospital.


In mild cases, the doctor may prescribe a low potassium diet to control levels. Patients must avoid foods rich in potassium such as bananas, tomatoes, lentils, nuts, potatoes, salmon, peaches and watermelon. In addition, patients should avoid food allergens such as dairy, wheat, soy and food additives. A diet to treat hyperkalemia also reduces or eliminates refined foods such as pasta, white bread and sugar.
 The physician uses a combination of medications and treatment to decrease potassium levels and protect the body from damage caused by hyperkalemia.


Medications that treat hyperkalemia include Albuterol and Epinephrine to force potassium back into the cells. Potassium levels can be elevated when potassium leaves the cells and enters the bloodstream.
Physicians use medications to encourage the excretion of potassium through the gastrointestinal system.
Doctors prescribe diuretics to lower potassium levels by encouraging excretion through urine.
Physicians treat patients hospitalized for hyperkalemia with the administration of intravenous calcium to protect the heart and muscles from the effects of elevated potassium.
Treatment also includes intravenous administration of insulin and glucose to encourage potassium back into cells.
When other treatment measures fail, the patient may require dialysis. Physicians also treat patients with dialysis when the patient experiences renal failure.

