 Showering or bathing daily is one of the easiest and most effective ways to make sure you smell gorgeous. It’s important to wash areas that produce odor such as the feet, groin, and armpits.Bathing right before you go somewhere will keep you smelling gorgeous during your outing.
Adding a few drops or spritzes of your favorite perfume or body spray to the bottom of your shower creates sweet-smelling steam.;
, Like the rest of your body, your hair also has sweat and oil glands, which can produce bad odors. To prevent this from occurring, wash your hair daily so it looks and smells its best.When you regularly wash your hair, your scalp will be healthier and your hair often grows faster.
Many shampoos and conditioners have great scents that will help you smell gorgeous. Pick a shampoo and conditioner you think smells divine.
If you want to wash your hair less often but also avoid greasy, smelly hair, try applying a dry shampoo.
 Applying a clinical-strength antiperspirant in the morning and before bed reduces sweating, helping you smell gorgeous. Clinical-strength antiperspirants offer stronger odor protection than regular antiperspirants.If you are wondering if you should also apply a deodorant, there's no need to buy an additional product. Most antiperspirants have built in deodorants.
If you have sensitive skin, look for a product that is fragrance free or hypoallergenic. , Hair traps bacteria and odors, so shaving areas like your armpits will reduce body odor. Scented shave gels and creams will also keep you smelling great throughout the day., Not brushing and flossing your teeth can result in bad breath and more serious dental problems. Dentists recommend you brush twice per day or after each meal.Flossing your teeth daily will also prevent bad breath.
Carry mints and chew gum to keep your breath smelling gorgeous when you are away from home.
 Foot odor smells less than gorgeous, so shake a little foot powder inside your shoes or socks to keep the bad odors under control.

Crumpling newspaper and placing it in smelly shoes should make them less stinky the next day. Other people recommend filling a clean sock with baking soda or unused cat litter and leaving the sock in the shoe overnight so it will absorb bad odors.