 If your guinea pig does not have enough room to move about, it will be unhappy, stressed, and might hurt itself. To avoid this, ensure that your guinea pig can exercise and move freely in its cage. Your guinea pig should be housed in a space that allows it to stand on its hind legs.


A safe guinea pig home will have at least 7.5 square feet (2.3 square meters).;
, If the lid to the cage is not secure, your guinea pig might find a way to escape. Alternately, cats, ferrets, or other pets might get into the guinea pig’s cage and hurt it. There are many ways to secure the lids of guinea pig cages. The right method for securing your cage depends on the type of cage you have.


Some guinea pig cages, for instance, have a sliding handle mechanism that keeps the guinea pig from escaping.
Others have a plastic door that snaps open and shut.
Consult manufacturer directions for more information regarding how you can ensure the lid of your guinea pig cage is secure.
 The particulate matter in dusty bedding can cause breathing problems in your guinea pig. Unsafe bedding includes pine powder and other dusty bedding. Use dust-free hay, pellet bedding, aspen, or shredded paper instead.
 If your guinea pig is either too hot or too cold, it could fall ill. Therefore, keep your guinea pig’s cage out of direct sunlight and away from fans, air conditioners, and vents.Guinea pigs should be kept between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (20-25 degrees Celsius)., If you incorporate wooden huts or tunnels into your guinea pig’s cage, check them regularly for splintering. Since guinea pigs love chewing on wood, they might chew these wooden objects in such a way that they develop sharp edges., Some people like to include mirrors in their guinea pigs’ cages. But mirrors with sharp edges could injure your guinea pig. If you choose to include a mirror, ensure it is round. Alternately, use a mirror with edges that are covered with rubber or plastic. You might also choose to place a mirror outside, rather than inside, the guinea pig’s cage., While it’s best to choose a cage with barred sides to increase air flow, a cage with barred flooring could cause foot injuries. Therefore, avoid cages with barred floors., The staple of your guinea pig’s diet should be grass hay. Acceptable varieties of grass hay include botanical hay, oat hay, alfalfa hay, timothy hay, and orchard grass. Don’t give your piggy pellets that contain additives, human cereals, seeds, or peanuts. These hard objects present choking hazards.


Give your guinea pig a variety of grass hay so that it won’t get bored with its meals, and will receive a variety of nutrients.
Don’t feed your guinea pig lawnmower clippings. They might cause your guinea pig’s stomach to get upset.

