 Each state and country has different laws pertaining to legal responsibilities and requirements that come with being a boxing promoter. Find out what the laws are in your area by visiting the website of the appropriate boxing commission.


Most US states (and some cities) have their own commissions. The Association of Boxing Commissions provides a contact list of most of the boxing commissions in North America (and beyond).In states that don't have a commission dedicated to combat sports, you'll need to do your research on the state government's website to find pertinent laws.
Make sure to develop a complete understanding of laws in your area. Violating laws can leave you open to lawsuits and/or a revocation of your license.;
, Complete the application, which includes information about your business affairs, experience in the area of boxing, and any personal associations with members of the boxing commission board, contestants, judges or other officials who may be involved in a boxing match.


While state boxing promoter license applications vary, many require that the promoter provide information about their business entity and complete names and contact information for the business itself and its board members or partners.Promoters may be asked about their business' financial history including recent bankruptcy filings and financial interest in any boxing contestants.
A promoter's license application may also request information about the promoter's involvement in any investigations regarding event promotions or if the promoter has any history of criminal convictions.
 In most states you will need to pay a small fee when you submit your initial application. This fee is for processing the application itself, and is usually about $50.


If your application is granted, you may be required to pay a substantially larger fee for the license. In Nevada, this fee is $500.In Minnesota, it's $700., Wait for commission to approve your application. In most cases, you will be notified by mail as to their decisions.


In some states, such as Nevada, you are required to attend a hearing by the commission on the day your application is discussed to answer any questions they may have that are not covered on the application.