 Dissolve 4 Tbsp (60 ml) of fiber reactive dye powder in 1 cup (250 ml) of lukewarm or cool water, mixing well with a plastic spoon.Combine the dye in a small to medium bowl made from non-reactive material, like glass, plastic, or stainless steel.
You will need enough dye to keep the bone submerged. If you need to add more water, you should also add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of dye powder for every 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water.
Note that black fiber reactive dyes or turquoise fiber reactive dyes containing MX-G require two to four times as much dye powder to produce a bright color.
 Combine 1/4 cup (60 ml) of soda ash to 1 qt (1 L) of room temperature water. Stir well until the soda ash is dissolved.


Note that you should check the dye you're using before creating the soda ash solution. Some dyes may already contain soda ash, in which case, you do not need to prepare a separate solution.Wear gloves as you handle the soda ash since it is slightly caustic. Wash your skin immediately if any of the solution splashes onto it.
 Place the bone in the soda ash solution and allow it to soak for 15 to 60 minutes.


This process prepares the bone fibers to pick up the dye particles. A longer soak can lead to a stronger color, but try not to exceed one hour.
 Remove the bone from the soda ash solution and transfer it to the dye bath. Position the bone so that it is completely submerged, then allow it to dye overnight.


The bone must stay submerged in the dye bath for a minimum of two hours. Keeping it submerged for 8 to 24 hours is ideal, though, and will produce a stronger color.
Let the dye bath sit out in a warm room. The temperature of the water should remain at 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius) or higher. If you need to keep the dye bath warmer and more humid, you may wish to cover the container with a sheet of plastic wrap as the bone sits.
 Once the bone has finished soaking in the dye bath, remove it and clean it with warm to cool water and a mild liquid soap.


Continue rinsing the bone even after the soap has been washed away. Don't stop until the water comes out clear, signifying that all excess dye has been rinsed off.
 Place the bone in a sunny area and allow it to dry completely before handling it.


As soon as the dyed bone is dry, the process is complete.

