 In the United States, your main options are Kentucky Lake and Tennessee River in Tennessee and San Angelo for freshwater pearls. For saltwater pearls, your main option is Hawaii.While you can find mussels that produce pearls in other areas, these are the main states for commercially viable pearls.
 In most areas, you will need to pay a fee for a permit. In Tennessee, for example, license fees are based on whether you are a commercial in-state resident ($200 in 2016) or commercial out-of-state resident ($1,000 in 2016). You may also get a license as a wholesaler ($500 in 2016)., When you are in the water, you usually must use a diver's flag. The flag shows that there is someone under the water. In Tennessee, for instance, the law specifies that no boat can go within 50 feet of the flag nor cause wakes withing 200 feet of the flag. The only boat that can be within 50 feet is the boat used to dive from., Like with a guided tour, you will likely need to take a boat to the diving area, especially if you are diving for saltwater pearls. However, many freshwater mussels are found in stream beds. So when hunting for freshwater pearls, you only need to walk along areas of the river. Mussels can be difficult to find because they are camouflaged to blend in with the sand and silt at the bottom of the river.Check for mussels in shallow water. Generally, sandy areas are best, and you'll be able to find them in rivers, lakes, and streams.Many fisherman use waders to wade into the river and gather mussels. Essentially, you wade into the middle of shallow water and feel around in the bottom of the steam for mussels.In lakes, you can employ similar methods of feeling for mussels, but you may need basic diving equipment.If the water is not murky, you'll be able to see mussels sticking up out of the sand at the bottom., Use a dull knife to shuck your oyster. Place it on a hard surface with the opening up before inserting the knife on one side into the slit on top. Push across the slit, slanting down as you go. Once you've done this step, you should be able to pull it open and look for your pearl.Burnish your pearl with table salt and a soft cloth that's a little damp., Usually, the mussels you take will need to be of a certain size. In Tennessee, for instance, they lay out the size for each species.The easiest way to measure your mussels is to use a ring with an interior that is the specified size. Then you just see whether the mussel passes through or not.For pink heelsplitters and washboards, the mussels need to be 4 inches in diameter. River pigtoes, lake pigtoes, maple leafs, southerns, three ridges, and elephant ears need to be 2 5/8 inches in diameter, while ebonies and monkey faces need to be 2 3/8 inches in diameter.