 If you’re a teacher or someone else with access to a larger body of kids, ensure that at least a few of them are interested in participating in the book club.;
, If you’re a teacher or leader of a youth organization, you might have to make multiple book clubs -- one for second and third-graders, one for fourth and fifth-graders, and so on.


Alternately, you might make two clubs at each grade level, one for advanced students and one for average readers.
Book clubs work best with kids in second grade and up., If the book club is too small, the same children might be reading the whole time and become weary of the tedium.


Five to eight kids is usually the best size for a book club.
 However, if you do not, you could advertise the book club in your town.


Ask your librarian to add the book club announcement to the library’s website and newsletter.
Alternately, you could print a colorful flyer or two and put it up on the library’s community bulletin board, or on other boards in locations the kids frequent, including the YMCA, roller skating rink, or arcade.
If you’re starting a book club for kids at your school, you could encourage children to sign up using fliers on the library windows, or ask the principal to add them to the end-of-the-day announcements.
Include all the relevant information when designing your flier or announcement. Include the date of the initial club meeting, the location, and the age ranges of the kids your want to join.
 Whatever location you choose, ensure it is well-lit, quiet, clean, and conducive to conversation. Ensure your location will accommodate all your readers and any adults in attendance.


If you’re a parent, you could choose to hold it at your house each week.
Alternately, you could share the responsibility of hosting it among the parents of the children in the book club.
If you’re a librarian, you should hold it in a smaller anteroom or children’s room.
If you’re a teacher, you could hold it in your school’s library or a classroom.
If your initial location doesn’t work, you can always change it later. Don’t feel like you’re locked in to a certain location forever.
If holding the book club at a house, it’s nice for the host to provide snacks for the kids.
 This meeting will provide space for the children to get to know each other before the club begins reading.


Allow time for the kids to talk freely, but provide a structured activity to draw out kids who might be shy, too.
Have all the children sit in a circle and introduce themselves. They should say, “Hello, my name is . . .” and list three facts about themselves.
Provide board games and snacks for the children. This will help them associate the book club with good feelings and happiness.
 For instance, maybe you want to insist that each child also has a parent present during the book club (you don’t want it to become daycare, after all). In reference to the actual book club, you might set a rule that says only one person can talk at a time. Other rules might include:Be respectful to everyone in the book club.
Raise your hand if you want to speak.
Treat the book club location with respect.
 Explain the book club’s process. The process you choose depends on the children’s ages and reading level.


If children are very competent readers, they might read a book outside of the book club, then talk about it in a guided conversation during the book club. In that case, the conversation will be guided by thoughtful questions from an adult monitor or group leader.In other cases, especially when children do not read as well, or if the books are shorter in length, the children will read a book together during the book club. In this case, each child will read a page or two, and the monitor will stop to help explain confusing plot points or vocabulary. At the end of the reading, the group leader might ask questions to encourage the children to talk more about the ideas in the book.
Alternately, you might allow every child to read their own book, or one of several books on a given theme, then talk about each book in turn during the book club., You might target the book club to a specific age group or a particular set of students, such as students who have trouble reading.


For instance, you might say, “This book club is designed to help kids in fifth and sixth grade become better readers.”

, For instance, you might choose “oceans” as the theme for a given month. In this case, all the books you read would be about animals, adventures, and curiosities of the ocean.


If the book club reads one book or two books each month, you could choose a theme that lasts around three months.
If your book club is more advanced and reads one book each week, your theme might last only one month.
After completing one themed cycle of books, ask the club members what theme they’d like next.
 Let the kids vote on the book they want to read first. Have a few choices ready to offer the children.


Read a variety of books. Switch it up frequently and read both fiction (mysteries, young adult novels, and science fiction) and nonfiction (historical works, books about science, and so on). Drop some poetry in there once in a while, too.Encourage kids to look for the book(s) at local libraries.
If you don’t know what books the kids might like, ask your local librarian for advice, or ask the kids directly during the first organizational meeting what they like to read.After deciding on the book(s) you’ll read, reserve copies of the book at your local library.
If you reserve the book(s) at a bookstore, be sure that the parents of the book club members pay you back.
 The team should include one book club member and one of their parents. Together, this team should guide the discussion (but not dominate it) by asking questions and determining who can talk. This helps maintain order and ensure everyone gets a chance to speak. Facilitators should prepare leading questions before the meeting in order to ensure the discussion is productive and thought-provoking. Good questions include:


What was the setting?
What kind of book is this? Is it a true story?
Why did a certain character choose a certain course of action?

, Presumably, children who enroll in a book club already enjoy reading. Sometimes, though, kids might be forced to attend by their parents and might not enjoy reading. There are a variety of reasons children might not like to read. If a member of the book club does not like to read, you can offer encouragement by trying one of several methods:If the child is bored by reading, find out what he or she likes to read and try to introduce more books that the reluctant reader would like to the club.
If the child lacks confidence in his or her ability, don’t force them to read at length (or at all) during the oral reading period. Alternately, if the book club is one in which the children are reading individual books, steer the child toward a book that is easy to read.
Encourage children to take their time when reading or formulating questions and answers.
 Let the kids lead the conversation. Keep them focused on the book and ask leading questions if there is a lull in the conversation, but don’t be afraid to let them take off with their ideas.


If kids don’t like the book, prod them to explain why they don’t like it.
Other questions you could ask include, “Which character was your favorite?”
If you want to include a questionnaire for the kids to fill out after reading each book, keep it short and simple, and make it optional. For instance, you might create a questionnaire asking simply, “Did you like this book? Why or why not?”

, For example, kids who read a book about oceans might then partake in a craft that lets them design a little sailboat out of tongue depressors, or use colored construction paper to make a crab, lobster, or whale.


Don’t make crafts too elaborate. The focus should remain on the book and the conversation about the book.You could also invite guest speakers to talk about the topic of a book. For instance, if you read a mystery book one week, you could invite a police officer or detective to talk about how the book relates to their work.
Give the kids some neat bookmarks with pictures on them. If you’re a librarian, distribute free pens or pencils with the library’s name and logo on them.

