 If your doctor catches your throat cancer in its early stages, it may be possible to remove the cancerous cells with surgery. About 80% of patients recover from throat cancer if the surgery is a success in the early stages of the disease.Surgery using endoscopy, where tumors on the surface of your throat or your vocal cords are removed through your mouth no incisions, may be used. Your doctor may be able to scrape off or cut out the tumors depending on their size and location.Your doctor may also use laser surgery to remove smaller tumors in your throat. The laser will be inserted into your throat to vaporize tumors in your throat.;
, Your doctor may remove all or part of your voice box to get rid of tumors on your voice box. Your doctor will do their best to preserve your ability to speak and breathe normally using your mouth and throat.If there are larger tumors on your voice box, your doctor may need to remove your entire voice box. During surgery, the doctor may attach your windpipe to a hole in your throat to allow you to breathe. If your entire larynx must be removed, you will likely work with a speech pathologist to help you learn how to speak without your voice box.
 Surgery on your lymph nodes may need to be performed if the cancer has spread deep within your neck. Your doctor may recommend removing some or all of your lymph nodes to ensure the cancer does not spread.Surgically removing the lymph nodes is controversial, but it may be necessary, as throat cancer can recur or spread through your lymph system. Your doctor may recommend removing your lymph nodes to check if cancer is present and to lower the risk of the cancer coming back., Though surgery can successfully remove the cancerous cells from your throat, especially if it is in the early stages of the disease, there are still risks and side effects associated with this option. Your doctor should outline all the risks of the surgery before you undergo the procedure.You are at risk of bleeding and developing an infection during surgery.
You may also experience complications after the surgery, such as difficulty swallowing or speaking. Your doctor should prepare you for these complications and you should seek support after surgery to ensure you can still maintain a positive quality of life.

