 The more mentors you can get a hold of, the better. You'll gain a clearer understanding of what it's like to be a nun and the different communities and lifestyles you could soon be a part of. If you don't have access to a group, go to your parish and seek out information from your priest or those active in your church community.


There are three general types of religious communities to choose from:contemplative communities and traditional and non-traditional apostolic communities.

Contemplative communities focus on prayer. Their lifestyles are more serene, meditative, and insular than their apostolic counterparts.
Traditional apostolic communities work in education and healthcare. Many nuns can be found teaching in area schools or helping at hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Non-traditional communities also do service for others, but can be found working with the homeless, incarcerated, or those with HIV/AIDS.
 The last place you thought would be on the edge of technology would be convents, but even they're stepping it up! Some even have songs to download and blogs to read!Vision Vocation Network is a Chicago-based network that is leading the "virtual discernment" phenomenon. Their counterpart is Vision, the magazine.Vision Vocation Match helps those in discernment find communities that are right for them. Think of it as online dating, but for to-be-sisters and brothers looking for the right "home."Catholics on Call is also based out of Chicago and holds retreats and workshops to meet and network with other prospective candidates and seasoned experts on the sisterly scene.Out of New York City is the Sisters of Life. The vocation director will respond directly to your email if you're curious about what you see on their site. Hundreds do it each year.A Nun's Life is a blog that is aimed at women in the thinking stages of becoming a nun. It does a good job of spelling out the process, requirements, and details of, well, a nun's life., Once you've started networking in person and online, you'll start hearing about events you can attend. This by no means locks you in to anything -- you have no obligation to any organization at this juncture. Going to the retreats is simply a way to get your feet wet.


The Institute on Religious Life can help you find a congregation or order of sisters that may be what you are looking for -- they have information on the work, personal and community prayer and daily living schedule in for dozens of communities, in addition to information on events across the country. They even have an online assessment that helps a person know what congregation of sisters they may be best suited to visit!, Once you've done your research on the communities you're considering joining, contact the ones you like. Each one is different (not only in purpose but in size, locale, etc.) and one will probably best fit you. However, feel welcome to contact more than one! It's all part of the discernment process.


If you know a nun within the community, talk to her. If you don't know any members specifically, contact the vocation director. Her information can be found on their website; if that's not an option, contact your diocese for information.

The Vision Network as discussed above is generally chock full of information when it comes to communities and their directors. Do a little digging if you're at a loss initially.
 Or two or three. Once you've contacted the head of a community or two you're considering being a part of, you'll start participating in more activities. You still have no obligation -- you're still feeling it all out.


You'll probably explore the campus, take part in retreats, get to learn all about the hang outs, and help in community events. You'll meet the sisters and see if you vibe with the feel of their community.

