


Vertical water electric smokers are relatively inexpensive electric smokers that work well in warm weather, but don't maintain their core temperature in cold weather. When you prepare meat with an electric smoker, determine if you will be smoking only during the hot summer months before purchasing a vertical water smoker.
Electric cabinet smokers are shaped like a little refrigerator. Most cabinet smokers come with a temperature gauge so you can control the core temperature. When you are cooking meat with an electric smoker, it's important to be able to control the temperature.;
, There are many types of electric smokers, and each one has different operating directions. When using an electric smoker, you need to understand how your specific model functions.
 This process removes odors, dust and solvents, while preparing the smoker to cook food. Before cooking with an electric smoker, you should season it.


Coat the racks and indoor surfaces of your electric smoker with cooking oil.
Turn the smoker on and let it run for 2 hours. Turn your electric smoker off, and open the hood to let it cool off.
,,,


Add water to your electric smoker if it has a water receptacle.
 You can obtain wood chips at a grocery store, hardware shop or online.


Add alder, cherry, cedar, plum, maple or hickory chips to wood chip container. You will require approximately 4 cups (946.35 ml) wood chips for every 3 to 5 hours of smoking when using an electric smoker.
 When you are cooking with an electric smoker, it is important to monitor the internal temperature. Most electric smokers come with an internal temperature gauge.


Adjust the temperature control. Some electric smokers have a dial so you can turn the temperature up or down, while others are set at a specific high point, such as 225 degrees F (107.22 C).
Wait for the smoker to reach the desired temperature. When you are cooking with an electric smoker, you don't want to begin smoking your meat until the correct temperature is obtained.
 Smoke the meat until it is tender. This may take 3 to 8 hours. Check if your food is done by inserting a meat thermometer into the center of the meat.

