 If your hair is wavy or curly, it may be more prone to frizz. In this case, opt for a moisturizing mask. These kinds of masks will best restore brittle hair that's prone to frizz., Thinner hair can benefit from more protein. Opt for masks that contain high amounts of proteins according to the label. This can add a lot of strength to your hair, helping to restore it if it's brittle.If you use homemade face masks, choose options that are protein-based such as egg masks.
 If you have oily hair, a hair mask can worsen the problem. Instead, talk to a stylist about how to repair hair damage. There may be better options than using a mask in this case and a stylist can help you find a specific solution for your hair.You can also use shampoos designed for oily scalps and apply extra near your ends and throughout your hair. This can help reduce a brittle texture., Most hair masks contain some oils to repair and replenish hair. When selecting your hair mask, check the oils on the label. Look for the best oils for replenishing and nourishing hair.Jojoba oil helps with damaged hair and argan oil can help nourish and moisturize dry hair.
If your brittle hair is due to dryness, look for masks with almond oil and panthenol.
 Some ingredients are simply good for hair in general. Keravis increases hair strength and can be great if your hair is brittle due to styling tools. Wheat proteins can help prevent breakage from occurring again. These ingredients would benefit any hair mask.For very fine brittle hair, look for ingredients like bamboo/fern extract. They can help repair fine hair specifically.
 Whichever mask you choose, make sure you apply it correctly. Consult the ingredients label for specific directions, as instructions will vary, but most hair masks are applied after you shampoo your hair as normal. Dry your hair using a towel only before spreading the mask evenly throughout your hair. Move from roots to ends when you apply your mask. Most masks are left in place for 20 to 30 minutes before you rinse them out.The precise amount of a hair mask you use depends on the bottle's instructions. Some hair masks may be left in for shorter or longer than 20 or 30 minutes. Always read the label.
Commercial hair masks can also be applied to dry hair. For very dry hair, some masks can be left on overnight.

