 If you’re the bride, groom, or maid of honor, provide some icebreakers, perhaps even a quick game to get everyone acquainted and more at ease. All the wedding events will be uncomfortable if you don’t meet the other attendants. If you aren’t formally introduced, make it a point to introduce yourself and explain how you know the bride or groom. Try, “Hi, I’m Rick. Dave and I grew up together in Ohio.” Do your best to remember everyone’s names by making mental notes of where they’re from or what they do.;
, Chances are you’ll be spending a good amount of time with these individuals from showers to parties, so you’ll want to try to make as deep a connection as possible. Ask about their relationship with the bride and/or groom and get them to tell some personal stories. Try to draw similarities wherever possible. If you went to college in Boston and one of the other bridesmaids live in a Massachusetts suburb, talk about any overlapping experience.
 Everyone wants the engaged couple to feel loved and special in the events leading up to their wedding and on their big day, but don’t compete to be the best bridesmaid or greatest groomsman. The wedding party is just that…a party comprised of several individuals, so don’t compete for attention and try to speak to everyone equally. The idea is to be inclusive, not inconsiderate, of all the ladies and gents.
 Certain wedding events, say a bachelor party in Las Vegas, can quickly get out of hand. Shots may get the party started, but they also can lead to a bad end. Limit liquor so you can keep your cool and keep relationships intact before, during and after the wedding.
 At the end of the day, the bride and groom have the final say in their wedding and everything leading up to it. Just because you’ve been named an attendant, doesn’t mean you get to make executive decisions and boss people around. If you feel left out of decisions because another individual is taking too much control, speak up. Say, “Kathy is my friend too, and I’d really like to help with this project.” Or, “Ben mentioned he wanted us to pick up his tux by noon, so we should adhere to his request.”

, We all know that weddings and pre-wedding festivities are a common place to meet potential love interests. But keep the flirting frenzy to a minimum until after the wedding. That doesn’t mean you shouldn’t converse; it just means you should establish banter boundaries.
 After the wedding, stay in communication with your new friends by sending an email or pictures of all the events. Even though you might all live in different places, electronic communication can be a great way to continue building relationships with fellow wedding participants.

