 It allows the user to sight up targets in low- or no-light situations. The problem with any night sight occurs when used around dusk, or in the pre-dawn, early morning time, when there is not enough light to adequately illuminate the white rings, and it is too bright to see the tritium. Under those conditions, the sights are very difficult to accurately line up. But when it's darker (when most shootings take place) the night sights are very visible and useful., The problem is that they add weight to the gun, and can possibly throw it off balance. It makes the weapon bulkier and harder to conceal also.

A very serious problem with attached lights is that it requires the user to aim the gun at the bad guy in order to see him, which from a legal standpoint "assaults" him, and gives the bad guy the legal right to shoot YOU! This problem can be completely avoided by using a separate, hand-held tactical light, which can do most of what an attached light can do, although it will make two-handed shooting much more difficult if not impossible.
Also, some argue that attached lights give the bad guy a nice easy target to aim at (but honestly, just try looking at the light for a few seconds — they may know in what direction to shoot, but they won't see what they are shooting at).
Buying a cheap light will almost guarantee it breaking after a short while. For a duty or concealed weapon, this can be omitted, but for home defense use, it may be a very good thing to have so that the target is always identified before taking irreversible action.
 This is great for target shooting or match shooting, but a trigger pull that is less than three pounds can quickly become unsafe if the gun is carried a great deal or often. It can also help substantially with quick follow-up shots, making them more accurate. This is a change that should only be made to the gun if the trigger pull is exceptionally heavy or long., This is often a good thing, and for people with very large hands, it is a must to allow for a solid fit on the grip. The grips have problems though. They can occasionally move, and this can affect accuracy and require constant adjustment. Most tactical-style handguns have groves and hatches in the grip to allow a firm grip even with sweaty palms; and sometimes, the rubber makes the gun a bit slippery when wet. Additional maintenance is also required, as sweat and dirt will build up under the grip, which then requires the rubber to be taken off and the gun's grip and rubber cleaned thoroughly. With large hands, or for a gun which has a very uncomfortable grip, try using rubber grips.