 You need to be ready to respond to any friends or others who suggest that you should use steroids. Whenever this happens, you need to be firm, but friendly.


Tell them you're not interested. Say: "I appreciate that you're concerned about my progress, but I'm going to focus on building muscle naturally.
Let them know you are educated about the problems associated with steroid use. Say: "I've spent some time educating myself, and I'm certain that the negative effects of steroids are not worth the benefits."
If your friend insists, you need to let them know that you've already decided that steroid use is not for you. Say: "Please don't try to convince me. I'm not going to use steroids, and I don't think you should use them, either.";
, While steroids may help give the appearance of health and strength, they’re harmful to your overall health. Ultimately, by committing yourself to a natural approach to fitness, you'll take steps to avoid pressure to use steroids.


Reject performance enhancing drugs or hormones.
Increase your protein intake. Consider increasing your protein intake to the high range of recommended protein consumption, which is 2 grams per kilogram of body weight.
Bring this approach into your overall life. Try to eat organic, cut out artificial flavors, refined sugars, and bleached flour., By mapping out a path to success, you’ll take concrete steps in resisting pressure to use steroids. Fundamentally, healthy goals will give you a great alternative to steroids.


Meet with a personal trainer or a fitness professional to talk about ways you can meet your goals.
Talk to a nutritionist about ways to achieve your goals.
Write out a long-term plan for your fitness goals.
Make sure your training plan is realistic based on the time you have and your overall goals., if you feel pressure to use steroids, perhaps you should consider adding more time to your practice or workout schedule. By doing this, you'll allow yourself the opportunity to increase your skill level and/or muscle mass level.

Take a good look at your schedule and see if you can practice or work out more. Adding just an hour or two a week might help you meet your goals.
Alternate your practice and try new exercises, if you think that will help. Ultimately, you may find a varied workout routine more enjoyable.
If you find it hard to get yourself motivated, promise yourself a reward if you do work out. A nice meal or a night at the movies might get you to go that extra mile., By signing a pledge, you'll not only be making an explicit commitment to your health. In addition, a pledge will serve as a symbol that may give you psychological strength if you are ever tempted.


Write out a statement such as "I promise to never use anabolic steroids."
Challenge your friends to also sign a pledge.
Have parents, coaches, or teachers witness your signing. This will lend weight to the pledge and perhaps encourage you to uphold it. After all, you won't want to disappoint people., By doing this, you'll create a support network around you that will help you resist any temptations.


Encourage your friends to reject steroid use.
Create a formal support group in which you, friends, and others can motivate each other to embrace healthy alternatives to steroid use.
 By meeting people who have this relevant experience, you or others you are helping will be able to attach a human face to the sometimes more abstract health problems associated with steroid abuse.


Contact a substance abuse support center in your area. They might have a list of speakers who are willing to meet with people in the community.
Ask a personal trainer if they know anyone who has recovered from steroid abuse.
Always be respectful when meeting someone who will talk about the problems they’ve faced in their life., One of the best ways to avoid steroid use is to become a leader who embraces a healthy and natural approach to fitness. This is especially important if you’re in a social or professional circle in which people may be at risk for steroid abuse.


Verbally express your disapproval of the use of anabolic steroids.
Show others how effective and rewarding weight training can be when unassisted by steroids.
Counsel people who are overwhelmed by their fitness goals and let them know that with work and time, they can achieve their goals., Anabolic steroids are a synthetic form of the naturally occurring hormone testosterone. Ultimately, the longer a person abuses anabolic steroids, the bigger the danger that they will develop permanent health problems connected to the abuse. Some side effects and health problems include:


Lower sperm production.
Shrinkage of testicles.
Male-pattern baldness.
Masculinization in women.
Stunted growth in adolescents.
Cardiovascular disease.
Liver damage.
Acne and other skin problems., One of the best ways to educate people about steroid abuse is to have them listen to people who have dealt with the problem first-hand.


Organize a workshop with at-risk people to teach them about the dangers of steroid abuse.
Offer realistic and alternative suggestions on how to build muscle mass., Depending on your situation or organization, there are a number of programs you can engage in order to educate others about the dangers of anabolic steroid abuse. Have your institution adopt:


A local or national program aimed at anti-steroid awareness.
The Adolescents Training and Learning to Avoid Steroids (ATLAS) program.
The Athletes Targeting Healthy Exercise and Nutrition Alternatives (ATHENA) program., Individual education and counseling is one of the most effective ways of preventing anabolic steroid abuse in others.


Identify people in your professional circle. For example, if you’re a high school football coach, pay special attention to the workout regimens and overall shape of your players. Contact any players who you suspect are abusing steroids.
Identify people in your social circle. If you have friends who you know are committed to fitness, pay attention to see if they may be abusing steroids. If you suspect they are, talk to them. But remember, never sound accusatory. Say something like “I’m impressed with your physique lately, but I’m concerned about your overall health.”