 You can do the plank pose almost anywhere, as long as you have a place to rest your toes and hands/elbows. If you are planking on the ground, make sure that the area is clean and flat. Consider the texture of your planking space: hard, rough surfaces may be less gentle on your hands/elbows, but you may find it harder to keep your balance on a surface that is too soft. Try planking on a rug or a yoga mat so that your elbows have something firm but forgiving to rest upon.;
, Wear loose or stretchable clothing like shorts, sweats, or yoga pants. Your top should be slightly fitted as well. A baggy top may get in the way of you assuming the proper position. If you plan to do the plank pose at the gym or another public space, be sure to dress with flexibility in mind before you leave the house.


You can do this pose with or without shoes. However, avoid wearing only socks so that your feet do not slide around.
 Line up your shoulders directly over your hands and your hips directly over your knees. Inhale deeply. As you breathe in, elongate your spine by lifting your head and tailbone. Exhale, slowly. Round your spine by lifting your belly, dropping your head and rear, and rolling your shoulders forward.Repeat these movements back and forth a few times to lengthen your spine and open yourself to the stretch. If you are incorporating planks into a yoga routine, this is a traditional way to enter the pose.
Alternately, lay prone (stretched out flat on your belly) on the floor. If you do not want to start on all fours, you can start prone and push yourself up into the plank position.
 Keep your legs extended, your shoulders broad, and your head forward. Hold yourself squarely off the floor with your toes and palms. If you started on all fours, slowly tuck your toes and step back with your feet. Bring your body and your head into one straight line. If you started prone, slowly raise yourself into a basic push-up position., Keep your thighs lifted. Your body should not curve, but rather should form a straight and balanced line. Be careful not to let to let your hips sink. Align your body so that your shoulders are directly above your wrists, and hold it there.Contract your abs to draw your pelvic muscles toward your spine. Keep your head in line with your spine. Keep your shoulders broad for balance.
Press the front of your thighs (quadriceps) up toward the ceiling. Stretch your legs out as far as they will comfortably go.
Focus on your palms as they root you to the floor. Keep your hands pressed flat.
 Take deep, measured breaths. If you are incorporating the pose into a yoga flow, hold it for five smooth breaths and then transition into the next position. If you are using planks to build strength and stamina, hold the pose for as long as you can. Focus on perfecting your form and getting the most out of your planks.


If you are a beginner, try holding the plank for 15 seconds. Build up to holding the plank for 30-60 seconds.If you are not a beginner, hold the plank for 60 seconds and then take a short break. Try to do 3 or 4 rounds.
As you improve, gradually increase the amount of time. One minute; two minutes; three minutes; as long as you can hold it. Alternate your planks with variations if you want a balanced workout, or hold the pose for as long as you like.
If you don't want to involve a stopwatch in your practice, count breaths instead. Count each breath as you draw it in and let it out. Try to hold for 5 - 15 breaths., Transition to another yoga position, return to your hands and knees, or lay down again to rest, prone. If you are no longer able to hold the proper form (e.g. hips begin to sag) go ahead and end the pose.The plank is not effective if you are not in the correct position. You also do not want to injure yourself by having bad form.

