 Want to shred the skate park or just cruise around town? Looking to grind every bar you find or drop into a halfpipe? Or are you still unsure, and just want to start skating? Your desires as a skateboarder make a big difference on the type of board you buy:



Riding Around Town: Consider a longboard, or an over-large traditional board (8.25" wide or larger).

Halfpipes, Bowls, and Ramps: If you want to get into big air, look into "Vert" boards, which are on the wider side and have a lot of stability. They often have more stylish or unique shapes.

Flat-land & Street Skating: Also known as "standard" boards, they are well balanced and have the classic popsicle shape, which is speedy, balanced, and low to the ground for grinds and flip tricks.

All-Around Skating: Usually similar to street boards, all-around skaters tend to use standard boards as well, though different shapes and hardware can be swapped in and out as you get more experienced. For beginners, they may be a tad bigger than a street board.;
, You have two options when you buy a board -- you can get a stock model, with all the components already installed, or you can buy the parts separately and assemble it yourself. Assembling your own board is not difficult, but choosing from the multitude of different components, all of which lead to a slightly different ride, is not possible until you've learned a bit more about your own style.
 The width of a board should fit between a designated range based on your size. Don't worry much about the board's length yet -- this has more to do with style than fit. Almost all adults will want something with a width of 7.5" or larger, but there are boards for every size:


Under 3'4" tall -- Get a 6.5-6.75" board.
Between 3'5" -- 4'4" tall: Get 7" board
Between 4'5" -- 5'2" tall: Get a 7.3" board
Above 5'3" tall: Get a 7.5" board or larger., Even pros have trouble skating around on the bottom-barrel, all-plastic boards found at supermarkets and big-box stores. These boards won't be responsive or sturdy enough to comfortably learn on, even at the price they're marketed for.A decent beginner board, with all the components, should run between $50-125. Long boards are on the more expensive end, traditional boards a bit cheaper., Every skater is different, and getting personalized help is as easy as asking. No matter what your experience level or style, getting to know you local shop crew is always a good idea. Many will let you test out different boards or styles before buying, which is particularly helpful if you're lost in the world of trucks, bearings, and wheels and aren't sure which you'd like best.


While you can always buy boards online, it's usually best to buy your first board in person, which makes it much easier to get the right fit and style.
 Grip tape is the black, sand-paper like coating on the top of the board that gives you the necessary control and friction to skate. Not all boards will come with it attached, but it usually comes free and most skate shops will help attach it if you're confused. That said, adding your own tape is easy:


Peal off the backing to expose the sticky side of the tape.
Starting from the side, slowly lay the tape onto the board, pushing out any air bubbles with a stiff credit card.
Use a razor blade to cut away any excess tape so that it fits your board exactly.
 It doesn't matter what kind of skateboarding you're doing, you should be doing it will a helmet. Skateboard helmets are designed for protection from all angles in the case of a fall, and come in a limitless style and color options. When you're buying your first board, don't forget to buy your first helmet, too. When buying a helmet, think about:


The fit. The helmet should sit snugly 1-2" above your eyebrows, not tilted back on your head.
If you plan to bike, too. Dedicated bike helmets aren't safe for skating and vice-versa. There are, however, hybrid helmets. Any helmet made for both sports will advertise itself as such.
If the helmet is comfortable. If you live in a hot area, get extra vent holes to cool off, and make sure it feels good to actually wear the helmet before buying it.