 In some cases it may be obvious, but if you aren't sure, check around your home to see if you can find where it is coming from. There are some common sources of bad smells in a home and solutions to fix them. Some problem areas include closets, cabinets, the refrigerator, bathroom, sinks, laundry room, or basement.
Check pet areas. Accidents in the house can cause horrible odors.
Plumbing can also be a source of smell. If you have an odor that smells of rotten eggs, it is likely a dried up or clogged u-pipe.
Smoking will also caused smells to build up in a home.
Check the trash as well. Sometimes kitchen or bathroom garbage can start to smell after a few days.
Eliminating bad odors is often all you need to do to make your house smell good quickly.;
, There are several strategies to help you do this quicklyA quick fix to this problem is to clean the carpet with baking soda. Baking soda will absorb a bad smell. Sprinkle the carpets with baking soda and let it sit for at least 15 minutes before vacuuming.
Wet messes will require a different approach.
Soak up any urine or other liquid mess with newspaper. If it becomes saturated, get fresh paper. Do this until you can only blot a little moisture up.
Rinse the area with fresh, clean water.
Remove excess water with a cloth or wet vacuum.
Try a commercial carpet cleaner, pet stain remover, or pet odor neutralizer to remove the odor from the area., A rotten egg smell can indicate a dried out u-pipe from your sewer. To test for this, poor a teaspoon of peppermint oil down the drain. This will not only help you locate the source of your plumbing issue, but it will help to mask the unpleasant odor coming from a drain. Peppermint oil has a very strong scent.
Run hot water.
If you can smell the peppermint in another part of the house, it is likely the drain trap.
Pour a lot of water into the drain to remove the smell. While this may not be a permanent fix to this problem, it will help remove the odor quickly and for the short-term.
 Cigarette smells are one of the most noticeable odors in a home. Place bowls of white vinegar or ammonia around your home to remove a cigarette smoke odor.
Vinegar is a wonderful odor neutralizer. Once you notice the smell has dissipated you can throw the vinegar away.
Wipe down hard surfaces with a mixture of 1 part vinegar to 5 parts water to remove a cigarette smell.
Vacuum mattresses and upholstery. Then allow these items to air out, preferably outside.

