 Water-based and silicone-based lubricants are good for most women as they are not as irritating to your vagina as oil-based lubricants. You should avoid oil-based lubricants if you use latex condoms as a form of birth control, as the lubricant can cause the condoms to break.Look for water-based lubricants at your local drugstore or online, such as Astroglide, FemGlide, Just Like Me, K-Y Jelly, Pre-Seed, Slippery Stuff, and Summer’s Eve.
You can also buy silicone-based lubricants, such as D Millennium, Pink, Pjur, and Pure Pleasure.
Vaseline jelly, mineral oil, and Elegance Woman’s lubricant are all good oil-based lubricant options. Some women may use oil-based lubricants in a pinch or if they are not able to access water-based and silicone-based lubricants. But be aware that oil-based lubricants can be irritating for some women.;
, Most lubricants are made for use before any sexual activity, as vaginal dryness can make sexual activity uncomfortable and painful. You can use lubricants on a daily basis to deal with vaginal dryness but they are short-lasting so you may need to apply it several times throughout the day.Keep the lubricant somewhere convenient, like on your nightstand or in your bathroom drawer. To apply the lubricant, squirt a few drops onto your hands and rub them together to warm up the lubricant so it is not cold to the touch. You can then apply it in your vagina using clean fingers.Another option is to warm the lubricant by placing the tube in a mug of warm water and letting it warm up. Do not let the lubricant get too hot, as you do not want to burn your skin when you apply it.
 If you looking for a daily solution to vaginal dryness, you may want to try a vaginal moisturizer. Though lubricants can help to reduce irritating friction, moisturizers will be absorbed by your vaginal tissues and mimic the natural secretions in your vagina more effectively. Moisturizer are also good for maintaining a normal pH in your vagina and prevent the development of bacterial or fungal infections.You can also apply vaginal moisturizer two hours before you have sexual intercourse to avoid irritating friction during sex.Warm up the moisturizer with your hands or by placing the package in warm water. Use clean fingers to carefully apply the moisturizer to your vagina.
Look for vaginal moisturizers such as Fresh Start, K-Y Silk-E, Moist Again, Replens, and K-Y Liquibeads.
You can also use a small amount of A & D ointment to help moisturize the area around your vulva.
 Natural oils like grapeseed, olive, sweet almond, sunflower, or coconut oil can be effective for vaginal dryness. You can apply these oils directly to your vulva and vaginal area throughout the day and/or before sexual intercourse as natural lubricants.Put one teaspoon of the natural oil onto a piece of clean toilet paper and apply it to your vagina, or use a quarter-sized amount of oil on the palm of your hand.
 Vitamin E is a good option if you are trying to avoid using prescription products. You can insert Vitamin E into your vagina in the form of a suppository or by opening up a Vitamin E caplet and applying the contents onto your vulva and vagina.Make sure you only use naturally sourced Vitamin E products. Check the label on the product to ensure it contains only natural ingredients.

