 As you get used to the fingerings and air intensity, you can shape the sound to create a warmer tone.;
, This will be your first altissimo note. Meet C#!

, This is D.
 Now, only cover the middle hole on the upper joint, the two bottom holes on the lower joint, and keep the pinky key down. This is high G, exactly one octave above the top of the staff.
 Now you will perform an overtone. Try blowing into the clarinet harder and aim for getting a half step higher than G, G#/Ab. This note can also be done by playing G from the previous step and lifting the 3rd finger on the lower joint, so only the 2nd hole on both the upper and lower joint, and the upper left pinky key as normal are being covered.
 Now perform an overtone on this for an A. This note can also be played by pressing the 2nd and 3rd holes on the upper joint, like playing the high E, but instead of using the upper left pinky key, use the lower left pinky key, the same one used for 3rd space/middle register C#. This is more of a standard fingering that could be called an overtone, but the C# key makes it much more of a defined A.
 Press the key used for the G# on the staff. Finger the rest like the high F you played earlier. Now aim to play the overtone and get A#.
 Cover the top two holes on the bottom joint and make sure you haven't forgotten the pinky key for any of the altissimo notes(excluding C#). Now try to make the pitched squeak on this note and if you can get it out, you have accomplished playing a B over an octave from the staff.
 This is high C, on top of the 5th ledger line over the staff! This is an accomplishment!

, It is advisable to use the altissimo fingerings you just learned, because then you don't need to try as hard to get the right note, you're in the range already.
 The best way to prepare yourself for this is to play the mouthpiece. To do this, take the clarinet mouthpiece and using only changes in your throat play different notes. You should (with practice) be able to play an entire octave on the mouthpiece alone.

