 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen. If you're trying to change your IP address in order to fix a connection issue, renewing it is an easier process than manually changing the address., This will search your computer for the Command Prompt app., It should be at the top of the Start window., This option is at the bottom of the drop-down menu.

If you aren't an administrator on your current computer, you won't have this option and thus won't be able to renew your computer's IP address.
 Doing so opens Command Prompt., This command "forgets" your current IP address., This refreshes your IP address. Doing this in and of itself will likely solve some connection issues, though it won't always change your computer's actual IP address., Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or press ⊞ Win., It's in the lower-left corner of the Start window., This globe-shaped icon should be in the top row of Settings icons., It's on the left side of the Network & Internet window., Depending on your latest Windows update, it's either in the top-right side of the page, or near the bottom of the page., Your current network's icon resembles a computer monitor with a green series of bars on it., It's in the upper-right side of the window.

If the window isn't in full-screen view, you may have to click >> in the upper-right side of the window to view this option.
 It's in the window in the middle of the page. Click the text--not the checkbox to the left of the text--to select this option., This option is below the window with the list of network types., Click the circular button next to this line of text., Do so in the fields below the radio button:


IP address - Usually, your device's IP address will be "192.168.1.X" (or a similar set of numbers), wherein "X" is specific to your device. Change the "X" value to a number between 1 and 100. Make sure you don't use the same IP address as another device on your network (e.g., your phone).

Subnet mask - This depends on your IP address, but will usually be "255.255.255.X".

Default gateway - This is your router's IP address.
 It's below the "Default gateway" field., Do so in the provided fields:


Preferred DNS server - Your preferred DNS address (for example: "208.67.222.222" for the OpenDNS server, or "8.8.8.8" for Google's server).

Alternate DNS server - A secondary DNS address (for example: "208.67.220.220" for the OpenDNS server, or "8.8.4.4" for Google's server).
 It's in the lower-left corner of the page.

If this box is already checked, skip this step.
 This will save your changes and apply the new private IP address to your computer.