 Rags soaked in paint thinner may combust in air, causing a serious fire. Place them in a metal container with a tight lid, fill with water, and bring it to a hazardous waste collection site.If you do not have a watertight container, spread the rags out on a non-flammable surface in a ventilated area. Weigh them down with no bunching or overlap. Supervise them until they are dry. Seal in a fireproof container.;
, There's no need to throw out paint thinner after one use. After soaking tools or brushes, leave the paint thinner to sit in a sealed, labeled glass container. Over time, the paint and other contaminants will settle to the bottom. This can take anywhere from a couple days to several months depending on how dirty the paint thinner is.
 Once the dirt has settled to the bottom, pour the clean top layer through coffee filters into a clean glass jar.Leave some space at the top of the new jar, seal tightly, and label it.Always wear heavy rubber or nitrile gloves when handling paint thinner., Leave the container open and let dry in a well-ventilated area. Add cat litter, sawdust, or sand to speed up drying.Keep this container out of the reach of pets and children, and away from heat, flame, and flammable materials.


If there is more than 1 cup (240 mL) of material left, use the method below instead.
Bring it straight to a hazardous waste facility instead if the solvent contains a halogenated chemical (anything with "fluor-," "chlor-," "brom-," or "iod-" in the name).These chemicals are not commonly used in paint thinners, but can be found in related solvents such as paint strippers and degreasers.
 Once the material is solid and completely dry, wrap the paint thinner in newspaper, then seal in a plastic bag. You can now throw it away in the household trash.


Many waste collection services will accept this, but there's a chance yours requires you to bring this to a hazardous waste site. You can call yours to confirm., You can use the regular household trash if there is less than one inch (2.5 cm) of residue inside the container, and it has dried completely.Do not put them in the recycling.If there is still liquid inside, or a large amount of dried residue, take the container to a hazardous waste collection site.

