 People who abuse drugs often avoid those who don't. You may notice that the person is avoiding former friends and coworkers, or developing new friendships with a different sort of person.There may be complaints from the person's former friends, supervisors, coworkers, teachers, etc.
Someone on stimulants is likely to talk a great deal, in a self-centered way. They may not be pleasant to be around.
They may start to become paranoid, and develop theories about how other people are against them.
 Someone abusing drugs is likely to show diminished interest in work or school. She may lie about attending, call in sick, or just stop going.This lack of interest may be very different from the way the person was before, or it may not be very different.
You may notice a drop in grades or work performance.
 Someone who is abusing drugs may seem paranoid, or just reclusive. She may try to keep anyone, particularly family members, from entering her room or home.She may take great pains to keep her activity secret from others, especially people who are close to her.
The person may lie about their daily activities.
You may notice the person engaging in suspicious activity that can't be explained.
 The person abusing drugs may find herself getting in trouble at school, home, work, friendships or relationships. This includes: accidents, fights, legal problems, arguments, and so on.Getting in trouble may be uncharacteristic of this person prior to abusing drugs, or it may not be uncharacteristic. If this is new, consider the possibility of drug abuse as a factor.
Sometimes, getting into trouble is sufficient reason for the person to stop abusing the drug.
If the person continues drug abuse despite repeated situations of getting in trouble, they are likely addicted and will need treatment in order to get off the drug.
 Someone abusing prescription drugs often finds herself meeting financial challenges to pay for the drugs. An unusual or unexplained need for money may be a sign of drug abuse. Someone abusing drugs may steal, lie or cheat in order to get money, even if they're otherwise considered an honest person.You may find yourself missing jewelry, computers or other items of high resale value. Someone who is abusing drugs may engage in theft to support her drug habit.
If the person seems to be spending a lot of money without anything to show for it, she may be spending the money on drugs.
 You can't get prescription drugs whenever you want, and a person abusing these drugs will run out before they are due for a refill. The person will have a myriad of reasons why she needs an early refill each month: they were stolen, they fell down the sink or in the toilet, forgot them in a hotel room, threw them away accidentally, and so on. This is a telltale sign of prescription drug abuse.

