 It's easy to have one notebook for many purposes, but when it comes to your dreams, it's best to devote a single book to it. Mostly, the reasoning is that if you have one notebook for dreams, you won't be tempted to pick it up and move it somewhere else. Pick something that you really like, that inspires your creativity, as it can also inspire your dreams.Recording your dreams helps you remember more dreams, making it seem like you are dreaming more.In fact, some theories suggest that your brain doesn't store all of its dreams to memory simply because so many dreams would cause you to have trouble distinguishing reality from dreams. Other theories suggest that your brain stores the memory of the dream, but they are not readily accessible to memory.Most people forget many of their dreams because they keep on sleeping. That is, you have to wake up to remember your dream, so you likely will only remember your dreams near the times you are awake, such as in the morning. However, you may not even remember those because you move on with your day too quickly., Have a notebook right beside your bed so it is available when you wake up. You'll want it to be instantly on hand the moment you open your eyes, as dreams are fleeting., When you wake up, don't move. Take just a moment to think about what you were dreaming. Once you have a clear image of your dream in your mind, move on to the next step., It may be tempting to run to the bathroom first before writing about your dream, but by then, your dream may be gone. Start jotting down the main images of your dreams as soon as you open your eyes, and reach for your pen and notebook.Include the main details, such as who was in it, what major things you saw, and what the main action was.
If you wake in the middle of the night after having a dream, write down the details of your dream in the notebook before falling back asleep.
 If anybody said anything in your dream, take a moment to write it down. What was said could be important to interpreting your dream, if you are inclined to do so., Once you get the main part of the dream down, try filling in the details. Add in as many details as you can remember, from the time of year to the memories it brought up for you., What you're feeling when you wake up is an important part of the dream. Write down a few notes about your current emotions along with the details of your dream., If you don't enjoy writing, you can record your dream on your phone or some other recording device. Just make sure you have the application open so you can easily access it in the morning.As with written dream journals, you should record as much information as possible and do so as soon as possible. If you cannot remember a dream in full detail, talk about general impressions, images, and feelings that you do recall. You may even begin to remember more as you begin talking about your dream.
 Another way to capture a dream is to make a drawing of it in your journal. Because dreams are driven by images, it may be easier for you to draw than to write it. It doesn't matter if you're not an artist. You just need to get the images down on paper.