 Your sense of happiness is directly influenced by how well you take care of your body. Eating a healthy nutritious diet will ensure you feel energized for the day and your body is feeling at its best. Your diet should be balanced, with good sources of protein, carbohydrates, and dairy as well as fruits and vegetables.You should create a meal plan and go shopping every week for fresh produce. Try to stick to the items on your grocery list so you are not tempted to get unhealthy foods.
If you have a hard time going grocery shopping every week due to your busy schedule, you should opt for the healthy option when you go out to eat. Look for an option that contains vegetables and healthy sources of protein, such as tofu or lean meats.
 Set aside time in your schedule to work up a sweat for at least 30 minutes to one hour a day. Exercise helps to create endorphins and contribute to a more positive outlook on life. Working out will allow you to release any stress or anxiety you may be struggling with and feel refreshed by the end of your run, jog, or exercise class.You may have an exercise class you enjoy doing on a daily basis or several times a week. Or you may prefer to run or jog for exercise. Whatever you decide to do, make sure you let yourself sweat on a consistent basis to boost your mood and stay healthy.
 Try to fit in some outside time to your routine, whether this is a short walk in a green space near the office or a walk in the sun on a nice day. Exposure to sunlight, and Vitamin D, can help to boost your mood and your health. Studies have shown that spending time in green spaces, with lots of plants and natural beauty, can also improve your outlook and your mood., Research has shown that not getting enough sleep every night can lead to mood swings, depression, and disease.You should aim to get at least eight hours of uninterrupted sleep a night. Create a sleep schedule where you go to sleep at the same time and wake up at the same time, as this will help keep your body balanced and make it easier for you to get a full night of rest.


If you decide to nap, try to nap after 3 pm and for no longer than 30 minutes. Short naps should not affect your sleep schedule as long as they are 30 minutes or less.
 Meditation has been shown to have positive effects on your mindset and increase your sense of peace. Take five to ten minutes out of your day to sit in a quiet, secluded spot and do meditation. This can allow you to work through any stress or anxiety you may be feeling.Close your eyes and breath deeply in and out of your mouth. Focus on calming your mind and inner peace. You can play soothing music in the background to help you stay focused and relaxed.
 Maybe you’ve always wanted to try fencing or rowing, or you have always been meaning to get better at pottery or painting. Challenge yourself to learn a new skill or perfect an existing hobby. Often, trying something new can be motivating and inspiring. Enlist a friend to take a class in a new skill with you or pursue the hobby on your own.You may want to pursue a new hobby or skill as a way to achieve a life goal. Striving for a specific goal or mission can give you aspirations and lead to greater happiness. Goals also give you a sense of purpose and bolsters your self esteem.
You may ask yourself a few questions to help you find a new hobby or skill, such as, “What gets me excited and engaged?” “What have I always wanted to try in life?”

