 This is a challenge that can help you break out of your comfort zone. Try to find a different color for every day of the week. You can mix and match the other clothing and accessories you have based around this color. This will force you to create some cute outfits.You do not have to have a shirt or a pair of pants in your desired color. Maybe most of your shirts tend to be black, brown, and green, but you have a few more colorful scarves or vests.
Maybe a purple scarf could be worn with a black top and lavender shoes, for example. A red vest could be worn over a plain black t-shirt.;
, If you have an outfit that feels so-so, use a belt. Belts can be used to make an outfit stand out from the crowd.If you have a belt in an interesting color, or one that comes with a decorative buckle, you could tuck in your shirt for the day and wear that belt.
You can also tie a belt around your waist. A loose-fitting shirt or dress can highlight your figure better if you have a belt around your waist.
 You may feel like you can't wear the same outfit twice, but a good pair of pants or shirt can be used in multiple outfits. Try going for an unusual combination one day and see how you like your new style.For example, maybe you have a longer shirt that flows a little. You could wear it with a pair of skinny jeans. You could also tuck it into a skirt, or wear it with a belt down the middle.
If you have a button down shirt, you could wear it mostly buttoned up one day. The next week, you could wear it unbuttoned with a nice t-shirt underneath. You could also add a tie, if there's a more formal occasion happening at your school.
 A simple cardigan can add color and flare to an outfit. A dull sleeveless blouse or t-shirt can be worn under an interesting, colorful cardigan.For example, say you have a white, sleeveless blouse or a plain white t-shirt. This may look a little dull on its own. However, add a colorful or patterned cardigan. This can make your outfit cuter.
If you want to highlight your figure, a belt can also be wrapped around a cardigan.
 You can actually download a phone app that will give you wardrobe suggestions based on the clothing in your closet. If you have a smart phone, try using the app ClosetSpace.You upload pictures or descriptions of your items to the app. The app with then offer you suggestions on what to wear. You can cater those suggestions for a particular event, style, or season.
 Once you've found a good outfit, record it. If you're lacking inspiration one morning, look at recent photos. You may find something that inspires you to come up with a new outfit. Recording your best outfits will also help you start thinking about forming your own personal style., You can hang out with a fashionable friend, look at fashion blogs, and read fashion magazines. Look at people dressed in a variety of outfits. Notice what makes their style unique.If there's a particular model you like, start looking up pictures of him or her. Is there something unique about this model's style? Does he or she always wear sunglasses, for example, or tend to dress in a particular color?
Remember, fashion magazines are often trying to get you to buy something. As you browse magazines, remember you don't have to break the bank to be fashionable. Do not be tempted to order a $50 cardigan. Just write down the type you liked and you can probably find something similar, and cheaper, at a local clothing store.
 If you're in love with a particular color, this could be the staple of your wardrobe. If a particular color looks good on you, and you find yourself wearing it a lot, think about how you could always incorporate this color into your wardrobe.Undertones in your skin can determine whether you have a warm of cool complexion. If you have pink, red, or bluish undertones, you have a cool complexion. Colors like greens, blues, purples, and pinks look best on you.If you have yellow, peachy, or golden undertones in your skin, you have a warm complexion. You would look best in yellows, reds, oranges, and browns.Think about both your complexion and your color preferences. Personality may come into play as well. If you're loud and confident, red may be a good signature color. Once you've selected a signature color, try to add it to every aspect of your wardrobe.
 You can refer back to your wardrobe diary. You can also simply consider what kind of outfits tend to be most flattering on you.Pull five things from your wardrobe you wear regularly. Figure out why they work for you. For example, maybe you pull out three long and loose tops and two pairs of fitted jeans. Maybe you have a longer torso and slim legs, so longer tops and tight jeans work well for you.
Evaluate these items. How can they speak to a signature look? What is missing? Maybe you want a little more color. If your signature color is red, for example, a pair of red skinny jeans can be added to your outfit. Maybe you want to make things slightly more formal. You could look for a long button down red top.
 Pull out five clothing items from your closet you never wear. These can even be items you wish you had not bought. Try to figure out why they don't work for you.For instance, you pull out three t-shirts and two skirts. These are very different from the longer tops and tight jeans you pulled out earlier. Maybe t-shirts look awkward on you due to your longer frame, and you dislike that skirts hide your legs.
Now, you can begin to see what types of clothing you prefer. These types of clothing can be made into your signature look.
 You have an idea of what kind of clothes you should go for. From here, think about how to expand on what you have. You may find you can add accessories and new clothing items to cultivate your look.Returning to the example, you picked red because you feel bold and confident. How you can you make your clothing express this while sticking to the style that most flatters you?
More patterns could help with boldness. Look at a long, polka-dotted red blouse. Choose bright red skinny jeans, to be worn with black top.
What accessories convey boldness? A clunky red necklace? A bright red watch? A red belt? Maybe you could paint your fingernails red, or use striking red lipstick.
 Many people have a look defined by a signature item. Is there an accessory you love? Maybe you could incorporate this accessory into your style every day, or most days.Maybe you've always loved watches. You can get a wide collection of different watches and wear one every day. You can have some of these watches come in shades of your signature color.
Maybe you have a lot of affection for hoop earrings. Try to wear pairs in different sizes, shapes, and colors each day.
 If you want to shop to ramp up your wardrobe, make sure you don't buy anything you do not need. Certain wardrobe staples appear in most people's closets. Scan your closet for the following items prior to a shopping trip:A small black dress or a black blazer
Black trousers or pants
A white button down shirt
Blue jeans
Dark jeans
A white cardigan and a black cardigan

, If you need any of the above items, buy them when you're shopping. Something like, say, a black cardigan can be used in multiple outfits. Such items give your wardrobe more mix and match potential, adding to the cute outfits you can assemble for school., Go into your shopping trip having some sense of what you want. Remember your signature style. Select a few items that could be added to existing clothing in your wardrobe to create a cute outfit based around your style.For example, the warmer months are coming and you need some summer outfits. Your signature color is red, so look for red shorts, t-shirts, and tank tops.
Your shoes are almost always red, so you'll need a pair of red flip-flops or sandals.
You can also shop just for day-to-day items. You have a great button down red shirt. Buy a vest to go with it, as well as a watch with a red strap. This creates a new outfit from a single shirt.
 As you shop, be on the lookout for anything that can enhance your personal style. Keep in mind what you're known for in your school style-wise, and look for items that compliment this.Maybe your fingernails are always painted different colors. Browse the cosmetics section to find nail polish colors you have not yet tried.
Maybe you're known to wear a lot of wrist bands. Stop by a store like Hot Topic and buy some new wrist bands for your wardrobe.

