 The Leaping Bunny program has a sample letter you can send to companies that test on animals to urge them to stop. Try putting together a letter writing campaign with your friends and family. Send these letters to companies you know test on animals. The more letters the companies receive, the more likely they might be to heed the information., The Humane Society of the United States has an ongoing petition and pledge on their website for those interested in supporting the cause of going cruelty-free. Other organizations such as PETA also have different petitions circulating at any given time to aid animals being subjected to cruelty for testing purposes.Consider even writing or starting your own petition. There are many online outlets such as Change.org that offer a platform for creating and sharing web-based petitions with a wide audience. Create your own and share it on your social media accounts.
 If you are a student, there may be an animal rights group at your school that you can join. Or, anyone could find a group online to join, such as PETA. If there are no groups in your area, consider starting one yourself. Come up with a plan of action for your group, from letter writing campaigns to peaceful protests outside of companies that test on animals. Your group could also raise money for existing animal rights organizations, or volunteer at no-kill animal shelters nearby., Check the Humane Society’s website for volunteer opportunities in your area at shelters, or in areas experiencing a crisis. Or, head to your local no-kill animal shelter and sign up to volunteer once or twice a week caring for the animals. If you don’t have much time, you can simply donate funds to these organizations.Local animal shelters may also have a wishlist on their website for items they need at the shelter. If there isn’t a list online, give them a call and ask what they’re in need of. You can probably find most of it at your local big box store for cheap.
 The Humane Society has a fund set up to assist animals in animal testing labs. Through their website, you can donate $25USD and help these animals, as well as receive a membership to the Humane Society., Use your social media platforms to raise awareness of the issue of animal testing by posting information and links to credible websites. Help your friends and family find cruelty-free products and educate them on the issue. Hand out flyers or pamphlets with information on animal testing at your school, work, or in your neighborhood.

