 Get an appointment with a professional aromatherapist. An aromatherapist is a practitioner who has been trained in the use of essential oils and is also registered in a hands-on therapy such as nursing or massage.Aromatherapists are also often registered as acupuncturists or have knowledge of other alternative modalities. They will be able to administer the aromatherapy treatment and teach you how to safely use essential oils.When searching for an aromatherapist, you should ask if they have any prior experience treating cancer patients.


Ask your medical doctor for a referral to an aromatherapist.
There is no international standard for aromatherapy, so you will have to look into the required credentials for aromatherapists in your region.Search the website of the National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy. You can search the this website to find an aromatherapist in your country and region.Find an aromatherapist on the Aromatherapy Registration Council website.Aromatherapy is not FDA regulated., An aromatherapy consultant has been trained in the use of essential oils but is not a hands-on therapist such as a nurse or massage therapist. An aromatherapy consultant can give you advice on which essential oils to use and how to use them, but will not be able to administer the hands-on treatment.However, an aromatherapy consultant will offer consultation services that may include detailed advice on how to treat your particular condition, recommended resources and a sample blend of essential oils.You can search the National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy website to find an aromatherapy consultant in your country and region.You could ask for consultation on the use of essential oils to treat side effects of cancer treatment.
 You can find aromatherapy treatment options at most local spas. You should ask your local spa whether they have a certified aromatherapist or aromatherapy consultant on staff. Follow up by asking them if you can get hands-on treatment from someone with training in aromatherapy. Try asking the following questions:


Do you have anyone on staff with aromatherapy training?
Do you have any registered massage therapists who are also trained in aromatherapy?
Do you have any specialized aromatherapy treatment options or packages?
Do you have aromatherapy treatment for individuals who are undergoing cancer treatment?

