 Although most colds are cause by wind cold, sometimes wind heat proves to be the culprit. In this case, the treatment aims to help the body return to its balanced state, which means that heat inside the body should be expelled. Treatment options include the use of cold and flu formula, wind heat clearing, and lung heat clearing.


Some signs of a cold caused by wind heat are: speedy pulse (above 60 beats per minute), headache, dry, non-productive cough expectorating yellow mucus, irritability, sore and swollen throat, and fever.
 Prepare a chrysanthemum and peppermint tea to relieve headache, fever, nasal congestion, and sore throat. This tea works to cool down the body and expel the wind heat.


Boil 6 grams of chrysanthemum in a pot of 400 ml of boiling water.
Upon boiling, add 3 grams of peppermint and white sugar.
Continue to boil about 2 to 3 minutes.
Take this tea twice daily.
 Ganmao Qing can dispel or reduce the symptoms caused of cold caused by wind heat. The use of this decoction is can also reduce the risk of inflammation. Additionally, it can get rid of fever caused by wind heat and provide heat clearing by expelling the presence of the pathogens caused by fire toxin.


Gunmao Qung is made up of three herbs: isatis root and leaf, as well as andrographis.
These herbs are endowed with antibiotic properties that can clear or expel heat and also expel the presence of fire toxin.
 This decoction can dispel or eliminate symptoms of the common cold caused by wind heat occurring in the spring or summer. It can also be used to treat the early stages of fever.


It contains Japanese honeysuckle, platycodon, burdock, isatis, forsythia, and lophantherum, which can expel heat and even eradicate fire toxin.

Platycodon can soothe throat itchiness by coating the throat. It also has properties that can diffuse the lungs, resulting in better expulsion of phlegm.
Lophantherum, on the other hand, relieves thirst and encourages salivation.
 Isatis root granule is able to expel toxic heat by lessening its presence in the blood. It has antibiotic properties, and is able to relieve sore throats and reduce swelling.

