 If you have a big enough garden, one area could be specifically designed for your children, where they can be supervised and the damage they do to the garden is minimized. Some ideas for things you could add to this designated kid-friendly area include:


A grass pitch for ball games
A climbing frame
A sandpit
Some children may do better if left to their own devices to create their own games and entertainment in the garden rather than have play options spelled out for them.
Gardens create lots of opportunities for messy play so allow children the freedom to mess around with mud, paint, sand or water.
 Gardening is a good way to teach children about healthy eating and how plants grow. You can choose easy and quick plants for them to grow themselves. Easy jobs in the garden that children can join in with include watering plants and deadheading (removing dead blooms).


Good choices include sunflowers, nasturtiums, radish, beans and peppers or tomatoes.
 You can encourage healthy eating by getting children to grow or harvest their own food with things like blueberries, peas, tomatoes, and strawberries.


Be aware that this may encourage children to pick other non-edible plants and berries so make sure that they are aware of what can be eaten and what cannot.
 To do this, make an oblong frame that is about the height of your child. You can use sticks or wooden lengths to do this. Tie twine or string about an inch apart across the longest length. Give children the creativity to make their own patterns using string, lengths of rag, ribbon and long grass to weave their own pattern into the loom.


You can also have your children make woven masterpieces out of purely green materials such as pliable green stems, lengths of ivy or Virginia creeper. However, keep in mind that these last two are toxic, so they should only be given to older children that understand that they should not eat them.
 To plant a sunflower circle, find a sunny spot with fertile soil and mark out a circle in the ground using something like a hula hoop. Plant sunflower seeds around the circle, leaving a space for an entrance. Eventually you will have a tall den of sunflowers.


Try to plant two sunflower seeds in each hole, as some may not sprout. When the seedlings emerge, discard the weaker seedling if two grow together.
 To make a runner bean teepee, start by forming a wigwam or teepee out of sticks such as tall garden canes. You’ll need about 8 to 15 canes. Leave a space for an entrance. Plant runner beans or other climbing plants at the base of each cane and they should grow to form a canopy over the canes.

