 Women have long been searching for ways to avoid touching the toilet. It hardly seems fair that men can stand when you have to sit, right? Fortunately, the marketplace has responded to women's needs. There are now funnel-like devices for sale that allow women the ease of standing while urinating. When you're shopping, look for what is known as a Female Urinary Device.You'll want to shop around. There are many FUD's available, and most are pretty affordable. Pick the style and size that's right for you. For example, if you plan to transport the FUD frequently, try picking a smaller option. Don't worry if you don't love it--there are others you can try!;
, Most women have tried the squat/hover method, and most would agree--you need tips on how to do it better. For the least messy results, try placing your feet fairly wide apart (think wider than hip-width). This will create a steady base. Then hover towards the seat while leaning slightly forward.Many women find it useful to try to balance their hands or elbows on your thighs while leaning forward to prevent wobbling.
Strengthen your thighs. The stronger your legs, the easier the squat will be for you. Try doing multiple reps of strengthening exercises with light weights. Think squats and lunges. Yet another benefit of hitting the gym!, Some outfits are simply easier to manage when faced with a dirty public restroom. Ideally, you'd always be wearing a skirt with no underwear when faced with the need to hover, but that's not reality. If you're wearing something more complicated, such as a jumper, you'll need to take extra precautions.


After you've rolled down the top of your jumper, focus on the bottom. Gather up the wide legs of your outfit in your hand to avoid them dragging on the floor. Then, slowly back up in hover position until you are over the toilet.Other troublesome garments include shorts and pants. Practice lowering these only as far as absolutely necessary so that they avoid dragging on the ground. You'll also want to practice balancing with your shorts around your knees.
 Technology can be your best friend in a dirty bathroom. Many public toilets are not only equipped with automatic flushing devices, but with automatic clean seat covers. Seek out restrooms with these upgrades. The less surfaces you have to touch, the better you will feel about the situation., Although they look horrifying, public toilets actually present a much lower health risk than many people realize. In reality, your odds of catching a disease or infection from a toilet seat are incredibly low. You are much more likely to become ill from bacteria living on the sponges in your kitchen. So don't worry too much if you haven't managed to perfect your squat!