 Before going on Gameshark, think about what you're looking for, in terms of the game you are playing and the level at which you're currently playing.;
, You'll see a vibrant single page with a helpful menu of selections along the left side.
 The "codes" button will take you to available codes for games.


Figure out how to implement codes in a specific game. While Gameshark might get you some useful codes, you won't be able to use them unless you know how coding for a specific game is set up. For the more obscure games, you may need to scour user forums and other remote parts of the Internet in order to figure out how to use Gameshark data.
 This is another menu item that can help with a particular game.


Identify your game by video game system. When you click on the cheats/guides button, you will see an array of video game console systems at the top of the page identified by name and icon. Click on a video game system, and you will see available resources for games on the system.
 Gameshark has much more to offer gamers in the form of additional information about existing games, upcoming products and the general gaming world, which includes the plans of top video game makers and more about the general industry.


Use the available "news" option to connect with the latest in the video gaming industry. Clicking into the "news" menu will get you a list of headlines, with an alphabetical index at the top. Many of these news briefs include graphics or screen shots, along with short updates on games and game makers.
Use the "events" option to find out about upcoming conventions and other gatherings for gaming fans.
Utilize Gameshark product support. If you have any problems with anything that you encounter on the site, Gameshark staff can help you address them, with handy support via email.
Browse the Gameshark store online. This part of the site, also accessible from the main menu, offers discounts on some gaming merchandise including advanced controllers. Look up your regional Gameshark store by country from a provided list.

