 When wondering if your dog is in heat, it first helps to understand her normal hormonal cycle. When a female dog reaches maturity, and is physically ready to reproduce, her estrogen levels increase, initiating the release of eggs from her ovaries. If mating occurs during this period, the eggs can then be fertilized and an embryo can be produced.Female dogs, will generally go into heat during puberty, at around 6 to 24 months of age depending on breed. Smaller breeds generally come into heat earlier than larger breeds.;
, In a year, a dog will usually go into heat twice with an average interval of six months in between each heat, depending on the breed.This can help you decide if it's likely she's in heat. For example, if she was in heat one month ago, it's unlikely she's in heat again so soon and something might be wrong.
While most dogs come into heat twice a year, is every six months, as with any hormonal event some dogs are more regular than others. Some dogs come into heat as regular as clockwork every six months, whilst others are highly variable. A window of 4 - 8 months is considered normal.
Dogs are usually in heat for three to four weeks.
 The heat itself follows a pattern, with the vulva swelling and a bloody discharge in the first week. However, nature has a trick up her sleeve, because around days 7 - 14 the discharge may stop or become much lighter. This can trick the unwary owner into thinking season is over and their bitch is no longer at risk of pregnancy. However, nothing could be further from the truth. This middle week is actually when the dog ovulates, and is at the peak risk of falling pregnant.


This is also the week when she is most interested in finding a boyfriend, and so far from relaxing your vigilance, if you do not want the dog to have puppies you should tighten up on security.
Around days 14 - 21 into the heat, the bloody discharge returns, but gradually lightens and dries up completely. However, the vulva often remains larger than normal for another couple of weeks (although she cannot get pregnant now her heat is over).

