 Unflattering glasses will not make you feel like you look pretty, no matter how hard you try. It’s important to be picky when selecting glasses since you’ll likely be wearing them every day.You can have several pairs of glasses, but it’s more practical to pick one dependable pair.


Go shopping for glasses wearing a favorite shirt and hairdo so you know what to expect when wearing your glasses every day.
Pick frames that curve upwards on the ends to draw the eye upwards and give you an upbeat air.To find out your face shape, pull your hair back and look in a mirror. Use the edge of a piece of soap to draw the outline of your face and then determine which shape it is.

Round faces can benefit from frames that have sharp angles to help keep your face from looking flat.
An oval shaped frame helps to soften a hard jawline on a square or angular face shape.
Almost all frame types can compliment an oval shape, but round frames have a tendency to look heavy.
Heart shaped faces tend to have wider foreheads and narrow chins so a frameless lens or frames with edges that point upwards can work well.;
, Glasses that look out of proportion to your face won’t be flattering, nor will frames that are too small. Make sure that the edges of your frames fall just at the outer edge of your face. They’re too big if they’re wider than the widest part of your face.Wiggle the frames around your nose. If they’re too tight they’ll leave unsightly red marks and loose frames will constantly be falling off your face.
The tops of your frames should fall just below your eyebrows.Make sure you have a big enough lens to look through. Too-small lenses will make your eyes squint unattractively and too-big lenses will make your eyes look puny.
 Instead of a simple round or rectangular frame, have fun with a cat eye or coke-bottle styled frames. Glasses are a great way to express your personal style. Don’t worry about them not matching every single item in your closet because if you treat your glasses like a statement piece, they’ll go with anything.If you want to try something new but don’t have the confidence quite yet, get a second opinion from a friend.
Some opticians offer deals for buying two pairs of glasses; you can get a classic, dependable pair and have fun with the second pair.
 Black, brown, and neutral metals are classic choices for eyewear, but for a fresh and bold take, pick a funky color. A bright color will help you stand out and you will feel less drab and ordinary with your lenses.Warm skin tones tend to look good with browns and bright tones and cool skin tones look good with blue, silver, or muted colors.
If you can't decide on a colour, try tortoise shell. It flatters all skin tones and goes well with almost anything!
If you tend to wear a certain color family most of the time, pick glasses that coordinate with the majority of your outfits.
It helps to wear a favorite outfit when shopping for glasses so you know how well they’ll match your wardrobe.
Match your glasses to your hair:

Blonde hair works well with a medium brown tones, black with metallic accents, or purple and blues.
Brown hair has the most options for color as most colors work well with it.
Black hair looks good with solid black, a combination of black and white, and striking, bold hues.
Red hair shouldn’t be paired with yellow toned frames, but warm browns and tortoiseshell are great.
Grey hair works well with blues and burgundy.