 Also ensure that all spelling errors are fixed, the grammar is up to par, and you have it typed so it is able to be read easily on any computer. The better shape your writing is in, the increased likelihood your stories will get read for deciding about publication.


If on a computer, try Spell Check. Alternatively (or in addition to), maybe get a member of family to proofread.;
, One idea: email the story to your friends and ask them to forward it for other people's opinions. Take the opinions into account and make necessary changes to enhance your work.
 It is a good idea to try several, rather than putting all of your hopes into one approach.
, Be aware that some genres are more challenging to get published than others. For example, if you write science fiction, or horror fiction, it will be harder to find magazines devoted to these.
 Include a letter explaining the story and your wish to be published. Include your email address, name, age, etc.


Try to find more than one magazine, as a back up plan, in case you aren't published (which is highly probable).
 If you've already written your story, then go to a website that lists markets for short stories. One good website for this is the Submissions Grinder, which will allow you to search for presses and magazines that are looking for short stories in your genre.


Look on the presses' and magazines' websites to find out how to submit stories.
Consider submitting to an anthology, too, if your short story fits what the anthology is asking for.
 There are often writing contests, some are for teens and children, too. Ask the librarians for information.
 You may have to pay a small fee, though.


For websites that will publish it try www.authorhouse.com, Booksurge.com, and Dorrancepublishing.com.
 As you advance, you may even have the opportunity to pursue a job in this field, but for most people, it remains a much loved hobby, so don't throw in the day job.
 Many great writers had trouble publishing their books. You can ask writers for tips, or even the editors for what they want to see in a story! Then send in your story to other places!

