 Record your thoughts into more formal written work at a later time.;
, Focus on events or emotions throughout the day.
 Observe people without judgement, attempting to look into their past for character development.
, Imagine what occurred prior to overhearing a conversation or what will occur thereafter.


Create a series of conversations between two characters. Conversation creates a story that is more realistic.
 Someone may see a nasty weed, but you see a beautiful dandelion in bloom.
 Imagine a story about someone's life based upon their appearance, attitude or the book they are reading.
 Focus more deeply on what you're yet to discover about it, such as its history or a particular aspect.
 Reflect upon your insights.


Record your own emotions. Write with descriptive detail of anger, compassion or grief.
 Choose a topic such as gardening or your children.
 Write down how you feel when you are angry, sad, happy or sick.
, To be a writer, you must love to read.
 Reread your first-grade story that describes how you lost a mitten.
 Look at art, jewelry, crafts or things you enjoy.
 Find an experienced person and interview him. Ask about hobbies, passions, likes, dislikes, experiences, etc. In the end, ask,"What's next for you?" From here, you can see what they're looking forward to. It's now for you to move deeper into that.
 Sit in a forest or stand on a busy street corner.
 Classical music also works, since it holds a lot of emotion. Listen to any classical music from the great composers.
,,,, Focus on their thoughts and the ways that these have been influenced by past experience. What were those past experiences? Why have the experiences wrought particular changes or points of view shown by this character?

, Your mind may be more creative and free to associate in times of leisure or while occupied with other activities.
 Choose the habit that fits you most, then develop and establish it to get inspired.
, Write three pages that focus on two solutions.
, Example: yellow may lead to sunflower, then to summer, then to winter, then to snow, then to a day off from school, etc.
 Mix them together. Choose a setting, characters and plot.
 This could be about the environment, politics, child rearing, education, economics, etc.
 Choose a subject and write continuously for a set period of time, all the while disregarding spelling, punctuation or grammar. Use online tools such as 420fables to make freewriting a regular part of your daily writing discipline.
 Give yourself a set period of time to devote to a subject before considering a new idea.
