 Depending on how old your child is, she needs a different amount of sleep for her well-being.Make sure that her overall sleep time includes naps if she is 5 or under. The recommended time to sleep in hours by age is:


Infants 0-2 months require 10.5-18 hours daily.
Babies 2-12 months need 14-15 hours daily.
Toddlers 1-3 years should get 12-14 hours per day.
Children 3-5 years old must have 11-13 hours every day.
Children 5-12 years old require between 10 and 11 hours daily.;
, Setting a fixed bedtime and incorporating a nighttime routine are the most optimal ways to get your child to sleep. This can help your child relax, regulate her circadian rhythms, as well fall and stay asleep throughout the night.When establishing your child’s bedtime, consider factors like recommended daily sleep, activity and when you eat dinner. The body often needs 2-3 hours to relax from these activities before bed.Avoid setting a bedtime that is too late, especially during the school year. Maintaining your routine and established bed- and waking times can help promote sleep and the overall well-being of your child.Adjust the sleep schedule only as necessary or on special occasions., Your child’s body may require some time to shift into sleep mode. Starting to wind down an hour before her bedtime can help signal her body and brain that it’s time to sleep.Keep your child away from non-stimulating activities that involve televisions, laptops or tablets. These can stimulate your child’s brain, and the light they emanate may also make it difficult for her to fall asleep.Dim the lights around the house and in your child’s bedroom. This can help further signal her brain that it’s time to go to bed., As a part of winding down your child for bed, following a nightly ritual will further cue her body that it’s bedtime.Have a set list of activities you and your child can do as a part of your ritual including taking a bath, brushing her teeth, or reading a story.A bedtime routine can reduce stress and anxiety and you’re your child fall and stay asleep.Reading a book together with dimmed lights can help relax and entertain without being too overstimulating for your child.A light snack may help her sleep through the night.A warm bath can relax her and make her drowsy.Make sure any parts of the ritual that include activity are done in her bedroom.Getting in to a comfortable bed with the lights dimmed may help you get to sleep faster even if you don’t feel tired.
If you can’t fall sleep within 20 minutes of going to bed, go to another room and do something relaxing until you feel tired enough to sleep., If the environment in your child’s room changes, it may interrupt her ability to fall and stay asleep. Control factors including temperature and darkness, as well as provide comfortable bedding, all of which may help her fall and stay asleep.The optimal temperature for sleeping is between 60 and 75 degrees.Make sure there are no stimulating electronics like a tablet in your child’s room.You may want to put a CD player in her room to play soothing music if that helps her to fall and stay asleep.Light can stimulate the brain to remain awake. Keep your child’s room dark enough to sleep with curtains or blinds. If this scares her, you can use a nightlight in a non-stimulating color to help assure her.Noise can also be disruptive to your child’s sleep. Keep her room as quiet as possible. A white noise machine may also help combat loud noises that filter into her bedroom.A comfortable mattress and age-appropriate bedding can you’re your child relax as well as fall and stay asleep., Have your child perform her nightly routine and go to bed whether or not she is tired. Sticking to her established routine may help her fall and stay asleep once she begins it.If your child is overstimulated from activities or even a late meal, consider allowing her an extra 20 minutes of her bedtime ritual. Letting her read or listen to a CD for a few extra minutes may be all she needs to shift into bedtime mode., Having a ritual and set bedtime can help your child form positive associations with sleeping.This can also help her fall asleep without needing you. Encourage her to fall asleep without your help and she may be more likely to stay asleep and return to sleep if she awakens.Avoid letting your child sleep with you. Studies have shown that this makes your child more prone to suffocation or strangulation.Do not wait until your child is asleep to put her to bed. She should go to bed when she is drowsy but awake., Feeding your child either too close to her bedtime or heavy meals may keep her to . Plan to eat lighter fare at dinner and within a few hours of your bedtime to ensure that you are able to get and stay asleep.


Feed your child two to three hours before her bedtime.Large, heavy, or even spicy meals may cause problems with indigestion that could affect her sleep.If your child is hungry before bed, give her a small and nutritious snack such as a cup of yogurt or piece of .Giving your child dinner at a set time may help further promote her sleep routine., Certain behaviors can make it difficult for your child to stay asleep. Discouraging her from waking up at night may help her relax, fall asleep on her own, and stay asleep.Do not go to your child if she wakes up during the night or she will learn to expect this, which in turn makes it difficult for her to fall asleep on her own.Holding or rocking your baby or child until she goes has the same effect. It’s alright to hold or rock her until she is drowsy, and then put her in bed so she can fall asleep on her own., In some cases, allowing your child to cry or fall back asleep on her own may not work. Provide verbal or physical reassurance to her when you deem it absolutely necessary.If your child is sick, injured, or genuinely needs assistance, it’s appropriate to go to her in the middle of the night. Just make sure that you reinforce the message that you expect your child to fall asleep on her own.You can either soothe your child by telling her “it’s ok, you can fall back asleep” or talking to her and rubbing her back, with may help relax her., Although it may seem counterintuitive, naps actually help your child to fall and stay asleep.If your child’s sleep is consistently disrupted, consider reviewing and amending her nap schedule to reinforce your sleep training.Children between the age of six months and 5 years need naps ranging in length from ½ hour to 2 hours every day.
If a child over the age of 5 experiences daytime sleepiness, you may want to speak to your doctor about this., If your child has a clock in her bedroom, either remove it or turn it around so she can see it.Watching the time may increase her stress, making it difficult to fall back asleep on her own.The light from your child’s clock may also be stimulating her brain. Consider blocking out this light source if necessary., If your child truly can’t fall back asleep, let her get up and do a calming activity in low light. This can help relax her and get her to go back to bed.Let your child do the activity, such as reading, for 15-20 minutes. After this, have her return to bed or turn out the lights and try and fall back asleep.
Continue this cycle until she is able to sleep again., If your child has persistent insomnia at night, it may be the sign of an underlying condition or behavioral issue. Schedule an appointment with your doctor to see what treatments may be available to help your child fall and stay asleep.Depending on your doctor’s diagnosis, she may suggest having your child see a therapist for behavioral or cognitive therapy.This can help your child effectively deal with the insomnia without reverting to medications.Sleep medications are generally not prescribed for children unless there are special circumstances. In addition, the Federal Drug Administration has not approved sleeping pills or sleep aids for use in children.If your doctor does prescribe medications or supplements such as melatonin, it’s absolutely imperative that you follow your doctor’s orders when giving these substances to your child.