 Remove the stem and flower end of the squash, then cut them in half long-ways and scoop out the seeds to prepare your "boats." Make 1-2 medium squash per person.


If you don't want to stuff the squash, but want to grill them, you can also cut squash into discs, or leave it whole to toss it on the grill. The basic cooking method will be the same.
 Once you've scooped out the seedy portion of the squash, you can fill in the inside with a variety of stuffing ingredients, including cooked meats, other vegetables, and cheeses. If you don't want to stuff it with anything, you an also just dress it in salt and pepper and call it a day. Some good combinations include:


Browned ground beef, green peppers, onions, and cheddar or American cheese
Browned lamb, sliced black olives, tomato, green onions, and feta
Chicken, jalapeno peppers, salsa, pepper jack

, There are two ways of cooking squash on the grill, both equally effective. If you want to make sure the squash are heated through and cooked on the bottoms, it's good to wrap them in aluminum foil loosely and place the package on the grill. Group a couple of them together to use a tight little grill package.


If you want, put the other half of the squash back on the "boat" before you close it up in aluminum foil, to make a full stuffed squash (good if you overload it with fixings!) or you can use every half for a separate boat, depending on how much you need to make.
If you choose to use each half for a separate boat, it's usually easier to place the squash directly on the grill, instead of in aluminum foil, to keep the insides from spilling or sticking to the sides.
 If you're using an electric grill, set the heat to medium. If you're using a charcoal grill, use a medium amount of coals, spread to one side of the grill basin, and put the package in the middle of the grate, rotating it a few times to ensure an evening cooking distribution.
 As long as everything inside the squash boats are cooked ahead of time, you've only got to worry about melting cheese, heating the inside through, and cooking the squash itself, which shouldn't take more than a few minutes. Rotate the squash a few times to ensure an even cook, but otherwise leave them alone.


Always put the lid back on when you're cooking squash, to ensure that the heat cooks the insides, as well as the bottom. Check the packages or the squash directly every five minutes or so to check for doneness.
If you put them in a package, the squash will be done when the package is steaming and smells fragrant, and the squash is fork-tender. Open up a package carefully and check one to be sure.

