 A good way to show another person that you would like to be friends with them is to say "Hi" when you see them. Make eye contact, smile, and say hello. If you know the person's name, say, "Hi ____."Be sure to speak clearly so the other person can hear you.
If you are shy, practice with one of your family members.
Always smile and say hi in the hallway when you see the person again. You want to seem as friendly as possible.;
, Paying someone a compliment shows that you are a pleasant girl and that you are open to being friends with other people. Pay attention to the other kids at school and try to identify one nice thing about them. You can then give them a compliment about what you have noticed. Keep the compliments simple such as:"Your hair looks really cute."
"I like your shirt."
"You did a good job on your project."
You can also follow up a compliment with a question to get the conversation started. For example, "I like your shirt. Where did you get it?"

, Saying hi or giving a compliment is a good way to start a conversation. When you are speaking with someone, you should share your likes and dislikes. If you are asked a question, answer the question, and then ask the other person a question. Do not be a conversation hog.It is important that you share information about yourself as well. Friendship is a two way street.

Listen when the other person is talking and do not cut them off. Wait until they are finished before you begin to talk.
 Doing something nice for someone else is another way you can show someone that you like them. You do not have to do anything big. Let someone borrow a pencil or a piece of paper. Offer to help if someone carry something. Share some candy or another treat at lunch time.Do not give away money or other things that are special to you. You do not want someone to be friends with you just because you give them things.
 In order for a friendship to grow, you and the other person should have things in common. Common interests will help your friendship grow. What type of things (e.g. music, TV shows, movies, art, sports, etc.) are you interested in?Observe other kids in your class to see if they have some of your interests. Are they wearing a shirt with a movie character or band on it? Do they use special folders that are linked to their interests?
Ask questions to see what they like. For example, "Hey, have you seen ___? It's really good!" or "Do you like ___ ?"
Do not pretend to like something just to be friends with someone. If you want to have a best friend, you need to be honest and show who you really are.
If you are shy and you notice another girl that keeps to herself, this would be a good person for you to approach. You two can probably understand each other better than the popular girl who is the life of the party.
If you are involved in an extracurricular activity, you know you have at least one common interest with that person already.
 Once you have found someone that has some similar interests, ask them if they want to come to your house to hang out. You can also suggest an activity the two of you can do together. Spending one-on-one time with a person is the key to establishing a friendship.If the person is coming to your house, think of some activities the two of you can do together. Pick activities that both of you will like. You want the person to have as much fun as possible around you.
Some activities you may suggest include riding bikes, painting your nails, watching or going to a movie, or baking cookies.
If you can't think of anything, ask your parents to help you come up with some ideas.

