 You should be able to get this game for $10 including shipping from various secondhand sellers. The ideal version to look for is the Game of the Year edition. In addition to possibly including some nice extras, such as a soundtrack, this edition includes the latest patch.;
, Search Google for "Deus Ex Patch 1.112fm" in quotes. There should still be sites which carry it. Install the patch if necessary.
 It is not necessary to play the original game through to completion; however, to get some of the inside jokes used in The Nameless Mod, and to truly appreciate it, you should have played Deus Ex. This is only optional; however it is required that the game have been run once before the modification is installed.


You will still be able to play Deus Ex after The Nameless Mod is installed.
 (You more than likely want the .exe, NOT the .iso - it's offered in two forms. The .exe is a sub-800mb installer, and the .iso is a DVD Image (mountable on virtual disc drives, of course - Daemon Tools and Virtual CloneDrive are two free, decent examples - with extra content and such, which isn't needed to play the game. It is strongly recommended to use a torrent. This is perfectly legal; the game is released under a Creative Commons license. (In fact, due to the terms of the Deus Ex SDK, Deus Ex modifications cannot be sold for profit.) If your Internet collection is slow, they have a distribution partner; for the cost of the physical disc and shipping, they will mail you a DVD in fairly nice packaging with a ton of extras. (The extras and everything needed to print the packaging is also available from their site.)

, Look at the 'sticky' forum topics for the Patch x.yz topic with the highest number. The current patch is 1.02 but 1.03 is coming soon. (NOTE: If you download TNM recently, the version number is up to 1.04 and so is the patch - thereby negating the need for a patch. However, I would make sure that Deus Ex (if you don't have the game of the year edition) is patched before installation.)

,, You don't need every patch, just the latest patch, though if you've already patched it, you can patch over a patch. (Again, only if you haven't downloaded and installed 1.04.)

,, The TNM team spent over 7 years on this and aren't charging anything, but it does make them happy to see people enjoying it.

