 Make sure that the stem part is facing upwards. This will make coring the tomato easier.;
, If you’re working with large roma or beefsteak tomatoes, you’ll have to remove the core before slicing. If you’re working with small cherry or grape tomatoes, this step is unnecessary and you can skip ahead to the next step.


Place your thumb right below the edge of a knife, preferable a small pairing knife.
Use your non-cutting hand to grab the base of the tomato, and stabilize your hand against the cutting board.
Place your knife’s tip slightly to the side of the core.
Push your knife into the tomato about 1/4”-1/2” deep.
Cut out a small circle by twisting your knife. Pull up to remove the core.
 Now that the core is removed, your tomato will have a flatter top. Turn your tomato upside down so that it faces the cutting board and gives you a stable base.
 Using a sharp chef's knife or a serrated knife, make one long cut from top to the bottom so that your tomato is divided into two even hemispheres. This will make slicing much easier, but if you want whole tomato slices, you can omit this step and skip ahead to the slicing part.
 Place the cut side down, facing the cutting board.
 The following steps will help you make safe, even cuts across your tomato. If you are slicing a whole tomato, you can still follow the same steps.


Place your non-cutting hand on the left side of the tomato (if you are cutting with your right hand). Curl up your fingers into a claw shape and press your fingers tips lightly on the tomato. This type of grip helps to stabilize the tomato and prevent you from cutting yourself.
Place the tip of the knife on the cutting board behind the right most side of the tomato.
Keeping the knife tip on the cutting board, drag your knife straight down and through the tomato. A sharp knife will make cutting easier.
Once you are through to the other side, lift up the knife.
Reposition your knife at the top of the tomato, about 1/4-1/2” to the left of your last cut, depending on how thick you want your slices.
Repeat the same dragging motion and continue across the tomato.
Repeat for the second tomato half.
 Now you have a perfectly sliced tomato for salads, sandwiches, or just as-is.

