 If you want to sample the wide variety of foods available at the party, you can take just a small amount—enough for one or two bites.This will help you enjoy the holiday fare while reducing the amount of calories, fat, and sugar that you eat. A small amount will not ruin your pre-pregnancy diet, and it can prevent you from binging later.
 Folic acid is extremely important both before and during pregnancy. It can prevent the baby from neural tube defects like spinal bifida.Folic acid can be found in leafy greens (like spinach and kale), citrus (like oranges and limes), eggs, nuts, broccoli, beans, fish, and brown rice. Some common holiday items that are full of folic acid include:Roasted Chestnuts
Spinach salad
Lentil loaf
Chili with kidney beans
Chocolate covered strawberries
Cranberry-orange relish
Green bean casserole
Deviled eggs
Roasted Brussels sprouts

, Iron is an important mineral in pregnancy. Increasing your iron intake will prepare your body for a growing baby. When looking for iron at your party, find meats such as beef and poultry, fish, beans, legumes, cabbage, and whole-grain breads.Some holiday friendly options you might look out for include:


Collard greens
Dark-meat turkey
A rack of lamb
Whole-grain bread rolls

, If you do not have enough calcium, you may have bone problems during pregnancy, as a baby will pull calcium from your bones.Start stocking up on calcium early. Look for low-fat dairy products, broccoli, figs, tofu, and almonds.Some holiday options might include:


Tofurkey
Low-fat store-bought eggnog
Raw broccoli and ranch
While you can eat cheeses, you should start avoiding soft cheeses such as brie or camembert to reduce your chance of contracting listeriosis before pregnancy., When in doubt, you should look out for vegetable options at the party. These are generally healthy and high in other vitamins. Try to avoid options that are high in fat or salt. Some vegetable dishes you might find include:


Roasted squash
Mashed sweet potatoes
Glazed carrots
Corn on the cob

, You do not have to skip dessert entirely, but you should reduce the amount of processed sugar that you eat.Limit yourself to one cookie, slice of cake, piece of pie, or candy per party.


You can aim to eat fruits instead of processed sugars. Some fruit desserts still contain processed sugar, but the amount may be lower than in other desserts. You might pick foods like a fruit tart, dark chocolate-covered strawberries, or baked apples.
Scope out the dessert table at the beginning of the party, so that you can choose whichever dessert will fulfill your craving the most.
 Alcohol is discouraged if you are actively trying to become pregnant, as any exposure to alcohol early in the pregnancy can cause Fetal Alcohol Syndrome.Instead, drink water or choose a festive non-alcoholic version.


You can drink sparkling juice instead of champagne.
Peppermint tea, hot chocolate, and warm apple cider will still make you feel part of the holiday season.
Apple cider and eggnog purchased from the grocery store are safe to drink, but fresh varieties made at home may contain harmful bacteria., If you get the urge to binge on sweets, you can fill it by bringing a small treat with you. Halfway through the party enjoy a mint or a piece of gum. This will satisfy your urge for sweets while helping distract you from your craving.