 Some eye exercises can relieve stress and can help relax and strengthen your eyes. Although eyestrain doesn't cause glaucoma, people who suffer from glaucoma should reduce strain on their eyes in order to accommodate the low amount of aqueous humour exiting in relation to its production. The great part is these are things you can do at home or anywhere you are as long as you are comfortable. Here are some examples:Blinking provides a break for our eyes, but is often disregarded due to our heavy and long workloads. This may seem unnecessary to think about, but eyestrain makes this a concern. Blinking helps lubricate your eyes by spreading tear film evenly and can help eyestrain due to eye dryness.Blinking cleanses eyes by mechanically pushing toxins out with tears.You should blink once every four seconds to spread tear film and prevent tired eyes due to dryness.
Palming can be done by simply taking your palms and using them to cover your closed eyes for a few minutes. Sit comfortably in a chair with your back straight. Put your elbows on a table — on top of pillow for added comfort. Cup each hand and close eyes. Place the right cupped hand over the right closed eye, and the left cupped hand over the left closed eye. Breathe normally and relax with your palms on your eyes for five to 10 minutes.Practice tracing figure eights with your eyes. This exercise helps your eye muscles and increases their flexibility. Imagine a horizontal figure eight or infinity sign in front of you. Trace the eight with only your eyes slowly, about ten times, without moving your head.
These methods should be done together. As a result of patient's commitment to these exercises, patients can experience less eyestrain. Do these exercises for about 20 minutes a day, four to five times a week, or at the advice of orthoptic specialist., By focusing on objects at different distances, you can provide some relief to eyestrain. For example, eyestrain can occur when focusing on monitors or screens for long periods of time. A simple break to perform this technique can also remind you to blink, thus hydrating eyes.



Focusing. Simply find a relaxing place to sit. Put your thumb in front of you, around 10 inches (25.4 cm) away and try to focus your eyes on it. After a few seconds try to focus on something else again, around 10 to 20 feet (3.0 to 6.1 m) away from you. Don’t forget a deep breath before you switch focus in your eyes!

Zooming. This improves your focusing skills and also strengthens your eye muscles. Try to work again with your thumb. Put your thumb in front of you with your arms outstretched and after a few seconds try to bring it near, around 3 inches (7.6 cm) away from your eye. Do this for a few minutes., Eating healthy cannot cure glaucoma but some nutrients and vitamins from healthy foods can help you improve your eyesight. Here are some foods that are good for the eyes:Carrots are rich in beta-carotene, which is good for smooth eye function.
Green, leafy vegetables and egg yolks are rich in lutein and zeaxanthin, both powerful antioxidants.
Citrus fruits and berries are rich in Vitamin C.
Almonds are high in vitamin E which are antioxidants.
Fatty fish is rich in DHA and omega-3s and great for overall eye health.
 Since you are experiencing eye pressure, drinking several fluids at a given time can temporarily increase eye fluid buildup, leading to pressure. Instead, stick to a steady stream of water to keep hydrated.


Limit drinking caffeine as it can contribute in increasing eye pressure, too. That means decaffeinated sodas and only decaffeinated coffees and teas. Read the label first to be sure!
One cup of coffee a day is thought to be a safe amount. It is not clear how much or why coffee may increase intraocular pressure; however, coffee does have an effect on blood flow and the vessels that feed the eyeball. Many health professionals recommend limiting coffee to a cup a day even though the exact mechanism is not well understood.
Some evidence suggests that aerobic exercise can also help to reduce IOP. Exercise can reduce systemic high blood pressure and is overall helpful to maintain a healthy lifestyle., Lubricating eye drops are only for relief of eyestrain and not to treat glaucoma. They simply treat related dry eye. See your eye doctor for more information on relieving eyestrain with a preexisting condition.


Artificial tears can only provide supplemental care and not a substitute for natural tears.
Artificial tears can help alleviate dryness by replacing the layer of tear film that helps keep eyes moist and tears spread evenly throughout surface of eye.
Eye ointments can comfort due to their lubricating effect and are particularly useful during extended periods when artificial tears cannot be applied.
Over-the-counter eye drops (such as Systane) are administered about four to six times daily or as needed.