 Punctuality is a gentlemanly value because it shows you value the time of the people around you. Therefore, to show you are a gentleman, make sure you are always where you will say you will be at the time you say you will be, with the exceptions of emergencies, of course.Being on time also includes calling when you say you will.
 That is, try to keep others at ease by making situations embarrassment-proof, if possible. For example, say you are at dinner with some friends who don't know to put their napkins in their laps. Instead of pointing it out or pointedly placing yours in your lap, leave your napkin on the table as they do, to avoid embarrassing them.The idea also holds for guests. Make it so the guest is always right and feels comfortable in your home. For instance, if they leave towels on the floor in the bathroom, don't say, "Why would you leave towels on the floor?" Just quietly pick them up, and put them in the laundry.
Oscar Wilde defined an English gentleman as a person "who never hurts someone's feelings unintentionally," which is why this step helps to make you an English gentleman.
 A mark of a true gentleman is humility. That means not bragging about your accomplishments, as well as not hogging conversations. When having a conversation with someone, ask them questions to get them talking instead of going on and on about yourself.For example, you could say, "Tell me about yourself," "What do you do for a living?" "How was your day?" or "What have you been reading lately?"

, If you are a wealthy person, don't be showy about it. Don't flaunt the fact that you have wealth. Even if you aren't a wealthy person, try not to flaunt when you get something new. This idea goes back to putting others at ease, as showing a person what they don't have can make them uncomfortable.For instance, if you get a new car, don't post it all over social media. If someone mentions they got a new job, don't try to one-up them with your job or salary.
Robert Smith Surtees, a 19th-century novelist and editor, noted that anyone who talks too much about being an English gentleman isn't one, and the same applies to being ostentatious., An English gentleman doesn't cheat his friends or his enemies. If you play a game, follow the rules, rather than ruthlessly trying to get away with cheating. Also, treat those around him with equal fairness. For instance, don't favor an employee at work just because you're better friends with that employee. Rather, base promotions on merit and hard work., As a guest, an English gentlemen is polite and proper and always defers to his host. In other words, you should be the perfect guest. Don't make a fuss about what should be served at dinner, for instance. Rather, you should happily eat what's served at the meal, even if it's not your favorite food, with compliments to the chef., One way to put people at ease is to anticipate problems and take care of them before they come into play. For instance, if you know someone is down on their luck with finances, invite them to a more modest place you know they can afford when you have dinner with them. Even better, invite them over to your house for dinner. This type of consideration also applies to things that you know make people uncomfortable. For instance, if you know your friend prefers to have their back to the wall when out in public, always offer them that seat.