 The best way to reduce uric acid levels is to limit the amounts of purine-rich foods in your diet.Purines are chemicals that form when your body breaks down certain types of food, but a high level of purines can lead to conditions like gout and kidney stones.You should avoid purine-rich foods if you have had gout or uric acid-containing kidney stones or if you have a family history of these conditions. Do not exceed more than two to four servings of any of these foods per week and avoid them completely during a bout with gout or if you have uric-acid-containing kidney stones. Purine-rich foods to limit or avoid include:Beer and liquor
Sugary soft drinks
Fatty foods such as fried foods, butter, margarine, and high-fat dairy products
Organ meats such as liver, kidneys, and sweetbreads
Beef, chicken, pork, bacon, veal, and venison
Anchovies, sardines, herring, mussels, codfish, scallops, trout, haddock, crab, oyster, lobster, and shrimp;
, Phytate is a substance that seems to prevent the formation of many types of kidney stones, including those caused by uric acid. Include two to three servings of phytate-rich foods every day. Phytate-rich foods include:Beans
Legumes
Whole grains

, Make sure that you include calcium-rich foods in your diet, such as low-fat dairy products. Include one to two servings of calcium rich foods per day. Calcium rich foods include:Milk
Yogurt
Cheese

, Getting enough vitamin C may also help to lower uric acid levels. Try eating a couple servings of foods that are rich in Vitamin C each day or talk to your doctor about including a vitamin C supplement to help lower your uric acid levels.Foods that are rich in vitamin C include:Citrus fruits such as oranges, grapefruit, lemons, and limes
Kiwi fruit
Berries
Cantaloupe
Pineapple
Mango
Papaya
Broccoli
Peppers
Sweet and white potatoes
Tomatoes
Leafy greens such as spinach, cabbage, and turnip greens
Cauliflower
Winter squash

, Drinking plenty of water can also help to reduce uric acid in your blood. For most people, the recommended amount is six to eight 8-ounce glasses glasses of water every day. Talk to your doctor for a specific recommendation on how much water you should be drinking every day., Green tea has been shown to decrease the risk of uric acid-containing kidney stones. Try to drink about two to three cups of green tea per day to help lower your uric acid levels., Tart cherry juice has long been used in naturopathic medicine to treat gout and kidney stones. If you have an attack of gout, drink three to four eight ounce glasses or organic, tart cherry juice. This should provide some relief within 12 – 24 hours.


Eating cherries can also help. Try including a serving of cherries in your diet each day., Drinking coffee in moderation has been shown to decrease uric acid in your blood. Try to include a cup or two of coffee per day to help lower your uric acid levels.