 Women need to ensure they're consuming an adequate amount of protein each day. Although women do not need as much protein as men, it's still an essential nutrient in your diet.


Women typically need about 40 – 60 grams of protein daily. You want to aim for about 0.8 grams of protein per kg of body weight.Needs increase during pregnancy and lactation and you may needs as much as 70 – 80 grams daily.Choose leaner sources of protein as these are naturally low in calories and unhealthy sources of fat (like saturated or trans fats). Try: poultry, eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, tofu, beans and nuts or low-fat dairy products.
Protein like lean beef, beans, lean pork, poultry and seafood are good sources of iron and can help you make sure you meet your daily minimum of this essential nutrient.;
, Both fruits and vegetables are important food groups and will help make your diet balanced. In addition, they are the main sources of many essential nutrients to support a woman's body.Women typically need about four to six servings of these nutrient-dense foods each day. Generally, if you make half of your meals a fruit or vegetable, you'll meet this goal with ease.Make sure to measure out 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of leafy greens and 1/2 cup of fruit per serving.
Dark greens like spinach and kale are high in folate and calcium which is essential for women. Many fruits, like bananas, grapefruit and grapes are also high in folate.Opt for non-starchy vegetables (lettuce, asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower, cucumber, spinach, mushrooms, onions, peppers and tomatoes) over starchy ones (corn, peas, parsnips, potatoes, pumpkin, squash, zucchini and yams). Non-starchy vegetables are usually more nutrient-dense and are lower in calories per serving.
 The grain food group is another important group for women. They offer a variety of nutrients and carbohydrates which are an essential form of energy.


It's typically recommended to go for 100% whole grains over refined grains (like white rice or white bread). Whole grains are high in fiber and other essential nutrients that are important for women's health.Measure out a 1/2 cup or 1 oz of 100% whole grains like: brown rice, millet, quinoa, oats, whole wheat bread and pasta.Whole grains are some of the foods with the highest amount of folate which is needed in a woman's diet. In addition they're high in fiber which can promote a healthy GI system and prevent constipation during pregnancy., Dairy foods, like milk and yogurt, are an essential source of calcium in women's diets. Women should focus on consuming enough dairy and calcium to help maintain their health (especially their bone health).


Dairy foods are known for being high in calcium. In addition, many of these foods are also fairly high in Vitamin D. Both of these nutrients together play an important role in muscle function and more so with your bone health.Women should aim for two to three servings of calcium-rich dairy foods each day. Measure out 1 cup of milk or yogurt or about 1 – 2 ounces of cheese per serving.
Stick to lower fat dairy items like: low-fat milk, low-fat yogurt, low-fat cheese, low-fat cottage cheese or low-fat kefir.
Remember, too, that the mineral magnesium is essential to the absorption of calcium — if you are deficient in magnesium, you could still be deficient in calcium despite eating plenty of calcium-rich foods. Women need 310 — 360 mg of magnesium daily, depending on their age.
 Although not a nutrient per say, hydrating fluids are an essential part of a woman's diet. Make sure that you're drinking enough clear, hydrating fluids every day.


Most health professionals recommend that women drink at least nine glasses (8-oz each) of hydrating fluids each day; however, if you're pregnant or very active, you may need upwards of 13 glasses daily.Beverages like water or sparkling water, flavored water, decaf coffee or decaf tea will be the most hydrating, though regular coffee, milk, and even sodas all count toward your daily fluid intake.
 Calcium is an essential nutrient for all women, regardless of their age. All women need to monitor how much calcium they're consuming from their diet and from supplements.


Calcium plays an important role in women's bodies. It's important for muscle contraction and bone growth, development and density. Women are at a higher risk than men for developing osteopenia and osteoporosis as they age.If you are woman under the age of 30 years old, you should aim for a minimum of 1,000 mg of calcium each day. This could come from 3 servings of dairy a day or from a supplemental source.If you are between the ages of 30 – 65, aim for 1,000 to 1,200 mg of calcium daily. And again, this can come from your diet or a supplement.
Women over 65 years old who are not receiving hormone replacement therapy need about 1,500 mg of calcium daily. You may need a supplement in addition to your diet to meet this requirement.
Again, remember that you must also get 310 — 360 mg of magnesium each day to ensure the calcium is absorbed and used by your body.
 Like calcium, iron is another important nutrient for women. Women of child bearing age need to be the most vigilant with their iron intake.


Iron is essential for a variety of reason; however, most importantly, it's important for the formation of red blood cells. Inadequate iron intake, especially in women under the age of 50 – 55 years old can cause anemia.Women who are currently menstruating need at least 15 – 20 mg of Iron each day. A well balanced diet should be able to provide you with adequate amounts. However, taking a MVI can ensure you meet your daily recommendations.Women who are no longer menstruating due to menopause or a hysterectomy do not need as much iron. Generally about 10 mg daily will suffice., Folate is a very important nutrient for women. If you are of child-bearing age, you should be confident that you're consuming adequate folate each day.


Folate has many, many functions in the body including: aiding in the formation of red blood cells, aiding the process of making DNA and RNA, supporting the metabolism of carbohydrates into energy and supporting your nervous system.Folate is crucial for women intending to have children. Folate helps prevent neural tube and spinal defects in a fetus. When you do not consume adequate folate, your child could be born with birth defects.
Women who are of child bearing age, but are not pregnant should take 400 mg of folate daily. Women who are pregnant should take 500 – 800 mg daily and those who are breast feeding should consume at least 500 mg of folate per day.
Your diet is a great source of folate, but an extra supplement, especially during pregnancy, can help ensure you meet the daily recommended intakes.
 Not consuming adequate amounts of Vitamin D can have an effect on your body's calcium level and your immune system.


Consuming adequate Vitamin D from diet alone is difficult. Due to this, many people have Vitamin D deficiencies. However, Vitamin D is necessary for bone growth and maintenance, immune health and for muscle function.Women who do not consume adequate amounts of Vitamin D increase their risk for calcium resorption (calcium being leaked from your bones) which can lead to osteoporosis.
Since very few foods contain adequate Vitamin D, you may need to take a supplement. The only other source is the sun and that can be unreliable due to seasonal changes, time exposed to UV light and whether or not you're wearing clothing or sunscreen.
Most women regardless of age need between 600 – 800 IU of Vitamin D each day. This same guideline applies to women who are pregnant and breast feeding as well., Foods that are made from soy or soybeans or contain higher quantities of soy may not be something you choose to consume. There is a lot of research has gone back and forth on the "soy debate" and can make this decision confusing.


There have been studies linking soy to increased risk of breast cancer. Many of these studies have been with animals only. Thus, many scientists and health professionals do not agree that this same effect will happen in people. At this point, there is no conclusive evidence that clearly links the consumption of soy with increased breast cancer risk in women.
Limit your consumption of soy-based or containing foods to two to four servings per day. Serving sizes will vary depending on what type of soy product you're consuming.Soy products can be safely added to the diet for women who have cardiovascular disease. Studies have shown there may be some modest benefits when women with CVD consumed some soy in their diet.
Soy products in moderation, can also be consumed if you have breast cancer or have a genetic predisposition for developing breast cancer., Processed junk foods are items that all people should limit in their diets, but especially women. Try to limit how much of these high calorie snacks and foods you eat during the day.


Processed junk foods are not recommended due to their high calorie, fat, sugar and sodium content and low nutrient content. Eating large quantities of these items can increase your risk for high blood pressure, stroke and heart disease — top causes of death for women in the U.S.Processed foods to avoid include: chips, crackers, cookies, candy, sweetened beverages, cakes/pies, breakfast pastries, sugary cereals and pretzels.
If you're choosing to have one of these processed foods, make sure to follow the appropriate portion size and only have it occasionally. These do not cause harm in small amounts, but when eaten regularly or in larger quantities can cause more problems.
 Alcohol is an item that most people should limit in their diets. Women, specifically need to watch their total alcohol consumption so it doesn't adversely affect their health.


The effects of alcohol are much stronger in women than in men. It can increase your risk of breast cancer and brain damage.If women drink alcohol while they're pregnant, the significantly increase the risk of damaging the fetus and causing harmful birth defects.Women should not drink more than one serving of alcohol per day. One serving is equivalent to 12 oz of beer (5% alcohol), 5 oz of wine (12% alcohol), or 1.5 oz of hard liquor (40% alcohol).Try to keep your average under one drink per day.
 Since heart disease is one of the top causes of death for women, you want to make sure you avoid the types of fat that may increase your risk for developing any type of heart disease.


Saturated fats have been linked to a variety of adverse health effects. They have been shown to increase your LDL (the bad cholesterol) and may increase your risk for heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke.Saturated fats should be limited in your diet to less than 7% of your total daily calories. Limit foods like: full-fat dairy, fatty cuts of beef, lamb or pork, poultry skin and lard.
Trans fats are another type of unhealthy fat that you should aim to completely avoid. They have been directly linked to an increase in LDL and a decrease in HDL (the good cholesterol).Women in particular need to discontinue eating foods that contain trans fats.
Trans fats are typically found in foods like: margarine; non-dairy creamer; frozen and refrigerated doughs (like pie crust, biscuits or cinnamon rolls); crackers; cookies; pastries and frozen pizzas. Trans fats usually appear as "partially hydrogenated oil" on an ingredient list.

