 One of the biggest and most common triggers for both IBS and GERD is stress. Even small or mild stressors can set off a whole host of symptoms from both of these conditions.If you have a stressful lifestyle or have even low grade, but chronic stress, this can be a serious contributor to the flare up of your symptoms.
To help reduce your stress, consider: talking to a friend, going for a walk, taking a hot bath or reading a good book.
If you're having difficulty managing your stress and it continues to cause symptoms, consider seeking additional help from a behavioral therapist.
 Another irritant that can cause continued symptoms from both IBS and GERD is smoking. Quit smoking immediately to help reduce some of the symptoms associated with these conditions.


In terms of GERD, smoking decreases the function of a ring of muscle (a sphincter) between your esophagus and stomach, allowing acid to be pushed upwards into the back of your throat.With IBS, cigarette smoking can cause diarrhea and other intestinal distress.To reduce symptoms, consider quitting. Either give up cigarettes cold turkey or talk to your physician about joining a smoking cessation program or using medications to help you quit.
 Another way to decrease the occurrence symptoms of IBS and GERD is by exercising on a regular basis. Be consistent with exercise and meet the weekly guidelines to help you cope with these conditions.


It has been shown that exercise helps those with IBS by stimulating bowel contractions and keeping you regular.Exercise is also known as a great way to reduce and relieve stress. Since both IBS and GERD symptoms can be exacerbated by stress, including regular exercise is a smart idea.
Aim for 150 minutes of moderate intensity cardio each week plus two to three days of strength training.Avoid tight-fitting clothing when exercising or relaxing at home. Tight clothing will put pressure on the abdomen and the esophageal sphincter.
 In terms of GERD, there are specific suggestions to help prevent symptoms. Making sure you don't lie down or sleep for a certain time after you eat will be helpful in managing your symptoms.GERD revolves around how much acid is being pushed up the back of your throat.
Gravity, especially when you're standing or sitting with your back straight, aids your body in keeping the acid down and in your stomach; however, if you lie down, the acid can trickle up your esophagus and throat.
Wait at least two hours before going to sleep after you've finished dinner or your last meal.
You may also want to try elevating the head of your bed or resting on multiple pillows to help keep acid down.

