 The less you have, the less power those material possessions have over you. You don't own your stuff, your stuff owns you. Ask yourself about every single thing you own: "Do I need it? Do I want it? Do I like it? Is it sentimental?" If it's sentimental, you may not need the whole thing. It might be just as good to recycle that beloved old blanket or ratty favorite shirt to make a new throw pillow. Scan family photos and store them on CDs or in your hard drive.


Give away anything that's still good but you don't like, need, want or love it to someone who's in need. You'd be surprised how fast you can empty out your storage by finding people who need or want the stuff you don't have. Or you can sell some of it on eBay to help with your finances and fund the things you really do want, need and enjoy.;
, Treat restaurant meals as an expensive extravagance, even if they're fast food. With thrifty shopping, the cost of a fast-food meal for the family could turn into enough food to feed the entire family for a week. This is a budget item best saved for big important occasions and budgeted accordingly. Then when you do it, save up and do it to the nines, really enjoy it. Don't eat out just for convenience, it's a budget-killer.
 It's packed with shows and advertising that make you want more than you already have. If you have favorite shows, consider using Netflix or recording them and filtering out the commercials. Even with those services, limit your TV time so that you can spend more leisure time doing hobbies and playing games with real people.
 It can be overwhelming to see all that is wrong in the world. Concentrate on you how you feel where you stand. Reading the news online uses less physical resources and it's much easier to target your reading to topics you're genuinely interested in.
 Start a personal journal. Question everything in your life, what you do with your money and what you do with your time. Ask yourself if it's worth the time, the trouble and the money you spend to keep doing something or if there are better ways to get what you want. Don't judge or question what comes up as important. More become aware of it and of what your decisions are - both conscious decisions and unconscious ones. Ask yourself whether you like your work or if you'd be happier doing something else. Dust off your dreams and ask yourself what life would be like if you got serious about following them.
 Eat healthy nutritious food, get enough exercise or physical activity, get a full night's sleep every night and don't neglect medical insurance. It's important to stay as healthy as possible. Educate yourself on healthy choices and instead of starting a grim diet regimen that might break in the first week on feeling deprived and getting digestive trouble from the sudden change, gradually introduce healthy foods and healthy habits a little at a time. Every month add a new healthy food and a new healthy habit. Keep trying, if one food or habit doesn't suit you, try something else that might. Most of all, start with the healthy foods and habits you enjoy most since those are self rewarding. It's easier to change your habits gradually a little at a time rather than make a huge change to everything in your life. It takes three weeks for a habit to form, if it hasn't become habit within a month you probably have something else in your life or your body's needs that interferes with it.
 If you have a rich intellectual life with a strong interest in other people's ideas, that can make up for a lot when it comes to money.
 It helps you get down to earth. If you have medical reasons that don't let you hike or jog, at least find some way to get out into nature as often as possible. Spend time in parks and wilderness areas even if that's just taking a bus to a picnic area.
 To be childlike, relax and let yourself play. Don't always work hard for no reward. Instead, enjoy your life and try things just for the fun of it. Spend time playing games with your family, have picnics, build things, tell jokes, make your own entertainment.
 Show that appreciation to all of your friends and loved ones. Instead of treating family intimacy as an excuse to stop pretending to be nice, try treating your intimate family better than you would total strangers. Be more considerate of their feelings and needs than you would be for coworkers and casual acquaintances.
 Collect used furniture when it's set out in the trash or on Freecycle or Craigslist. Shop at thrift stores or collect used clothing from the same source to reupholster the furniture. Craft your own pillows by recycling stuffing and make covers out of patchwork or recycled fabric. Make quilts and if you live in a cold climate, make some more quilts as wall hangings to help insulate your home.


Cook nutritious and tasty meals from raw ingredients, this will seriously cut your food costs from the price of convenience foods or eating out and improve your nutrition too.
Make your own clothes by re-tailoring used clothing. You can come up with original designs that look better and fit better than clothes bought in a store.
Build your home computer from components, upgrade it a piece at a time buying parts or recycling old electronics. Desktop computers are easier to upgrade this way. Install Linux on an older computer so it can run well and keep up with the latest generation - a big advantage for Linux is that both the operating system and most of its software are free.
Tinker with old appliances and fix them instead of buying new ones. This works fine for toasters and lamps, but you may want to get new Energy Star appliances for something like a microwave or a washer and dryer for clothes. Look at cost of parts, safety and practicality when deciding what to buy good-used and what to buy new and what to craft from recycled parts. Lamps are very easy to craft from parts and it's fun to design a lamp stand from found objects or by wood carving or otherwise sculpting the stand.
 Find hobbies and activities you can enjoy with others that don't cost as much. Check out free days at zoos, museums and other events or attractions.
 This is a cost-free, time intensive way to have a romantic Valentine's Day, anniversary or just spur of the moment marital date.
 You can volunteer to help others.
 That way you'll have the time to enjoy life and deepen your relationships. If you're very frugal, you may be able to return to a single wage earner lifestyle or go to part time work leaving more time for hobbies, enjoyments and passions.
 It doesn't matter if you don't think you have talent. All beginners are lousy at these things and they take some time to learn. The process of learning is fun if you measure your progress rather than expect your results to be perfect. No matter how total a beginner you are, there will come a point with study and practice where your creative results please others. Creative activity feeds the soul and gives a tangible result for all the effort you put into learning it.
 This is the important thing - owning less possessions and spending less money can lead to a richer, happier life if you get more time to enjoy life and do the things you love. Check out all three volumes of "The Tightwad Gazette" from the library for ideas or search for them on Amazon. Also look for "The Foxfire Books" and other sources of practical do it yourself ideas for healthy frugal living. This doesn't mean being stingy, it means being generous with your time and effort to get more results from the money you do spend.
 Kindle software is free for your personal computer, so you don't even need to buy a Kindle device to start enjoying hundreds of new titles that don't take up any shelving or physical storage space. Project Gutenberg is another good source of free downloads, they have thousands of classics available.

