 These can also be found on how-to websites such as wikiHow. Alternatively, you can use an internet search engine to find men's fashion or style tips, or perhaps look at fashion show offerings of the latest designer clothes for inspiration. Be careful to find a style that you like, and acknowledge that some things may work on you, while others will not. Beware of trends started by celebrities, as they are famous and prone to extremes of the latest trends, a habit the average man should strive to avoid.;
, Yes, you have an innate sense of style, you just have to find the clothes that fit it. And to do that, you need to look around. Look at lots of different websites, everything from Abercrombie & Fitch, to American Eagle, to Aeropostale, to Express, to SAKS Fifth Avenue. Look everywhere, in every price range, and in every style, for you may never know where you might find your perfect style.
 Make sure you keep clothes that fit your style and your body. Look at your clothes, and think about what looks cool. Also look at how it fits. If it doesn't fit both categories, throw it out or donate it to charity. Basics such as a good t-shirt or dress shirt may do wonders for your look, and provide an excellent base from which to start your new style.
 This does not mean you need to only buy at a thrift store. Choose reasonable priced stores. Good clothes cost more because most of the time they're worth more. The designer brands will almost certainly be of higher quality than the usual ready-to-wear offerings, although it is quite possible to find mid-range prices for clothing of excellent quality. The trick is to look. Once you go shopping, you'll learn to spot fashion disasters, style classics, and not least of all, the art of determining the quality of an article of clothing. But first, you need to.



It's always good to buy nice dark denim jeans, either in black, gray, or a nice dark blue. However, other clothing should not be forgotten! Black, gray, or brown colors are all neutral, and can be paired with almost anything. Look for different styles of pants, whether they are denim, cotton, corduroy, wool, or any other fabric, just find a cut that fits. And buy them in your size, no one wants to see your boxer shorts.
As for shirts, the classic black or white t-shirt goes a long way towards filling your wardrobe, as it's easy to wear, and you can put anything on over them. Dress shirts are another essential, with a good white dress shirt being as versatile as the white t-shirt. Polos are another good pick, flattering and classic, and very useful for layering, with t-shirts, dress shirts, or anything else that would fit your style. Branch out into other colors too, and bring along a female friend to help find out what colors, cuts, and styles work on you.
Shoes. As much as they may be a girl thing, you can't live without them. Ditch the athletic sneakers unless you're going all-out athlete style. As a matter of fact, ditch them no matter what. Odds are that they stink and you need a pair specific to working out. I would recommend a classic pair of black or brown leather shoes for casual wear, or perhaps some basketball, skater, or some other style of shoe. There are tons, so look around and find the pair that suits your lifestyle. Also, buy a pair of shiny black oxfords if you are ever going to need to dress up. Casual shoes and suits do not mix. Learn how to polish shoes.
Finally, you will want something to keep warm. Perhaps a blazer, sweater, or cardigan will do the trick. Adding another layer creates a whole new look, while simultaneously keeping you far warmer. Perhaps you want a track jacket? Or maybe some sort of pea coat? Again, look for something that reflects your style, and you'll wear it forever.
 After all, you need to have the basics to build up your wardrobe! Look at seams, hems, any place where fabric is stitched together. The seam should be straight, uniform, and there should be no gaps or holes. The buttons should be secure, and there should be no loose strings. No fraying, either. Also, feel the fabric itself. It should feel strong and soft, and different depending upon the fabric being examined. Beware, for some manufacturers coat their clothing in chemicals to lend a slippery, soft feel to their clothing. Rub your hands together after you touch a soft garment. Do they feel slippery or oily? This may mean that the fabric has been treated. Also, try everything on. Fits change from store to store, and even within styles and cuts within the same store. It pays to find clothes that fit on the first trip.
 Don't wear clothes just because it's "in" - wear something you actually like. By the same token, look for clothing that would be a good addition to your current style. Perhaps you decide you like the look of a sweater vest, or a cardigan, or a blazer. Add that to the list of things you'd like. Here, you have far more leeway in the hunt for an expanded wardrobe. Perhaps you dress up a lot, which might send you towards more ties, and different patterns and colors of dress shirts. Perhaps a second suit. Maybe a pair of brown dress shoes. Or perhaps you want a pair of skinny jeans, or maybe a great cardigan? Get inspired, look around, and always keep adding new things to your wardrobe, making it more versatile as time goes on. Don't forget belts, hats, ties, and scarves! While accessories for men may not be quite as expansive as for women, you are still given quite a few choices to add an extra touch of style to your outfit. Take advantage of them however you want!

