 Before you heat the oven, check that the rack is set up in the middle of the oven. That will help ensure that the muffins bake evenly because the hot air can circulate around the pan from both directions.Adjust your rack before you begin preheating or the rack may be too hot to handle.;
, Your oven needs be hot enough to bake the muffins when the batter is ready, so make sure you preheat it. Set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius).Watch your oven carefully so you know when it’s reached the right temperature before you put the muffins in. It will probably beep or flash a light when it’s at the designated temperature.
 To bake the muffins, you’ll need 1 to 2 muffin pans. The recipe makes approximately 20 muffins, so line your pan(s) with 20 paper muffin liners. That will keep the muffins from sticking to the pan and allow you to remove them easily.If you don’t have any liners on hand, you can grease the muffin pan with butter, margarine, or non-stick cooking spray instead.
 In a medium bowl, combine 2 cups (250 g) all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (5 g) baking powder, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) baking soda, and ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) salt. Mix well so the ingredients are completely blended, and then set the bowl aside.Stir the dry ingredients together slowly to avoid sending the powder flying all over the kitchen.
 In a separate, large bowl, use an electric mixer on medium high to beat ½ cup (approximately 113 g) softened butter or margarine for 30 seconds. Next, add in 1 ¼ cup (approximately 296 g) sugar and beat with the butter until the two are thoroughly combined.If you don’t have an electric mixer, you can beat the butter and sugar together by hand. It just may take a little longer to combine the two.
Softened butter should feel cool to the touch, but your finger should leave an indentation if you apply slight pressure to it. To soften it, cut it into pieces and leave it out on the counter for approximately a half hour. You can also put in a microwave-safe bowl and heat it in the microwave at 10% power for 20 seconds. After the 20 seconds, check the butter to see if it needs additional time, and work in 5 second intervals., After the butter and sugar are combined, add in 2 eggs, 1 8-ounce (approximately 227 g) carton of sour cream, and 1 teaspoon (4.9 mL) of vanilla. Beat on medium high speed with your electric mixer until all of the ingredients are thoroughly mixed together.If you don’t have any sour cream in your refrigerator, you can replace it with an equal amount of whole milk Greek yogurt., When all of your wet ingredients have been mixed, it’s time to start working in the flour mixture. Add the dry ingredients in small batches, and then use a spoon to to stir until they’re fully incorporated. Repeat until all of the flour mixture has been mixed in.Don’t worry if your batter isn’t entirely smooth after you mix in the flour and other dry ingredients. It should be slightly lumpy.
 When the batter is completely mixed, you should add in raspberries. With a spatula, gently fold in 1 cup (125 g) of fresh raspberries. Make sure that you’ve washed the berries well before mixing them into the muffin batter.Don’t use too much water when you’re washing your raspberries or they may become soggy. Give them a quick rinse while in a colander to remove any debris. If you have a salad spinner, give them a few spins in it to dry them thoroughly before adding them to the batter.
You can use 1 cup of frozen raspberries in place of fresh. Just make sure to thaw and drain them if you’re using frozen fruit.
 In a small bowl, combine 2 tablespoons (24 g) sugar, ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) ground cinnamon, and ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) ground nutmeg. Mix together with a spoon until thoroughly combined, and set aside.You don’t necessarily have to add the topping. Feel free to leave the muffins plain if you prefer.
 Take your lined or greased muffin pan, and begin filling the individual cups. Spoon enough batter to fill the cups approximately ¾’s of the way full. Next, sprinkle a pinch of the topping over the batter in the cups.Using a kitchen scoop is the easiest way to fill the muffin tins. A large or medium scoop should work well to fill the cups.
 Once you’ve filled the muffin tin with batter, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the muffins to bake for approximately 18 to 20 minutes or until the muffins become a golden brown color.You can also tell if the muffins are done by touching them. If the tops spring back when you touch them lightly, the muffins are finished.
The muffins are best served warm, but you should allow the muffins to cool on a wire rack for approximately 10 minutes so they’re not too hot.

