 When you are feeling lonely, it can cause a variety of other emotions. You might also feel sad or anxious. Remember that these are normal emotions. Everyone experiences a wide range of feelings.Allow yourself to go through several emotions. Know that how you are feeling right now will not last forever.
Accept your emotions. Say to yourself, "I'm feeling lonely now, and that's normal."
Once you accept how you are feeling, you'll be in a better position to move forward. Ignoring your emotions will only block your progress.
 It's perfectly normal to feel lonely from time to time. However, it is important to monitor your mental health. You don't want the feeling to drag on for a long period of time. You also don't want it to develop into something more severe,Talk to a family member. Try saying, "Mom, I've been feeling really lonely lately. Do you have time to talk?"
You can also reach out to a close friend. You could say, "Sarah, we haven't been able to spend much time together lately. Do you have any free time soon when we could hang out?"
Consider seeing a counselor. Sometimes a mental health professional can give you some very helpful, objective advice.
 Sometimes being lonely isn't a bad thing. It can give you a reason to reflect and get to know yourself better. Take some steps to learn to be your own friend.Don't be afraid of alone time. You can still do the things that you enjoy.
Try going to a movie by yourself. You'll likely find that it's nice to be able to pick the movie, and you won't have to share your popcorn.
Be kind to yourself. Try not to get down on yourself. Take a minute each day to think of something that you like about yourself.
 It might seem counter-intuitive, but sometimes social media can make you feel even more lonely. Many people experience "fear of missing out". This can be enhanced when you see pictures of your friends doing something fun.Don't scroll through Facebook or Instagram when you are feeling lonely. You might start to feel bad that you're not out doing something fun.
Instead, go out and do something. Take a walk, or call a friend for a long chat.

