 Talk to your child, have conversations nearby your child, and encourage other family members to do the same. Hearing more words will help your child learn listening skills and vocabulary, and can speed up your child's linguistic abilities.
 The earlier your child can begin communicating, the better they will be able to express wants and needs (and the less frustrated they'll get). AAC is usually a stepping stone to verbal speech, although some autistic people remain nonverbal or partially verbal into adulthood.Picture Exchange Communication Systems
Picture/word boards
Typing
Baby Sign (e.g. the Baby Einstein video "baby's first signs")

, For instance, if your child says to you "Do you want to use the potty?" which is what you may have asked them 2 minutes ago or 2 days ago. You know they are trying to communicate that they need to go potty so model the sentence "I need to go potty".
 You ask "Are you ready?" If the child echo's the question you next model the correct response "I'm ready!" be animated in your voice and how you express yourself.
 Pretend you forgot how to play the game to see if they will lead, or remind you what to do.
, If they can say "milk" see if you can prompt them to use more words by waiting for them to fill in your sentence. Pretend to accidentally spill a little milk. Then say "Look, mommy spilled ...."

, You hold the bag of goldfish crackers and give them one to eat this will prompt them to ask for more. If they say nothing model the word “more?"

, Use a photo or hand sign for help which is one hand held out, palm up place fist on the flat out hand with thumb up. Take the second hand and lift it off the first saying "Help?"

, Eventually they will learn to point and request. Put objects in a clear container on a shelf out of reach but in view to see if they will point our hand lead you and get them to request with a point, a word, even a glance at first to encourage them to communicate a request.
 Start by asking questions about their favorite topic, or a topic that is very closely related. Your child may be eager to open up and share their passion with you.

