 One way to make a dog bed is to look for old pillows or comforters around your home. Sewing or stitching a few pillows together, and covering it with an old comforter, is a great way to make a dog bed for free.Make sure any materials you use are non-toxic to dogs. Read the labels of any old pillows and comforters you use to make sure they're free of formaldehyde, as this can be toxic to dogs. It's common in unwashed fabrics. Levels do drop with time, so as long as any pillows and comforters are old and have been washed previously they should be dog-safe. Just make sure to run them through the washer and dryer before use to be safe.Try to remember what types of household cleaners you've used on these supplies previously. Cleaning products that contain bleach, ammonia, chlorine, glycol ethers or formaldehyde can lead to kidney disease, cancer, and other ailments in dogs. Laundry detergent residue can therefore be particularly harmful to pets, especially if they chew on bedding. Try to wash old pillows and comforters with more organic, non-toxic detergent before repurposing them for a pet bed.;
, Old and broken furniture can be filled with old blankets and pillows to make a fun, free DIY dog bed. You can use old drawers, wood crates and milk crates, old TV consoles, and any other old piece of furniture that provide a box-like structure. Look in your basement and attic to see if you have any old furniture you can use for your dog's bed.As with bedding, a lot of wood furniture contains trace levels of formaldehyde. Make sure any wood furniture you use is formaldehyde free before using it for a dog bed., Old sweaters and other items of clothing can be scraped and turned into pillow covers or blankets for your dog's bed. This can help in a bind if you don't have any old pillows or comforters lying around.Just make sure to check product labels to watch for any potential toxins. As laundry residue can pose a problem, consider washing your clothes with organic, chemical-free laundry detergent before using it in your pet's bed., Old curtains are a great addition to a DIY dog bed. They can be folded and sewed over a pillow to make a comforter for your dog's new bed.Be careful with this method. You should always wash curtains with organic detergent once or twice before using them in your dog's bed. Old curtains are very prone to airborne household pollution from cleaners., Dumpster diving can be a great way to find old materials for your dog's bed. If you don't have anything laying around your home, you can find supplies in dumpsters around town. However, you should take certain precautions when dumpster diving. Hygiene is a major and the legality of dumpster diving varies by state, county, and town.


Keep track of when stores tend to discard old items. Take a walk around town and see when, for example, a local furniture store might toss old materials. When you do go diving, bring a flashlight to watch out for potentially hazardous materials. You should also wear rubber gloves.Make sure it's legal to dumpster dive in the area you've chosen. "No Trespassing" signs are a good indicator you should dumpster dive elsewhere. You should also check local regulations on dumpster diving. Some counties have standing bans on dumpster diving anywhere, even buildings without signs expressly forbidding it., You'll need a comforter for your dog's bed. You can easily make a comforter on your own with two old pillows and a curtain, old blanket, or old sheet as a cover.


Take two pillows and push the long sides together. Have about 4 to 6 inches of overlap between the pillows. Sew the pillows together along the overlap, either by hand or using a machine.Wrap an old sheet, old curtain, or old blanket around the pillows until it fits them like a pillow case. You may have to trim some of the excess fabric if there's too much. Use pins to pin the sides of the cover snuggly around the pillows. Then, sew up the sides with a machine or by hand. Remove all pins., Once you've made a comforter, look back over your materials. Choose a holder. You can use old drawers, wood crates, milk crates, TV consoles, and other box-like structures. Place the comforter inside the holder of your choice.
 If you want to give your dog a little extra bedding, add any of the other supplies you've found. You can add an old sweater for your dog to snuggle with and chew on. You can add small throw pillows so your dog has a pillow on his comforter. Use anything you think might enhance the comfort of the bed.
 Sewing is required for a lot of DIY dog bed projects. If you don't already know how to sew, it's fairly easy to learn with some practice.


If you're working a sewing machine, follow the specific instructions for your machine. Sewing machines very in stitch length and how to assemble them properly. Using a sewing machine can be somewhat confusing if you're unfamiliar, so consider asking a friend who's into crafting and sewing for assistance.
Sewing by hand is more time consuming but can work if you don't have access to a sewing machine. You'll need to learn how to thread a needle and do basic stitching. If you want to build a dog bed for free, there are many free sewing tutorials online. Websites like YouTube provide beginner's instructions on the basics of sewing and what kind of threads to use.
 Online, there are many free patterns and instructions on how to make a DIY dog bed. Based on the supplies you've found, look for assembly ideas that would work for you.Many websites have free sewing patterns you can download and use for a dog's bed.
As always, keep the above safety precautions in mind when working. Make sure any supplies you use are free of harmful chemicals. Wash things like curtains and bedsheets in organic detergent before using them in your dog's bed.
 Be creative. You may not have all the exact supplies for a given project but feel free to substitute. For example, one project might suggest you make a pillow cover out of old curtains. If you don't have any old curtains, you can use old blankets, clothing, or sheets instead. Making a dog bed for free requires a certain degree of flexibility on your part.
 Many DIY templates require you secure covers in place before sewing them together. Double check that all pins are removed before letting your dog use his new bed. You do not want him to get pricked and injured by a pin.

