 Sent in the mail almost every week, these catalogs are put together by designers and artists trying stay ahead of the curve, selling the right clothes for the right season. Specifically, the catalogs that come out from January through March are specifically tailored for Spring fashion.;
, Magazines like GQ, Vogue, and Cosmo are generally considered "taste makers." They are in touch with the big clothing designers and often feature reviews of runway shows.


Buy the February or March issues for the best fashion advice if you don't want to subscribe to the magazine. They will frequently do an annual "Spring Fashion" primer.
 More and more often, people are using the internet to broadcast their personal fashion recommendations, which is a great way to get a pulse on spring fashion. Sites like tumblr and Pintrest have specific sections devoted to fashion.
 Many brands, designers, and fashionistas post their inspiration online, as well as recommendations on where to find the best new fashions. Search "Spring Fashion Blogs" and browse through a few to see styles your enjoy.


There are websites based around this idea such as ASOS Fashion Finder or Polyvore that help you narrow down your search to only see fashions you like., If you've got friends in Miami, they will experience spring fashion a lot faster than you might in Chicago. Check out your friends' pictures or go online and look up southern fashion blogs to get ahead of the game before the snow melts.
 If you see 5 different websites with large stripes on their dresses, you can be sure that large stripes are trending. To keep ahead of the curve, make notes about the fashion trends that keep popping up in different magazines and sites.
 Having confidence in yourself and rocking your outfit is more important than following any trend. If you still can't figure out what spring fashion trend to follow, find an outfit you like and make up your own trend.


Feeling comfortable in your clothes is more important than following any trend.

