 One of the hallmarks of millennials’ consuming habits is that they don’t spend too much time watching or reading anything. Thus, whatever type of marketing campaign you are designing should focus on relatively short and effective content distribution.


Design audio or video ads that are 30 seconds or less. Sometimes 15 seconds might even be effective.
Write ads that are short and to the point. The quicker you can get to point, the better. For instance, instead of going through a list of the virtues of a certain good or service, simply list the most important or most appealing aspect of the product in simple terms.
Avoid long and expensive ads., Perhaps the best way to create ad content is to create many, short, and inexpensive ads. Ultimately, by creating a lot of ads, you'll increase the chance that millennials will see your ad and watch it in its entirety.


Design a number of ads to run on a variety of media platforms. For instance, create short radio blurbs, YouTube and Facebook ads, as well as short ads on television.
Dismiss the old idea that expensive ads are effective ads. In the end, many, short, and inexpensive ads might prove more effective in gaining the attention of millennials than a few expensive ads., Millennials are, more than any other group today, a socially conscious demographic with very progressive values. Thus, you should consider branding your product along these lines.


Highlight any aspect of your product that contributes to a sustainable environment. For instance, if your product is made of a recycled material, state this in your ads.
Focus on any aspect of your product or service that promotes economic equality. For instance, if your company pays workers a living wage, start this in your ads.
Show off any part of your product or service that promotes diversity and society that is inclusive., As a group, millennials want to feel as if they are understood or viewed as individuals rather than as part of a collective consumer consciousness. Because of this, you should go out of your way to tailor your marketing campaign to many individuals and segments of society.


Use data collected online to cater to individual people’s taste. For instance, Facebook, Google, and other internet companies collect data and have marketing approaches that will focus your ads to specific groups who may be interested in your product.
Create advertising campaigns that focus on individual groups. For instance, create the same ad with many different variations that appeal to different people in different regions. Also, create many different ads that play up various aspects of your good or service that may appeal to different groups of people.