 (680g) of ground beef in a bowl. Instead of using only beef, you can mix substitute ground pork, ground turkey, or a combination of these meats.


Spanish-style meatballs are often made with only pork. Swedish meatballs are often only ground beef. Italian recipes frequently feature a combination of beef and pork. Ground turkey works serves to make traditional meatball recipes healthier.;
, For a more intense flavor, sprinkle Italian seasoning atop the breadcrumbs. Place them on a baking sheet with some olive oil and toast for up 5 to 10 minutes at 300 degrees Fahrenheit (149 degrees Celsius).


Instead of using breadcrumbs, you can substitute boxed stuffing mix. This is a fast way to improve the flavor, but it will contain added salt and sugar.
 Place them in the meat mixture.
, The pieces should be small to incorporate better into the meatball. Place the chopped onion in the meat mix.


For Spanish crockpot meatballs, combine 1.5 tsp. (6.3g) ground cumin and 1.5 tsp. (6.3g) of smoked paprika in addition to the parsley and onion. Withhold the garlic and Italian seasoning.
For Swedish crockpot meatballs, combine 1/2 cup (54g) of plain bread crumbs, 1/4 cup (59ml) of milk or beef stock, 1 tsp. (6g) salt, 1/4 tsp. (0.5g) pepper, 1/8 tsp. (0.6g) allspice and a dash of nutmeg into the ground beef, instead of parsley and garlic.
 Add it to the meat mixture bowl.
 If it is not mixing well, you may need to use your hands. Stop mixing when it looks uniform.


You can opt to wear plastic food handling gloves if you are uncomfortable mixing with your hands.
 For a uniform shape, use a small ice cream scoop to form each ball. Roll it in the palm of your hands to make it more round.


Meatball size can be based on preference. However, you may want to make them at least 1.5 inches (3.8cm) in diameter in order to ensure they don't cook too fast in a slow cooker.
 Add 1.5 tbsp. (22ml) of olive oil to the skillet.
 You will need to do this in 2 batches. Transfer your first batch to the slow cooker, and then add another 1.5 tbsp. (22ml) of olive oil to the skillet for the next batch.


If you are making Swedish meatballs, use 3 tbsp. (43g) of butter to brown the meatballs, instead of olive oil.
, (473ml) can of crushed tomatoes, a 14.25 oz. (421ml) can of tomato puree and a 28 oz. (828ml) can of tomato sauce. Pour it over the meatballs in the crockpot. This recipe will make a lot of tomato sauce so it can be served over spaghetti.


For Spanish meatballs, add 1 28 oz. (828ml) can of diced tomatoes to the crockpot.
For Swedish meatballs, whisk 2 tbsp. (16g) of flour into the skillet after browning the meatballs. It should combine with the leftover butter. Wait until it is browned, and then add 2 cups (473ml) of beef broth. Pour the gravy mixture over the meatballs.
 Place it on the "low" setting.
, Serve Spanish meatballs with crusty French bread. Serve Swedish meatballs with mashed potatoes.

