 If you have hurt yourself during sport, physical activity or other actions, it is important to rest the area that is injured so that it has a chance to heal. For example, if you hurt a leg, keeping off that leg until it is stronger may be important for healing. However, don't become completely inactive, as movement is usually a key part of recovery. Discuss finding the perfect balance with your doctor.Remember that pain is a warning. If it hurts too much to use the harmed area during recovery, do not push it. The pain indicates that healing is still in process. If you need to push past the pain signals for that part of your body to rebuild strength, only do this under the supervision of a qualified health professional, such as a physical therapist.
 For those with muscle strains or sprains, the best remedy is generally the RICE model (rest, ice, compression, and elevation).If you've taken a fall on hard ground or your back is stiff, however, exercise can often be more beneficial than resting. Mild, low-impact exercise can relieve some types of chronic pain.Exercise that relieves anxiety will often relieve pain as well since anxiety can increase your perception of pain.
 In some cases, gentle stretching can help to alleviate the pain, such as back pain. It is a good idea to see a physiotherapist or similar professional who can advise you which exercises will benefit the area and relieve the pain.


Be aware that doing the wrong exercises, exercising in the wrong way or stretching too much can make the pain worse. It could also lead to re-injury. If you aren't sure that the stretches are good ones to do, don't do them until you have proper advice.
Yoga and pilates are often a gentle way to stretch and relieve pain. Always use qualified instructors and be sure that your doctor or physical therapist has agreed to the exercise first., Several studies have shown that tai chi and yoga can help relieve pain.Some of this may be due to increased strength and flexibility developed by these exercises. The emphasis on mindfulness and meditation in these practices may also help you manage pain.Tai Chi is a gentle Chinese martial art that incorporates meditation and fluid movements. Many gyms and community centers offer tai chi classes.If you are pregnant, have joint problems, fractures, or hernias, consult your doctor before starting tai chi or yoga.