 Private school admission generally involves an application, interviews, and testing, all of which need to be completed before the application deadline. Contact the private schools you are interested in a year before you hope to enroll to get information on admissions standards and the application process.Let the school know, “I would like to enroll my child in your school for the next academic year. How can I begin the application process?”
If the school requires referrals, start asking early, as well. Give people plenty of time to pen a quality letter.
Once you know the application deadline, plan ahead to ensure that you have everything in on time.
 The best recommendations come from your child's current teacher or from a family already active in the school. Talk to any friends or coworkers that you know with a child admitted into the program you want for your child.


Ask for a recommendation letter early. Give the person a month's notice minimum to ensure that they have enough time to write a good letter without feeling pressured or rushed.
If you do not know any families at the school, talk to your child's current teacher. They can speak to your child's academic strengths and potential better than most anyone.
 Find a tutor in your area that specializes in helping children prepare for the ISEE or SSAT. These are the most common admission exams used by private schools. Working with a tutor will allow your child to prepare and practice taking mock exams before they actually test.Use your child’s current grades as an indicator of the subjects on which the tutor should focus. If they regularly have lower grades in English than in math, let the tutor know you want to work on your child’s math skills.
 While it’s important for your kid’s education to be well-rounded, you want them to stand out on an application. Emphasize your child’s unique abilities or talents.Don’t list every activity your child has participated in. Instead, focus on where they are talented. Let the school know if your child is a gifted artist, skilled athlete, a multi-instrumental composer, or anything else that will set them apart.
 Your child’s current teacher will be the best recommendation source come time to apply. Be friendly to your child’s current teacher and offer to help out around the classroom where you can.Volunteer for activities such as school plays or science nights if you have the time.
Make an effort to attend all parent-teacher meetings.
Let the teacher know your educational goals for your child. Ask them, “How do you think we can work together to get my child to this point?”

, Your kid may or may not get into your top choice school. They may or may not get into private school at all. Apply to multiple schools, and have a backup plan in case your child isn’t admitted into one of your top choice schools.Check to see if certain schools have an appeal process in place to allow you to restate your case for your child’s admission.
Visit many schools and look for hidden gems. Some schools are popular simply because they are popular. Visit schools to look for one that still offers great academic opportunities but with a smaller applicant pool.
Don’t be afraid of sending your child to public school if necessary. Look into charter, magnet, and district transfer options to get your child into a well-regarded public school.

