 The purpose for this is twofold. First, you'll no longer be embarrassed by your secret fear. This will help you start to deal with the anxiety.Second, you'll be able to ask others for help, especially when you get stuck.


Consider attending a self-help group for people facing similar fears. You might benefit from talking with and supporting others experiencing the same challenges you are.
 Sometimes, it is easier to face your fears knowing that you are not the only one. Your family and friends may not understand what you are going through, but the people in the self-help group may. The people in that group may also offer up advice on how they managed or overcame their phobias. Some of that advice might work for you as well., Different people have different learning methods. Some people learn better through experiences, while others must read and analyze the material. Some books might even focus on certain types of phobias.
 Some people might need additional help overcoming their phobias, especially if it that gets in the way of their daily lives. For example, an extreme fear of open spaces or talking to people, might prevent someone from going out to a store and buying food and other necessities.
 Studies have shown that this combination can help reduce anxiety.A great example of this combination is a turkey sandwich.
 While many assume that citrus is the best source of Vitamin C, you should actually try eating: yellow bell pepper, guavas, black currants, and red chili peppers., This can be especially helpful when you are trying to face your phobia. Consider using any of the following essential oil: bergamot, chamomile, jasmine, lavender, or ylang ylang. Here are some ways in which you can use essential oils:


Mix a few drops of essential oil into a carrier oil, such as coconut or jojoba, and massage it into your skin.
Add a few drops of essential oil into your bath.
Consider making some homemade bath products using essential oil. A simple sugar scrub consists of 1 part sugar, 1 part coconut or olive oil, and a few drops of essential oil.Make your own oil diffuser by filling a bottle with warm water and adding 20 to 30 drops of essential oil. Stick some differ reeds into the bottle; the reeds will soak up the scented water and release their scent., Choose a word or simple phrase to repeat to yourself when facing fear or anxiety. This should be something that calms you or cheers you as you repeat it.You can chant, speak, sing, or whisper. Choose whatever relaxes you the most.