 While quinoa will effectively soak up the flavours around it, its natural taste may go together very well with other ingredients. Throwing in seasonal fruits and vegetables to your quinoa will make a delicious meal. In particular, quinoa goes well with citrus and apples to create sweet and light dishes. It is also complementary with leafy greens and less starchy vegetables. Experiment to find what you like.


Add lime and orange juice with their accompanying zest to serve with seafood.
Add tomato, avocado, and lime for a southwest flavor.
Add squash, peppers, and corn for a delicious succotash.
Try mustard greens and garlic if you feel like spicing it up a bit.
 As beef tends to be quite juicy, it is the recommended standard in this case. In particular, ground meat complements a quinoa dish; the smaller the meat chunks, the more surface area the meat offers to disperse its flavour amidst the grains, and having the meat at a similar size to the grains will offer a much more balanced consistency, allowing the ingredients to proportion themselves evenly with each bite.
 You will enjoy a much healthier and nutritious dish. Try using quinoa in place of tortillas when you make enchiladas next! Although the cooking instructions for quinoa may vary from the ingredient it is replacing, you'll find quinoa adapts to these dishes quite well, and in some cases, may even surpass the original for taste as well as nutrition's sake!


For example: Try making quinoa like you would a risotto. Sauté a chopped onion in olive oil. Add your rinsed quinoa to the pan until it is coated with oil. Add warm liquid a bit at a time, stirring frequently, until it is creamy, cooked through, and delicious.This is especially delicious with a seafood added.
 In the case of baking, quinoa is perfectly suited to replacing other ingredients you would otherwise use as a primary base, like white flour. From healthy breakfast bars to chocolate cookies to donuts, there are many recipes available to try. Adding or substituting quinoa will make the recipe delicious and far more nutritious.Quinoa, like other grains, can be ground into a fine flour. Quinoa flour has a bit of a sour odour that works great in bread and English muffin recipes. But don’t be afraid to try it in pastries, especially in tandem with other gluten-free flours. The protein in the flour will help give your dough more structure and rise., An important side to adding flavour to quinoa is exploring the ways it can replace other ingredients. Quinoa flakes are a fine alternative to rolled oats, and serve to add more protein to your oat-based breakfasts, snacks and desserts. Just as you would with morning oatmeal, adding syrup or berries can make for a quick, delicious breakfast.They make great hot cereal, but they are a great addition to waffles, pancakes, granolas, and cookies.