 Sandtrap and Snowbound are both good maps to overload if you are just beginning, as the effects of the glitch are easily visible. The Forge can be found between Custom Games and Theater on the main menu screen when you first enter Halo 3.;
, If you can't enter editor mode (for example, if you are not host and the host has not enabled you to enter editor mode), then either start the match again with the correct setting or ask the person who is host to enable you to enter editor mode.


, A mini-screen will appear in the lower right-hand corner of your screen listing items you can select and place in the map you are editing.
 Equipment can be found between the 'Vehicle' and 'Scenery' categories.
 To select it, you must have at least $2 worth of forge credit, otherwise you will not be able to place it on the map. Do not place it down yet - you need to edit some settings first.
 This will open up the item's property details, which will allow you to edit some of its' settings.
 Simply change the setting from whatever number it currently is (usually 45 seconds) down to 10 seconds.
 You need to make the 'Run-time Minimum' the same number as the 'Placed On Map' number directly above it. For example, if the number for 'Placed On Map' is 1, then you need to change the 'Run-time Minimum' to 1 also; this will make the trip mine respawn instantly after one has been used.
 You will now be able to freely drag the trip mine where you want it on the map to begin the overloading process.
 A good place to place the trip mine is on a ledge so that the mines will not kill you later in the process.
 You no longer need to work in editor mode.
 It should appear in your equipment inventory directly below your grenade count in the top left-hand corner of your screen. As you pick it up, a new one should appear in its' place instantly. If it doesn't, then you need to make sure the settings for the trip mine are correct by re-entering Editor mode, placing your cursor over the trip mine and pressing X to open the mini-screen again.
 If you do it correctly, then there should be a huge pile of trip mines in front of you.
 You should hear a giant explosion and they should all disappear. If you are standing too close, then you will probably be killed along with the explosion.
 If you have done it correctly, then the map should now be overloaded; this means that Guardians (such as the ones on the perimeters of Sandtrap or Snowbound) will be disabled, shield doors won't work and gravity lifts won't lift you up. This means you can build outside the boundaries of a map and explore at will. Congratulations, you've just overloaded a map! Note however, that if you start a new round or use the map in a Custom Game, the guardians will be reactivated, but your objects will still be outside the map if you have placed any.

