 Using a sharp knife, divide your cork into five equally sized slices.Slice the cork horizontally as you would a cucumber or piece of salami. You should have five cork discs.
 Once you are done, you should have a total of 15 cork discs.
 This will create the fractal design of your coaster., Once you are happy with the shape, place a bit of hot glue on the sides of the cork discs to glue them together.Set this pentagon aside and allow it to dry.
 Use five more cork discs to create another pentagon shape.
 Apply glue to each piece of cork and reform your pentagon. Try to be sure that your pentagons are matched as close to possible, the way a real fractal would appear in nature.
 Using the last pieces of cork, glue together the final fractal just as you did the previous two. Again, try to get each of the fractals to match in shape as close to possible.
 Place glue on one of the sides of the cork fractal and adhere it directly to the side of another.
 This last piece will come into contact with both of the other cork fractals, so you need to be sure to apply glue to two adjacent sides.Once you have applied the glue, slide the final fractal into the other two so that it roughly forms a triangular shape.
 Both sides may look identical, or not. The side you want to be displayed once the coaster is complete is up to you.
 After you have decided which side of the coaster you would like to be displayed (or up), go ahead and lay it down on a flat surface display side down.
 Not just each cork fractal, but each individual disc. You will need to work rather quickly so that the glue does not begin to dry before you are finished applying it to each disc.
 You should do this before the glue dries to make sure that the cork pieces properly adhere. Once you have the felt in position, use your palms to apply a gently amount of pressure to the felt. This will make sure the glue fills any gaps between the felt and the uneven surfaces of cork.


The felt will help maintain the form of the coaster., Once the hot glue has dried you can trim the excess felt. Using a pair of sharp scissors, cut along the edge of the corks to remove any excess felt.

