 It's important to develop your physical skills as early as possible. Most professional football players have been playing the game since at least high school.If you're not in high school anymore, but you still want to play football, join a local league, or find camps. Do anything to boost your skills and knowledge of the game.;
, In high school, you should expect to invest about 10-15 hours a week practicing. In college, that time increases to about 25-30 hours a week.To go pro you have to play football as much as possible. In the off-season, don't stop training.Expect to make some sacrifices to get in all the training you need. Becoming a professional athlete requires a huge time commitment., If you want to get into the pros, your best bet is to get into a good college. Pay attention to your GPA and take classes that will boost your chances of getting into a good school.Take classes in biology and the health sciences. The more you know about the human body and what is required for peak performance, the better.Keep in mind playing college football is not a guarantee that you will play professionally. Only 1.7% of college players will play professional football., If a scout visits your school, be on your best behavior. Don't show-off, and don't disrespect your teammates. Scouts are looking to see how well you play the game, but also how well you play with others.Maintain a good relationship with your coach. Your coach might know the scouts and be able to give you a reference. Getting a recommendation from a coach could be the defining factor in whether you get picked up or not.No matter what, keep a good attitude. Show energy in warm-up and stay positive on the sidelines. If you get negative feedback from a scout, learn from it. Improve yourself daily., Include your basic information, the position you play, and any accomplishments as a player. As with any resume, list anything relevant to your goals.If you worked at a football camp, or helped coach a little league team, include it in your resume. Include anything that might set you apart from the competition. Your goal is to make professional football your job, so build a resume to reflect that., Find any articles that mention you or your team, even if it's the local paper from your high school days. Find video footage of your team playing and look for plays where you excel.Have a friend or family member record you during your games to help you build a highlight reel. , Send your press kit to teams you want to play for. Don't forget to follow up with the places you submit. Call or send an e-mail to let them know you're eager to play for them.Be sure to thank any of the teams that pass you up. Let them know you appreciate their time and consideration.
If you don't get picked up by any teams, don't give up. Find other leagues to join so you can keep gaining experience. Keep your resume and press kit updated and don't stop submitting., An agent can act as a link between you and the teams you may want to play for. Finding an agent to represent you could be the ticket to getting signed by the NFL.There are certain rules and regulations that agents must follow in regards to representing college players. Agents typically have to wait until the end of a player's college career before actively recruiting them., Knowing how to play football is only part of the process. Professional athletes are in top physical condition. Expect to make working out a priority.


Find the physical statistics of a few professional athletes and work hard to match them. Look into the workouts they do and make those exercises part of your routine., Perform exercises such as the bench press and the deadlift. Workout with the heaviest amount of weight you can lift correctly for 5 repetitions.Work the large muscle groups such as the chest, back, quadriceps, and hamstrings., Practice sprinting at increasing intervals. Start with trying to complete two 150-meter sprints in under 20 seconds. Rest for 30 seconds between each sprint.As you build up endurance, increase the length and intensity of the sprints. Try doing three 200-meter sprints in under 30 seconds. Rest for 30 seconds between each run.Make sure you give your body time to recover after each sprint. Rest for 3-5 minutes between each series of sprints.Work on boosting your heart rate and keeping it high for a short amount of time. Playing football requires explosive energy in short busts. Find workouts that mimic that intensity., Training like a professional athlete means eating like one. Since you'll be doing a lot of heavy lifting, make sure you get enough protein. A good guideline is to make protein account for about 1/3 of your plate at each meal.Eat lean proteins such as chicken, fish, and beans. Try to mix in a vegetarian meal once or twice a week. Soy is one of the healthier options for a vegetarian lean protein.Your position will depend on the amount of calories you need to eat. If you need to be light on your feet, aim for 3,000-5,000 calories during training. If you're a lineman, you may end up needing 8,000 calories.