 Making a snow angel is a fun way to turn snow into your very own work of art. This is an easy activity for kids of all ages, and a chance for adults to let their inner child out. Start by lying down into the snow, butt first. Then, lie flat on your back and spread your arms and legs straight out.


Next, swing your arms up and down – up above your head and then back down to your sides. Keep your arms in the snow, as you'll be making an impression of angel wings into the snow.
Create the angel's dress/skirt by sliding your legs outward, and then back in to meet in the center. Do this a few times.
Carefully stand up so that you don't disturb the snow next to you. Voila! A snow angel!, Making snowmen is the go-to winter activity when you want to be creative and have fun without leaving your house. It's a great activity for adults and children, and can be done alone or with a group.


Start by building the base for your snowman. Make a snowball in your hands and place it gently on the ground. Begin rolling the ball so it picks up the snow around it. Gently push it along the ground and be sure to rotate it in different directions to form a well-rounded ball. Once you've reached the size you want, stop rolling your snowball. This should be the biggest ball of the snowman.
Next, make the torso. Roll another snowball in the same fashion as the first, but make it a bit smaller. Once you've finished rolling it, stack it on top of the base of your snowman.
Create the head of your snowman. Roll the final snowball as you did with the first two, but make it even smaller. Then, stack it on top of the torso.
Add accessories to your snowman. Traditionally, people use twigs for arms, rocks for eyes and a mouth, and a carrot in for a nose. Consider adding a hat and scarf, or any other accessories you desire., Snow forts are great projects to work on with your kids or with a group of friends. They do take some manual labor, but you'll love the end result. Whether you want a snow castle, an igloo, or a snow fort, all are basically made the same way.


It's best to use wetter snow. Powdery snow won't stay in place as well as heavier snow with a bit of moisture in it. When the snow is wet, it will be more likely to freeze in place.
Start by choosing a flat piece of land to build your castle on. Your snow fort will need to be on fairly even ground so that it doesn't fall over.
Make the building bricks for your fort. Sandcastle pails and shovels work well to make snow bricks, but of a number of household objects will work as well (such as a loaf pan from the kitchen or a plant pot from the garage).Make your fort by placing the snow bricks on top of one another to create the walls. Stack them as high as you'd like your fort to be. Secure the bricks in place by pouring cold water over your snow bricks.
To create a roof for your fort, start to angle the snow bricks inward so that they meet in the middle. Pack the snow bricks together with your hands so that they stay in place. Again, pour water on the snow to secure it in place.
Make sure to leave an entrance or opening to your fort.Look at Build a Snow Fort for detailed instructions on how to build a snow fort.
 You can make almost any shape out of snow, so get creative! Throw on some gloves and start shaping your snow into whatever shape you'd like. Whether you want to make a car, a chair, or an animal, you can make it happen with some patience and creativity.


Pack your snow tightly with your hands so that it stays in place.
Look at photos for a reference when making your snow sculpture. Do your best to copy the image that your trying to recreate.
Add some food coloring or accessories to your snow sculpture to make it look like the real thing.

