 A resume is an essential marketing tool for the professional world. As you prepare to hunt for experience, prepare an excellent resume to send out to potential employers.


Consistency is key to a resume. Your use of bullet points, spacing, font, and other aspects of formatting should remain the same throughout your resume. For example, if you describe your job experience for a summer internship using bullet points, use bullet points to describe experience for every other job you list.Creative designs that maintain a level of professionalism can be great marketing tools. You can download creative resume templates online or browse websites such as Pinterest to get inspiration for a fun and creative design. Keep in mind you should know the atmosphere of a company before sending out a more creative resume. If you're applying for a young, hip tech company a creative resume could be a great selling point. However, if you're working in a conservative hospital employers may prefer a more professional document.List your experience in impressive terms. You can find lists of resume buzzwords online that will help you phrase your experience in as appealing a manner as possible. Say you spent your summer taking phone calls for a business manager at a local accounting firm. Don't say you "Talked to clients on behalf of Mr. Patterson." Instead say, "Represented Mr. Patterson to clientele and the general community, maintaining solid public relations and withholding standards of professional conduct."List relevant experience only. Many people make the mistake of listing every job they've ever held on a resume. Keep in mind the job you're going for. If you're applying for an entry-level position with a local engineering firm, employers probably do not care that you delivered subs to make ends meet during college. However, your summer internship in the engineering department of your college could really help your resume stand out.Take advantage of career counseling in your college when you have the chance. Attend resume workshops. Have a career counselor look over your resume and provide feedback., Hunting for jobs can be a stressful experience. However, you should know a bit about where to find entry level business positions as you start off looking for work in your field.


Networking is the best way to find a job in business. Go back to companies you've worked for in the past, whether it was part time clerical work or internship experience. If you did a good job, they may be willing to hire you or refer you to a firm that is hiring. Let professors and classmates from college know you're job hunting. People may be able to put in a good word for you at their place of employment.Online job boards can also be used to find work. Websites like Indeed, Monster, and Simply Hired frequently post job descriptions for entry level business work.Stay positive. With thousands of recent graduate each year and a limited number of jobs, it can take months to find a position in your field. However, try to maintain a positive attitude. Feeling discouraged can show through in subtle ways when writing cover letters and filling out applications. Try to see finding a job as an exciting challenge rather than a burden.
 Be prepared in the event you land an interview. Always practice solid interview skills so you can wow an employer and hopefully land an entry level position.


Always dress up for an interview. If you're looking for an entry level business job, err on the side of formal. For men, a business suit and tie is best. For women, consider a pantsuit. You could also try a professional looking blouse and dress pants or a skirt.Use body language to convey respect and confidence. As you enter the room, stand up straight and walk with a steady gait. Give the interviewer a firm handshake. Maintain eye contact and smile and nod as the interviewer talks as this conveys you're attentive.Do your research. You should always spend time browsing a company's website the night before a job interview. Make sure you have a sense of a company's goals, ethics, and overall mission going into a interview. Read over a company's about page. You can also find the company on social media and look at their posts to get a sense of their overall atmosphere.Ask questions at the end of the interview. Do not simply asks questions of logistics, like "When can I expect to hear back?" Ask serious, open-ended questions that show you have an active interest in the company. Ask something like, "What is your company's culture like?" or "What do you like about working here?"