 If a child had a bad experience with other children, you should sit down and talk through it with them. Ask them questions to encourage them to tell you what happened, and then gently guide them towards reactions that would have worked better.


If the child seems upset, ask them, “What happened today? Can we talk about it?” Ask them to describe the situation in detail.
You should ask the child how they reacted to the situation. For example, you might say, “I’m sorry Sally said that to you. How did you respond to her?”
If the child made a mistake, don’t scold them. Instead gently suggest what they could do to react more appropriately next time while maintaining a positive tone. You might say, “It sounds like you did everything you could. Maybe next time you can give Sally the ball if she asks politely.”

, You can coach your child by giving them social scripts and practicing these at home. You might play the role of a schoolmate. Ask your child to respond to you in the same way that they would to their schoolmate, and provide them with some pre-written responses if they are struggling.For example, you might mimic a situation at school where the children must share crayons. Sit down at table and draw with your child. Ask if you can use the color they are using. You can say, "May I please use the purple now?"
If the child does not share or acts rudely, gently correct their response. You can say, "That's not a good way to respond. How about you say, 'Of course, I would be happy to share.'" Repeat the situation until they respond the appropriate way.
If something bad happened at school that day, you can ask the child to repeat the situation with you. Let them describe the situation, then act it out together with some better solutions.
 Children with ADHD often struggle with letting other people have turns talking, playing, or using something. To encourage patience and sharing, take turns when doing any activity at home. Emphasize that everyone has to wait for their turn.At dinner time, everyone should have three minutes to say something about their day. No one else is allowed to talk until the three minutes are over.
After dinner, everyone should wash their own dish. They will have to wait until the person in front of them is done washing.
Set limits for computer and TV use. Let everyone in the family have a turn picking what movie or TV show you watch.
 Children with ADHD may have difficulty cooperating with other children. To encourage good group play at school, you should play short cooperation games with the child when they are at home. These are games where the child must work with you to win.


Ask the child to describe something in the room without telling you what it is. Let them give you clues until you guess what object it is.
A three-legged race is a great way to get them to coordinate with someone else. Tie your left leg to their right leg, and try to walk around the room. If you have another pair of people, you can try racing them.Twister is a good game that requires them to remain still and listen to directions. It can also encourage good communication skills.
 Some children with ADHD may not have good listening skills, which is detrimental when they are trying to make friends. Teach your child to listen carefully to everything you say to them.Play a story game where you start with one sentence and the child states the next sentence. Go back and forth, each coming up with the next sentence in the story. This will require the child to listen carefully to what you are saying so that they can come up with the next sentence.
Ask the child to repeat back what you said when talking about important subjects. If you get in the habit of this, the child will start listening so that they can repeat things back to you.
 If you see the child acting aggressively towards another child during play, you should intervene and let them know that it is inappropriate. Some children with ADHD may react out of frustration or they may not realize that what they did was mean.Aggressive behavior includes pushing, tripping, hitting, insulting, or yelling at other children.
You can say, "Hey now, I know you're frustrated, but you shouldn't push people. Can you say you're sorry?"

, Pets can teach a child responsibility, and they are a great tool for children with ADHD to practice their social skills. Talking to a dog or cat is less pressure than talking to other children, and the pet will prove to be a faithful companion even if they are struggling to make friends in school.A dog may also help a child to make friends by providing them with something to talk about with other kids.

