 Evolving from the Latin word, umbra, meaning "shadow" or "shaded" and the term umbrella, which is a flat-topped rounded flower, the resulting term "umbrella" is a combination of both the object's shape and function.
 Aside from the common courtesy of avoiding poking anyone in the eye, it is a well-known superstition that if you opens an umbrella indoors, you will be subject to bad luck. The legend goes back to how indoor opening of an umbrella affects and offends the sun god (because umbrellas were used to shield the sun).What other superstitions can you find with respect to umbrellas?

, There are broad umbrellas designed to keep off a heavy run, there are cloth umbrellas designed to shade people from the sun's searing rays and there are umbrellas that fold up neatly to fit inside a purse. Cafes use large outdoor umbrellas to allow customers to sit under shade or keep out the rain when dining outside. Large beach umbrellas keep swimmers and beach visitors out of the sun and just a little cooler for the shade.


Be aware that umbrella fabrics are chosen dependent on their end use. For example, an umbrella meant to ward off rain won't last long if it's used to keep off the sun's rays, as the fabric isn't made for that second purpose. Be sure to choose the right umbrella for the purpose.
 Do you use them for keeping dry only, or do you also use them as a form of shading your face and body on a sunny day? Perhaps today is a good time to revisit your impression of the utility of the umbrella––perhaps add one to your garden for shade or buy a new one for shading you in the summer heat.


If you live in a windy area, look for a very strong umbrella. However, be aware that umbrellas are not intended for use in strong winds or torrential rain––they tend to snap or blow inside out!

, Do you know what to do after using an umbrella? Rather than simply folding it up wet, there are simple procedures to keep your umbrella in tip top shape:


Upon reaching your destination, find a spot to keep your umbrella opened out. Ideal spots include the bathtub, a mudroom, a basement, sitting on industrial carpet in the office that can handle a little moisture, a sink, and so forth.
When dry, fold the umbrella according to the manufacturer's instructions and place it back into its pouch or do up the fastener. When folding, take care with the spokes to avoid bending them out of shape. Have any broken spokes mended by a shoe repairer as quickly as possible, or the umbrella will not last. Also, roll the umbrella back into its case, rather than stuffing or squashing it in. Creases that result from squashing the umbrella fabric are hard to remove and decrease the umbrella's life.
Obviously, you can't always leave an umbrella open to dry out. If you cannot find somewhere to dry out the umbrella immediately, give it a quick shake to remove the worst of the water, then fold. Do not leave it too long––as soon as you're able to open it up for drying, do so. If left stored wet, it may grow mildew.
If stains or marks appear on the umbrella, use a toweling cloth with warm water to dab at the marks. If you need something stronger, try gentle dish washing soap but nothing harsher, as this may discolor or even destroy the umbrella fabric.
 While most umbrellas are used to keep us dry or shaded, there are other uses for umbrellas (or their shape):


Unopened, a non-folding umbrella with a strong stem can transform into a temporary walking cane substitute.
Umbrellas can be used to provide temporary shade or protection for new growing plants in the garden. Be sure to weight down the hook end or the umbrella might fly off in a gust.
Umbrellas can be used in photo shoots to give the impression of rain or heat. They're a handy prop for models to work with.
The common plastic or wooden umbrella garnish, inspired by the real umbrella, is used as a decoration in drinks such as cocktails and children's party drinks. It will often have pieces of fruit skewered on the stem too.
 Do you have some unwanted umbrellas around the house? They can have a new lease of life rather than being tossed out. Here are some ways to change your umbrella into something else:







Show off your creativity and try to make an umbrella skirt.
Turn your old umbrella into a pouch for rainy days.






Make a paper umbrella for drinks, toys, or as decorations.







Make baby shower umbrellas for the next baby shower you attend.
Turn it into an indoor, portable drying rack. Remove all the fabric and use the spokes. Simply hang the umbrella upside down over the shower, use clothes pins to attach lingerie and other light items, and wait for them to dry!, Lay out a beach towel and umbrella in the sand at the beach or open one up while walking somewhere.

Have fun with the kids. If you have a hose, create "rain" with it by holding your thumb on the nozzle and sprinkle water above them, while they use an umbrella. Or, if it's too cold outside for water fun, try making an umbrella tent and crawling under it together!
Indoor fun with umbrellas is possible––just draw one!







