 Establish yourself as a member of her herd rather than as a predator.Touch your foal, speaking to her and getting her used to human contact and interaction, including being caught.Intervening in the foal’s early hours, and especially following protocols that call for restraining a newborn foal in order to desensitize her, have not been shown to be effective., Give your horse a food reward when he accepts being caught.If your horse is really reluctant, you might want to offer rewards for smaller achievements, too, such as standing still as you approach and allowing you to touch his neck.


Although your horse might enjoy getting his withers scratched, food rewards are more effective in training and in generating your horse’s interest in humans.However, if you know your horse really appreciates a nice scratch or soothing grooming, try rewarding him with that as well.
You can also try limiting his food and drink to a small corral for a week or two. Open the gate at random, unpredictable intervals, so that your horse learns to come running when he sees you., You don’t want your horse to associate being caught only with work or the veterinarian. Catching your horse repeatedly only to give him a treat will help to build a more positive set of associations with the entire process , Once you’ve put a halter and lead rope on your horse, rub him with the end of the rope and make sure he’s feeling calm and happy. Then, stand at the end of the rope and start approaching him. Try different styles of approach – walking, skipping, jumping – and different speeds, seeing how many he’ll tolerate without flinching or moving. In between, rub and soothe him again.This method is called “habituation through progressive desensitization.” Basically, you’re getting your horse to be less sensitive to your approach.
Repeat this game for seven sessions in a row in order to build your horse’s sense of trust and comfort. Increase the length of the lead rope. If it’s going well, try it with no lead rope.
 Call them all from the pasture into a corral using a consistent signal, such as a whistle, and rewarding them for coming. Catch the most willing horse first, and give her a scratch or a treat. Then work your way through the horses until you get to the one you want.