 This can be totally different for each person. Maybe you want to get buff, maybe you want to lose weight, or maybe you just want to fight off heart disease and diabetes. Whatever it is, it'll help you to have a clear goal in mind. With a clear goal, you can stick to it—and know if you're on the right path.


Think about what you want to be good at. Maybe you don't have a weight goal or a waistline goal, but you want to be able to run a 5k, no problem. What's more, if you have the desire to be good at it, you'll probably enjoy it. That's the key to staying with it.

With this methodology, your goal will be in your workout. Aim for something specific: a 5k in 30 minutes or 30 push-ups a minute, for example. This will be what you're working toward.


Think about what you want to be. Do you want to be 4 inches (10.2 cm) thinner around the waist? 15lbs (7kg) lighter? Lose 5% of your body fat? If it's easier for you, think in numbers.

If your goal is weight loss, know that 1kg (2.2 pounds) is 3,500 calories. You need to burn 500 calories a day working out (if you're on a balanced diet) to lose one pound a week.
 If you're looking to be fit overall (who isn't?), you'll want to start a routine that keeps you on top of every aspect of your game—that means aerobic exercise, strength training, and flexibility training. All three of 'em. Cardiovascular activity. Start out simple with walking or running. Do this for half an hour, five times a week. Try to stay on a level where you could carry a basic conversation, but definitely couldn't carry a tune.

Strength conditioning.Start doing 4 to 8 different exercises, making sure to work out different muscle groups. And don't go for weight—it's better to lift lighter and maintain the right form. Though cardio can and should be done 5 times a week, keep the weight training to twice. Your body needs time to repair itself, quite literally.

Flexibility training. You'll be surprised how much improving your flexibility can help you across the board. Every day of the week (or whatever you can fit in) do slow, sustained stretches for 10 to 30 seconds (at least according to the American College on Exercise)., This deserves its own bullet point because it's that important. If you dread working out, you'll come up with excuses not to. You'll never stick with it and you won't meet your goals. Start with something you enjoy—as you get more fit, activities will become easier and you'll start enjoying more.


Going to the gym does not have to be your only option. If you like swimming, dancing, or hiking, great! These are all exercises, too. Think outside the box.
 In order to integrate this into your lifestyle, you'll need to make it a priority. To do this, set aside a time at least a few days a week. Whether it's 09:00 or 21:00, write it down in pen. There's no getting around it.


Getting over the initial hump will be the hardest part. Soon enough, when 21:00 rolls around, your body will be raring to go and feeling antsy to get that endorphin rush.
 Most of the time, when we decide to start a new workout routine it’s because we’re motivated to do it. It’s great to have motivation, but it can be a double-edged sword. Why? Because motivation can fool you into biting off more than you can chew. In the beginning, you want to start slow. This way you'll keep at it. Remember, the goal is to get in the habit of doing the workouts, not to do intense workouts.It's important to progress slowly when you're just starting off. It'll be easy to do more and it'll be easier to hurt yourself. Increase your time or intensity a bit at a time, making sure not to over-exert yourself. And if you have an injury or medical condition, make sure your routine is healthy and, above all, doable., You'll have days when you're in the zone and dreading getting out of it. Then, you wind up in a puddle on the floor and your muscles feel like jelly for the next week. Avoid that. Give your body time between sessions to recover, even if your mind says, "Go, go, go." You may not be able to exercise tomorrow, but you'll be able to exercise in the long run.For strength training, it's very important to give your muscles time to repair themselves. Don't work out the same muscle group two days in a row—the muscles are literally ripping as you strengthen them. Let them heal.
 Sometimes the thought of being skinnier or being healthier isn't strong enough. These things are in the future and they're too abstract to grasp onto now. If intrinsic motivation is a problem, consider making it extrinsic.


Reward yourself. If you stick to your workout routine for a month, take a day-trip to your favorite spot. Go shopping. Take a nap. You've earned it.
If rewards don't do the trick, think about punishment. If you don't run that 5k 3 times this week, you'll donate $200 to Sarah Palin's 2016 presidential campaign. That ought to do it.

