 If you know someone who has recently bought or sold property, ask them which conveyancing solicitor they used and if they would recommend him or her.People who know you well often are best suited to determine if you would work well with someone or not. They also understand enough about your situation to provide strong recommendations.
You also can consider branching out and asking for recommendations from people you don't know as well, but who you know recently had a relatively smooth experience buying or selling property.;
, Since people in these lines of work deal with conveyancing solicitors frequently, they often have good recommendations.Keep in mind that some lenders will only deal with certain solicitors who are on their panels, so if you have a mortgage lender you should ask what panels they are on to find out which solicitors are available to you. Otherwise you may have to pay additional fees.
If you go with a solicitor recommended by the estate agent, the solicitor typically pays that estate agent a commission for the recommendation, which will increase your overall fees.
 There are many websites available that allow you to search for a conveyancing solicitor in your area.You also can find solicitors by using the directory on the Law Society's website. Using this directory, you can search specifically for solicitors who specialize in conveyancing., Provided you have no serious legal issues involved with your property transfer, and online conveyancer can save you time and money.An online conveyancer is just what it sounds like: Services are offered online with communication through email or a call center. There is little to no face-to-face interaction.
Typically online conveyancers charge lower fees and can complete the transaction more quickly and efficiently than traditional conveyancing solicitors. However, they are not solicitors and cannot deal with complex legal issues.
 Depending on where the solicitor is located, he or she must be a member of either the Law Society of England and Wales or the Law Society of Scotland.You can check each solicitor's membership by looking up his or her name on the Law Society website at https://www.lawsociety.org.uk.
Conveyancers must belong to the Council for Licensed Conveyancers. Large conveyancing solicitor firms typically have their own conveyancers, eliminating the need for you to hire two professionals., If the solicitor has a website, it will provide you additional information about the cases they take most often and the type of work they do.You also may be able to find biographical and background information about the solicitors working in the firm, along with their education, experience and the types of cases in which they specialize.
 Solicitors whose materials carry the kitemark-style logo of the CQS have been tested and consistently reach high quality standards.All members of the CQS also are regulated by the Solicitors Regulatory Authority, which saves you an extra step of determining whether the solicitor is regulated and insured.Solicitors or firms accredited by the CQS typically specialize in residential conveyancing and meet the highest standards of client service and conveyancing expertise.
 Just as opinions or recommendations from friends or family members, reviews from clients can help you understand what it's like to work with that solicitor.


If you're reading testimonials on the firm's website, keep in mind that these testimonials probably were vetted by the firm and may only include more positive statements.
 Solicitors who are regulated and insured by the Solicitors Regulatory Authority have indemnity insurance to compensate you in the event the solicitor makes an error or mistake.You also can be compensated if major legal defects don't become apparent until after the property transfer is complete.
 You should talk to several solicitors before you make your final selection.Setting up interviews with multiple solicitors allows you to compare not only experience and costs, but to get an idea of each solicitor's personality and whether you feel comfortable and able to work with him or her.
 Each solicitor should review your proposed transfer and provide you with an estimate of the costs and fees so you can compare among those you interview.The breakdown should include itemized charges for searches, bank transfers, stamp duty, land Registry fees, and other costs.
Sometimes a solicitor will give you a low quote that doesn't include many costs that will be added on, making your total cost much more than you anticipated.Solicitors often will charge either a flat rate or a percentage of the property price.Avoid solicitors who charge by the hour rather than providing you a flat rate for their services, and stay away from anyone who is unwilling to show you an itemized breakdown of the quote., Since if you hire a solicitor you'll probably have to visit his or her office more than once in the near future, the location should be safe and convenient.An office located close to you can allow you to drop off or pick up documents more easily, as well as check on the progress of your conveyance.
Keep in mind that if the property involves any local arrangements or leases, a local solicitor is more likely to be aware of and understand those situations than someone who primarily handles property in another area.
Local solicitors also will know what types of searches are required and whether there are any pending developments that might effect your conveyance.Pay attention also to the atmosphere of the office. If the place is extremely busy and the solicitor's interview with you is frequently interrupted, she may have difficulty responding to you promptly or handling your case effectively.
 You need to have an understanding of the solicitor's personality and what it's like to work with him or her.Find out what percentage of the solicitor's business is conveyancing as opposed to other cases. Ideally, you want to find someone who specializes in conveyancing rather than someone who just does a little on the side.
Ask the solicitor how long he or she has been practicing conveyancing, and how many clients he or she has had. You also might want to get an idea of the types of conveyancing cases the solicitor most commonly handles.
Find out the best way to communicate with each solicitor. Many solicitors don't use email, which may be inconvenient for you.
Ask about holiday schedules. Many small firms close over holidays and can be difficult to contact during those times.
If the solicitor you're interviewing works with a team in a firm, find out how much of the work will be done by him or her and how much will be done by other team members. If someone else will be doing the bulk of the work on your case, you should talk to that person as well.
 After you've interviewed several solicitors, make a list of pros and cons for each and decide which one you want to hire.


Look at all factors, not just cost. Simply using the cheapest conveyancing solicitor you can find may result in mistakes or difficulties that derail the process.Make sure the solicitor you ultimately hire is someone you trust and are confident you can work well with.

