 Try not to go on hearsay, or what you've seen in two or three episodes. If you can't watch the whole season or read the entire series, that's what the Internet is for. Research your fandom.;
, While some canon characters have vague pasts that can be manipulated, a frequent and recognized (although not compulsory) trait of a Mary Sue is to be related in some way to a canon, especially one who has a strongly established past already. Your readers may find it hard to believe that the canon character has a sister he never mentioned or a son she doesn't remember.
 Your original character should not constantly be the center of the universe. Let the other characters have moments away from your new character where they don't talk or think about the new character.
 Remember why they're there. Your readers want to read about the canon characters, that's why you're writing a fan-fiction.
 Make sure that your chosen name fits in with the fandom. For example, don't have a Harry Potter character called Trixiebella Arwen, or a LOTR elf called Jane. There are plenty of sites online where you can research names to make sure that they fit with your chosen fandom.


Baby name sites are a good start, but don't go mad. Names like "Angelica Rowanna Marybelle Devenish" are ridiculous and not realistic. Don't use traits like hair color or facial features either, as most children are named at birth.
Don't use your own name, or a variation of it. This just screams "Mary Sue" to readers.
 Ones like impatience, obsession with looks and trouble making friends are examples of flaws within the character. They should be flaws that have real consequences for the character in his or her life and advance the story forward.
 One of the most annoying things about Mary Sues is how easily everything comes to them: fighting skills, special talents, strong relationships, special powers that appear just in time to save the day, etc. If your character has to struggle and deal with real problems your readers will start to feel for her. If she does everything perfectly with no real adversity, they'll start to hate her.
 If you do so, you might as well start a diary as everyone has a different personality and should have to freedom to choose what they want to do, so do not base their decisions on your personal opinions, beliefs etc. This makes the story far more interesting and also makes the writing more of an interesting journey for you, stretching your writing abilities.
 Look at the original work you're drawing from. Do all of the protagonists always agree or act the same way? Of course not. Take the canon characters' personalities into account and craft believable reactions to and relationships with your newcomer.
 Give the glory to an established character or make it a real team effort.
 Mary Sues are constantly winning the love of a character the author really likes or fixing up two previously unattached characters the author thinks should be together. Romance is possible in fan-fiction, but give it time to make it more realistic.
 One of the biggest flaws of Mary Sue stories is that things happen far too quickly. It will probably take a while for your new character to become really close to the canon characters, or be in a position to accomplish lots of amazing things. Go slowly. You can always write a sequel.

