 Don’t dash your traveling dreams just because you’re watching your wallet. No matter what the constraints on your cash, you can find a number of finance-friendly travel destinations. Assess how much money you have in savings, what kind of payment you can expect from your job while on vacation, how much available credit you have, and how much money you ultimately want to spend on your travels.


Make sure you check out the interest rates on your credit card before using it to book your flight or hotel.
If you’re thinking of traveling internationally, don’t forget to factor in the costs of passport processing and other visa-related fees. Depending on where you live and where you’re going, these can range from negligible amounts to significant sources of spending., Once you’ve figured out how much money you can spend on your destination, browse through some popular booking sites such as expedia.com, momondo.com, and hotwire.com. These resources allow you to search based on destination while comparing rates from different companies and providers. In addition to searching by destination and date, check out the section on the site that lists special offers and deals.


If you have some flexibility with your travel dates, try checking the ‘My dates are flexible’ box below the search field. Ticket prices can vary significantly on a day-to-day basis, so this option can save you big bucks with minimal effort., Many of the booking sites where you search for flights and hotels also offer prices and booking for terrestrial travel options. If you have a car, look up the distance to road trip accessible locations and calculate the cost of gasoline and other vehicle maintenance-related fees. Use a site like gasbuddy.com to help you estimate fuel costs if you need assistance in your calculations.Don’t forget to weigh your cheaper, land-bound transport options against the duration of travel. Many trains and buses will get you somewhere dirt-cheap, but they might take 24, 48, or even 72-plus hours to do so. If time is no issue, this is still a great option! If you only have a week total to enjoy your holiday, though, you should consider selecting a closer destination, or someplace far away but offering a good deal on flights.
 In addition to calculating the cost of transport to your potential destinations, research local prices and typical expenses in the place you’re thinking of going. After all, some far-away locales may cost a pretty penny for the flight, but the cost of hotels, food, and entertainment might be paltry relative to what you spend in your hometown. In contrast, some domestic destinations might be comparatively cheap to drive or bus to, but the daily expenses there are quite pricey.All-inclusive resorts can also be a good, budget-friendly option. With an all-inclusive package, all of your meals and drinks are included in a flat fee for your lodging. This means that you don't have to research local cost of living or watch your spending while vacationing.
While you can easily research hotel costs online, it can be a bit more difficult to find out how much per diem expenses such as local groceries, restaurants, beverages, and transportation will be. You can find this out by looking at various travel review sites and blogs, such as priceoftravel.com and budgetyourtrip.com.
 No matter what destination looks appealing to you, consider asking a friend or family member to come along. Not only will your travels be all the merrier, but you can split the costs of gasoline if you’re driving and hotels if you’re getting a shared room.Even if they can’t come along with you and lighten some of the financial load, friends and family can be a good source of travel recommendations. Ask them if they’ve been to any fun places which were also wallet-friendly.

