 Your professional network is probably bigger than you think it is, and many of the most fruitful business relationships have sprung from personal friendships and connections. If you’re looking to sell art in a brick-and-mortar shop or gallery, reach out to people you know who might be able to help. Introduce yourself, provide samples of your recent work, and ask for what you need.You can network in person, over the phone, or over email. Just be polite!If you're reaching out to your mother's old classmate, say "Hi Judy, my mother told me a lot about your time together in college. I'm reaching out because she's mentioned your gallery before, and I think it might be a good fit with my work. Here's a link to my portfolio and website. Thank you so much for your time."
Check in with old teachers and professors, too--they often have resources that could help you. Say "I'm looking into pushing my career into a more professional stage, and I think exhibiting in a gallery could be the next step. Do you know of any places close by that specialize in young or emerging artists?"

, If you can afford it, a portfolio review can help you both focus your art, and sell it better. Generally, this involves paying a fee to a jury, all the members of whom will sit down with you and talk to you abut the coherence of your work and its marketability. This is a step to consider if you really want to take your painting business to the next level.Be polite to the folks giving you feedback! The art world is small, and you never know when you’re going to run into them again.
Don’t get too bogged down by criticism. No artist meets with universal acclaim, so just concentrate on improving by applying constructive criticism to your work.
 Look for stores or boutiques in your area who you think would want to carry your items, and reach out to ask if they might carry on consignment: this way, you pay them a portion of the profits if the item is sold. Consignment is excellent for three main reasons: you get publicity, you don't pay anything up front, and you don't pay rent on the building where they are selling your items., The last way to sell your paintings is arguably the one with the most professional appeal: through a gallery. A gallery is almost like a museum, in that it’s carefully curated and professionally staffed by art experts, except that the art on its walls is for sale. Apply widely--just like if you were applying for a job, you probably won’t hear back from every one, but each contact is valuable.


When submitting to a gallery, stick to the submission process it follows. You can find this information on the gallery’s website, but you’ll often be asked for samples and a statement (especially if the gallery has a theme).Submit groups of artwork with coherent ties to one another. For instance, you could submit a series, or several paintings you did at different times that all allude to Aztec mythology.