 Restorative yoga is a great option if you are feeling under the weather but still want to stretch your muscles and release tension or stress. This type of yoga focuses on holding supported poses for a long period of time to help your muscles and body relax. In restorative yoga, you do not activate any of your muscles. Instead, you use props like a bolster to support your body weight as you do poses on your back or while seated.If you do not have access to a bolster, you can use a towel or a pillow. Make sure the towel is rolled up so it is long and thick. The pillow should be long as well and thick enough to support your limbs or back.;
, This is a great for restoring your energy levels and for relaxing your body. Child’s pose is also good for stretching your shoulder muscles. It can be done at the beginning or the end of your restorative practice on a soft yoga mat.To do child’s pose, sit on your haunches with your knees and the tops of your feet flat on the ground. Inhale and then slowly lower yourself to the ground, placing your chest and forehead on the mat. Stretch your arms out in front of you to release your shoulders. Take six to eight deep breaths in this pose.
You can integrate the bolster into this pose by placing it between your legs so it is vertical to your body. Then, drape your body over the bolster, letting your body rest on the bolster with your arms on either side of it.
 This pose is perhaps the most relaxing asana in yoga. The idea is to completely relax your body on the mat like a corpse, breathing deeply and steadily. You can do corpse pose that the beginning or end of your restorative practice.To do corpse pose, lie down on your back. Let your legs flop to either side with your feet facing outward. Place your hands by your sides with your palms open. Inhale and exhale deeply in this pose for at least six to eight breaths.
For added support, place the bolster lengthwise under your knees. You can also place the bolster lengthwise under your chest for a relaxing chest stretch.
Another option is to lay the bolster on your mat lengthwise and sit at the bottom end of the bolster. Then, lower down your spine over the bolster and let your arms and legs relax on either side of the bolster.
 Reclining bound angle pose is great for stretching your hips and groin without putting too much stress on your body. You can use the bolster in this pose to support your legs and allow you to ease into the pose.To do supported bound angle pose, lie down on your back. Bend your knees, bringing the soles of your feet together. Let your legs open to either side of your mat. Then, slide a bolster under each thigh so both of your legs are supported.
You can also use a yoga block or blankets to support both legs in this pose.
Inhale and exhale, holding this pose for at least six to eight breaths. Allow the bolsters to support your knees as you feel a stretch in your hips and groin area.
 This is a great restorative pose for when you are feeling under the weather or have low energy. Putting your legs against the wall will improve your blood circulation and help to detoxify your body. You will need access to a straight, bare wall to do this pose.Start by sitting as close as you can against the wall with your legs to one side. Then, lie down and slowly lift your legs over your head against the wall. Make sure your sacrum is pressed flat against the wall and your lower back is firmly on the mat. Let your arms rest by your sides or on your stomach. Flex your toes and let your legs melt into the wall.
Inhale as you bend your legs so your feet are flat on the wall and lift up your lower back. Take the bolster and slide it lengthwise underneath your lower back. Then, rest your lower back on the bolster and straighten out your legs again so they are against the wall. Your butt should be hanging off the side of the bolster.
Hold this pose for six to eight breaths. Then, remove the bolster by sliding it out and away from you. Bend your legs and roll to one side. Come up and out of the pose slowly.

