 Although you hold the reins in your hands, you control your horse by moving your core body. Start incorporating core-strengthening exercises, such as the wood-chopper and plank, into your regular routine. You will be able to ride longer with fewer sore muscles as a result.Remember that riding a horse is excellent exercise, but does not include weight resistance. So, it may help you to develop muscles, but will not build bone density.If you want an exercise boost, muck out a stall. It provides both cardio and weight resistance.
 Spending time caring for a horse and working on your riding skills is a necessary part of becoming an equestrian. If you have the resources, you can always purchase your own horse and pay to stable it nearby. If you do not own a horse, go online and search your location along with “barns” “stables” “horseback riding” and “equestrian clubs.” Find a location that fits your price range and schedule and go on a visit.To get real results you will need to spend time with horses on a regular basis, more than just once a week. Schedule “horse time” into your calendar and be consistent in attending.
Some riding locations will allow you to spend time with different horses each week while others will encourage you to stick with the same horse. Ask about the policies before you commit.
Select equestrian programs at the college level will provide access to a stable of pre-selected horses. If you are interested in joining a collegiate equestrian team, look into this option.
 Eighteen styles of riding are currently regulated by the United States Equestrian Federation (USEF).You can focus on western style reining (executing precision loops with your reins while horseback) or even vaulting (holding on to a modified saddle while performing gymnastic moves) or countless other options. Ask your mentors and peers for information, watch equestrian events, and read all that you can about the various sports.The standard Olympic equestrian events are: dressage, show jumping, and eventing. Dressage is essentially dancing in sync with your horse. Show jumping involves a horse and rider jumping over various obstacles on a course. And eventing is a combination sport requiring endurance and jumping on untamed terrain.Western style riding requires that the horse and rider navigate a variety of obstacles and demonstrate proficiency in corralling.Western dressage riding places an emphasis on a smooth gait and clear communication between horse and rider.Western reining is judged on control during the demonstration of reining patterns.Other styles of riding include hunter, which mimics the process of a hunter pursuing prey on horseback, and English pleasure style, which places an emphasis on smooth transitions. You can even focus on carriage pleasure driving, which takes into account a driver’s skill in managing a team or single horse., Many of your equipment choices will coincide with your sport. Take equipment recommendations from your mentor or other equestrians. If you plan to participate in competitions, make sure to read the guidelines carefully or you could face disqualification or point penalties.


Remember to invest in a quality helmet. It needs certifications from both the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) and the Safety Equipment Institute (SEI).If you choose to ride competitively and/or often, it is also a good idea to buy a body protector. You wear this vest over your torso and it helps to absorb the energy from a fall or kick. Many different models are available online.You will also want to wear some sort of leather shoe, preferably with a small heel. Riding boots are standard for many equestrian sports, although western riders often go with cowboy boots.You can purchase riding gloves online or at a local tack shop. Gloves are especially useful in the winter and are also required for some equestrian sports.Here is an example of sport-specific dress: General Western style riders prefer leather chaps, cowboy hats, and brightly colored western-themed shirts. Western dressage riders often wear themed-riding jackets as well. In addition to the above, Western reining riders must wear a collared shirt and necktie.For safety reasons, try to remove most of your jewelry. If your hair is long, tie it back and secure it under your helmet., As often as you can, get out with a horse and practice your intended sport. Do repetitions of the same action so that it becomes second nature for you both. Look for weaknesses and target those areas in particular. For example, some barrel horses don’t like turning left, so it is all the more important to practice that direction.


It is best to practice at least once a week with a trainer who has experience in your specific sport. If you belong to an equestrian team, it is possible that you will have group lessons as well as individual ones.In addition to working out with a trainer, you should practice at least 2-3 times a week on your own. This is yet another reason to choose a stable near your home.
 Go to equestrian competitions and cheer for your peers. Go the barns afterwards and talk with the riders and their helpers. If you are unable to travel to competitions, watch them on TV or stream them live online.