 Eating a balanced diet can help keep you healthy and reduce the likelihood of new MS symptoms arising in the face of ongoing MS. A healthy diet full of nutritious food will also help keep your body healthy as you age and help you avoid getting overweight.Fiber is important when you have MS, so include whole grains, like oats or flax, fruits, and vegetables.
Omega-3 fatty acids have been found to help protect against inflammation and symptoms. You can find omega-3s in fish, fish oil supplements, and olives. Consider eating fish at least three times a week.Vitamin D may be beneficial for MS. In addition to the sun, you can find vitamin D in dairy products., Overheating your body can trigger a flare up of symptoms, so you should make sure to keep yourself cool. Staying cool can also help you fight against fatigue. This is especially important if you live in a hot climate area or an area with high humidity.Use your air conditioners to keep your home at a cooler temperature. If you are visiting friends or family, ask them to lower the temperature to help stay cool.
During the winter, don’t heat your house too hot.
Take cool showers or go swimming in cool pools.
 Exercise is an important management tool for MS, especially as you age. As you get older, your body loses muscle tone and strength, especially if you don’t keep it active. This can worsen symptoms of your MS. Staying active can help keep your muscles strong and mobile, along with maintaining your balance. Some studies have found that physical activity can help reduce the degenerative and negative psychological symptoms associated with MS as you age.Talk to your doctor before beginning any exercise program. If you have severe MS, you may need the help of a physical therapist.
Swimming is a good exercise for those with MS. The water helps keep you cool while exercising, while the water helps support your body.
You may also try walking, stationary cycling, low-impact aerobics, flexibility exercises, yoga, or Tai Chi.
Many gyms have classes designed for older people that you may enjoy.
 Stress is a trigger for relapses and worsens symptoms. You should find ways to relieve stress. No two people relieve stress the same way. You should find your own way to relieve stress. Try a few different things to see what works.You may consider getting a massage. It’s relaxing and may help with muscle stiffness or aches.
Try yoga, Tai Chi, meditation, or deep breathing exercises.
Identify any stress triggers. If you can’t avoid them, try to put them into perspective.
 Though you have MS and are getting older, that doesn’t mean you have to stop living your life. You should try to stay active as much as you are able. This can include a variety of things. Visit with your friends and family, travel, or become active in a senior center. Staying socially active can help increase your happiness and energy levels.Don’t give up the hobbies you enjoy and are still able to do. If there are hobbies you can no longer due because of your condition, try to find new hobbies. Think of things you’ve always wanted to try, or ask for suggestions of what you can do with your abilities.
 Fatigue is a major symptom of MS. As you age, you need to make sure that you get enough rest. You should get on a regular sleep schedule. Go to bed at the same time every night and try to get seven to nine hours of sleep.When you are tired, take a break. After you have rested, you can start the activity again.
As you face each day, arrange it so that you conserve your energy. Figure out how to do tasks with less energy, and take rests when needed.Perform more energetic tasks in the mornings when you have more energy. Try not to do too much at night.

