 This exercise involves making a fake smile and then jutting your jaw forward so that you can touch the center of your lips together. You should try to use the muscles in the back of your jaw to push your jaw forward. Your lips should only touch in the center. On your last repetition, do the exercise, and hold the position for 20 seconds before releasing.When doing these exercises to get rid of jowls, do your best to focus all of your attention on the muscles around your mouth and around your jaw.
You can place each index finger on each side of your mouth to help yourself isolate the muscles in your jaw.;
, Another way to work on the muscles around the jaw line involves making a close-lipped smile and then pushing the jaw forward to contract the muscles underneath the lips and along the jaw line.You can be sure you’re doing this correctly by gently placing 2 or 3 fingers from each hand on either side of your mouth, just underneath and to the sides of your lips.
With this exercise, it is a good idea to look in the mirror while you do it. This is because you want to try and keep the rest of your muscles in your face as relaxed as possible while you do the exercise.
As with the first exercise, when you are on your final repetition, you should hold the exercise for 20 seconds.
 When you are just starting out, you can pick one exercise to focus on for 2 or 3 weeks, and then switch to a different exercise. This will help target the muscles differently in order to help you get rid of your jowls.


You can start with just doing 15 repetitions of each exercise once per day, and move up to doing more repetitions as you feel yourself progressing.
 At present, there are little to no scientific studies examining the effectiveness of facial exercise as a means of reducing saggy skin. However, just because these studies don’t exist does not mean it won’t be useful for you.It may work, but it will likely take time and dedication to doing the exercises consistently. Don’t expect an overnight fix with this method.

