 If you're trying to involuntarily terminate someone else's parental rights, this can only be done under certain circumstances. While these do vary to a degree state-by-state, the majority of US states will grant termination if the following circumstances are met:


Abandonment, which means failure to have contact with the child for over 6 months with no excuse
Neglect, meaning basic needs like food, shelter, water, and health are not met
Failing to support the child financially, meaning child support payments or other forms of financial support were not paid
Egregious harm, meaning the child was hurt badly in the care of a parent
Serious criminal conviction, meaning certain crimes, usually felonies involving harming children, can result in parental rights being terminated, Much like voluntarily terminating rights, you need to file a petition to have rights involuntarily removed. Where and how to file petitions vary from state-to-state.


You can file a petition through Child Protective Services. This is called a CHIPS petition (Child in Need of Protective Services). You can also file a petition independently if you believe your co-parent is endangering your child and want his or her rights terminated.You will need basic information about yourself and the parent whose rights you're terminating. This information includes name, address, place of birth, social security number, and other details you would typically provide on tax or legal documents.
 You should consult a family law attorney throughout the entire process. Terminating parental rights can be difficult and, if rights are being terminated involuntarily, legal battles can get stressful and ugly. A family law attorney can protect from personal attacks in court and help you gather the evidence necessary to prove another parent is unfit.
 Once your petition is approved, a hearing will be scheduled. In the time leading up to that hearing, gather evidence to make your case against the other parent.


You must prove some of the above listed grounds for termination occurred. If your filing under grounds of abandonment, for example, you must be able to prove the other parent has had no contact with the child for six months. If you're filing under the grounds of a serious crime, you can legally obtain police reports and court hearings as evidence for your case.Certain grounds are harder to prove than others and witness testimony could help. If the other parent has endangered the child through recreational drug use but never formerly charged with a crime, you could bring in a witness who saw the parent drinking heavily or ingesting pills in the child's presence.It can be difficult to maintain objectivity in custody cases. Remember, your emotional reaction is not grounds to terminate custody. You have to prove this is in the child's best interest. Your attorney can help you determine what kind of evidence will and will not help your case., There may be many hearings, and even trials, when dealing with involuntarily terminating custody. You'll need to attend all hearings and behave in a calm, collected professional manner. Custody hearings can go on for months, even years, and the process can be expensive and exhausting. Make sure you seek professional support from your attorney and emotional support from friends and family members during this time., Courts are usually very hesitant to terminate parental rights. You'll likely be met with a lot of resistance, especially if rights are being terminated against the will of another parent. You can prepare for set backs by doing the following:


Be aware you may be personally attacked in court. Your motivations will be called into question and the other parents attorney may use past mistakes against you. Review all your past conduct carefully to try and prepare emotionally for the impact of harsh cross examination.Thoroughly review the appeals process in your state. There is a good chance rights will not be terminated in the first hearing, so make sure you're prepared to appeal the decision. The appeals process varies state-by-state, so talk to your attorney on how to appeal and how to better your chances of success in a second trial or hearing.