 If the bell hasn’t rung and you are already dozing off, you’re more likely to draw attention to yourself. Hold off until roll call is finished and a few minutes of discussion has passed. This tactic allows the teacher to feel confident that their students are paying attention. Once the first few minutes of class have passed, you’ll have a better chance at sleeping undetected.;
, This step depends on your sleeping posture. If you intend on putting your face or head down on the desk, this is a must. Whether you wear eyeglasses, prescription sunglasses, or have facial piercings, you’ll most likely want to remove them. Otherwise you risk breaking them and/or causing harm to your face while sleeping.


Keep your glasses nearby in case you are called on and need to read.
Facial piercings are harder to remove; consider taking them out before class so it is done safely.
If you don’t want to remove any piercings, choose a position that doesn’t put pressure on them. This will prevent any cuts or bruising to the face.
 The two things to consider here are your comfort, and how much you want to risk being obviously asleep. Consider your relationship with the teacher, the likelihood of punishment if caught, and whether you can handle those consequences.


Put one elbow with your arm standing up on the desktop. Put the side of your head in your hand like Rodin’s ‘’The Thinker’’ statue. This position is good if you need to be ready to snap quickly back to focus.
Cross your arms on the desktop and lean forward, burying your head in your arms. If your neck gets tired, switch it from side to side. Be aware that the teacher is more likely to notice you in positions like this.
Put both elbows on the table with your arms lifted straight up and clasp your hands together like someone praying. Lean your head forward onto your hands and sleep. This position makes it harder to achieve a deep sleep; however, the added benefit is you appear to be deep in thought, potentially about the class.
Fold your arms across your chest and lean back in the desk seat. This position’s benefit is that is takes pressure off your lower back. Consider bringing a small support to maintain the curve of your spine, an important part of good sleeping posture., Desktops are often hard and uncomfortable; sleeping on your arms can be painful and cause them to go numb over time. Another option is to use a pillow. However you’re better off not bringing and using an actual pillow as this could draw unwanted attention, and disrespect the teacher.


Use your backpack as a sturdy head support. If it is uncomfortable, rearrange the objects inside to make a better pillow. Removing items with awkward or overlarge shapes (like a basketball) may be necessary.
Use your jacket or sweater for a softer pillow. Rolling clothes into a ball shape can take a flat, soft fabric, and turn it into a more robust head support.
 Elevating the legs, whether you’re sitting or lying, reduces pressure on the veins, relaxing them and encouraging blood flow.This will help your body relax and lead you off to sleep.


Consider stacking your textbooks for the day beneath your desk as a repurposed footstool.
 While some are quiet and focused, many classrooms are often full of conversation and don’t provide the ideal environment for falling asleep. You can adapt to this by trying to sleep in noisy places where you don’t have to worry about the teacher.


Go to the movies, ride city public transportation, go to a talkative café. Try falling asleep in active places and learn to let go of the worry that comes from hearing many noises.
Wear earplugs. If you can’t fall asleep at all, consider getting a traditional sleep aid.Keep in mind this is a big risk because you can no longer hear the teacher.
 Breath through the nose, into the belly, to a count of four. Hold it for seven seconds. Exhale very slowly through the mouth for eight seconds. The "4-7-8" breathing technique is based on Ayurvedic practices from India and different doctors claim that it can help relax and lead anyone into sleep.Monitor your breathing so that it is not too loud. Ideally, this is a silent technique for relaxing and helping yourself fall asleep in otherwise disturbing environments.
 Put in a set of earplugs and play music that is relaxing to you. For instance, instrumental tracks of falling rain, crashing waves, and forest animals are often used for this purpose. Slower songs between 60 and 80BPM (beats per minute) are generally more likely to induce sleep.One downside to this tactic is you won’t be able to hear the teacher if they call on you. Consider only wearing one ear bud.
Native American flute music, binaural beats, and meditative chanting are more examples of music used to induce sleep.

