 U.S. citizens, and non-citizens authorized to work in the U.S., are eligible to receive a Social Security Number or a replacement card if they lose the first one.This is the most common identification number used to file individual tax returns.


On Form 1040—the form most individuals use to file their income taxes—the default TIN is the filer's SSN, and there is a designated space for this number in the upper-right corner of the first page of the form.Thus, if you are filing as an individual and already have a SSN, you will not need a separate TIN, and should simply use your SSN when filing taxes.;
, In most cases, you will need at least two documents that prove your identity ,such as a driver's license or state-issued identification card. If you are applying as a US citizen, one of these must be a US birth certificate or US passport.To check your exact requirements, visit the Social Security requirements page and select the buttons on the left that describe your individual situation. The page will update to display exactly which documents you will need to obtain either a new or replacement SSN. All documents should be originals, or official copies certified by the issuing agency.


Select Child if you are applying on behalf of someone under 18. Otherwise, select Adult.
Select Original if you never had an SSN, or Replacement if you once had a card but no longer do. If you are at least 12 years old and have never had an SSN, you will need evidence that you never had an SSN, such as an old tax form or any documents showing you lived outside the US.Select U.S. Born Citizen, Foreign Born Citizen, or Noncitizen as applicable.
Photocopies, or even notarized copies, of required official documents are not accepted by the IRS. In addition, the documents must be current and unexpired. A receipt stating that you applied for a particular document is not acceptable in lieu of the actual document., Print out Form SS-5 and fill out the application on the last page. If you do not have access to a printer, visit the Social Security office locator to find an office near you. The office locator will display contact information and operating hours for the IRS office closest to your zip code.Call or visit this office to request Form SS-5, which will be provided to you free of charge.


Be sure to read the first four pages of Form SS-5 before you complete the last page, as they provide detailed instructions on how to complete the form., Use the online office locator to find a Social Security office near you. Mail the completed form and documents to this office and your Social Security card will be mailed back to you along with the documents you submitted to support your application.You can choose to visit the IRS office nearest you in person to apply for a new or replacement SSN. Doing so is recommended if you would otherwise be required to mail—and therefore be without for some time—important documents that you use in daily life, such as a driver's license or passport. If you are 12 or older and have never received a SSN, you must apply in person., If you are employed by a U.S. organization, it will need your SSN to report your wages to the IRS. If your employer is not sure what to do while you are waiting for a SSN, refer them to this website for instructions.

