 One of the primary steps you can take as a patient is to wash your hands thoroughly as often as you can. Always wash your hands after going to the bathroom. It's also important to wash your hands after touching railings or other public surfaces in the hospital,as well as both before and after you eat.Get your hands wet, and add an antibacterial soap. Most hospitals have antibacterial soaps available. Be sure to get the soap all over your hands, including between your fingers.
Rub the soap in for about 20 seconds. You can mark this time by singing the Happy Birthday song twice.
Run your hands under water to wash the soap off, and then dry them with a clean paper towel.If you can't wash your hands in the sink, ask the nurse for antibacterial hand wipes., It's equally important that anyone who visits you also washes their hands. Ask them to wash their hands when they enter your room and also before they touch you if they've been in your room a while and touched other surfaces.Hand sanitizer is also effective, but not against certain microbes. Ask people to wash their hands whenever possible.
Visitors should also wash their hands upon leaving, so they don't spread anything from you to anyone else.If one of your friends or family members is sick, ask them to skip visiting until they feel better., When your nurses and doctors enter the room, ask them if they'll wash their hands if you notice they haven't. If your doctor or nurse is worth their salt, they won't hesitate to do it. In fact, they know they should be doing it anyway, but some may forget.You could say, "I notice you didn't wash your hands. I understand you're busy, and you probably just forget. I'm really worried about catching an infection, so would you mind washing your hands before examining me?"

, The most efficient way to keep it away is to try not to touch your mouth. When you're in a hospital, you are, of course, going to touch surfaces. Those surfaces can harbor bacteria, and bringing your hands to your mouth can allow them to enter your body. In addition, don't place anything you're eating with on the bed or other surface in your room., When a nurse or doctor brings equipment into your room, ask about cleaning procedures. Equipment like heart monitors should be cleaned between every patient, and some other equipment, such as needles, should be one-time use., Catheters can lead to urinary tract infections. Of course, they are necessary at times, but you should ask each day if it's still necessary for the catheter to be in. You want to get it out as soon as you possibly can., Of course, your doctors and nurses should be looking for signs of infection, but you should also keep an eye out, too. Look for swelling and redness near surgical sites, as well as near catheter insertions. You may also notice pain or warmth.If you notice these symptoms, talk to your nurse or doctor. They will take the appropriate steps to help you deal with the infection, such as removing the catheter or prescribing antibiotics.
 If you have an IV while in the hospital to receive fluids or medication, the site where the needle enters your skin should stay dry. If it looks dirty or wet, tell a nurse, who can come and change it, or at the very least, clean it up., If you have diarrhea in the hospital, that can be a sign of infection. If you're on an antibiotic and you have diarrhea at least three times in 24 hours, you should talk to your doctor about it.