 Did you know? 30FPS is playable. If your computer can't get that high, you'll probably need to do some upgrades, or get a console. 60FPS is good, and anything above 90 is optimal. The better the hardware, the better your experience will be. If you have anything under 25, you might experience lag, which might lead to you dying quite a bit.;
, You probably should have an optical mouse. That would be enough. Playing with a game-pad is also possible. A surround headphone can help you distinguish sounds from various direction. But don't just buy an expensive headphone until you love the game and wanna play hardcore. Just get along with whatever equipment you have. You will know when it's time to upgrade to a gaming peripheral.
 If you end up playing a game you think is boring or don't even like, you're wasting your time. Less effort or interest will be put into the game and you'll probably end up losing.
 Play on an easy difficulty at first and gradually move on. But remember, if you never move against stronger opponents, you'll never become much better either. Remember, practice makes perfect.
 If you don't know where your enemy spawn or where you are supposed to be going your going to be in trouble. Load up an empty map and explore, or join with friends and try to find the best ways to navigate the maps, the best hiding spots and best sniper spots. Remember the spots where enemies always peek or rush from so that you can get kills. Be cautious around corners because campers can be waiting for you.
 The click of a rifle, reloading or footsteps can alert you of an enemy. Listen closely and memorize certain sounds. (E.g. the sound of a reloaded shotgun tells you not to rush him in close quarters).
 This is a crucial part. Never reload if you have only used a few rounds of your mag, because while you're reloading an enemy might spot you and kill you while you're reloading your weapon. Try to find cover, and then reload. If you have below 40% though, it becomes very important that you reload because those 40% might not be enough to kill your enemy. Remember, switching to Pistol is always faster than reloading.
 Mastering the recoil can be very beneficial, because then you can hit better. Try going to an empty server and empty your mag without moving the mouse. See where the bullets go, and see if you can control that recoil by burst firing or sliding your mouse down slowly as you shoot.
 In multiplayer modes a better ping will send and receive data from server faster. Close other bandwidth consuming application (E.g. downloads) during playing if you find your ping greater than average.
 Joining a clan is most of the time both fun and rewarding, because you can then play with the same people over and over, and maybe later on move over to professional gaming.

