 Dirty, unwashed hair, unbrushed teeth, etc. makes you seem very unappealing. That's why it's important to shower and keep clean. Use a good shampoo and conditioner. If you straighten your hair, get a heat protection product to prevent breakage. A hydrating product is good for virtually any hair type. It doesn't always have to be expensive... Herbal Essences is fabulous!;
, This means not dressing trashy: show the world that you can be beautiful without showing too much cleavage. It is acceptable to dress flirty, but there is a fine line between tasteful and trashy.
 This doesn't necessarily mean you have to be BEST friends with every person in the school, but being nice in general will only increase your attractiveness. Remember, QUALITY, not QUANTITY. A few good, supportive friends who you truly trust are better than a thousand friends who tear you down.
 A less attractive girl who walks briskly with her head held high stands out more than a pretty girl who slumps when she walks. Learn how to strut down the hallways with grace and confidence! Place one foot in front of the other, and only wear heels if you can walk without looking awkward in them! Flip flops and ballet flats are cute, but don't be afraid to express your own style!

, Smiling makes you seem friendlier and more approachable. You can use whitening strips or trays or a whitening toothpaste to get a winning smile. Use a pink lip gloss - the blue hues in it will make your teeth appear whiter. Also, make sure your lips are never chapped - chapped lips are very unappealing.
 Whether or not you're into wearing makeup, you don't want to look like you just crawled out of bed. The cardinal rules of makeup are: concealer under the eyes, mascara on the lashes, and gloss on the lips. But it's not limited to just that! If you have small eyes, you can apply a white liner to your waterline and a black or brown liner on your upper and lower lashlines. Stop about halfway in (or to where your lashes start to thin) and your eyes will instantly look larger. For those with larger eyes, apply a dark colored liner all the way in on your water line. This will draw the eye out and make it look longer and well... sexy! For those of you who prefer not to wear makeup, placing cold spoons under your eyes for 10 minutes will reduce the dark circles without any makeup.
 Pinks and reds stand out. Believe it or not, blacks and greys can be just as loud when worn correctly. Try a black shirt or black v-neck with a chunky necklace or a large belt. When shopping, try finding things that no one else will have... unique is good!

, People will get the wrong opinion and you may be taken advantage of. Be nice, but firm and stand your ground... you don't want to be a tease!

