 Hair washing helps prevent hair loss as it can keep your hair and scalp clean (preventing the chances of infections that might cause hair loss). You should try not to wash your hair every day, since shampoo can strip hair of its natural oils — aim for every other day at the most. Provided you use a mild shampoo, clean hair will give the impression of more volume than dirty hair, which tends to sit flatter and more parted than clean hair., Getting a good shampoo will really help you to have a healthy head of hair, so take some time to find that matches your hair type.Consider if you have fine, dry, greasy or normal hair and try a few different ones to find what works. If you have dandruff or colour your hair, get a shampoo that is specifically meant for this.Protein-enhanced shampoos and conditioners that boost volume make hair smoother and thicker temporarily because they fill in gaps on the hair shaft, but they don’t repair damaged hair., Using a mild shampoo can help you maintain a healthy scalp and head of hair. Checking the ingredients in your shampoo can give you a good idea of whether or not it is mild. Avoid anything with sulfate, parabens, and/or sulfonate. Instead look for Isethionate or Glucoside to be the first ingredient after water.Common ingredients that contribute to a mild shampoo include sulfosuccinates, sultaines and amphoacetate.
Silicones, polyquaterniums, and “guar” can be good conditioning ingredients., How you brush your hair can have a big impact on the condition of your hair. Go for a soft brush made from natural fibres, and don’t brush from the top down, but from the underside out.Be as gentle as you can and don’t pull too hard.


It’s best to avoid brushing your hair when it’s wet, use a comb instead., A scalp massage with a nourishing oil (such as coconut, rosemary, lavender, or almond oil)will increase the blood flow to the surface of the skin on your head and your hair follicles. Rubbing and kneading your scalp warms the skin and boosts circulation so the cells in the follicles get plenty of nutrients which in turn maximise hair growth potential.A scalp massage can also relax you which will help your overall body function., Testing whether or not you're suffering from hair loss can be done using what is known as the "tug test". Take a small bunch of hair, about 20–30 hairs, and hold it between your thumb and index finger. Pull slowly but firmly; if more than six hairs come out at the same time, you may have a hair loss problem..


This is not a proven test, so be sure to visit your doctor or a trichologist if you think you're losing more hair than normal, remembering that we lose a lot of hairs each day naturally.

