 Place your eggs into a large pot. Make sure there is only one layer and they are not on top of one another. Add enough water so that ½ inch (2 cm) of water covers the egg. Bring the water to boil. When the water boils, turn the heat to moderate high. Cook the eggs at a low boil for 10 minutes, uncovered.Drain the hot water and cover the eggs with cold water. You can add some salt to the water if you wish. Leave the eggs in cold water for 15 minutes. Add ice or more cold water to the water to keep it cold.;
, To protect the area where you are dyeing the eggs, lay down multiple layers of newspaper. This is especially important if you have young children. Also lay out a drying area for your dyed eggs.For drying, you can use a cooling rack or an empty egg carton.
 Each color you use to dye your eggs will need a different bowl. Decide how many colors you will use and choose the food coloring for each of those colors. Then, put out one bowl for each color., Place ½ cup (120 mL) of boiling water into each bowl. Then, mix in 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of white distilled vinegar. Next, place approximately 20 drops of food coloring in the bowl. Mix it together until the water has become a uniform color.Make sure to place 20 drops of food coloring in separate bowls for each different color.
Gel food coloring will make brighter, more vibrant colors.
 Choose a hard boiled egg and carefully pick it up with tongs or a spoon. Submerge it into the dye. Leave it for around a minute. For darker eggs, leave it in for up to five minutes.When you remove the egg, dry it carefully with a paper towel. Set it aside to dry for around 10 minutes.
 You can choose to dye the entire egg or only part of it. If you want your egg to be a solid color, dip the entire egg. If you want a multi-colored egg, dip only part of the egg and leave part of it uncolored.You can dip that part of the egg in a different color.
 If you left part of your egg uncolored, dip it again after it has set for 10 minutes. Take the egg in the tongs again and dip the undyed section in a different color. Hold it there for a minute before removing and letting it dry.You can re-dip part of the already colored egg in the same color, but leave part of the original dye like it was. This gives you a lighter shade and a darker shade of the same color.
 There is no limit to the amount of times you can dip your egg. You can dip multiple times to create a darker color or dip the egg in multiple colors. Get creative and do something different with each egg.Make stripes by starting with a fully dyed egg, then holding half of the egg in a different color, and then holding a third of the egg in a third color.
Create crazy patterns by holding the eggs at odd angles, causing your colors to overlap. Leave parts of your egg undyed so you have white or brown sections.
 Dyeing eggs in whipped cream can give them a multicolored soft pastel look. To prepare this dye, place enough whipped cream in a glass bowl to cover your egg. Choose one to three colors of food coloring. Drizzle the food coloring over the entirety of the whipped cream.Drizzle between 10 to 20 drops of food coloring. The more drops, the more color you will have on your egg. Start with less drops and dye a few eggs, then add more drops and dye additional eggs for a variety of colors and patterns.
Use a toothpick or a butter knife to drag through the whipped cream, swirling the colors together slightly.
If you want more vibrant colors, soak the hard-boiled eggs in white vinegar for a couple of minutes. Dry before placing in the whipped cream.
 Take your eggs and push them down into the whipped cream. You may want to move them around a little to get the entire egg covered in whipped cream and food coloring.Leave the egg in the whipped cream. The longer you leave the egg, the more vibrant the color will be. Leave them in at least 10 minutes.
 After you have left the eggs in the whipped cream as long as you want, take them out of the whipped cream. Rinse off the whipped cream using cool water. Then allow them to dry.You may want to use gloves or pull them out with a spoon. You may get food coloring on your fingers if you rinse them without gloves.
 If you want to make an egg with a spatter pattern, dip dye your egg in a solid color. Let it dry completely. Take a clean toothbrush and cover the bristles in a different dye color. Run your fingernail along the bristles to splatter the dye onto the egg., For a marble pattern on your eggs, use cooking oil, like canola or olive. Start by dip dyeing the egg in the base color. The base color should be lighter. Let it dry. Then take a different, darker color of dye and mix it with the oil. Dip the egg in the oil and dye mixture very quickly.Mix 1 teaspoon of oil in a cup of dye.
The oil will cause the dye to not stick to parts of the egg and stick to others.
 You can also dip dye using glitter. Use either a plain egg or one you have already dyed. Use a paintbrush to brush a light coat of liquid glue or glue from a glue stick onto the egg in the pattern you want. You can cover half of the egg with glitter, or paint on a design.Brush glitter onto the wet glue. You can also roll the egg in glitter, but a brush helps you cover the egg more evenly. You can also brush off excess glitter with the brush.

