 Before the lecture, take time to complete your assignments, finish your readings, review your notes, and do some background work online for upcoming lectures in order to prepare yourself for identifying important information. In other words, being prepared for class is just as important as attending class. Not being prepared for lecture often equates to you trying to write down everything that your teacher says.


Usually assigned work is given in preparation for the lecture. Getting familiar with the overview of main ideas, support information, and important concepts will enable you to spend more time listening and participating in class rather than writing.
Recognizing key words, definitions, and ideas before class reduces confusion.
Preparation and taking fewer notes allows you to ask more questions, ever endearing you to your teacher.
 There is no single method suggested for taking notes in a Cornell outline format other than avoiding a formal outline. How you take notes will largely depend on what class you are taking. Since lectures move at varying speeds, it is best to be prepared on how you will take notes before going to class. Remember that during class, you are only recording notes in the large, right column. There are several techniques the Cornell method suggests:Write short, telegraphic sentences and phrases instead of long, complete sentences.
Write down key words. It's okay for these to be fragmented. For example, instead of writing "America declared its independence from Great Britain on the Fourth of July, 1776," write "Am. independence from GB - 4 July 76."
Use symbols and abbreviations to cut down writing time.
Focus on recording testable information such as big ideas, important definitions, and key supporting details.
Stay organized by effectively using bullet points, skipping lines between ideas and topics, and writing clearly

, Every teacher has their own method of instruction but they teach in a way that focuses on content they want you to remember. Figure out the common clues your teachers provide by paying attention to specific cues. When a teacher repeats specific sentences, ideas, or concepts, it is important.
Tone of voice, large gestures, and strongly emphasizing a point usually leads to a potential test question.
If your teacher presents specific questions at the beginning of class or provides a summary at the end of class, it is usually important enough to be in your notes.
If your teacher begins listing things – first, second, third, etc. – write them down.
Excessive amount of time on a single point. Good idea that you get the point.
 Without fail, there are students who waste unnecessary time that could be better spent doing something else because they did not take good notes from the beginning. Take notes efficiently and accurately the first time while in class. Avoid going back to your room and rewriting your notes from lecture. This activity bears no fruit and doubles your troubles.
Forget the tape recorder or cell phone. Recording the lecture provides flexibility, but it is also passive learning. Not engaging in note taking usually means thinking about what’s for lunch.
Shorthand, if it still exists, is not a cool idea in an academic setting. Remember shorthand has to be transcribed, costing you time and effort with no mastery of the material.
 Listening to a lecture is important in gaining new knowledge, but in order to improve your study and work habits, write the notes down. Understanding what you hear in class does not equal to remembering it for the test. Taking notes enables you to retain important information and details that you will be required to recall at a much later date on an examination. The best way to remember is by putting large amounts of information into your own words, but be careful not to change the meaning or lose data.
Keep your notes short and condensed. Avoid long, drawn-out descriptions and full sentences.
Do not fear missing some information during the lecture. Teachers are usually looking for your ability to grasp large or comparative concepts and theories.
Try to consistently use the same kind of paper, writing utensil, and notebook.
If you missed something important, try to obtain the information as quickly as possible.
Review your notes regularly to achieve a lasting memory.

