 Open your favorite browser, type http://www.creditkarma.com in the address bar, and hit the Enter button.;
, On the login screen, to the right of the page, are two text fields. Enter your email address into the appropriate box, and your Credit Karma password into the other. Click on the Sign In button.
 To get there, once you’re logged in and on your account’s main page, look for the arrow-down button just beside your profile photo thumbnail at the top right side of the screen. Let your computer mouse hover over the image, and a drop-down list will appear. Click on “Communications and Monitoring” so you can adjust your email preferences.
 After clicking on Communications and Monitoring, you will see “Email Communications” on the next page, below which are all of the different circumstances that can trigger and prompt email notifications if turned on and configured.
 Just tick the On or Off button

, You can customize other notification options according to your preferences to make it really hardworking and of great use to you:



Credit monitoring. Turning it on essentially means that you will be notified if there is an important change in your credit score.

Bill Reminders. Turning it on will prompt Credit Karma to send you emails when you have a bill that’s due. Using the drop-down menu on the right, indicate how many days (between 3 and 15) before the due date you want to get the reminder.

Bill Payments. Indicate if you want a notification for any posted payment. Using the drop-down menu to the right, specify how much money must be in play for you to receive a notification. The figure can be between 0 and $2000.

Large Purchases. Once turned on, this will send you notifications if there are purchases over your predetermined price. This could save you from unauthorized fraudulent purchases. Choose your price cap (between $200 and $1000) from drop-down menu.

Low Balance. Turn it on if you want to be alerted when one of your bank balances drops below a certain amount which you indicate using the drop-down menu (between 0 and $2000). It’s a great way to make sure your finances are always in tiptop shape.

Bank Deposits. You can choose to be notified when any bank deposit occurs over a certain amount. Indicate an amount between $200 and $2000 using the drop-down menu on the right.

Bank Withdrawal. Tick it to get notifications when you’re overdrawn by a predetermined amount between $200 and $2000, chosen from the drop-down menu.

Bank Overage Fee. You can also set up notifications for when you get charged fees when your account balance dips to an amount (between 0 and $50) that you specify using the drop-down menu.

Interest Rate Changes. Just check the tick box to receive notifications when your interest rate changes. This is important if you are a credit card owner or are currently paying back a loan.

Credit Limit Change. Check this last option if you want to know when there is a credit limit change on any of your registered credit cards.

