 When your ex is harassing you online or via text after a breakup, you can tell them to leave you alone. Make it clear that you do not appreciate their behavior and that it is a form of abuse. If possible, do it so that you can document it, like in a text or e-mail.For example, you can say, “The way you are treating me is abusive. Do not contact me again.”
Only do this if you feel safe to do so. If you don't feel safe, don't engage with them and try to cut off all communication. If that doesn't work, seek help from friends or the authorities.;
, If your ex is digitally abusive after a breakup, block them from everything. Block their number and remove it from your phone. You can also block them from your social media accounts, like Facebook.Get a new e-mail address or social media account name if they won’t leave you alone.
 When you are dealing with digital abuse, you shouldn't post about where you are on your social media accounts. This can let your ex know where you are and may put you in danger. If you want to post about something you have done, do it afterwards when you are no longer there.Ask your friends not to post that they are with you on social media. Ask them not to post photos of you or tag you in posts while you are out.
 To help protect you from your ex, you should make your accounts private. Most social media, like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, allow you to lock your account so only people you approve can see your content.Change any passwords that you think your ex may have to your social media sites or e-mail.
 If your ex is digitally abusing you, you should stop all communication with them. Don’t respond to their texts, their messages, e-mails, or calls. By not reacting or responding to them, you help lessen their power over you.Once you have told them to stop contacting you, you should ignore any interactions with them after that.
If your ex sends you an email, delete it without reading it. If you are keeping records of abusive content, read the email and save a copy, but don't respond to it.
Make sure not to open email attachments.
 One form of digital abuse your ex might engage in is publically bashing you or talking about you on social media. If this happens, don’t engage with them. Instead, as hard as it may be, ignore them.When you respond to your ex, you are giving them the attention they want and showing them that they are getting to you. This just encourages them to keep harassing you.
 One way to help put an end to digital abuse is to take a social media break. This takes away your ex's outlet for attacking you, and you can take a step away from the situation.


During your social media break, focus on yourself. Going through a breakup is hard, and it's even harder when you experience abuse. Do things for yourself to make yourself feel good.
Spend time with family and friends so you won't be alone and you can take your mind off the situation.

