 Windows releases updates on the second Tuesday of each month. Updating your laptop regularly will fix bugs, allowing your laptop to run smoother and faster. Select “Start”, followed by “Settings”. Click “Update and Security”. Select “Windows Update”, then “Check for Updates”. Windows will automatically download all available updates., When you turn on your computer, some programs and applications launch automatically. You can improve your laptop’s startup performance by decreasing the number of programs and apps that open automatically.


Right-click in the lower right corner of your screen and select “Task Manager” to open.
Click “More Details”.
Open the “Startup” tab.
Right-click on a program or app and select "Disable". This will not delete the program. It will only prevent the program or app from launching when you turn on your computer., Windows 10’s Performance Monitor tool provides users with a comprehensive report about their laptop. The report identifies problems and suggests fixes.


Click “Start” then type “perform / report” in the search box. Hit ↵ Enter. This will launch the Performance Monitor. It will take the program a few minutes to compile a report.
Read through the report and fix problems. Take time to peruse the report. Follow the instructions to fix any issues it identifies., In addition to the programs you can see, your laptop also runs a variety of programs in the background. These background processes continue to receive information (and use memory) even when you are not using them. Turning off these programs can help speed up your laptop.


Select “Start”, then “Settings”.
Click “Privacy” and select “Background Apps”.
Identify the apps you don’t want to run and slide the toggle switch to “off”. If you want to use these programs, you can open them manually., Overtime, the files stored on your hard drive become fragmented—instead of storing all of a file’s components together, the parts are stored in non-contiguous clusters. When you open a fragmented file, the hard drive must search for all of the parts, which can reduce the speed of your computer. Your hard drive is automatically defragmented on a set schedule. However, you can also manually defragment your hard drive.Click the Start button and type “Defragment and Optimize Drives” in the search bar. Launch the tool.
Select your hard drive and hit “Analyze”.
Select “Optimize” to defragment your hard drive. Do not use your computer while the hard drive is being defragmented., Running Windows’ Disk Cleaner tool allows users to easily find and remove unnecessary files, programs, and apps from their disks. Removing these files will free up more memory, allowing your computer to run faster.


Click the Start button and type “Disk cleanup” in the search bar. Launch the program from the results list.
Select the drive you want to clean.
Check the boxes next to the types of files you would like to delete. You can read a brief description of the file type by clicking on the item.
Click “Ok” to clean up your disks., Windows 10 comes with a variety of animations that are enabled by default. Disabling these animations can improve the speed of your laptop.


Press ⊞ Win+R to open the run command.
Type “sysdm.cpl” in the command prompt and press ↵ Enter.
Select the “Advanced” tab.
Under “Performance,” select “Settings” then “Custom”.
Uncheck the boxes next to each animation option and click “Apply”.