 It may be best to use a thick fabric here like drapery because it will provide a thicker lining for your clutch, but you can choose cotton if you found a pattern that you really like. Purchase half a yard or so of this fabric from your local craft or sewing store.You'll also need some lining fabric to line the inside of your clutch. You can choose a simple white color so that it doesn't show through your fabric, or if you are using a dark fabric, you can choose a darker color or a fun pattern. On top of those fabrics you'll need a metal clutch frame hardware for your clasp and some fusible fleece. You should be able to find all of these items in the sewing section or craft department of a craft store.;
, Take your fabric and place it on a table with the decorated side of the fabric face down. Then, cut your fabric so that it is 13 inches tall by 13.5 inches wide. Cut an identical piece of lining fabric -- 13 inches tall by 13.5 inches wide., Take a piece of craft fuse and cut it so that it is a little bit smaller than your main fabric. Think about taking off a fourth of an inch on each side. Then, fuse it to the backside of your fabric with an iron. Make sure it is spread evenly across your fabric., Once you have fused your craft fuse to your main fabric, you will take a piece of fusible fleece and cut it 10 inches wide and 13 inches tall. Then, fuse it to your craft fuse, so that it is evenly spaced on your fabric. It should be the exact height as your main fabric, but there should be about a 1.75 inch gap between each edge of your main fabric and the edge of your fleece., Turn your main fabric over so that the design is on the front and the fused fabrics are on the back. Then, take your lining and place it on top of your fabric. Sew a half inch seam straight across the top of your fabric and the bottom of your fabric.You want to place your fabric so that the 13.5 inch sides are horizontal and the 13 inch sides are vertical. Make sure you sew a seam along the 13.5 inch sides of your fabric, which should be the top and bottom of your fabric if you have placed it correctly on the table.
 After you have sewn two of the sides, turn your fabric right side out so the design is now facing outside. Then, iron your fabric nice and smooth to remove any wrinkles. Face your fabric so that the two seams are on the top and bottom of your fabric.
 Take your fabric, and fold it in half so that the two seams line up with each other. The decorated side of your fabric should be on the outside of your fold. Once you have created your fold, the left and right side of your clutch should be open (not yet sewn), and your fabric should be much wider than it is tall.Once you have done this, pin the top of your fabric with paperclips or pins to prepare to sew. Space the paperclips or pins about an inch away from the left and right sides of your fabric.
 After you have placed two pins or paper clips on the top of your clutch to hold it together, sew a seam along both open sides of your clutch. Simply, sew a 3/8 inch seam from the top to the bottom and then trim the sides an eighth of an inch. Then, clip a tiny corner at the bottom right and left corner of your clutch, through the stitching. Start from the stitch and clip upwards at a diagonal, towards the edge of your clutch., Because you still have a raw edge on your fabric you'll need to flip it inside out. Sew another 3/8 inch seam along the two sides of your fabric that you just sewed. This will get rid of the raw edge when you flip your fabric right side out. Then, once you've sewn both sides clip the bottom corners again., Flip your fabric right side out again, so that the decorated fabric is on the outside. Then, place it on the table so that side seam is pressed out flat. Push the corner out and then measure about an inch and a half and mark it. Then, stitch that seam, cut it to an eighth of an inch and repeat on the other corner. Then, once again turn the fabric inside out.To create this stitch you basically want to place your clutch on the table so that instead of lying it flat on its side with the seams on the right and the left, you want to place the bottom of the clutch on the table, and press the two side seams flat towards the middle of the clutch. When you do this, you should create a triangle on both sides of your clutch with the seams as the height of each triangle. The corner you want to mark and sew is the top point of each triangle.
 Now that your clutch is inside out, stitch the corner again. Then, flip your clutch right side out and you'll end up with the final shape of your clutch. Apply glue to the inside frame of your clasp, starting about half an inch from the edge. Draw a bead of glue to the other side of the frame, about half an inch away from the edge.Do one side and then attach it to one side of your clutch, wrapping tape around it to hold it as the glue dries. Then, repeat on the other side of the clasp frame. Your glue will need to set a few hours to completely dry. Make sure you use a multi-purpose cementing glue. These are usually found in small tubes.It's helpful to mark the borders on your clutch, where you want your clasp to be. Sometimes it takes a little bit of work to attach the clasp to the clutch, so be patient as you fit the fabric into the frame.
 Once the glue has completely dried on your frame, lift up on the sides of the clasp frame (the part of the clasp inside your clutch). As you lift up the sides, invert the sides of your clutch. Then, remove the tape, close your clutch, and you are finished!