 Make sure the amount you paid and the amount printed on the money order are the same.You can purchase a money order from the Post Office. These are generally very affordable and easy to fill out.
USPS money orders can be used for amounts up to $1000.00.
Other places you can get a money order are banks, check cashing businesses, and Western Union locations.;
, This is where you write the name of the person or business the Money Order is going to. Write the name of the person or business legibly.
Use blue or black ink pen to fill out the form.
Make sure you have the correct spelling of the person or business.
 There should be a “From,” “Purchaser,” “Sender,” or “Remitter,” field. Use your full legal name or the name you use on the account you are paying on.
As with the "Pay to the Order Of" line, use blue or black ink.
Write your name legibly.
 On the front of some money orders, there will be a field labeled “Purchaser, Signer for Drawer,” “Purchaser’s signature,” or “Signature.” Sign on this line using your full signature.
 Do not sign on the line on the back of the money order. The signature line on the back of the money order is for the other person or company to endorse it before cashing.
 Some money orders may only have a section for the purchaser's address.Where it says "Purchaser's address", write in your address.
Make sure you use your current mailing address.
If there is a second address field, include the address of the person or company to whom you are sending the money order.
 The person or company will want to know why you are sending a money order.

If you are sending your receipt for a payment of a bill, write the bill due date and your account number on this line.
If the money order is to someone you know, indicate the reason on the memo line such as "Birthday Gift" or "Debt Payment".
Use this line to fill in any other information you need the person to know.
 Either your money order will have a carbon copy underneath or a portion attached to detach and keep for your records.

If your money order gets lost or the recipient denies receiving it, the receipt can help you troubleshoot these problems.
This receipt should have a tracking number to check on the status should problems arise.
Without the receipt or tracking number you may be unable to verify the money order was received or to obtain a refund if it is lost.

