 Shaving is a fast, inexpensive, easy and safe way to remove the hair from your body and face. Experiment with using your razor to shave your legs and underarms or beard.The only materials you will need are a blade or electric razor and some shaving cream, all of which can be purchased at your local drug store.
Shaving only lasts between 2- 4 days, so know that if you choose to shave, you’ll have to shave often to maintain smooth skin.
Some women also prefer to shave their bikini line (the perimeter around the outside of their underwear).
Choose shaving if you're looking for a cheap and pain free way to remove hair.
Avoid shaving if you have sensitive skin, grow hair incredibly quickly or are strapped for time.;
, Tweezing removes hair by pulling each individual hair out of your skin. Experiment with using tweezers to pull stray hairs from your eyebrows. If you have any moles with hair in them or hair growing out of your chin, you can tweeze these hairs as well.The only thing you will need to tweeze your body hair is a pair of tweezers, which can be purchased at your local drug store.
Tweezing will last a couple of weeks, depending on how fast your hair grows.
Tweezing can be slow and painful, although most people generally adjust to the pain fairly quickly.
Be careful not to over tweeze your eyebrows. You can always take more hair off later, but you can’t put hair back on.
Choose tweezing if you are only looking to remove a few stray hairs from your face.
Avoid tweezing if you have a low pain tolerance or are looking to remove a large amount of hair from a bigger body part.
 Lotions and creams are a fairly inexpensive and painless way to remove hair. Experiment with spreading the cream on an area of skin where you’d like to remove hair (like your legs or underarms) and waiting the instructed amount of time. Rinse the creams off and check out the results.Depilatories can usually be found in your local drugstore.
This hair removal process usually lasts between 2-4 days, so if you choose to dissolve your hair, keep in mind you’ll need to keep repeating the process.
Depilatories are the messiest form of hair removal.
Sometimes the chemicals in the creams can irritate skin, so test out the products on a small patch of your skin before committing to a larger area.
Use depilatories if you have fine body hair and a large bathroom with a tub.
Avoid depilatories if you have coarse hair, sensitive skin or open cuts and wounds.
 An epilator is a tool that looks like an electric razor, but instead of a blade, it has multiple tweezers. These tweezers work to remove hair directly from the root, thereby eliminating stubble.Using an epilator can be painful, generally on par with waxing.
An epilator costs around $100 and can be purchased online or in stores.
Legs should stay smooth for two-weeks after using an epilator.
Epilators can remove hair, even when hair is less than a millimeter long, so you don't have to wait as long to remove new hairs.
Use an epilator if you want your skin to stay smooth for longer than shaving, but don't want to spring for a wax.
Avoid using an epilator if you have a low pain tolerance.

