 Before you offer an amount of money to your child, check with your other family members to make sure that things seem fair. Check that you are equitably spending money on all of your children’s weddings. Inequitable spending can lead to hurt feelings and resentment amongst your family members. If you have multiple children, make sure that you pay for things fairly.


Talk with your partner about a strategy to pay for all of your children’s weddings fairly.
Do not keep these things from your children. They will find out if you are being unfair.
 When it comes time to arrange for the wedding, let your child know how much you are willing to commit. Let your child know if you are giving them a blank check, a fixed amount, or paying for a portion of the wedding. You should also let them know if you are unable to help them financially. Communicating your expectations early will help them plan a wedding that they can afford and that does not put you in debt.Try to have this conversation with the couple and not just your child. It is important that you respect the couple and their autonomy. Communicating to only one member of the pair can be problematic.
Have this conversation early to avoid any misunderstandings or hard feelings with other family members. Make sure that no one has unrealistic expectations of what you are able to contribute.
 If they want your help, you can also offer to help your child budget for the wedding. This can help you put some limits on spending and suggest options that will not break the bank. However, it is important that you let your child plan the wedding. Do not take control and start planning the wedding for them. Your child will resent it.If your child seems put off by a suggestion, walk it back and let them know that it is their wedding.
 If you do not have the resources to finance your child’s wedding, you should not take out a loan, put a large amount of money on a credit card, or dip into your savings. Paying for your child’s wedding is not worth the price of digging yourself a large financial whole. Instead, stay within your means and clearly communicate your contribution to your child.Remember that, in 2015, the average wedding cost $32,641. However, this number varies greatly from place to place., Financing a wedding can sometimes become a competition over whether the bride or the groom’s family can spend more money. This escalation can quickly leave both sides in debt. Instead, stick to your contribution regardless of how much the other family is spending. If your child’s future in-laws want to go over budget paying for things, let them. You are under no obligation to meet any expenses that go beyond the initial budget.


Consider talking with the other parents about how to equitably divide expenses and support the young couple.

