 A bird’s feathers should look bright and colorful. Young birds might exhibit some issues with feather care. But mature birds should not have feathers that are torn, misshapen, or discolored. If feathers are torn up, exposing the skin underneath where it is normally hidden, your bird might well have an infection.It is common for the feathers of a sick bird to look duller in color than they otherwise would., Birds will often puff up their feathers to look bigger when they are cold or asleep. This behavior is normal. However, if your bird has its feathers puffed up through much of the day, something might be wrong. If it is sick, it might also bob its tail up and down as it puffs up its feathers.This could be a sign of nearly anything, birds will puff up their feathers in response to most varieties of illness. Birds puff up their feathers because they are cold. This is likely because their energy is being diverted toward fighting of illness or stress. Puffed-up feathers then, are something like the bird equivalent of a fever. They are the first sign of any illness in your flying friend., A sick bird will often lean over, instead of sitting up. A healthy bird might not sit up all the way, but will at least sit up partially. Often a bird that is having difficulty sitting up because of poor health with also puff up its feathers., The ears of a healthy bird should not be red or swollen. They should also not produce any liquid discharges or show signs of blockage.A bird's ears are generally not very easily visible, but can be found under its feathers on either side of its head.
These symptoms can be a sign of an ear infection, like Otitis externa, A beak that grows rapidly is indicative of some sort of metabolic problem. Similarly, it is an issue if the beak is changing shape or becoming asymmetrical. The tissue inside the beak should have a light pink color., Just as with humans, sneezing and vomiting are generally signs of an underlying illness. Take your bird to the vet if it exhibits these symptoms.