 Combine beef broth and pork in the slow cooker. Set the heat to high. Allow it to cook for four hours, or until the pork is tender enough to readily shred.Use a liner inside of your slow cooker to make cleanup easier.
Use a slow cooker that is at least 3 ½ to 4 quarts. Cut the pork down to fit inside the slow cooker if necessary.Another option is to use pre-made pulled pork.;
, Remove the meat from the slow cooker and place it on a clean work surface. Use two forks to shred the pork into bite-sized pieces. Put two dinner forks back-to-back into the meat. Pull them opposite ways to break up and shred the pork.Remove and discard any pieces of gristle as you come across them.
Make sure to shred all of the meat at once, even if you won’t use it all. In order to refrigerate or freeze the leftovers safely, they should be broken down into pieces., Preheat the oven to 350°F (175°C). Put the pork into a heat-safe container. Mix the barbeque sauce in well.Once the oven is preheated, cook the pork for 30 minutes or until it is heated throughout.
 Set aside two cups of pork for your pizza. Place the rest in shallow containers. Refrigerate and/or freeze the leftovers right away.Refrigerate cooked meat for as long as three or four days, in a refrigerator that maintains a temperature of 40°F (4°C) throughout.Make sure the containers are sealed airtight, or use securely closed food-safe bags. Keep the meat in the back of the refrigerator, if possible.Frozen food remains safe pretty much indefinitely. However, to maintain taste, try to use your frozen meat leftovers within two to three months., Pour olive oil into a medium saucepan, and set the burner to medium heat. Cook onions in the oil for eight to ten minutes, stirring them occasionally. Mix in the garlic and continue cooking for three to five more minutes, stirring it several times.Cook times may vary. Sautee the onions until they are softened, and the garlic until it is softened.
If you prefer a faster sauce, mix 1/4 cup of barbeque sauce with two teaspoons of chipotle chili powder. Season it with salt and black pepper, to taste., Mix in oregano, sugar, red pepper flakes, and crushed tomatoes. Season well with salt and pepper, and stir completely., Then reduce the heat until the sauce maintains a shimmer. Simmer for about 30 minutes, or until the sauce is thick and down to about two cups.Leave the pot uncovered until this step is finished. Then put a lid on the pot.
Once finished, remove the oregano and discard it.
 Set the baking temperature to 450°F (230°C). You’ll be putting the pizzas on baking sheets, so if they don’t both fit on a single baking sheet, make sure you have more than one baking rack in the oven., Use a large spoon or rubber spatula to spread the sauce evenly across the pizza crust. Place a layer of sliced onion, pulled pork and red bell pepper slices on top of the sauce.Sprinkle half of the mozzarella cheese over each pizza.Adding cheese is optional. Instead of only mozzarella cheese, you can use a blend of shredded cheddar, mozzarella, and Monterey jack cheese.Optional toppings you can add to each pizza (before adding cheese) are: 3/4 cup fresh pineapple chunks, 6 ounces of cooked and crumbled bacon, and one thinly sliced jalapeno pepper with the seeds removed. Thinly sliced roma tomatoes, sliced green onions, and thin pieces of red onion are other topping choices.
 Cook the pizzas on a baking sheet in the preheated oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. The toppings should be hot, and the pizza crust crisp on the bottom.If you want to brown the cheese on top, turn the broiler on for the last few minutes of baking time., Remove the pizzas from the oven. Sprinkle chopped, fresh parsley and fried onions over the top of the pizza, if desired.Optionally, you can use chopped cilantro or other fresh herb (such as oregano or basil) instead of parsley.
 Allow the pizzas to cool for three minutes. Then slice them up with a pizza cutter.Put out a bowl of barbeque sauce for dipping, if desired.