 It’s very easy to fall in love with the idea of dog ownership, especially after watching a great dog movie, but the reality requires a great deal of work. Even though you may like the idea of getting a dog, are you really ready for the time, expense, and effort? Will you be willing to give up some of your social time to spend time with your dog?

, Dogs can be expensive because of the cost of food, grooming, veterinary care, and toys. Think about how you can help out with this household expense. Then, offer to pay for all, or some, of the dog’s expenses. You will need to stick to this promise, so make sure that your money making ideas are realistic.You can offer to do odd jobs around the neighborhood, deliver newspapers, or use your savings or birthday money to help with the cost of buying the dog.
 If you want your parents to see that you'd be a great dog owner, then you have to be able to do the basics: make your bed, keep your room clean, wash the dishes, and do anything that is required of you. Then, take it to the next level and pick up more household chores, help cook dinner, mow the lawn, do laundry, and maybe even make your parents coffee when it looks like they need caffeine or do whatever you can to go above and beyond what is required of you., If you want your parents to see that you can handle the added responsibility of a dog, then you should make sure to keep your grades up as you continue to ask to add a new member to your family. If you can, try to do even better in school to show them that you're committed to working hard and doing whatever it takes to get the dog.If you decide to make a verbal promise to your parents, be as specific as you can. You might say, “I will keep my grades in math at an A.” Or, “I will score an A on all of my science tests.”

, Have your parents give you something to take care of for a set amount of time. It can be an egg (don't let it break!), a sack of flour, a plant, or even a hamster. Doing well on this test run may show your parents that you're responsible and serious about wanting a dog. Though this may seem silly, you should treat the situation with the utmost seriousness.
 If you have a friend or family member who needs someone to take care of his or her dog for a little while, volunteer to help. Taking good care of the dog for a few days will show your parents that you're ready to take on a pet, and it will make them see how happy you are to be hanging out with a furry creature.
 Remember, don't ask them over and over every day, or they will shut you out. If they say no, keep showing maturity and understanding, keep being helpful in the house, and occasionally mention the dog, to get them used to the idea. Being patient will also show them that you're so committed that you're willing to wait.

