 Some others believe that teens just like the way it looks and want a tattoo or piercing for purely aesthetic reasons.;
, The former is somewhat easier to manage. It's common for girls to have their ears pierced at a very young age, but getting more piercings in other parts of their body (this applies to both boys and girls) can be an attempt by teens to fit in with their peer group. Make the person see that what seems trendy and fashion-forward now may seem like a huge ugly splotch to them later.
 For one, tattoos are expensive and very painful. For another, they have permanent consequences. Tattoos that are easily visible and somewhat scary make it harder to get a steady, 'clean' job. Tattoo removal is even more expensive than actually getting it done, not to mention excruciatingly painful.
 What is considered beautiful now, may be seen as being remarkably hideous later on. Make the teen imagine having to give a job interview, or meeting a new friend, with the words 'sexy babe' tattooed on the neck. Absurd, isn't it?

, There are numerous complications that accompany piercings in areas other than the earlobes- prolonged bleeding, scarring, tetanus, abscesses, boils and chronic infections (eg.halitosis), hepatitis B and C infections, prolonged infections and often permanent disfigurement of the particular body part. Allergic reactions are also very common. Makes one wonder why people bother getting pierced in the first place.
 They have to realize that for adults, body art is perceived as more of an investment, not a temporary, fleeting fashion rage. They would, after all, be responsible for costs of any medical treatment required in case of an infection or other harmful reactions.
 After all if he/she is ready to go for it, it's necessary to see the possible results so that the person can be prepared.
 Teens are hard-wired to rebel against their parents and authority figures according to some. Make sure you come across as involved and concerned. Find out WHY your daughter or son wants a tattoo or piercing in the first place, and suggest alternate means and safer ideas.
 Teens are usually rebellious by nature, but actually being willing to get their body tampered with is very dangerous. If you suspect that this is the case, never EVER over-react and get carried away by your emotions. Wait till you calm down. Your teenager may be rejecting your advice or your beliefs, but remember that this is also a cry for help and attention. Ask yourself how to help him/her out. If depression and increased aggression are evident, counseling may be required to get into the root of any underlying problem.
 It may seem drastic to some people, especially parents, but everyone is entitled to his/her opinion. If your teenager is sure that she/he wants a tattoo, make him/her wait for a few years. If later, as an adult, the tattoo is still significant, it's a matter a personal choice.

