 If you're called upon to say grace at a family gathering or holiday meal, it can be an intimidating experience. But like a toast at a wedding or any public speech, there's no one "right" way to offer thanks, though there are several common denominational prayers for different faiths, discussed in the following method. The most important thing to remember in the moment is to speak from the heart, as sincerely and honestly as possible, and offer appreciation and thanks to whatever higher power you choose.Example: Bless this food and the people who prepared it. Many thanks for the meal and the company.;
, If you're saying grace for a holiday meal, a family gathering, or an informal dinner, you can temper your prayer to the occasion. Even saying thanks for the changing of seasons can be an appropriate call for grace.



Example: I'm blessed to be able to spend the holidays here with all of you. Let us appreciate this meal in fellowship and celebration.

Example: It's such a blessing to be able to come together and celebrate the life of Aunt Jan in this wonderful group of people. Many thanks for the meal and the fellowship.

Example: It's such a pleasure to spend a warm summer evening on the porch with all of you and this wonderful food. Let's all offer thanks for the bounty we've received.
 Depending on the group and the occasion, it can be appropriate to offer a brief moment of story to act as a blessing. When spend with close family or close friends, on a birthday or other personal holiday, this is a nice touch. It's also common to offer a quick personal blessing for each person present, if in a small group.



Example: I've always looked up to Aunt Jan as a personal inspiration and hero for her kind dedication to service and cheerful outlook on life. I'll always cherish the hours we spent together in her garden. I count myself blessed to have someone in my life as inspiring as her, and to be able to gather here today and celebrate her life with you all.

Example: What a blessing to come together today for this wonderful meal at the end of the week. Our thoughts are with Jason as his completes another tough week of school, and with Karen during the first days of a new job, and with all our family who can't be here tonight. May they be blessed and filled with happiness.
 Saying grace is a time for everyone at the table to take hands or sit quietly in contemplation, reflecting on their blessings and privileges before taking a meal. It should neither be a sermon nor a joke. A simple and quick blessing is best, regardless of the devotion and the hunger of the people present. Don't rush through it, but keep it to a few brief sincere sentences, and end it with "amen" or the closing of your choice. A call to grace might look something like this:


All present take hands, or bow their heads quietly.
A quick moment or two of silence before beginning, enough for a centering breath.
The blessing or prayer, a few sentences at most.
The closing. "Amen," a Hebrew word meaning "It is so" is a common closing for Christian and personal or secular prayers alike.

