 One of the best reasons to have home phone service is safety. The first safety reason is in the event of a Hurricane or Tornado or heavy storm. Home Phones normally work in such bad weather situations because they have their own electricity source contained in the home phone line. So even if the electricity goes out in the area, landline based home phones still work with a simple cheap handset. The second Safety reason is landline phones don't give off all the radiation that a cell phone does.;
, You may only need to be able to call people in your city or you may want to be able to call all over the country. Check rates for both. And consider using your cell phone for long distance (inside of USA) to keep your costs even lower.
 There are only a few options for landline home phone service in Texas cities, the largest being ATT. One of the cheapest discount providers is Section 8 Phone service, and they offer discounts for people on limited income. Expect to pay anywhere from $10 per month up to $60.
 Once you decide on a carrier, then sign up for service. Some carriers require a deposit while others do not. Pick the extra services you need like call waiting or caller ID among others. Just read the forms when signing up so you know the rates. Ask for any special offers too.
 When picking a phone device for the house, a handset, be sure to get a plain corded one and IF you want a cordless one. The corded one does not require regular home electricity and will work even if the electricity in the area goes out. Installation usually happens within 3 to 7 business days and may require some wiring inside of the house - so check with your service provider about their rates for inside wiring.
 Enjoy your services but be aware of long distance charges or any limits on minutes of talk time. Discuss it with your family members, especially children. You may even consider blocking long distance calls.
 Knowing that your children can call you from home and you can call them at home and that your phone will work even when the neighborhood's electricity is out is a good feeling.

