 If you have severe and persistent asthma, you should weigh the risks of travel (e.g., triggers, access to a good doctor) against possible benefits (e.g., sun and relaxation). Talk to your doctor about the decision and plan accordingly.If you decide to go, you should try to choose a trip that is easier on your asthma symptoms and reduces exposure to triggers such as pollen and cold weather.If you have mild or moderate asthma, you should be fine but you should consult your doctor about the trip.If you are well enough to travel, then ask your doctor about getting extra medication to take along with you.
 If you are traveling to spend time with family during the holidays, you might not have a choice of destination. However, if you are planning a trip with your family, you may be able to choose a holiday destination that will be relatively easier on your asthma symptoms. In deciding on a destination, you should consider weather, pollen, physical activity level, accommodation, and air travel. In particular, take the following considerations into account:Coastal areas often have lower pollen counts. Inquire about the pollen conditions at your destination.
Consider the impact of the altitude at your destination. People who are triggered by the cold sometimes have difficulty with high altitudes.
Shifts in weather from hot to cold or changes in humidity can be a trigger for some people, so you should look into the weather at your destination.
If you are managing your asthma well, flying shouldn’t be a problem. That said, some people have trouble with the air pressure on flights. Talk to your doctor about tests to determine your ability to fly.
Go through your list of triggers with your travel agent to make sure your accommodation is safe.
 If you will be staying at a family house or at a hotel, you should inquire about the décor and ask to see if the room is smoke-free. You should try to find a place to stay that does not have carpeting, and request a room that is always a smoke-free room. Hardwood flooring tends to be easier on the lungs because it is easier to keep clean and dust free. In general, you want to find out what measures are taken to ensure a dust and allergen free environment in your room so that you can reduce possible triggers. You could ask your host the following questions about décor:Are there dustproof covers on the mattress and pillows? If not, is it a clean room?
Is there firewood in the house? If so, how is it stored? Firewood can be a source of mold spores, so you want to avoid being around it too much.
Have the pets been cleaned? If pets with fur or feathers are a trigger for you, this is a very important question.
 You should make sure your travel insurance covers asthma related costs such as treatment for an asthma attack in a foreign country. You should make sure you have all of your insurance information easily accessible and check to see that your travel companions know where to access this information in case of an asthma attack., Inquire with your travel agent or online to find out the emergency telephone number for medical services at your destination. You should also write down a list of medical clinics that are reputable and accessible at your travel destination., You never know when you will need an inhaler. In case you lose one or your symptoms get worse during travel, you should pack extra inhalers. It is wise to pack extra inhalers in your carry-on baggage so that you don’t lose them in the event of lost luggage.Plan to bring enough asthma medication for your entire trip and then an extra week. In addition, take one or two extra inhalers.Take your medication in its original packaging and with the prescription details attached to it.You will need to put your medications into a sealed plastic bag to get through security. The security guards may do tests on the medication but they will let you through once they figure out that it is for your asthma., If you are getting travel vaccinations, you should tell your doctor about your asthma medications and especially any high-oral dose steroids you may be taking., If you stay away from your pet for a long time during the holiday season, you may lose your tolerance for it. This is sometimes referred to as the “Thanksgiving effect.” To avoid this situation, you could bring a piece of your pet’s clothing (e.g., a dog’s shirt) or a toy with you on the trip. Although there is no proof this will help, it can’t hurt and will remind you of them during your trip.