 As Pokémon Diamond isn't officially in production any longer, you'll need to make sure to be cautious when searching for a copy. While it's not a dangerous job, you'll need to be on high alert for people trying to scam you or extort money out of you. You may naturally know what's a warning sign, but there are many things to look out for, such as price, playability, and if it's actually the right game.

Pokémon Diamond is only in the form of a Nintendo DS cartridge (which is basically a plain black, square-shaped cartridge). If you find one that's offered as something such as a Game Boy Advance cartridge or a 3DS cartridge, it's fake.
Ask to test the game before buying it; some games may be corrupted to the point of unplayability, whether it's due to a physically damaged cartridge or a failed run with an Action Replay. If this isn't possible (e.g. you're buying online), ask the seller if they know for sure that the game is in working condition, and get proof of this statement in case they give you a broken copy.
Don't pay too much for the game. The average cost of a used copy of Pokémon Diamond in US dollars is currently around 30 dollars or less. You should not be paying over a hundred dollars for a game, even if it's still brand-new.;
, If you have any friends or family who you know have old games (whether or not you know they're Pokémon), try asking them if they have an old copy of Pokémon Diamond that they don't want anymore. Be prepared to pay them money for it; some people are willing to sell their games at a price. However, if you have a good friend who's not too attached to their Pokémon Diamond game, you may be able to get the game for minimal costs, or for free.

Don't pressure. If you know someone with Pokémon Diamond, don't force them to give it to you. If they reject the notion of giving you the game, whether or not money is involved, drop the subject and move on.
 Sites like Amazon or eBay are fairly reliable; somebody may be selling their old copy of Diamond that they don't want anymore. You may want to search for listings that are normal sales, as auction prices can get very high, and you don't want to pay too much for a simple game that didn't have any "limited edition" types.

Make sure to read things thoroughly. Some people will just sell the game's box and note this somewhere you aren't likely to read, and when you complain, will point out that it's written on the item description. You don't want to get scammed because you didn't read the whole thing; most sites will be unwilling to refund your money because you didn't read the item description.
If you pay money for a game that's said to be in good condition, and then you don't receive the game or get a damaged game that's unplayable, contact the site's support. Many reputable websites will be willing to refund you if you were victim to a scam.
 You don't have to limit yourself to an online shopping search. Game stores such as GameStop or other stores may host old copies of Pokémon Diamond that you can buy. Thrift stores may also sell old games for considerably cheaper than a game store, and garage or yard sales can be a great place to find Pokémon Diamond for cheap prices. The game shouldn't be too expensive at a normal game store, but if you're tight on money, consider thrift stores or garage sales instead.

Some game stores are dedicated specifically to games for older consoles that are no longer in production. While these kinds of stores would be more likely to host things for consoles such as an N64, you may find DS games here, including Pokémon Diamond.

