 Plants get viruses too, so it does make some evolutionary sense that plants have developed antiviral substances. You can buy these herbs in teabags. If you have them at hand, add one teaspoon of dried herb for every cup of water. Use half a teaspoon for children. Steep in boiled water for five minutes and flavor as desired with lemon and honey. Be sure to let the tea cool down. Avoid adding milk--dairy products tend to increase congestion.


Don’t use these teas with infants, except under the advice of a physician.
Try an herbal tea made from the following herbs: Chamomile: Chamomile is safe for children and has anti-viral properties., Oregano: Oregano is also safe for children (but make it as a weak tea) and has antiviral properties., Thyme: Thyme is safe for children (as a weak tea) and has antiviral properties., Olive leaf: This is safe for children (as a weak tea) and has antiviral properties.Elderberry: This is safe for children (as a tea or as a juice) and has antiviral properties., Licorice leaf: Licorice leaf is safe for children (as a weak tea) and has antiviral properties., Echinacea: This is safe for children (as a weak tea) and has antiviral properties., , A neti pot can be used to wash out a stuffy nose. It is a device that looks somewhat like a teapot. You use it to pour water into your nose to flush out your nasal cavities.


Choose your essential oils. The herbs that can be used to make teas are also good choices for essential oil treatments. These include: chamomile, elderberry, licorice root, Echinacea, olive root, thyme and oregano. Combine an equal number of drops of your chosen oils. The TOTAL number of drops should be nine to ten at the most.
In a separate bowl, add one and a half cups of very warm distilled water. Don’t use water that is so hot that you scald the delicate nasal tissues.
Add six tablespoons of finely ground unprocessed sea salt. Stir to dissolve the salt. The salt is included to help ensure that the nasal tissue is protected.
Add the essential oils and mix thoroughly.
Add the liquid to your neti pot.
Bend forward over a sink, turning your head to one side. Slowly pour the solution through the nasal cavities to clean them.
 This method can be very useful, especially if more than one member of your family has a sinus infection or respiratory infection. Choose your oils from among chamomile, elderberry, licorice root, Echinacea, olive root, thyme and oregano. Or, you can make your own unique mixture.


Follow the manufacturer’s instructions using the diffuser. Most use about a half cup of water with three to five drops of essential oils.
Anyone with a sinus infection should sit as close as possible to the diffuser.
 In this method, all you need is water and your chosen essential oils or mixture of oils. You’ll boil water to create steam, which you’ll breathe through your nose.


Pour water (distilled is best, but tap water is fine) until the bottom of the pot has about two inches of water.
Heat the water to boiling, turn off the heat and add eight to ten drops of essential oils. Stir.
You can either leave the pot on the stove or take it off. Just be careful, whichever you decide.
Cover your head with a towel and breathe in the steam through your nose. You can also breathe through your mouth, especially if you have a sore throat or a throat infection.
Do this as long as the steam is rising. Repeat if desired by reheating the water. The same solution can be used over and over until all the water is gone.
 Take the old-fashioned method of breathing steam and add herbs to the water.


Pour water (distilled is best, but tap water is fine) until the bottom of the pot has about two inches of water.
Heat the water to boiling, turn off the heat and add two teaspoons of oregano and two teaspoons of basil. If you want, you can add a pinch of cayenne pepper. Just be careful!
Cover your head with a towel and breathe in the steam through your nose. You can also breathe in through your mouth, especially if you have a sore throat or a throat infection.
Do this as long as the steam is rising. Repeat if desired by reheating the water.

