 A sub-domain type arrangement is available on a lot of sites, most notably Blogspot, Blogger and Wordpress. With these sites, you'll be able to choose a URL address free of charge, but have the host site's name included. Deciding what type of server you'll use depends on the content of the site itself. If you're a writing publication, for instance, Wordpress might be best. If it's a hobby site, Blogger may be best.If you were using Wordpress, for example, your URL might look like: www.testsite.wordpress.com.
These sites come with fairly intuitive interfaces, so they're great to use if you're not particularly tech-savvy.
 To get your sub-domain up and running, you'll need to access one of these sites and write up account info once you're sure what your site's going to be about. As with most sites, the process of registration is often quite simple.Some may distinguish between making an account and making the domain/site itself, allowing you to host multiple domains with one account.


The specifics of the registration information you'll need will vary from server to server, but you'll need an email, password and domain name for a free account, and a valid credit card if you decide to upgrade to paid account.
 Choosing a perfect domain name can make or break a website. Although the server name will be part of your overall URL, you'll have to choose your specific site name. Pick something that accurately defines what your site is about.For example, if your site is about books, you should include the word 'books' or something related, like 'literature', in the domain name. The domain should also be relatively easy to remember.


Don't be discouraged if your first choices are already taken. These server sites see a lot of traffic, and you can't be too picky with a free domain. If you get frustrated, try to find new permutations of your site's name. Try to avoid intentionally misspelling it purely for the sake of finding an available domain name.
 Once the registration has finally gone through, it's always good form to give your domain a test to see if it's active. Input the full URL (including the server heading following your site name) into your web browser's address box and press Enter. If it comes up to your (currently blank) webpage, you'll know the registration worked. With some servers, it may take up to 48 hours for the site to go live.Be patient; sometimes, an in-queue page will be interpreted as a failure because someone underestimates the harrowing level of traffic these servers have to sift through.
 Once your basic free domain has been created, it's up to you to fill it with content that your readers will find interesting. The possibilities are endless, and as a free domain, you can experiment to your heart's content without feeling the need to see real returns. While you're definitely recommended to upgrade to a paid domain if your web activity gets any bit serious, the free domain will give you lots of opportunity to brush up on your developing skills before you take the big plunge. Have fun!


With servers like Wordpress and Blogspot, you can purchase a domain name directly through them fairly inexpensively. This will remove their domain name from your address, thus allowing you to use their developer interface without having the unprofessional mark of a server name attached to your URL.

