 You might come to a point in your life when you notice lots of problems around you. Perhaps you feel stuck in your marriage, want a different job, and want a fresh start somewhere else. While you might feel these things, you don’t have to act on them. If you feel like running from your problems, try working through them first. Think about what specifically is making you unhappy, then try to create solutions around that.For example, if you feel unhappy in your marriage, keep in mind that changes often occur in a partnership and you may be able to work through it. Consider seeing a therapist or talking to your spouse about creating solutions.;
, You might have large aspirations and goals that may not be realistic. While you may need to give up your dreams in some areas, create goals in others. Maybe you never got your book published or achieved fame, but you’ve had a fulfilling life in other ways. You won’t reach your childhood dream of being an astronaut, but you can achieve other dreams.Create financial, family, romantic, career, and health goals. For example, aim to finish a marathon or completing a silent meditation retreat.
 Accept that you are an adult and have responsibilities. Instead of resenting your roles and responsibilities, find what you can be grateful for in your life. For example, if you envy your children’s carefree lives while you work tirelessly at a job you don’t enjoy, remember that you play a vital role in their lives and are blessed to have a job.Instead of seeing things as burdens, see them as gifts that contribute to the life you’ve created and that you’re creating.
Start a gratitude journal to get into a regular habit of practicing thankfulness.
 If you think making a drastic decision is the only way out or the only thing that will make you happy, think again. You likely have more than one option to choose from. For example, if you’re unhappy at your job, consider shifting positions, working at another branch, or asking to move up in your company. While it can be fun to make impulsive decisions, don’t let them rule your life. Gather information and examine your choices.If you feel like buying fancy things is the only way you experience happiness, find other ways to feel fulfilled, like growing a garden or learning how to dance.
Carefully and thoughtfully consider your options before moving forward. You don’t have to make drastic choices to be happy.
 If you feel ready to make some big decisions, seek some wise counsel from someone you trust. This might be a parent, friend, therapist, or spiritual leader. Listen to what they have to say, even if you don’t like it. They may share some perspectives you haven’t considered.If you’re planning to quit your job, leave your spouse, or make a big purchase, talk it over before going through with it.
 Many people who hit mid-life think that turning back the clock is the answer to moving ahead. While acting young, looking young, and dating young might feel good for a few moments, it won’t solve your problems. You may postpone feelings of confusion but they will likely not go away. No amount of fancy things or nice cars will actually turn back the clock. It’s best to acknowledge your age and be okay with it.For example, if you’ve put your worth into your looks all your life, try to find worth in yourself in other more enduring ways, like your kindness and generosity. Everybody ages and gets older, it only matters how you handle it and grow from it.
 If your life has been taken over by taking care of kids, pleasing your workplace, and being a loving and dutiful spouse or parent, you may need some time just for yourself. Set aside some time each day you can spend alone. Allow your mind to wander and reflect on how you are doing. Give yourself some space to think, feel, and live on your own terms.Go on a walk, spend some time in nature, or meditate.
 Especially if you’re feeling overwhelmed with being in this phase of life, start dealing with stress effectively. Doing daily relaxation exercises or practices can help you find calm and cope with stress as it arises instead of letting it build up. Take some time and give yourself some nourishment.Aim to do some relaxation every day for 30 minutes. You might try yoga, qi gong, or meditation.
 It might seem fun or exciting to engage in drugs or drink alcohol in this stage of life. You may feel like there is less to lose or want some new experiences that excite you. Yet, drugs and alcohol are not fulfilling and can hurt you or even ruin your life. If you’re experiencing stress or financial difficulty, turn to healthy coping instead of drugs or alcohol.If you have a problem with drugs or alcohol, seek help and find treatment. Attend inpatient or outpatient treatment, go to a sober living facility, and get clean.
 Some people feel anxious or depressed around mid-life. Perhaps you feel sad about not accomplishing your goals or having a different life than you expected. You might also begin to feel anxious about the changes you experience physically and impending old age and death. Don’t ignore your feelings or brush them off. Acknowledge how you feel and don’t be afraid to get help.Identify symptoms of depression and anxiety and get help if you need it.
 Consider keeping a journal, or an autobiography of sorts. Writing your thoughts, feelings, and experiences can help you reflect on the kind of life you’ve led and the kind of life you want. Keeping a journal can also help you maintain perspective and see situations and events from multiple standpoints.Writing about your life can help you gain some perspective about your choices and what you’ve learned from them. Even if your life isn’t what you wished it was, you can reflect on all the ways you’ve grown as result of your experiences.
 Choose a therapist who will help you move through the process of your crisis, not end it as quickly as possible. Work toward a rediscovery of who you are and what you want. Be open and honest and allow yourself to express your thoughts and emotions while in therapy.Find a therapist by contacting your insurance provider or a local mental health clinic. You can also ask for a recommendation from a physician, friend, or family member.

