 Children copy what they see, so if they notice you adopting healthier habits, they're likely to try it out for themselves too. Start doing any new thing that you want your child(ren) to do, and after they see you doing it for a few times, they're likely to try it out for themselves.
 Stock your pantry and fridge with nuts, berries, string cheese, applesauce, fruit cups with 100% juice, and other snacks that are healthy and easy to grab.


Keep bowls of fruit in the fridge, so people can grab some when hungry.
Buy less cookies, chips, etc. These should be treats, not frequent snacks, for all family members.
 Intuitive eating means eating when you are hungry, not eating when you are full, and listening to what cravings are telling you. Encourage your child to listen to their stomach.When considering a second helping, people should pause and listen to their stomach. You can model this out loud, such as "I'm thinking about whether I should have more. My stomach still feels a little bit hungry. So I should have a little bit more, and be done once I'm full" or "I don't feel hungry for everything on my plate. So, I'll put the rest in the fridge, and eat it later when I'm hungry."

, Your own choices will affect your child's health, so work on making healthy meals, and keep the takeout and restaurant food to a minimum.


If you are a very busy parent, you can buy frozen healthy meals to heat up for your child, such as Lean Cuisine. Find out your child's favorites among these.
If it is not enough calories for your child, encourage them to supplement with a healthy snack, or a small dessert.
 Your entire family will benefit from enjoying at least one meal per day together, where you can talk and eat without distraction. # Control dessert sizes. Children of all ages and sizes can enjoy a reasonable amount of dessert. Try serving your child to ensure that they are eating a moderate amount. Or, if your child is serving themselves, ask "What's a good amount of cookies?" and let them consider it.


If your child is still hungry afterwards, explain that that's enough cookies/ice cream/cake, show them the healthy snack options, and ask what sounds best to them.
Try desserts that incorporate fruits, such as banana splits, berries with whipped cream, or strawberries dipped in chocolate sauce.
 While there's nothing wrong with learning on the internet or playing a game to relax, you don't want your child spending most of their childhood in front of a screen. Make screens one aspect of an active, balanced life. Try to limit eating in front of screens.


If your child is going to eat in front of a screen, give them a controlled portion of food (e.g. a medium-sized bowl of chips, not a big bag of chips). This way, they can't accidentally eat too much. If they really are hungry, they'll have to stop and get up in order to get more.
 This is a low-stress activity, and offers an opportunity for you to give your child some positive attention. Let your child choose when to turn around; you will probably start small and build up to longer and longer distances., Get a basketball hoop or volleyball net if you can, and have some balls available to toss around at any time. Say "I'm going for a walk" or "I'm going to shoot some hoops" and ask who wants to join you. Your child(ren) should have lots of opportunities to exercise in fun, relaxed ways.


Some children enjoy competing, while others find it makes sports stressful. Non-competitive sports may be a lot more fun for an obese child, so consider having your family not keep score.
Non-sports exercise activities can include dancing and playing with pets.
Keep the atmosphere positive and non-critical, so your child associates exercise with having fun.
 Some children blossom in organized sports. Consider volleyball, soccer, basketball, swimming classes, et cetera. Others may fear public humiliation, and would be better off without it.If your child says yes, see how it goes.


Obese children may get bullied or excluded in sports, which can damage their mental health, and make them start hating exercise. Check up on them to see if they are enjoying the sport. If they don't, talk about why, and allow them to quit if they want to. They can exercise at home, where they won't be criticized for it.
 Your family doesn't have to transform to a family of health nuts overnight. Instead, work on making changes in routines that benefit everyone. It's okay to have bad days, and eating one fast food meal won't make everyone become mortally ill. If you're getting exercise together on 40% of the days instead of 20%, that's a victory. Your goal isn't to be perfect, just better.


Focus on realistic goals, such as eating a fruit or vegetable with every meal, or substituting soda with water or 100% fruit juice.Try asking each of your children to set a health goal that feels reasonable to them.

