 This trick involves a bit of memorization and is done by how you lay out the cards out in each round of the trick. The first round of the trick has you laying the cards in four rows of four cards each, face up. The second round has you laying the cards in four columns of four cards each, face up.
The third round has you laying the cards in four squares of four cards each, face up.
 Create four rows of four cards each. Ask your spectator to pick a card and memorize it.
Tell your spectator not to tell you which one it is, but to think about it very hard and visualize the card.
 Once your spectator tells you which row the card the is in, quickly memorize the cards in that row.


While you do this, keep talking to your spectator. If you want to make it a bit more interesting, you can wager a bet that you will be able to read your spectator’s mind and eventually find the correct card.
Gather up the cards. Pick up the row that your spectator’s card is in first. Be careful to keep the cards in the same order for each row.
Stack the cards face up on top of one another. You will have your spectator’s card in the bottom four cards with the cards face up. Then turn the deck of sixteen over so your spectator’s card is now in the top four.
 By separating the cards into columns for this round, you can quickly find your spectator’s card.


Because you previously memorized the row that your spectator’s card was in, and have now separated that row into different columns, each of the cards from the spectator’s row is now in a new grouping of four.
Furthermore, since your spectator’s card is one of the first four cards you laid out, you will be able to identify it easily.
 Though you laid the cards out in columns, you still want your spectator to identify the card by the row. You will now be able to find the card by the column. However, don’t reveal that you know which card it is just yet.


You can identify your spectator’s card because it will be the top card in whichever row your spectator points to.
Since you laid the cards out by columns in this round, the four cards from the first row will now be at the top of each new row.



Gather the cards face up again, starting with the top card of each row.
This way, your spectator’s card will be on the bottom of your deck.
As you gather up all of the cards, flip the deck over in your hand again. The cards should now be facing down.
Now explain that you will separate the cards into groups of four face down. Say that you bet you can use your magical powers to read your spectator’s mind to find the card.
 Ask your spectator to pick a group of cards.


You now know, that because your spectator’s card is the first card you put down, where it is.
If your spectator chooses the group of cards that the card is in, take the other three groups away.
If your spectator chooses a different group, remove only that group.
 Assuming your spectator hasn’t picked the group with the card in it.


Repeat this process until the group with the card is the only one left, or until that group is picked.
As soon as the group with your spectator’s card is chosen, remove all other groups.
 Just like with the groups, if your spectator picks the chosen card, remove the others. Otherwise, eliminate one more card until there are two left.

If the first card your spectator picks is the chosen card, bet that you can identify it before you flip it over. Say that through your magical abilities you are able to direct your spectator into picking the card. Then flip the card over to reveal that you guessed it correctly.
If you get down to two cards, you can bet your spectator that you not only know which card is the chosen card, but you can also identify what it is. Announce the card and flip it over to reveal you are correct.

