 If you're using a computer, navigate to Instagram's website.


You'll have to log in with your Instagram account credentials if you aren't already logged in.;
, To do this, tap or click the person icon; for mobile users, this is in the bottom right corner of the screen.


If you're on a computer, you'll find this icon in the top right corner of the screen.
 This should be to the right of your profile image.
 While you can't force a follower to unfollow your profile, you can block them, thereby preventing them from being able to follow or view your account., This will take you to their profile, from which you can block them.
 This is in the top right corner of your screen (or to the right of their name on a computer).


On Android, this menu is vertical rather than horizontal.
 On Instagram's site, this option says "Block this user". After selecting this option, Instagram will prompt you for confirmation.
 This will block your selected user; they will no longer be able to view your posts!


Your blocked user will still be able to see your comments on other users' photos, and they will still be able to search for your account; however, they won't be able to access your account.
You can view a list of your blocked users at any time by going into your settings menu and selecting the "Blocked Users" tab.
 If you would like to avoid unwanted followers in the future, you can make your account "Private"; doing so will allow you to approve any follower requests prior to users being able to view your account., Switching your account from its standard status to "Private" means that anyone wishing to follow you will have to request to do so; you are the only person who can approve said request. This gives you greater control over who can access your Instagram.


Changing your account to "Private" also restricts user access to your comments and likes, with the sole exception being for public posts (wherein your name will appear next to other "likes", but your account will still be protected).
You won't be able to change your account's viewing status from a computer.
 To do this, tap the person-shaped icon in the bottom right corner of your phone's screen.


You can also do this on a tablet.
 Do this by tapping the gear icon (iOS) or the three dots (Android) in the top right corner of your screen.
 This is a series of tabs dedicated to account options; you'll find the "Private Account" option at the bottom of this group.
 It should from grey to blue, indicating that your account is now private!


If you want to disable this setting, simply swipe the switch back and tap "OK" on the pop-up window.
Note that your current followers will not be affected by this switch. If you want to block some or all of them, you'll need to do so manually.

