 Make a plan to get your credit in better shape if necessary. Having a good credit score will help you secure a loan with better terms. If your credit is compromised, check your local listings for agencies or nonprofit organizations that can help you clean it up.
 There are several ways to begin investing in your property portfolio. You may consider selling an asset or refinancing a property to get the funds. If you're investing in raw land, it's common to get financing from the seller. You may also choose to take out bank loans to finance your property.


If you have the money, you can pay all cash, or you can put down a percentage and get a loan for the remaining amount.
There are different loan requirements depending on the bank and your financial history., Find out how much money you can afford to borrow responsibly for your investment. The quickest way to find out if you can afford a loan is to ask the bank. If you get a "no" from your bank, then consider trying another one as each bank is different in their approach. You may also consider looking into a credit union or a smaller bank to get your loan through.
 Unless the property has good cash flow, there is really no reason to consider purchasing it. Examine the financials on the property to make sure it is supplying a good source of income. The rent you receive from your tenants should be enough to pay all of your expenses, including your mortgage payment, utilities, property taxes, and insurance. This excludes raw land investments, which generally yield no income unless leased for farming or another purpose.
 A common mistake first time investors make is underestimating their expenses. Rental buildings are always needing touch ups and repairs. There are several areas of expense to factor in when considering your purchase. The amounts will vary depending on the property.


Water and sewer
Garbage
Utilities
Legal fees and accounting
Evictions
Vacancies
Scheduled maintenance

, You may want to factor in a salary for a property manager if you don’t have the personality, skills, and availability to manage your own property. There are many benefits to hiring a property manager.


The manager advertises and rents for you and will show your property when vacancies arise.
The manager meets with prospective tenants and handles all of your lease agreements.
The manager collects the rent from the tenants and performs the move-in and move-out inspections.
The manager deals with all the tenants complaints.
The manager serves legal notices in the case of a dispute and starts the eviction process if necessary.
The manager usually has a list of reliable contractors that he or she has used before.

