 One of the best things you can do to build confidence in young girls is to let them know that you have faith in them.But don’t just tell them a generic ‘good job’ or ‘way to go’. Hearing someone give them specific positive feedback on a regular basis can help boost young girls self-esteem and their confidence.Specific positive feedback lets young girls know what they did right so that they can do it again.
Tell them often that you are proud of their effort or of them making a good decision. Or tell them that you admire their determination and courage.
For example, you might say, “Hey, Mariole, I just want you to know that you it was really brave of you to stand up for Robert. That took a lot of courage!”
Or, for instance, you could say, “Deborah, you showed a lot of effort in your basketball game tonight! I’m glad you won!”;
, You can build confidence in young girls by showing them that the things they are interested in are worthwhile and important to you.So, ask about their interests and whenever you can make an effort to support them.


Talk to them about the things they are interested in. For example, try saying, “How are things going with the swim team?”
Attend concerts, performances, recitals, and other events to show your support. It boosts confidence to see a smiling face in the crowd.
If you can’t attend events, then help them prepare for it. For example, if you can’t make their music performance, help pick out their outfit.
 This lets them know you have confidence in their opinions and their ability to express it the right way. And the more often girls get to voice their opinion and make their own decisions, the more confident they will feel making decisions and expressing how they feel about something. This can help them in situations of bullying or peer pressure.Ask their opinion about things that are going on. You could say, for example, “How do you feel about the new rule at school about locker time?”
Encourage young girls to speak up when they think something is wrong or don’t agree with it.
For instance, you might say, “It’s okay to say so when you think that someone is doing something wrong.”

, The more opportunities young girls have to succeed and reach their goals, the more confidence they will have. Create chances for them to engage in activities like team sports that will boost their confidence.Girls that participate in team sports like softball, basketball, or soccer have been found to be more confident than young girls that do not.
Encourage their creativity. Ask them to draw a picture for you and then frame it. Hang it in a prominent place where they can see other people admire their artwork.
Play a game with them. Allow them to win the first time or two. Then, with each time, play more seriously to challenge them and increase their confidence.
For instance, you might play softball together and stand really close the first few times you pitch the ball. Then gradually pitch from further distances until you are on the mound.

