 There is no single “whistleblower protection” law in the United States. Instead, many different laws provide whistleblower protection. Some of the laws are federal while others are specific to your state. For example, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) enforces about 22 whistleblower laws. These laws protect whistleblowing about violations of the Affordable Care Act, Sarbanes-Oxley, Clean Air Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, and other federal laws.Some federal and state agencies have whistleblower laws that protect only public employees. For example, Illinois offers whistleblower protection to employees in the Offices of the Treasurer, Comptroller, Secretary of State, Attorney General, and Governor.Other whistleblower laws can apply to a broad range of people in the state. For example, Florida has a whistleblower law that protects both public and private employees in Florida.;
, To find out if there is a whistleblower protection law that applies to you, you can search the web or visit your local law library. For an Internet search, you can type “whistleblower” and then your industry and state into your favorite web browser. For example, if you work on a farm, you could type “farm whistleblower Kansas” into the search engine.


Because there are so many different whistleblower laws, it can be difficult to find out if you are protected. Another way to see if you are protected is to consult with an employment attorney. A lawyer will be well-versed in whistleblower protection laws and can advise you on what course of action to take if you believe you have been retaliated against.
If costs are a concern, then realize that many states allow lawyers to offer “limited scope representation,” also called “unbundled” legal services. Under this arrangement, a lawyer does not take over the entire representation. Instead, he or she agrees to perform only discrete tasks. For example, a lawyer could agree to offer advice for a flat fee or to look over forms. You can call and ask an attorney if they offer limited scope representation., Once you find out if you are protected, then you must find the appropriate office to report to. Many employees can report to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which has authority for enforcing 22 federal whistleblower laws.To see if you can report to OSHA, use the agency’s Desk Aid, available at http://www.whistleblowers.gov/whistleblower_acts-desk_reference.pdf.
You can also find your state’s agency. Search for your state and “whistleblower.” For example, the Illinois agency can be found at the website http://www.illinois.gov/gov/whistleblower/Pages/default.aspx.
 Generally, you only have a certain amount of time in order to file a complaint. For example, someone reporting a violation of the Clean Air Act has 30 days to file.By contrast, those employees reporting violations of the Affordable Care Act have 180 days to file.The OSHA website provides a list of deadlines for the laws it enforces. You can find the list at http://www.whistleblowers.gov/wb_filing_time_limits.html.
Regardless of the deadline to file a complaint, you should not wait too long.
 If you were retaliated against, then you are eligible for a variety of remedies. For example, you can be reinstated into your job, be awarded back pay (or double back pay), and have your reasonable attorneys’ fees compensated., Illegal retaliation can take many forms. Generally you are protected from any “adverse action.” Examples of adverse employment actions include:fired or laid off
blacklisted from an industry
not hired or rehired
demoted or denied a promotion
denied overtime or benefits
subjected to intimidation or harassment/threats
reduction in hours or pay
being disciplined

, You will need evidence if you bring a lawsuit against your employer. However, you also need evidence before you even file a complaint. Some agencies might want you to submit whatever evidence you have when you file your complaint.


Also your access to evidence might decrease once you file a whistleblower complaint. You might be fired or moved to a different office, thus making it harder to access files, voice mails, or emails.
 One way an employer defends its actions is to claim that you deserved to be fired or demoted independent of the fact that you blew the whistle on the company. However, if you received strong performance reviews then you can defend against that accusation.


You should try to get a copy of your entire personnel file. The file might contain handwritten notes between members of management about you.
If your employer won’t release your personnel file, then don’t worry. If you file a lawsuit, then you can compel the production of the file (and any other relevant information) using a subpoena.
 You should hold onto any communications between you and management. Preserve all emails, letters, notes, memos, and voice mails. These communications may contain important information that can be helpful to prove retaliation.


Be sure to document any conversations that you have that you think are relevant to show retaliation. Sometimes the only evidence of these face-to-face conversations are your memories. As soon as possible, sit down and summarize the conversation. Sign and date the summary.
 You have several options for filing a complaint with OSHA. You can file online, mail a form or letter, or call the office. To file online, you can use the Online Whistleblower Complaint Form at https://www.osha.gov/whistleblower/WBComplaint.html. The form will ask for the following information:


your name and contact information (address, phone number, and email)
your date of hiring and job title
address of your worksite
name and contact information of your employer
the type of business
name and contact information for a management contact
name, title, and contact information of your supervisor
the nature of the retaliation and the name of the person responsible for it
the dates of the retaliatory actions and the date when you learned about them
the reason why you were retaliated against
the date you blew the whistle on any illegal activity and whether you believe your employer knew about your whistleblowing
whether you have lodged any complaints with OSHA against the employer
any other action you have taken (such as file a grievance)

, You can download the “Notice of Whistleblower Complaint Form” at http://www.whistleblowers.gov/whistleblower_complaint.pdf. You can then mail the completed form to your local OSHA office.


To find your office, visit the OSHA map at https://www.osha.gov/html/RAmap.html.
Always keep a copy of your complaint for your records.
 If you do not want to use the form, then you can type up your own letter and mail it to a local OSHA office. Be sure to include your name, address, and telephone number along with a description of your complaint., You may also call your local OSHA office and talk to a representative, who will take down the relevant information. OSHA takes down complaints in any language.Visit the OSHA map of offices to find the telephone number for an office near you.
 OSHA will follow up on the complaint with an interview. The purpose of the interview is for OSHA to find out if an investigation is warranted.If OSHA believes that your whistleblower complaint has merit, then the agency will ask that you be restored to your job, salary, and/or benefits.
 Some states have whistleblower website.Other states have information on whistleblower laws on their state auditor’s website or another website.These websites should tell you how to file a complaint. It may also provide links to other departments and agencies that you should contact., Many state agencies will have a form for you to fill out. You can then mail or fax the form to the appropriate department. The form will ask for basic information, such as:your name and contact information (address, phone number, email)
the name and contact information of the person you are lodging the complaint against
whether you have notified another state or federal agency of your complaint
a summary of your complaint
witnesses to the complaint

, Often, you will be able to file a whistleblower complaint by calling the appropriate number.If you call, you should write down the date of the call, the name of the person you spoke to, and a brief summary of the conversation.


Some states run a whistleblower hotline.Type your state and “whistleblower hotline” into a search engine to see if one is available in your state.
 Some states also allow you to file a whistleblower claim online. There should be a link on the state’s website.Click on the link and provide the requested information.

