 Don't rely on self-diagnosis: you may be anxious or obsessive at times, you may be a hoarder, or you may feel an aversion to germs--but OCD is a spectrum, and the presence of a few symptoms doesn't necessarily mean that you need to seek treatment. You won't truly know whether you suffer from OCD until you've been diagnosed by a medical professional.


There is no lab test to diagnose OCD. The doctor will base his or her diagnosis on an assessment of your symptoms, including how much time you spend performing your ritual behaviors.
If you are diagnosed with OCD, don't worry--there may be no "cure" for the disorder, but there are medications and behavioral therapies that can help you reduce and control your symptoms. You may need to learn to live with your obsessions, but you don't need to let them control your life.
 The goal of cognitive behavioral therapy--also called "exposure therapy" or "exposure and response prevention therapy")--is to teach people with OCD to confront their fears and reduce anxiety without performing the ritual behaviors. Therapy also focuses on reducing the exaggerated or catastrophic thinking that often occurs in people with OCD.You may need to visit a clinical psychologist to begin cognitive behavioral therapy; a regular family practice doctor or therapist can put you in touch with the right people. It won't be easy, but if you are committed to working hard to control your fixations, you should at least look for CBT programs in your area.
 Antidepressants--particularly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like Paxil, Prozac, and Zoloft--may be helpful in treating OCD. Older drugs--tricyclic antidepressants like Anafranil--can also be effective. Some atypical antipsychotics, such as Risperdal or Abilify, have also been used to mitigate the symptoms of OCD, either when used alone or in combination with an SSRI.


Be very careful when mixing medication. Research the side-effects of any medication before you take it, and ask your doctor whether it's safe to mix a new medication with something you're already taking.
Antidepressants alone may help calm your OCD symptoms, but they are not a cure, and they are by no means a fail-proof treatment. A major National Institute of Mental Health study showed that fewer than 50 percent of people become symptom-free on antidepressants, even after trying two different medications.