 If you know you're going to be late to a meeting, at least prepare the things you need to have with you for the meeting. Arrange your documents, files, agenda, laptop, etc., to grab as you rush to the meeting.
 If it is possible or appropriate to do so, try to alert your tardiness in advance because this lets the meeting organizer, any presenters, and attendees know that you will be showing up, albeit late.


A note or call to your boss or via a colleague will be a good way to alert the meeting chair that you're still intending to come despite running late.
 The formality or informality of your workplace will be a deciding factor in how you sidle into the meeting late. The most important thing is to not interrupt, but to wait for a natural pause to offer any excuses for your tardiness.


Be sure to turn off or silence your cell phone before entering the meeting!
For a formal workplace culture, it is best to try to keep your head low and be as unobtrusive as possible. Give your apology to the person chairing or leading the meeting quietly, provided it is not rude to interrupt, or where there is an appropriate pause in proceedings. A simple explanation suffices, such as "Sorry I'm late, our London client called", in order not to hold up progress of the meeting.
If there is a presentation underway, forget offering any apology at this stage unless your boss sidles up to you asking for a whispered excuse. Instead, slip in, sit down and be quiet until an appropriate opportunity presents itself to explain your lateness.
For an informal workplace culture, you might be able to inject a little humor into your late arrival, perhaps a smile and a shrug, and a quick, amusing anecdote of what delayed you. Don't overdo it though, and be prepared to settle straight into business.
 Sooner or later, any cover stories will be uncovered, especially if you're not in someone's favor. And clearly, obvious lying will be picked up by all! In particular, note what does not work:


Saying something along the lines of: "I was doing something urgent/things would have fallen apart if I didn't stay behind". This is also known as the "putting out the fires" excuse. It annoys people because first, it smacks of the late person perceiving themselves as indispensable - and if it were really that company-preserving, why didn't all the team get asked to pitch in?! Second, if it's a constant excuse, it makes everyone hearing it suspicious that the late person is just a really bad judge of time.Constant lateness. It annoys your coworkers because they had to sit through the tedious start, so why can't you. If you make a habit of it, they'll make a habit of not looping you in to what you've missed. An exception might be made if you're the company's irreplaceable glue – your workplace will be sure to let you know if you're that rare, crucial person – otherwise, you're in the same boat as everyone else.
 While it's important to slip into the meeting unobtrusively, you can redeem yourself by not being a shrinking violet during the meeting, and by participating actively. Some things to keep in mind, however:


Don't launch into a lengthy attack or defense on something that may very well have been explained in detail and resolved prior to your arrival. If you're not sure, preface by saying something like "I'd like to talk about X, but I'm not sure if you already broached this subject earlier." Look around to see how people react to draw your cue from.
Do your very best not to look bored or fidget during the rest of the meeting. That will only confirm to people that you delayed coming because you weren't interested.

Appear completely at ease. Do not, under any circumstances, seem frazzled or not on top of your game. Remain casual but engaged in the immediate proceedings.
 Approach members of your team after the meeting and explain your situation so that they don't bad mouth you behind your back. This is important. Many a top executive candidate has been sunk by lack of conciliation. Apologize and explain that you were on an important call, etc.

