 These OTC drugs can help to neutralize the acid in your stomach and reduce your acid reflux. You should expect the drugs to provide relief for up to two weeks. If you do not notice an improvement in your symptoms after two weeks, you may need to see a physician.Do not use antacids long-term as they can negatively affect your mineral balance and your kidneys. They can also cause diarrhea.;
, H2 blockers can help to decrease the secretion of acid in your stomach. You can find H2 blockers at your local pharmacy, including brands like Zantac, Pepcid, and Tagamet. Make sure you follow the instructions on the label. If the over-the-counter H2 blockers are not working, your doctor may be able to prescribe a higher dosage.Be aware of the side effects of H2 blockers, including constipation, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, hives, nausea, and vomiting. You may also have difficulty urinating. If you experience serious side effects, stop taking the H2 blockers and see a doctor.
If you experience more serious side effects like difficulty breathing or swelling of the face, lips, throat, or tongue, you need medical attention immediately. You may be having an anaphylactic reaction; call 911 or go to the emergency room.
 PPIs block acid production in your stomach and can help to relieve your acid reflux symptoms. Look for PPIs at your local pharmacy, including esomeprazole (Nexium), lansoprazole (Prevacid), omeprazole (Prilosec), pantoprazole (Protonix), rabeprazole (Aciphex), dexlansoprazole (Dexilant) and omeprazole/ sodium bicarbonate (Zegerid). Always follow the instructions on the label.Be aware of the side effects of PPIs, including headache, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, and rash.
Do not take PPIs long-term, as they are associated with a higher risk of osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine.
 Form barriers are made by combining an antacid and a foaming agent. The tablet dissolves in your stomach and creates a foam that helps to prevent acid from entering your esophagus.Currently, Gaviscon is the only foam barrier on the market.

