 Christianity and the Bible have the basic rules and guidance to help one being a good human and avoiding all forms of evil. If you have problems with following a certain command, you can seek guidance that you feel will help you as is written in the Bible, Matthew 9:29, 'According to your faith be it unto you'.


The Lord has set rules which can help you correct yourself and also give you guidance as to what to do and what not to do. You can use those guidelines to help you understand your problems and make a choice.
 Strive to be righteous. Stir clear of evil. If you resort to evil to help escape from difficult situations, you may not see beyond evil even while you search good or protection. Seek the right path knowing that it is tough. Choose to walk on thorny steps if it is the right step. Deny any comfort that makes you drift from the sweet fruit of true labor. Seek effort and hard work which will give you true protection. It will give you moral strength to keep you going and experience God, not just hear of Him.
 "So, the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work." (2 Timothy 3:17) -- How? -- by following and applying God's way and plan found in the scriptures that admonish us to not only do good but turn from evil, and correct that which is wrong, if possible.
 Pray, not just like a group of words uttered through your mouth. Go beyond just utterance and pray keeping the end result you desire in mind. As you do that you will be prepared to accept graciously what you have worked or prayed for. There are many who get what they ask but they lose it either because they fail to see it or because they feel inefficient to accept the gift. Pray with a vision. This is faith. Faith is experienced to be applied. Merely saying that you have faith does not really gives you the experience. Faith will empower you to fight all the evils of the world. Pray 'Our Father', 'Hail Mary' and when in distress 'Lord is my Shepherd'.


Believe even if you are not answered. There is no such thing as prayers not being answered. It only takes longer to be answered but not prayers go unattended by God, Almighty. God knows exactly what your heart seeks. He will fulfill your prayers but you must have faith and be willing to wait.
 Read and read again everything the Bible states. The more you read the more you get the solutions to your problems and questions. What you couldn't grasp earlier will make more sense to you today. So pick up that Bible and read it again.
 Discuss your life and problems with the one who is said to be closest to God. Speak to a priest and seek their good counsel. Sometimes even a small conversation leads to big solutions. You would not want to miss out on those possibilities. No matter how mature or well-versed you feel you have become, continue interacting with the wise and the good servants of God. Share with them and ask them to pray for you. This will certainly bring hope and better judgment to you.

