 Before you begin to memorize your lines, you should read all of your material and have a firm grasp of what the play, speech, or presentation means. Take the time to read it alone in a quiet place and read it aloud if necessary.


If you really want to improve your memorization, read it more than once.;
, Once you've read it, you can think about what it really means. Instead of just memorizing it, you should understand the meaning and purpose behind your lines, whether it's to motivate workers during a presentation or to deliver a passionate monologue during a play.


If you're in a play, understand the motivations of your character. This will help you get a better sense of what they would or would not say.
If your play, presentation, or speech involves others, then reflect on their lines as well. How does your character or presentation relate to what others have to say? Understanding what others say will give you a better sense of when your own character will speak.
 Once you've read and reflected on your materials, you can write down your lines. If you're memorizing lines from a long play, you can just focus on the longer monologues. Whatever you do, know that writing down your lines will help you process the material much faster and will make you feel more in touch with the lines. They won't feel like just any words on a page, but like your own words.


Remember to focus on the words while you're writing them down. Don't just write them down while watching TV or listening to music. Really take the time to absorb everything you're writing down.
 You will memorize your lines much faster if you move around, gesture, and show emotion as you say them. Don't just say the words, but mimic the movements you'll be making when you actually deliver the words. This will help your whole body understand the lines better.Even if you're not gesturing, just try pacing back and forth as you recite the lines. This will still be a big help.
 If there are other cast-members in your play or other people involved in your presentation, pay close attention to what they have to say. Don't just wait for their monologues or statements to be over so you can jump into yours. Instead, get a deep understanding of what they're saying so you know how their words relate to your own.


Try to have a strong sense of all of their lines if you don't flat-out memorize them. Remember that the other people involved may need your help remembering their lines on the big day.
 If you're stuck memorizing your lines, try a variety of words tricks to help you fully absorb the lines. Here are some word tricks to try:


Use rhymes to help you remember the right words in a sentence.
Use visualization. Visualize the words you will say and what message they will convey, and they will come to you.
Try acronyms to remember your lines.
 You don't have to memorize your lines from start to finish if you have a long chunk of lines, or an entire play's worth of lines, to memorize. Instead, you should break down your lines into manageable parts so that you have a grasp of all of the lines eventually.


Work on memorizing the lines from the beginning of the speech first. Once you have those down, move on to the middle while incorporating the beginning. See how far you can go without forgetting something. Once you have the beginning and middle down, move on to the end.
If you're in a play, you can work on all of your monologues first, and then work on your interactions with one character, and then another.
Don't try to memorize too much at once. Work in small manageable chunks and you'll be much less likely to get frustrated.
 Once you feel very comfortable with your lines, you should take the opportunity to applaud yourself, but don't stop practicing. You should still repeat your lines as much as possible until they feel like second nature to you. You should keep repeating your lines until the day you have to deliver them, or you may forget them by the big day.Repeat your lines when you get up in the morning and as you get ready for bed.
Repeat your lines in the car.
If you're working on a play, repeat your lines with a cast-mate.
If you have a patient friend or family member, ask if you can repeat your lines to him or her from time to time.
 You should make a recording of your lines and keep it on hand all the time. For one thing, sitting down to record all of your lines will help you memorize them even more. If you're memorizing for a play, then you can record the lines of the entire play, so that you know when it's your turn to speak. You can play this recording at any time to maximize the amount of time you spend memorizing your lines.


Play the recording whenever you can. Play it as you get ready in the morning, while you're doing chores like folding laundry, or even when you're working out or just going for a walk.
You can also play the recording in your car.
 This is an important point. You should relax while you're memorizing your lines and before you have to deliver the lines. If you don't relax, then you'll be more likely to forget your lines in the middle of a rehearsal or even on the big day.


Just keep telling yourself that it's no big deal. If you make a mistake, you'll be able to recover gracefully, and it won't be the end of the world if you don't remember every last word.
 If you know how to improvise, you will be much less worried about memorizing your lines. Improvising is a great way to keep people from even knowing that you've forgotten your lines. The important thing is not to leave any time for silence or confusion. Whether you're alone on stage or a part of a play, everyone should always look like they know what's going on even if they don't.


As long as you're comfortable with your character or your role, you'll be able to say something similar to what you were supposed to say.
Remember that you're not the only one who can mess up. If you're in a play, one of the other characters may also make a mistake, so you should be comfortable enough with everybody's lines so you can wing it if need be.

