 Your short term memory can be thought of as the “holding tank” your brain uses to temporarily hold information while determining whether to filter it out (and forget it) or move it along into your long-term memory.It is often said that your short term memory can hold about seven items of information at one time, for a period of time of typically 10-15 seconds (but even up to a minute).People sometimes associate the concept of short term memory problems with the kind of amnesia you might see on a daytime soap opera, but it is more an issue with taking in new information and effectively determining its need for long-term storage.;
, Jotting down notes, keeping a voice recorder handy, or tying strings on your fingers might help you make it through your daily routines, but they won’t facilitate any improvement of your short term memory.The only route to increasing your short term memory is through brain exercise and techniques to improve your focus and association skills.
 Like any other part of the body, brain inactivity can lead to weakness and decline. A more active brain is a more healthy brain, and a healthy brain is better with short term memory.


Interact with people. The simple act of having a conversation with someone can help keep the brain more active. Even better would be to play chess, do puzzles together, or anything that challenges your brain to work harder.Stimulate your mind when alone as well. Don’t just sit in front of the TV. Read a book; even better, write a book.
 There are many games and tests, some of which you can set up with items in your junk drawer, that can give your brain a good (and enjoyable) workout. Sitting down to do a few puzzles or other brain exercises twice a day can be enough to keep your memory powers from stagnating.Use flash cards. They worked in elementary school, and they can work now. Specialized memory card games are great, but even trying to remember a series of playing cards can work.
Do test games such as laying everyday items out on a tray, then covering the tray and trying to remember everything on it. Add items as your recall improves.
There are a wide range of books and games with brain exercises available for purchase, as well as convenient online resources. Try out different options and see what works for you.

