 Hypo-wraps only help people suffering from hypothermia. Before you wrap the patient, make sure that they are suffering from hypothermia. Symptoms include:


Shivering (although as hypothermia grows more severe, shivering will stop)Exhaustion
Pale skin
Hyperventilation (quick breathing) or hyperventilation (slow, drawn-out breathing)
Confusion
Slurred speech
Weak or no pulse
Dilated pupils
Unconsciousness;
, It needs to be large enough to wrap around the patient. Also keep in mind that the tarp will be wrapping around several layers of insulation.Try to find a waterproof blanket, such as an emergency blanket. If this is not possible, you can use other thick blankets or sheets. This will provide an insulating layer between the ground and the rest of the wrap.
 If you have a foam mat, you should place that first on the tarp, stacking other layers on top. If you don’t have foam mats, you can use blankets or a sleeping bag to form thick insulating layers. The more blankets and bags you add, the more insulated the patient will be., Remove any wet clothing, and if possible, replace these with dry clothing.If you don’t have any dry clothes, you can wrap the patient in a dry blanket or towel instead., If you have a sleeping bag on top, unzip it and help the patient lie down inside. If you have a blanket or a foam mat as your top layer, rest the patient above it. Before you wrap the patient, you will want to properly apply heat.
 Good compresses include chemical hot packs and hot water bottles.Make sure they are insulated in a towel or blanket so that direct heat is not placed against the patient’s body. Compresses should be warm but not hot. The goal is to warm the patient slowly.Avoid placing the patient in a bath of hot or warm water.
Do not use an electric source of heating such as a heat lamp or heating pad., You want to stabilize the core temperature of the patient’s body. Put the insulated compresses against their armpits, neck, head, groin, and torso., While the hands and feet of the patient will be very cold, if you warm these suddenly, you may cause shock in the patient, lowering their blood pressure and potentially risking dangerous complications. Warm only the core of the patient before you wrap them.You will also want to avoid massaging or rubbing the limbs of the patient. This will not help warm them, and it can send them into shock., If you do have a source of warmth, you can use your own body heat to rewarm the patient.Make sure you are dry, and undress down to your underwear to maximize skin to skin contact. Lie down next to the patient, and press your body against them. Cover both of your bodies in blankets. Skin to skin contact should be used only when other options are unavailable.Continue skin to skin contact until medical help has arrived., You can use a hat, scarf, or even an extra blanket. Once you have covered their head, take any extra fabric and tuck it around their ears and skull to insulate them. If the patient is wrapped correctly, only the person's face should be exposed., Grip the outermost layer, and pull it tightly over the patient like a burrito. Tuck in any extra material around the person’s body to keep the wrap closed. Make sure that they can breathe.
 Keep the patient lying down during the entire process. This will help their heart pumping blood, and it can prevent shock. This is particularly important if the patient was rescued from open water., Ask the patient to cough. If they are able to cough, they will be able to swallow.Dilute sugar into some warm (not hot) water to give the patient energy. Do not try to feed them solid food., Call 911 immediately. Hypo-wraps can stabilize a patient until help arrives, but they cannot heal hypothermia. Medical care is needed to properly treat the patient while ensuring that they do not go into shock. If you are outdoors or in the wilderness, be extremely specific about your location since it can be difficult for emergency responders to track you.