 In a nutshell, it's a branch of organic chemistry that is relatively new, dating back to only few decades. This area of chemistry lies at the interface between organic chemistry and inorganic chemistry of the metals in all its types. The need for the development of this area of chemistry stemmed from the fact that many organic reactions are unable to proceed under normal conditions of reactions in the organic laboratory.;
, These compounds are useful as catalysts for these organic reactions that otherwise would not proceed to completion. Analogous terminology to this phenomenon are the chemical reactions that occur in the body of humans and animals which proceed mostly under the catalysis of special type of proteins in the body that are called enzymes.
 Enzymes usually work by lowering the value of the free energy of Gibbs for the reactions that they catalyze. Organometallic compounds are very useful reagents that are able to catalyze organic reactions through a specific cycle of reactions that involve the central metal that is usually a transition metal. This cycle usually involve well known steps such as oxidative addition to the metal and a process of migratory insertion and ends with reductive elimination to give the final product. These processes have been extensively from the kinetic point of view by labeling procedures using isotopes of hydrogen such as deuterium and other isotopes.
 This catalysis by organometallic compounds is a very useful and practical topic in chemistry due to its potential applications to industrial processes for the synthesis of important compounds such as the synthesis of organic polymers. Metals chemistry is very unique in comparison to other atoms in the periodic table. This is so due to the use by the transition metals of extra 5-d orbitals in its bonding with the other elements.
 The organometallic chemistry that involves the lithium and magnesium groups is completely different than that involved in the chemistry of the transition metals. The organic chemistry that is involved with lithium and magnesium groups is an ionic chemistry that gives the organic functional group a nucleophilic character in its reactions. This is so due to the large difference in electronegativity between the metal and the organic functional group.


A well known example of an organometallic compound of this type is the Gringard reagent which is an organomagnesium reagent that is used extensively in the organic laboratory as an alkylating agent. Gringard reagents are usually prepared from alkyl bromides by the process of oxidative addition on neutral magnesium metal.
Other similar types of reagent that uses different metal is the Reformatsky reagent. This reagent is an organozinc compound that is also a nucleophile in its chemical behavior that is used as an alkylating reagent. Organozinc compounds are prepared in a similar fashion to Gringard reagents from alkylbromides by the process of oxidative addition on the zinc metal.
Other metals which share similar chemistry to magnesium and zinc are cadmium organochemistry and lithium chemistry. Organolithium compounds are more basic than Gringard regents due to their being thermodynamically less stable.
Gringard reagents are much more stable thermodynamically than organolithium compounds. Therefore they are more nucleophilic and more selective also. Organometallic reagents usually are very sensitive compounds to the environment that they are located in. They are very sensitive to water and oxygen. Therefore usually reactions that involve organometallic compounds are performed under inert atmosphere that require special laboratory techniques such as working in a glove box for example.
 It is a very important type of chemistry due to its potential application in catalyzing organic reactions. This topic in chemistry is called homogeneous catalysis by organometallic reagents. Some authorities belong this area of chemistry to inorganic chemistry but others include it in the area of organic chemistry and call it applications of transition metals in organic synthesis.


Many industrial processes have been designed that use special type of organometallic reagents for the process of catalyzing organic reactions such as the Ziegler natta process which is an important industrial process in chemistry. Palladium group has a well known chemistry that its organometallic compounds are used in the catalytic process of organic reactions. The oxidative addition process to a given metal must be to a coordinatively unsaturated metal that is usually saturated electronically.
 The reagents that are used to catalyze organic reactions are usually used in one of two ways. These are: stoichiometric and catalytic amounts of the organometallic reagent. The manner of choice of one of these two possibilities will depend on whether the reagent is consumed in the reaction or it is regenerated.

