 True fans of a team will know the names of more than just the star player on the team. See if they know other players, coaches, owners, and former players. This will help determine if they have any loyalty towards the team.


Knowing the play-makers is great. But a true fan needs to know more than the offensive players. They need to know what's going on on both sides of the ball.Not every fan follows what goes on behind the scenes so cut them some slack if they don't know the athletic trainer or the newest draft picks.;
, Knowing statistics takes both time and effort. Do they know the average number of points scored per game? Do they know where the team ranks offensively and defensively? True fans always find ways to track the progress of their favorite team.Their knowledge should go beyond stats for the star player or the team's record. They should be able to discuss the teams status as if they were commentators for ESPN, because it is both informative and entertaining for real fans.
 It's easy to know about a team's current progress, but it's more difficult to know about the history of a team. A fan who has been loyal for years will know past players, championship years, and significant games.


Many fans will also have personal stories associated with the team. For example, they'll know exactly where they were when the Houston Rockets won back-to-back championships in 1994 and 1995.
Many bandwagon fans only follow teams who have been successful over the last few years and will not know history that stretches beyond the team's current winning streak., Fake fans usually divide their loyalty among more than one team. The more teams they support, the less of a true fan they are. Choosing a favorite sports team is like choosing a wife--you can only have one.In different sports, there are rules about teams you cannot support at the same time. For example, in baseball you can't root for both the Yankees and the Mets.In football, you can't cheer for both the Texans and the Cowboys.
 Most of the time loyalty to a team is determined by where you live or your support for a player that you idolized as a kid.Bandwagon fans usually have flimsy excuses for why they support a team.


For example, reasons such as liking the team colors, having a spouse that supports the team, or picking the favorite team as a kid are not viable reasons.
If your favorite team relocates to a different city then the rules change. You are now free to turn your back on that team.
If you grew up in a city that didn't have a team for a specific sport, you're then able to pick a team (with good reason of course)., If the fan only supports the #1 teams in football, baseball, basketball, soccer or other major league sports, they are likely not supporting the team, but supporting the winning streak. There will be times when your favorite team will consistently be successful; but it's a strange phenomena when ALL of the teams you support are doing well.


For example, it's perfectly acceptable to support the New England Patriots and their success. But to support them, the Chicago Blackhawks, the San Francisco Giants, and the Golden State Warriors at the same time is a sign of being a bandwagon fan.