 Whether you’re attacking for a spike or defending with a block, the correct footwork will maximize the height of your jump. Your footwork will depend on your dominant hand. If you are going up to spike the ball, plant your second foot facing sideways and take off facing parallel to the net. Making your last two steps fast and explosive will significantly help your vertical leap.Use 3 steps to explode into your jump to improve your accuracy. For right-handed players, use a left, right, left, jump technique.
Your spike approach should include one big step and one small step to bring your trailing foot in line with your leading one.
 The height you get on each jump partly comes from the timing of your arms. Accelerate your arm swing as you bring your second foot forward - remember, you're not swinging forward, you're swinging up. The combination of planting your second foot a little bit in front of your first and then swinging your arms upwards will stop your forward momentum and transfer it to upwards momentum. A quick, aggressive approach with your arms swinging completely back and up will drive your body into the air.Move your arms in the direction that you want to go. Force your arms downward as you squat to initiate your base. As you explode into your jump, reverse the direction of your arms and push them above your head as fast as you can. As you reach the apex of your jump, your hands and body will have uncoiled into the highest point of your jump.
If you are following the left, right, left, jump technique, throw your hands back and turn your palms to the ceiling on the right step. While you are in the air, come through with your non-dominant hand. The hand you're hitting with will usually be the dominant hand.
As you advance in the sport, adjust your footwork and coordination for different attacking and defending positioning.
 Turning your body to hit the ball will allow you to engage your core when you spike creating greater force upon impact. By using your whole body this way, you will be able to hit harder than you ever would with just your arm.Flex your core as if it were a bow about to release an arrow with your back and abdominal muscles working in unison. Working on the technique of your approach and arm swing is very important to maximizing the movements of your core.

