 Make a list, and check off items as you pack them so that you know exactly what you do and do not have. Separate your list into categories: e.g. clothing, electronics, food, toiletries, documents, and gear. Consider the weather, the duration of the trip, and the range of expected activities. Make sure that you will be prepared for every situation that you will reasonably encounter – but be careful not to over-pack.If you're going somewhere outdoors, make a list of gear as well as clothing. Most sleep-away camps provide a list of what to bring. Use this as a checklist, and take it with you to make sure you don't forget anything when it's time to go home.
Remember that you can usually buy things at your destination, if you're going to a populated area. If you are taking your duffel to the woods, or to a less-populated area, then you'll want to lock down the absolute necessities. Nonetheless, try to keep perspective about how many things you truly need.;
, You'll want to carry and store your duffel bag zipper-side up, so it's important to keep the large objects on the bottom. If you pack light or fragile things into the bottom of the duffel compartment, they will be crushed by the weight of the items above them.


Place shoes and other flat non delicate items at the bottom of the bag.
Roll all articles of clothing besides jackets and place them tightly on top of the shoes.
Place the jackets on top of the rolled items and tuck it in on the sides.
 Duffel bags are especially prone to compressing and creasing loose clothing. If everything is jumbled together, it can easily leave its mark on your garments. Try to arrange things into compartments, and fold in a way that limits creasing.Roll your clothing. This is generally considered the most space-effective method, as well as the best way to reduce wrinkling. Put certain types of clothing into specific parts of your duffel so that you'll know where to find them: for instance, put all of your socks together, and all of your shirts together, and all of your pants together.Fold smaller items of clothing between the folds of larger items of clothing. On the inside, fold the clothes that are least likely to crease. Then, work outward until you have a small, neatly-folded bundle.
Try using "packing cubes" to partition the interior of your duffel. You can buy cubes with compression zippers to take down the bulk – and you can even vacuum-pack certain items that tend to spread out., This might include gloves, socks, undergarments, and other thin fabrics. In addition to saving space, this method should help your shoes hold their shape by reinforcing the walls. In general: for the sake of efficiency, pack anything light and compressible inside of anything heavy and hollow.Ladies: Put your bathing suit bottoms inside your bathing suit tops, and scrunch them up. For bikinis, hook the top around the bottom and compress it all together. For one pieces, just knead the thing into a bundle. You don't have to worry about bathing suits getting wrinkles, as they will straighten out when you swim.

