 If they say no, then ask why they feel any differently for an unborn child. (If they said yes, continue to ask probing questions to see if they actually have a middle ground in which they consider killing another person to be unethical.) After all, in both cases, we have a living human being who is dependent on the mother for sustenance. If they start making an argument about how "nobody know exactly when life begins", or how the entity in the womb is not yet a "person", make your case as follows:


Ask them at what moment they consider a human life begins. At the moment when a human sperm penetrates a human ovum, a new entity called the "Zygote" comes into existence. The zygote is the first cell formed at conception, the earliest developmental stage of the human embryo, followed by the "Morula" and "Blastocyst" stages.The new human zygote has a genetic composition that is absolutely unique, distinct from any other human ever existed, including that of its mother (thereby refuting the claim that what is involved in abortion is merely "a woman and her body").Explain that earliest human embryo is biologically alive. It fulfills the four criteria needed to establish biological life: metabolism, growth, reaction to stimuli, and reproduction.Is the embryo a human organism or human being? Remind them the scientific definition of an "organism": a complex structure of interdependent elements constituted to carry on the activities of life by separately-functioning but mutually dependant organs.The zygote easily meets this definition. It acts immediately and decisively to initiate a developmental program that will, barring accident, disease, or external intervention, proceed seamlessly through formation of the definitive body, birth, childhood, adolescence, maturity, and aging, ending with death. This coordinated behavior is the very hallmark of an organism.By stark contrast, a mere collection of human cells may carry on the activities of cellular life, but it will not exhibit coordinated interactions directed towards a higher level of organization.;
, Ask them if they don't consider the unborn baby to be a human being, would they consider them a mere piece of property?

, Sometimes, a quick recitations of the facts of human development will weaken the "not yet a person" mentality.


The cardiovascular system is the first major system to function. At about 22 days after conception, the child's heart begins to circulate his own blood, distinct from that of his mother's, and his heartbeat can be detected on ultrasound.At just six weeks, the child's eyes and eye lids, nose, mouth, and tongue have formed.
Electrical brain activity can be detected at six or seven weeks,and by the end of the eighth week, the child, now known as a "fetus," has developed all organs and bodily structures.By ten weeks after conception, the child can make bodily movements.
 An unborn child may move away from the instrument that is going to end its life in an abortion. By twenty weeks of gestation, a baby will react physically to outside stimuli such as sound, light and touch.


“At 20 weeks, the fetal brain has the full complement of brain cells present in adulthood, ready and waiting to receive pain signals from the body, and their electrical activity can be recorded by standard electroencephalography (EEG).” - Dr. Paul Ranalli, neurologist, University of Toronto
An unborn baby at 20 weeks gestation “is fully capable of experiencing pain. … Without question, is a dreadfully painful experience for any infant subjected to such a surgical procedure.” - Robert J. White, M.D., PhD., professor of neurosurgery, Case Western University

