 Ending a friendship can be as difficult as ending a romantic relationship. Don’t take the decision lightly. Before you decide to end a friendship, consider if there are any alternatives.You may just need to limit the time you spend with this person.Even if a friendship is difficult, it may be worth preserving if you have many mutual friends, or if you work together. Otherwise, ending the friendship could cause ongoing tension that you can’t get away from.
You can try taking some space away from this friend to see how your social life feels without that relationship. You can tell your friend you plan to take some time away from them, or simply do so without mentioning it.
 Breaking up is a delicate business. Prepare yourself by knowing exactly what you plan to say. You can even write out a script for yourself to practice from.If you do write out a script, don’t bring it with you to the conversation.
If an in-person conversation feels too scary, you can write a thoughtful letter or e-mail to your friend explaining your position. You can decide whether to ask for some space temporarily, or to let them know that the friendship is over.
 Your friend will likely feel saddened and rejected by this turn of events. Don’t make it worse by blaming them for your decision. Emphasize that this is something that you need to do for your own well-being.Use “I” statements to avoid blame. You can say, “I really need to feel comfortable having multiple friendships, so this is a decision I need to make.”
You can also express your feelings about the decision. You can say, “I feel sad that we can’t be as close as we used to be, but I don’t think spending so much time together is healthy for me.”

, Remember that this is someone you’ve been close to. You don’t want to hurt their feelings needlessly. Besides, if they’ve been acting jealous, chances are that they’re already feeling insecure.You can say something like, “This is a really difficult thing for me to do, but I know that our relationship isn’t a healthy one.”
If you’re asked for an explanation or examples, offer them. It may be helpful for your friend to hear concrete reasons that the friendship needs to change.

