 Make sure you keep your dog’s water bowl filled with fresh water on a daily basis. Fill it up first thing in the morning when you give your dog their breakfast. Then, check their water bowl throughout the day to make sure it is full. Fill it up again at dinner time, if it needs refilling.Make sure you toss out any old water from the previous day before you fill it up with fresh water. This will ensure the water tastes good to your dog and is free of bacteria.
 Bacteria can end up sitting on the rim of the water bowl and in any water still in the water bowl. Get in the habit of cleaning your dog’s water bowl on a daily basis. Use soap and water to remove any grime or dirt in the bowl or on the rim. Dry the bowl well before you fill it up with fresh water and set it down for your pup.For example, you may clean the bowl first thing in the morning before filling it up with fresh water. This way, it will stay clean for the rest of the day until you clean it again the following morning.
 If your dog likes to roam through your home, make sure you have water sources located throughout the space for them. Put water bowls on each floor of your home. Set up water fountains in several spots in your house so your dog always has access to fresh water. Doing this will ensure your dog never gets dehydrated.Make sure you clean all of your dog’s water sources in your home on a daily basis. This will ensure they do not get dirty or contract any bacteria.
 Prevent your dog from drinking from the toilet bowl by keeping the seat down at all times. The water in your toilet bowl likely contains bacteria and other pathogens that are harmful to dogs. Keeping the seat down will make it difficult for your dog to access the toilet bowl water. It will also encourage them to drink the fresh, clean water from their water bowl instead.If your dog really enjoys drinking from the toilet, consider purchasing a ceramic bowl for them that will mimic the type of “bowl” your toilet is.
 To encourage your dog to stay hydrated, consider switching from dry dog food to wet dog food. Wet dog food contains more water and can help your dog stay hydrated. Add water to their wet food at a 1:1 ratio to help your dog drink more water.You can also try giving your dog two wet food meals and one dry food meal a day. Wet dog food can be more expensive than dry food and requires more preparation time, so this may be a good option if you’re short on time and money.
If your dog will eat all of their dry food at one time, you can try adding water to the dry food. Many dogs will consume all of the dog food as well as the water.

