 To teach your dog to ‘whoa,’ he will first need to understand what the command means when he is standing still. There a few different ways you can do this, one of which is to keep him still on a table. If you are crafty, you can build a table using a 12 x 12 foot (about 4 x 4 meter) section of plywood (available at your local home improvement store),with ramps on each side.Use the ramps to elevate the table to about the height of your waist.The ramps are also a way for your dog to walk up to the center of table without you having to lift him up.
If you do not want to build a table, you could consider placing your dog on a table you already have.
With your dog on the elevated surface, stroke him continuously and give him treats. These rewards will teach him that standing still is a good thing.Depending on the age of your dog, keeping him still might take extra effort. The goal is to have him stand still for up to one minute at a time.;
, ‘Whoa’ boards are similar to the ‘whoa’ table, but smaller. If you want to build them, use two x three foot (0.6 by 0.9 meter) sections of plywood and elevate them about four to six inches (10 to 15 centimeters) off the ground.You can place some books under the boards to keep them elevated.


It is helpful to place the ‘whoa’ boards throughout your home to get your dog used to them. Whenever your dog walks by the board, place him on it and keep him still.The more practice he has standing still, the better!
Keep him still and reward him as you did on the ‘whoa’ table.
To create a positive association with the board (or table), feed your dog on it for a weeks. This is especially useful if you are teaching ‘whoa’ to a puppy., If you have access to a large barrel (it’s okay if you don’t!), place it on its side. Place your dog on top of it and have him stand still. To help him feel more confident with his footing, attach a piece of carpet to the part of the barrel where you want him to stand.While he is on the barrel, reward him as you did when he stood on the ‘whoa’ table or boards.When you place him on the barrel the first time, hold him gently to keep him from jumping off.
Standing on a barrel won’t be easy for your dog. It will be okay if he gets a little wobbly and falls off. Just make sure he lands on his feet (or place him on his feet when he takes a tumble).Your dog may be able to stand still for only a few seconds at first. With more practice, he will be able to stand on it for longer.
He will recognize that the barrel will move if he moves—an uncomfortable sensation for him. It shouldn’t take him long to understand that standing still will be more comfortable., Up until this point, the goal has been to have your dog simply stand still on different surfaces. Now it is time to add in the verbal ‘whoa’ command. On whichever elevated surface you have him standing, say ‘whoa’ repeatedly as you stroke him.Saying ‘whoa’ multiple times when your dog is standing still teaches him that the command is associated with staying still.


Say ‘whoa’ in a soothing and reassuring tone. The command itself is calm, so it should be said soothingly.When your dog stands still when hearing the ‘whoa’ command, give him another command (e.g., ‘ok’, ‘release’) to let him know he can move. Give him a treat when you release him., This is more applicable for hunting or sporting dogs. When your dog is standing still on the elevated surface, pick up his tail and keep it elevated.In addition, cup his lower jaw in one of your hands, with your thumb on one side of jaw and your fingers on the other side.As you progress through the training stages, continue to keep his tail elevated and head still. Over time, this will teach your hunting or sporting the dog the proper position he should hold when he responds to the ‘whoa’ command.
 Check cords are useful for controlling a hunting or sporting dog during a hunting session.If your goal for teaching the ‘whoa’ command is to keep your dog from running in the street, you can use a leash instead of purchasing a check cord. To make the half hitch, first attach the check cord or leash to your dog’s collar.Wrap the check cord or leash around your dog’s belly. Run the loose end of the check cord or leash underneath itself on your dog’s back.The half hitch allows you to tighten the check cord or leash and correct your dog without hurting him., Although your dog is now familiar with this command, he knows it only in association with standing still, not when he is already moving. Do not be surprised if he continues moving the first few times you say ‘whoa’ when he’s moving.Without saying anything, simply give the leash or check cord a tug to move your dog to where he was when you said the command.Continue walking with your dog and saying ‘whoa’ at different intervals of time or distance.Keep practicing until your dog stops immediately when you say ‘whoa.’
You can also give him the verbal release command to let him know it is okay to start moving again. Offering him a treat and some verbal praise immediately afterwards would also be helpful.
 When your dog immediately stops when hearing ‘whoa,’ challenge him by walking away from him after giving the command (continue to hold the leash or check cord). If he moves before you give him the release command, use the check cord or leash to move him back to where he was when you said ‘whoa.’Do not repeat the ‘whoa’ command if he moves. If you do, he may not understand that he is supposed to respond to the command the first time you say it.