 Approach her in a way that she sees you coming and start dancing with her, without touching. This will tell if she is down to dance and comfortable with you. There is another dominant way to do it and if done properly then you can skip a lot of steps in between.


Go and grab her waist. Approach her from side or front, say something like 'Hi, you look adorable' and grab her waist. Don't have a firm grasp, it will sub-communicate that you are too drunk and doing it because of the 'liquid courage'. Don't have a loose grasp either as this will tell that you are unsure and creepy. Keep a balance. This requires a lot of confidence which says that you believe in your core that 'you deserve and are worthy to dance with her and even if she doesn't want to, it would not be a big deal for you'. If she feels uncomfortable after this move, back off and go slow, if she is still dancing besides you, or move on to the next one if she is gone.
 After dancing with her for sometime, grab her hands and lead her as you dance. Learning some simple dance moves does help. Along with that you can also do things like:


Place your hands around her waist and move her body in a zig zag motion. Use common sense as you both are dancing so it doesn't not mean shake her with force. Go with the flow as your bodies are already moving with the music. Don't use it as a crutch either, see what works for you and what doesn't
Grab her hands and place them on your shoulders or around your neck. This move will improve the focus between you and the girl and bring you both even closer. This is a very attractive and will emit sexual vibes between you two.
Keep an eye contact. If you felt awkward or nervous for a mili-second you are most likely going to lose her. Keeping an eye contact shows confidence and also is seductive. Also your eye contact should sub-communicate what you want.
 So far if everything is comfortable between you two then the next step is to pull her crotch closer to yours. Grab her butt with both hands and gently but dominantly pull her closer to you. Again keep a solid eye contact.
 Now as there is a good eye contact, you can feel her breath, bodies are fused together, you are dancing slowly and she is not offering much resistance etc, then go for the make out. If she denies, stand your ground and stay there as if its not a big deal, because its not. She is still dancing with you, right? A confident and humble smile helps a lot.
 Trying the same thing again and again is going to hurt your plan. You must 'keep her on her toes' by trying different angles. There are many different things you can do in this situation to make out with her, like.....


Grind. Flip her around, in a way, that your crotch is rubbing against her butts(Grinding). Read Grind to learn more about it. This is a sexually charged and effective move to arouse both of you. While your crotch is rubbing against her hips, grab her waist or thighs and pull her closer to make the body contact even tighter. Rub your crotch in any motion to keep the sexual energy going. Adjust your height according to her as the main thing is to keep her hips and your crotch at the same level or its not going to very arousing.
Bite her neck. Its biology, while animals are having intercourse they bite each others neck because it arouses them even more. Since we have the same instincts within us, so it helps arouse your partner.
 Since the music is loud so this gives you an excuse to bring your face closer to her ear and talk. This is quite sensual as ear is one of woman's erogenous zone. This is a high energy environment so using sexual allusions or references can help your game and take her mind off the uneasiness, if she is feeling uncomfortable.
 Take advantage of your grasp around her. Stroking around her body like her back, butts, shoulders, neck etc is a turn on. Make sure you do it gently. Don't be a creep by going for her breasts, this is not going to get you anywhere, in fact it's going to reduce the sexual energy.
 Go for the make out after trying every angle. Remember the rule: As long as she is smiling and not leaving, she is down. It matters only if you think it matters.
 After making out with her if you feel there could be a good chemistry between you two, then shuffle her to a place where you can talk and connect. This is important if you want to hook up. Read Pull a Girl Home for more depth.

