 Break the first name you wish to use into its separate syllables. Repeat with the second name you wish to use. Write out the syllable sets side-by-side, but make sure you know which syllable sets came from which name.


This is another method commonly used to form baby names from the names of both parents, but it can be used with any two names. It works best with names that are two or more syllables long, however.

Example: Consider the names “Christopher” and “Elizabeth.”

"Christopher" can be separated into the syllables "Chris," "to," and "pher."
"Elizabeth" can be separated into "e," "liz," "a," and "beth."



, Grab a syllable set from the first name and a syllable set from the second name. Put both sets together to form a new, unique name. Repeat with the remaining syllable sets until you have formed every combination you could think of.


Note that the names you come up with using this method will be unique, and most probably won't be found in any baby book.
You can form combinations using one syllable set from both names, creating a new name that is two syllables long, or you can use multiple syllable sets from both names to create a longer combination.

Example: Using the syllables found in “Christopher” and “Elizabeth,” some of the possible combinations you might come up with could include: Chrisabeth, Christobeth, Eliztopher, Liztopher, Elizapher, Lizapher, Bethtopher, Bethapher, Eto, Toapher

, Some of the possible names you come up with might be better than others. Comb through your list, removing any combinations that don't sound right and retaining the best options for further consideration.


While most of the names you will likely come up with won't be found in any baby books, it can still be a good idea to double-check and make sure. If any of the names you do create already exist, they may have a meaning you will or won't like.
Repeat the name aloud several times to check how it rolls off the tongue. Names that sound clunky or hard to pronounce should be eliminated, as should any possible name you simply don't like.
Consider showing your list of possible names to other people, too. Ask them to pronounce each name on the list. If other people routinely struggle with the pronunciation of one name, you may want to consider eliminating that name.

Example: If people struggle over the name “Toapher,” for instance, you might want to strike that one off your list.

