 Every organ in your body needs magnesium to work properly.It contributes to several important functions. These include:


Regulating the function of muscles and nerves
Maintaining proper blood pressure and blood sugar
Generating protein, bone, and DNA
Regulating calcium levelsAiding sleep and relaxation;
, As important as magnesium is, it can sometimes be difficult for our bodies to get enough. This is mainly because many people just don't take it in in their diets. But there are also other factors that can get in the way of absorption, such as:


Too much (or not enough) calciumMedical causes such as diabetes, Crohn's disease, or alcoholismMedical drugs that block absorptionAnother reason that many people, Americans especially, lack magnesium, is that our soil is virtually depleted of magnesium. This causes a significant decrease in our subsequent crops.
 This amount varies based on age, gender, and other factors. In general, adult males should not consume more than 420 mg a day and females should not go over 320 mg.


It's a good idea to talk to your doctor about how much magnesium you should consume, especially if you think you might be deficient.
Make sure to check your multivitamin for magnesium to ensure you are not over-consuming with a multi-vitamin along with a magnesium supplement. The same is true of calcium, as this is usually also found in magnesium supplements.
Make sure to mention any chronic medical conditions. Conditions such as gluten-sensitive enteropathy and Crohn's disease interfere with magnesium absorption.They may also cause magnesium loss through diarrhea.
Be aware of the effects of aging. The body's ability to absorb magnesium decreases as we age. The excretion of magnesium also increases.Studies have also found that as we get older, our diet tends to include less magnesium. Older adults are also more likely to take medications that interact with magnesium.
Always talk to your doctor before giving magnesium supplements to children., If your lack of magnesium is only a short term condition, you most likely won’t see any symptoms.But, if you consistently do not get enough magnesium, you may begin to show symptoms. These include:Nausea
Vomiting
Loss of appetite
Fatigue
Muscle spasms and cramps
If your magnesium deficiency is severe, you may experience tingling or numbness. Seizures, a skipping heartbeat, and even personality changes can also occur.
If you are experiencing any of these problems on an ongoing basis, see a health professional.
 Unless you have a medical condition that makes it hard to absorb magnesium, you should be able to get enough by eating the right foods. You should consider managing your diet before you start taking supplements. Foods that are rich in magnesium include:Nuts like almonds and Brazil nuts
Seeds like pumpkin and sunflower seeds
Soy products like tofu
Fish like halibut and tuna
Dark, leafy greens like spinach, kale and Swiss chard
Bananas
Chocolate and cocoa powder
Many spices such as coriander, cumin, and sage

, If you decide to take a supplement, select one that contains a form of magnesium that is easily absorbed. Supplements to look for include those that contain any of these:Magnesium aspartate. This form of magnesium is chelated (attached) to aspartic acid. Aspartic acid is an amino acid that is common in protein-rich foods that makes the magnesium easier to absorb.Magnesium citrate. This comes from the magnesium salt of citric acid. The magnesium concentration is relatively low, but it is easily absorbed. It has a mild laxative effect.Magnesium lactate. This is a moderately concentrated form of magnesium commonly used for treating digestive issues. It should not be taken by anyone with kidney problems.Magnesium chloride. Another easily absorbed form of magnesium, this type also aids kidney function and metabolism.
 While it would be hard to eat too much magnesium, you could take too many magnesium supplements. Doing this would result in magnesium toxicity, which could cause symptoms like:Diarrhea
Nausea
Abdominal cramping
In extreme cases, irregular heartbeat and/or cardiac arrest

, Taking magnesium can affect some medications. Medications may also affect your body’s ability to absorb the magnesium supplements you take. These medications include:


Diuretics
Antibiotics
Bisphosphonates, such as those prescribed for osteoporosis
Medications used to treat acid reflux

,
You can also absorb vitamin D by spending time out in the sunshine.
 Some minerals will make it harder for your body to absorb magnesium. You should avoid taking mineral supplements at the same time that you take your magnesium supplement.In particular, either an excess or a shortage of calcium in your body can make it harder to absorb magnesium. While taking magnesium supplements, avoid excess calcium.At the same time, don't forgo calcium entirely, as this can hinder magnesium absorption.
Studies have also found that magnesium and potassium levels appear to be related. The nature of this relationship is not yet clearly understood.Even so, you should not dramatically increase or abstain from potassium while trying to increase your magnesium levels.
 Alcohol increases the amount of magnesium that we secrete in our urine. Studies have found that many alcoholics have low magnesium levels.Alcohol causes a prompt and substantial increase in the urinary excretion of magnesium and other electrolytes.This means that even moderate drinking can decrease your magnesium levels.
Magnesium levels fall the lowest among individuals going through alcohol withdrawal.
 If diabetes is not controlled well through diet, lifestyle and medication, a magnesium deficiency may occur.Diabetics pass too much magnesium out of the body through the urine. As a result, magnesium levels can drop off quickly if not closely monitored.
 Rather than taking your magnesium as one dose, take smaller amounts throughout the day, with your meals and a full glass of water. Your body will be better able to process it in this way.


Some suggest taking your magnesium supplement on an empty stomach if you are having problems with absorption. Sometimes the minerals in the food in your stomach can interfere with your body's ability to absorb magnesium. But, this sometimes causes an upset stomach.In fact, the Mayo Clinic suggests taking magnesium only with meals. Taking it on an empty stomach may cause diarrhea.Time-release preparations may also aid absorption., Like minerals, there are some foods that may keep your body from properly absorbing magnesium. Avoid eating these foods around the same time of day that you take your magnesium supplements:


Foods that are very high in fiber and phytic acid. These include bran products or whole grain items like brown rice, barley, or whole wheat bread.
Foods that are high in oxalic acid (oxalate). These include coffee, tea, chocolate, leafy greens, and nuts.Steaming or boiling foods high in oxalate may remove some of it. Consider cooked spinach instead of a spinach salad. Soaking beans and some grains before you cook them may also help.

