 For example, people from his era would have thought differently about how we fight wars than we do now.;
, Admiral Halsey graduated from the US Naval Academy in 1904., "Bull" studied medicine for one year at the United States Naval Academy, and admitted he learned little while there. Also, he enrolled in that university as his best friend was there, and earned several athletic honors., Awarded the Navy Cross for meritorious naval service, he earned the Navy Cross for distinguished service in WWI. During that time, he commanded the USS Shaw and specialized in torpedo boats and destroyers.
 Halsey never took the easy road to success. In the 1930s, before taking command of the aircraft carrier USS Saratoga, he insisted on taking a more difficult and lengthy aviator course, and was the last one in the class to graduate as an aircraft pilot.
 For example: Vice Admiral Halsey was at sea during Pearl Harbor, commanding the USS Enterprise. It is said that he stated: "Before we're through with 'em, the Japanese language will only be spoken in hell." While such talk would be considered inappropriate today, it was not so in those days of war and revenge, after the massive bombing sneak attack by Japan at Pearl Harbor while the U.S. was still at peace with Japan.
 Research his victories, and their importance in winning WWII in the Pacific. He helped secure Guadalcanal for the Allies in a crucial victory, and was also instrumental in victories in the Solomon Islands, Rabaul, the Bismark Archipelago, Palaus, Leyte and Luzon. He was also involved in raids on Japanese bases, such as in Formosa, China and Vietnam.
 Admiral Halsey sailed to intercept a Japanese decoy fleet observed by U.S. spotter aircraft, and left the San Bernardino Strait unguarded where the Japanese main fleet attacked the US supply flight. From this, a small US escort aircraft carrier and three smaller ships were destroyed. While a heroic resistance by American sailors and aircraft pilots from several escort carriers prevented immense tragedy, an important Japanese fleet was able to escape when it might have been defeated soundly.
 Also consider how the truly "greats" get back on their feet and move on. For example, in another blunder, known as "Halsey's Typhoon", Admiral Halsey did not retreat from powerful Typhoon Cobra but turned his ships into the storm, and three destroyers sank with many other ships damaged. 800 men died. A Navy court found that he committed an error of judgment, but he was not sanctioned.
, Some say that this humane treatment by victorious Allied forces was unprecedented in human history.
 who after he was promoted to Fleet Admiral on 12/1945, retired from active duty on 3/1947. He and his wife are buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
