 If the other parent won’t agree to the move, then you need to get a judge’s permission to move the child. The judge will analyze whether it is in the child’s best interests to move.Each state has different factors a judge will consider, but generally they will look to the following:whether the move will improve the child’s quality of life
whether your life as the custodial parent will be improved
what effect reducing the child’s contact with the other parent will have on your children
how the move will affect the physical, emotional, and other needs of the children

, You will need to show the judge evidence that the move will be in the child’s best interest. The evidence will differ, depending on the circumstances. For example, the following might be helpful:


If the other parent rarely visits the child, then keep detailed notes of missed visitation. A judge might be more comfortable granting you permission to leave when the objecting parent hasn’t been involved in the child’s life.If you are moving for a new job, then gather evidence, such as a job offer letter and proof of increased income.You should have an actual job offer, not simply be looking.
You can also try to show that your child will be in a better school if you move. For example, you could gather information about the new school’s graduation rates and its performance on state-wide tests.
 In order to get the judge’s permission, you will need to draft a motion and file it with the court. Since this is a complicated legal document, you should probably hire a lawyer to represent you. Your lawyer can draft the motion and file it. They can also argue the motion in front of the judge.


Money might be tight. In that case, you should stop into the courthouse and check if there is a self-help center or family law facilitator you can speak with.
You can also try to find legal aid. Legal aid organizations provide reduced-fee or free legal help to people in financial need. Generally, your income must be less than 125% of the federal poverty level.You can find legal aid by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website at www.lcs.gov. Click on “Find Legal Aid” and enter your address.
 You should draft and file a motion in which you explain how the move will be in the child’s best interests. You also should propose a new visitation schedule which will allow the children to maintain their relationship with the other parent.File the motion with the court that awarded you custody, since that court should still have power over your case.


Depending on your state law, the other parent might have the burden of filing an objection after they receive your notice of intent to move. In that situation, you or your lawyer should receive a copy of the motion. You then will probably have to file a motion in which you explain why the move is in your child’s best interest.
 Whenever you file a document with the court, you have to give the other parent notice. Typically, you can do that by sending a copy of your motion, either by hand delivery or through the mail.


You generally can’t make delivery yourself. Instead, use the same method you used when sending legal documents during your divorce or original child custody action.
 At the hearing, the judge will hear evidence about whether the move will be in the best interests of the children. Depending on your child’s age, he or she might testify or, more likely, talk to the judge in private.The hearing should not be any different than other hearings you have had in the case before. Whoever brought the motion will probably go first and present their evidence.
At the end of the hearing, the judge should decide whether to modify the parenting plan and allow you to leave the state.

