, Pour 1 cup (100 grams) of all-purpose flour into a large mixing bowl, then add ½ cup (150 grams) of salt. Next, add 2 to 4 tablespoons of ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of ground allspice, ½ teaspoon of ground cloves, and 2 teaspoons of ground ginger. Stir them together with a whisk until they are all evenly combined., Pour in a little bit of water, and stir it in with a rubber spatula. Stir in some more water, and mix again. You may end up using up to 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water. Avoid using too much more, or the dough will turn out too sticky.
 The dough should be soft and smooth. If it is sticky, add some more flour, and knead it some more., You can make your garland all one color, or many different colors. Start by separating your dough into clumps—one for each color. Next, add a few drops of food coloring into each clump, then knead it in until the color turns consistent. Fall colors, such as red, orange, and yellow work great for this.You can always paint the pieces after you bake them, but the paint may cover up the wonderful aroma.
 Lightly flour a smooth surface, and roll the dough out using a rolling pin. Try to get the dough to be about ¼-inch (0.64 centimeters) thick.
 Hearts and stars are very popular, but you can also use circles, leaves, or other shapes.
 Use a straw or knitting needle to punch the holes; keep them about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) apart from each other.If you'd like a touch of extra fragrance and design, stick whole cloves, pointy-side-down, into your ornaments., Return them to the oven, and let them baking for another hour, or until they are completely dry.Don't raise the temperature. This will cause the dough to rise and form bubbles., If the holes got covered up, gently open them back up by twisting a wooden skewer or knitting needle through them., Although not necessary, this can make your garland look prettier. Try not to get too carried away, however!Once you have decorated your pieces, let them dry.


For fancier ornaments, decorate them using glitter and glue.
For rustic ornaments, glue some simple, 4-hole buttons onto them., If you choose to use ribbon, be sure to use the thinnest kind you can find. How long you cut your string depends on how long you want your garland to be. Most garlands will be about 4 feet (1.22 meters).
 Take an ornament, and push the needle up through the first hole, then down through the second. Drag the ornament along the string until it is a few inches/centimeters from the end.
 Leave some space between each ornament. If you decorated your ornaments, make sure that they are facing the same direction.
 You can hang it from hooks or nails over a window, doorway, or fireplace mantle. You can also wrap it around a Christmas tree instead.