 You want to offer an area for your dog to escape to when a storm hits. This area should be dark, quiet, and smaller. This will prevent your dog from seeing any lightning or hearing at least some of the thunder. To make your dog associate the space with comfort, you might want to feed them there at least a few times.If your dog always tries to hide under your bed, you might offer it the bedroom closet instead. Just make sure to keep the door open. Some dogs even like to hide in bathtubs during storms.
Do not lock your dog into a confined area during a storm as this will only make them more anxious and nervous. Freedom of movement is an important part of feeling safe.
Some even suggest that you line your dog’s hiding area with foil. This may prevent some of the electromagnetic energy from impacting the space quite as much, thus lessening your dog’s reaction.;
, If your dog likes to move around during storms, then you’ll want to pull the curtains over your windows. This will help to block out the flashes of lightning and the noise of rain. You can also try to close a few doors so that your dog has a large area to roam, but with only a few windows available.It helps to block off any windows prior to the storm hitting. Otherwise, your dog may stand at them barking and refuse to leave until the storm is through.
 You can go to your local pet store, or talk with your vet, about purchasing specific dog pheromone blends designed to calm anxiety and lessen stress. These often come in a variety of application forms, including infused collars, sprays, and diffusers. Look for a pheromone labeled as a D.A.P or “Dog Appeasing Pheromone.”For maximum benefit, try to expose your dog to the pheromones consistently, not just during stormy periods. This will keep your dog’s emotions more level and make them better equipped to deal with stressful situations.
If you are hesitant to use a manufactured pheromone, you can also try placing some lavender oil into a diffuser. This is often relaxing for both pets and their owners., When very scared during a storm, some dogs forget to pay attention to their surroundings and can hurt themselves and damage property too. Look around your home and try to anticipate your dog’s movements. For example, if you think that your dog may try to crawl under a small glass table to hide, then you may want to block off that room or table.