 Use the remote or close the door manually. This will allow you to access the tracks and the rest of the moving parts on your door.
 Before lubricating your door, you'll want to make sure that it's not on. Disconnect your garage door from the power source, after you close it., The tracks are the what the garage door rollers ride on to open and close. You don't want to lubricate these, but you do want to make sure that they are completely cleaned out for your door to operate correctly. Wipe down the inside of both tracks and remove any dirt and debris.Make sure that there are no debris left in your tracks that the rollers can get stuck on.
 If you are having issues getting debris out of the tracks, you can use a vacuum with a hose extension to suck out the dirt and debris. This is a great solution to reach the higher portion of the tracks that you may be having issues reaching., Popular standard degreasers like WD-40 isn't the best option for a garage door. Instead, purchase a lithium based grease at a hardware store or online. There are also certain greases that are made specifically for garage doors. Do not use oil.Garage door grease will typically come in an aerosol or spray can.
Oil is susceptible to dirt and dust buildup and is more likely to drip than garage door grease or lube. Read the label to make sure that the grease that you are using is appropriate for your doors.
 Slowly lift your garage door up manually and spray down the hinges as it meets the bend of the track. This will lubricate the moving parts on the door and will make opening and closing the garage door much smoother. Use one or two sprays on each hinge. Your hinges should be covered in lubricant., The rollers are the circular moving pieces on your garage door and are attached to each of your hinges. Inside of these rollers are small ball bearings that need to be lubricated for your door to open and close smoothly. Use the thin hose attachment to spray the grease inside of the rollers.Any exposed ball bearings must be thoroughly lubricated.
 The springs can usually be found at the top of the garage door and must be fully lubricated as well. The bearing plates are the moving circular parts on both sides of the springs. Spray down the outside of the springs and near the center of the bearing plates, then open and close your garage door to spread the grease around.You will most likely need a step ladder to reach the springs and bearing plates.
If your springs are making noises, you need to grease your springs.
 Lubricating the lock will make locking your garage door easier, and can prevent rust in the long run. Point the lubricant towards the lock's keyhole and spray it once to lubricate it. Once you're done lubricating the lock, finish lubricating your garage door by spraying the grease on the large armbar at the top of your door., The rail is the portion that your chain rides on and should run along your garage's ceiling. The top portion of the rail is what your chain actually rides along, so it's the part that needs to be lubricated. Spray down the top of the rail and then spread the grease around with a rag.The chain comes with a natural protectant on it that makes it so that you don't have to grease it regularly.
Spraying the bottom of the rail doesn't do anything.

