 The easiest way to earn extra money is to get a part-time job to supplement your income. Even if you only work a few hours a day or a week, a part-time job can make a big difference in your bank account. Here are some examples of part-time jobs you could do:



Deliver pizza. If you have a reliable car and are a good driver, you can make extra money by delivering pizza. You won't make a lot of money by the hour for delivering pizza, but you can earn extra cash in tips.
Wait tables. Working in the service industry is a good way to gain experience, interact with customers, and get tips.
Be a bartender. Some venues allow bartenders to be new to bar tending, or accept applications from anyone over 18. Not all bars require experience or require for you to be over 21, so it's worth checking out! Plus, in large venues where the bar isn't the main attraction, the work is laid-back, if not a little boring.
Deliver papers or phone books. Delivering papers or phone books isn't just for teenagers. Anyone can do this to make a little money and get to know his neighborhood in the process.
Be a personal shopper. Find a person who is low on time, or who has difficulty leaving the house, and offer to do his/her grocery shopping or run errands for them.
Check out the part-time jobs listed on craigslist or reputable websites that are specifically tailored for people who are looking for part-time jobs. ;
, Getting a random part-time job can be fun, but if you can get a job that allows you to make use of your skills, then you may be able to earn a bit more money than you would during an ordinary part-time job and to build your resume in the process.



Teach. If you're an expert in a certain subject, see if the community, local colleges, or even the private high schools in your area are looking for a teacher in your field. If you can pick up just one night class per week, it can make a difference in your income. Though you'll need certification to be a traditional teacher most of the time, to teach part-time you may only need a Master's degree and proof of your expertise.
Be a tutor. If you can get a private tutoring gig in a subject you know well, such as American History or Geometry, you will be able to make a fair amount of extra cash. If you had a great SAT score, try getting a tutoring job at Kaplan or Princeton Review.

It may be easier to find work if you snag a job at a tutoring company, but if you can find clients yourself, you'll be able to set your own rates and make more of a profit. To advertise your skills, you can post on craigslist, or post ads in coffee shops or other places where students are likely to be.


Be a coach in your area of expertise. If you've been helping your friends accomplish a variety of skills for free, start charging for your services. If you've been helping your friends organize their closets, buy the perfect wardrobe, or cook amazing meals, it's time to get some money for your skills. If you're uncomfortable about asking your friends for money, ask them if they know anyone who could use your skills and would be able to pay.
Be a mystery shopper. To be a mystery shopper, you just have to be a savvy shopper and be able to communicate clearly and give your honest opinion. You can find mystery shopper gigs online.
 Taking just a few hours of your week to care for your neighbor's kids, pets, or homes can make a big difference in your income. People who are going out of town and need people to take care of the things they've left behind may be willing to pay a generous amount of money for your help as well. Here's how you can make money by being a caretaker:



Baby-sit. If you're comfortable with children, spend a few hours a week or a weekend to take care of them. Spending time with children is a lot of fun. If you end up babysitting for a child who sleeps a lot, you may find some time to do work.
Be a dog-walker or a dog-sitter. Walking dogs in your neighborhood can help improve your health and give you a comfortable routine to follow. If your neighbors are out of town and need you to walk and take care of their dog, you can earn a lot of money.
Cat-sit. Though cats don't require as much maintenance as dogs, if your neighbors or someone you know are going away for a while, you can earn some money just by checking up on their cat once a day.
House sit. Some people who go on vacation for an extended amount of time don't want to leave their house unattended, so if you offer to check on their house from time to time and water their plants and do whatever else they need, you can earn some quick and easy spending money.
 If you're looking for ways to make extra money, then chances are that your current job isn't giving you the pay that you need. Though you may not be able to earn more money at your current position, there are a few things you can try.


Ask if you can take on more hours at your job, whether you want to convert part-time work to full-time work, or just to work overtime.
Talk to your boss about getting a promotion. If a promotion comes your way, you will be earning more money.
If you can only get a promotion at your current job if you get an additional degree, this can be worth pursuing, and your company may even pay for it.
 Finding jobs online is an excellent way to supplement your income. If you know where to look, you can earn money by sharing your skills from the comfort of your home. Here are a few things to try:


Teach online. Many colleges have online components. See if you can snag a job at one of them.
Use your writing skills online. If you have strong writing skills, you may be able to find work as a proofreader, freelance writer, or an editor online.
Be a blogger. Though blogging is hard work, there are companies that will pay for you to write a substantial blog on a topic you know a lot about.
Write online reviews. There are companies that will pay you to write reviews of their products.
Beware of scams. Online "get rich quick" schemes are incredibly common. Beware of any company that asks you to pay a fee or give out your credit card information before you get to work.

