 Open it up all the way so it looks like a large square. The creases in the napkin should form four smaller squares on the fabric. Place the napkin flat on top of your palm.
 Place your index finger in the center crease on the top side of the napkin and your middle finger on the bottom side.The palm of your hand should be facing you.
 The top of the napkin should be slightly shorter than the bottom. Hold the edges closest to you with your free hand to keep the napkin in place.
 Hold the fold in place with your thumb. Then turn your hand back over so you are holding it with thumb on the bottom and your index and middle finger on top. This will leave just your pinky and ring finger free.
 Pinch your middle finger and ring finger together to hold the remainder of the napkin between them. The remainder of the napkin should now be sticking up on the backside of your hand.
 Use your thumb to hold the end of the napkin in place. If you look at the back of your hand you should only see your middle finger on the exterior of the napkin. All of your other fingers should be inside the coil of the napkin.
 With your free hand, squeeze the napkin just beyond the tips of your fingers. Once you have firmly pinched the napkin you can remove your other hand from the flower head.
 Follow the direction of the folds you created to form flower head when twisting the stem. After about one inch of the stem is formed, stop twisting. The top of the flower should be able to remain firmly in place now.
 Leave one of the corners free and begin to twist the napkin to form the base of the stem. The free corner will be used to make a leaf for the stem. Twist until you reach the desired size for the leaf.
 The more you twist the thinner the stem will be. Just be careful not to twist so hard you tear the napkin. Once you reach the middle you can adjust the flower stem a bit so it looks natural.
 It makes a great centerpiece for a table. You can also give it to a special someone. It's a simple and sweet gesture. Once you get the hang of it, you will be able to make a paper napkin rose in just a few minutes. They cost less money than real flowers and they won't ever wilt or lose their petals.

