 The most obvious symptom of agoraphobia is a intense fear or panic response from exposure to a public environment. If you experience such a response from two or more of the following situations, you may be suffering from agoraphobia:Being on a bus, train, airplane, or other public transit method.
Standing in a parking lot, a sports field, on a bridge, or in another wide-open space.
Being in line, or in a large crowd.
Going out of your home by yourself.
Being in an enclosed, public space such as an office, store or movie theater.
 While many are uncomfortable in public places, those suffering from agoraphobia display overwhelming, intense panic responses. These responses often manifest physically with symptoms such as:Unusually difficult or quick breathing.
Feeling detached or paralyzed.
Rapid heartbeat.
Feeling light-headed, or on the verge of passing out.
Stomach or intestinal discomfort.
Sweating.
Urgent desires to escape.
Nervous fidgeting.
 Those suffering from agoraphobia often have a history of painful, shocking or otherwise traumatic events involving crowds or public spaces. Being in a public space during a disaster, or becoming lost in a crowd or trapped in an unfamiliar place are all experiences which might contribute to agoraphobia.An individual need not have a traumatic history with public spaces to qualify as agoraphobic.
 Those suffering from a phobia will often go to great lengths to avoid exposing themselves to the source of their fear. For an agoraphobic person, this means a pronounced unwillingness to leave the home, even when it is necessary. They will often not be able to visit their friends or family, run simple errands, or participate in school or work activities. , True agoraphobia is extremely disruptive to an individual's life, since they may find themselves unable to perform ordinary tasks, like going to work or buying groceries. The resulting stress and anxiety can lead to other serious psychological disorders, such as depression, anxiety disorders, or drug or alcohol abuse. , Unlike ordinary fear, phobias persist over an extended period of time, from as short as six months, to an entire lifetime. Someone suffering from agoraphobia will consistently be afraid of public spaces and crowds, rather than only sometimes displaying fear., Agoraphobia is a severe and debilitating psychological condition. If you or someone you know may be suffering from agoraphobia, then talking with a counselor, therapist or medical doctor is a crucial step in diagnosing and understanding the condition. Remember: only a medical professional can diagnose or treat agoraphobia.


If you're having trouble locating a therapist, talk to your doctor for a referral, or contact your medical insurance provider for assistance.

