, The simplest way to prepare one is to lightly grease it. If you plan on taking the bars out of the pan, line the pan with parchment paper instead Be sure to leave some paper hanging over the sides. This way, you can use the excess paper like handles and lift the pastry out before you cut it., Both methods will work just fine, but the food processor will save you lots of time.
 You can do this with some pastry knives, or by rubbing the mixture between your fingers.If you are using a food processor, pulse everything for a few seconds until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs.
 Scoop the mixture out of the bowl or food processor, and start patting it into the bottom of the pan. It will be crumbly, but it will hold together once you bake it.


To keep your fingers clean, place a sheet of parchment paper over the crust once you have it in the pan, and smooth it down. Remove the sheet when you are done.
 How long you bake it for will depend on your baking pan and oven.
 You will be using the oven again shortly to bake the filling.
 If you accidentally turned your oven off, turn it back on and let it reach the right temperature.
 Crack open the eggs, and add them into a large mixing bowl. Beat them with a whisk until they are smooth., It might help if you sift in the flour instead. This will lessen the chances of any lumps forming.
 The lemon zest is not necessary, but it will make your lemon bars a little more tart. Make sure that you zest the lemons before you cut and juice them; it'll be easier and less messy this way. Once you have the lemon zest, add it to the mixture, and stir it in well., You may have to use a spatula to help spread it around. There should be no crust visible when you are done.
 The edges will turn golden brown, and the top will set, sort of like custard. Don't worry if the lemon bars look lumpy or custard-y. They will solidify once they cool down., The lemon bars must reach room temperature before you refrigerate them. Depending on how warm or cool it is in your kitchen, this will take about 1 hour.If you put warm food into the fridge, you risk spoiling the surrounding food.
 Keep in mind that your lemon bars may need more time to cool/set, depending on the temperature of your fridge.


You can leave the lemon bars in the fridge overnight as well.
 For a standard-sized portion, aim for something that is about 2 inches (5.08) wide. You can cut the bars directly in the pan.


If you left the bars in the fridge overnight, let them reach room temperature (about 15 minutes) first, before you cut them.If you lined the pan with parchment paper, lift the pastry out of the pan first, then cut it on the counter., This is not necessary, but it will make them look pretty. You can use as much or as little powdered sugar as you'd like.


For a pop of color, garnish each square with a raspberry, a lemon slice, and a mint leaf.,