 On its simplest level, paraphrasing is echoing back the speaker’s statement using different words. If the speaker says, "I could fall asleep right here," you could say, "You're really tired." Paraphrasing in active listening can be simple restating to let the person know you are listening, or you can take the paraphrasing a bit deeper to help the other person clarify their thoughts or feelings.For example, if the speaker says, “My mother is mad at me because I told her I have other holiday plans this year. She always wants us all to be at her house,” you could respond, “It sounds like you think your mother is very set in her ways.”
Allow the speaker to further clarify if you misjudged their statement. The speaker could say, “No, my mother doesn’t like to travel.” Paraphrasing gives the speaker an opportunity to correct the listener without making either party feel defensive--an incorrect paraphrase can still lead to greater clarity.
 Reflection takes paraphrasing to a deeper level, by paraphrasing and naming feelings you are hearing the other person say, both verbally and nonverbally. This requires you to develop your own empathic abilities, so that you are able to identify and name feelings you see in the other person.Phrases that indicate you are trying to reflect what the other person is saying include, “What I’m hearing you say is…” or “It sounds to me like....” When you are finished with your reflection, you could always ask “Do I have that right?” to make sure you are understanding them correctly.
For example, the speaker could say, “I’ve been feeling really depressed since my father died. We didn’t have a good relationship, but I miss him anyway. Part of me is glad he is dead, but then I feel guilty I think that.” You could respond, “It sounds to me like you are grieving your father, but it was a complicated relationship so you are dealing with a lot of emotions right now. You’re sad, but maybe you’re also relieved.”

, Many people are very uncomfortable with silent gaps in conversation. Instead of looking at them as spaces to fill, consider looking at them as opportunities to engage in processing what was said. Give yourself and the speaker time to think before continuing.When you are formulating a response while listening, you are not listening fully to the speaker.
If it is your turn to speak in the conversation, but you do not yet have a response, you could say, “Give me a minute, please. I want to think about how to respond.” Most people will appreciate your taking the time to develop a thoughtful response.
 When the speaker has finished talking, you could describe how hearing what they said made you feel. This can be particularly helpful if you are speaking with a child, or a person who doesn’t have a great grasp on being able to identify their emotions.


A good phrase to remember when utilizing this technique is "When you said this, this was how I felt…."
For example, you could say, “When you told me about how your mom left you alone while she drank, it made me feel very sad. I would feel very lonely, helpless, and scared if I had been in your shoes.”

, Ask questions that encourage the speaker to provide more than a yes or no answer. Ask questions that encourage a thoughtful response, allowing the other person to describe their thoughts and feelings. Some examples of open-ended questions include:How did you feel when that happened to you?
What was it like to experience that?
How do you feel when you retell that story?
How do you think this experience changed you?
How did you come to believe what you do?
Who has influenced you the most and why?

