 Before you beat Skeletron be sure that you are at least a week old and know how to get around in the game and can easily survive the night. This will ensure that you are ready to defeat the Skeletron. You'll need a few weapons, good armour and some mana/health potions. A list can be seen below:


A set of armour. This includes the helmet, breast plate and boots. Try to have a better level of armour than wood armour to ensure that you last longer whilst fighting Skeletron.
Health potion. Keep at least 5 health potions so when your health becomes low you can boost it back up again. Hit the H key to level up quickly when fighting the boss.
Mana potion. Just like your health potions, keep at least 5 of these and type the M key to level up your mana quickly. Mana is used for magic whilst health is used for your hearts.
Bombs. Have at least 5 of these to chuck at the Skeletron. These take a fairly big impact and can be found in chests and vases around the world.
Sword. Don't just use a weak, wooden sword. Try finding at least a zombie arm (sword) which will be dropped from zombies. Zombies spawn during the night and are fairly easy to defeat.
Rocket boots. This is optional for you might not be able to find these depending on how experienced you are. You can purchase these with gold coins from the Goblin once you have found him underground in the caverns.;
, To tell when night comes you can find/buy yourself a watch or listen to the music which will change as it turns from day to night. Make your way to the dungeon (either on your left or right, opposite the jungle) a few hours in game time before night comes so that you have more time to defeat the Skeletron.
 A few hours (game-time) before the world turns into night, make your way over to the dungeon which should be located to your left or right (opposite the jungle). In the entrance door you should find an old man (The Clothier). Talk to him and choose to curse him which will summon Skeletron. Don't forget to take some Ironskin potion if you have some!

, Throw bombs at the Skeletron which should take in some damage. Try to aim for Skeletron's arms as these create the most damage. Use your sword to attack the arms without running into them (or the head). Keep on backing up and moving so the Skeletron misses you when it attacks. When the head spins, try your hardest to avoid it as it does the most damage when spinning and it takes in the least damage from you too.


Bombs can damage you along with Skeletron so be sure to avoid them when they are thrown

, After finishing the boss fight, you will have some small rewards such as health/mana, money, a trophy (depending on your version), etc. After that, make your way back to your safe home. You have now defeated Skeletron!

