 MP4 Converter offers conversion software available for purchase and download.
, Click the green "Buy Now" button, in the right-center of the screen, under the "Ultra" column.


The other version, "Professional," though less expensive, does not support conversion between video formats.
MP4 Converter is only available for Windows XP or later versions. No Mac or other non-Windows versions are available.
 Select the quantity you wish to order, whether you want a disc version of the software, and whether you'd like to purchase back-up for your video files.
 At the bottom of the dialog box, enter your billing and payment information.
 In the lower right corner of the dialog box, click on "next."

, The open dialog box will show the details of your order. Click on the button in the lower right to confirm your purchase.
 This starts the download process.


You must have 30 MB of available space on your hard drive.
 This button is located in the open dialog box.
 During installation, you will receive a short series of prompts in the form of dialog boxes in the center of your screen. Follow all prompts to complete the installation process.
 This menu is in the lower left of your screen.
 Scroll to MP4 Converter to launch the software.
 This appears in the upper left of the screen and is a round, orange button with a "+" in the center.
 A dialog box will open in the center of your screen. Scroll to the MP4 file you wish to convert.
 This will highlight your file's name.
 The button is located in the lower right of the dialog box.
 Your MP4 file will appear in the list on the left side of the main screen.
 This is a round, orange button in the upper right of the application's screen.
 Under encoder for video file, click on AVI/DivX.
 Click on: original picture size; video for mobile; or video for TV.


Close the settings dialog box to return to MP4 Converter's main screen.
 This button is located at the top, left-center of the application's window.


Your new AVI file will be stored in a folder located on your PC's C: drive: C:\Converted.
 This is in the lower left of your screen.
 Type "Converted" into the search bar at the top of the "Start" menu.
 Click on "C:\Converted" in the search results list.

