 Choose a fabric that reflects your personal taste and matches the outfit (or various clothes) that you intend to wear the clip with. The fabric should be substantial enough to withstand cutting and assembling into a flower, which should be fine for most fabric types. When choosing, consider repurposing fabric from an item that's no longer needed, such as a favorite old skirt that had a lovely print or a linen you've cherished but that has since formed holes here and there (obviously, avoid the bits with the holes). About a ¼ of a yard (23cm) of fabric should suffice but it helps to have more so that you can make more than one clip (to share, cover your hair, whatever).


The fabric must be tolerant of heat, so that you can apply the hot glue gun to the edges to prevent fraying.
Consider mixing and matching fabrics. Since you’ll be creating a unique flower, you don’t have to create the bloom completely from one fabric.;
, Then, using a water glass, water bottle, keychain or similar circular guide, trace up to five circles on the cardboard in various sizes (four or five is an arbitrary but sound number––the amount of layers is entirely up to you––just don't overdo them). The different sizes are important to give the impression of varied petal sizes. Keep each circle as perfectly round as possible. Cut out the cardboard circle patterns.


If you have a mathematical compass ,you may have an easier time creating different circles. If not, find various household items to do the job.
 Using a light pencil or fabric pencil, trace the circles onto the back of the fabric. If the pencil marking is likely to show through, use an invisible fabric marker, the kind that fades after a few days. Once traced out, cut out each circle carefully using sharp, fabric-only scissors. Sharp scissors help to reduce fraying or fringing.
 Use very sharp, fabric-only scissors again and keep your hand steady when cutting.


Eye each circle and figure out where to make five even cuts. If you can't keep the spacing in your mind's eye, mark the tip of each line to be cut before starting.
Cut three quarters from the circle edge toward the center. Don't cut all the way to the middle––imagine leaving a large intact middle circle in place and only cut three quarters of the way to its edge.
 Using the sharp scissors, carefully shape rounded edges for each petal (five on each circle). Nature is imperfect, so some of your rounding can be too!

, There are a few ways you can do this, ranging from easy and safe, to a little more challenging and possibly flammable:


Purchase like-colored puffy fabric pens and draw over the edges of each flower petal. This will create a look of volume and may even add a little sparkle (some pens come with glitter or sparkle).
Hot glue the edges of each flower. This will seal and possibly add dimension to the flower. This may be slightly tedious as you may have to hold each flower on an angle to apply the glue without having it stick to something (like the table or another item). Lay on a cookie sheet covered in wax paper to dry.
Melt candle wax over the edges to make them curl slightly. This can be a little dangerous and should be done only by a responsible adult. It should be done somewhere free of flammable material. Light a candle and then hold one petal close to the flame (without actually placing it in the flame). Roll the edges and the heat will create a funky, curled edge. Do not attempt this with fabric liable to flare up––if in doubt, skip!

, Stack the flower petals on top of each other, placing the largest on the bottom through to the smallest on top.


Vary the placement of the flower pieces so that you can see different petal sections from each, individually created flower. In other words, avoid simply arranging them exactly one on top of the other.
 Thread a strong needle with thread that is the same color as your flower. Begin sewing from the bottom up (so that the knot stays on the bottom of the flower) and sew together in the center of the flower stack.


Choose a needle able to handle the fabric and the fact that it is thicker once stacked.
 Once the flower has been sewn together, you can decorate it further if wished. For example, glue a costume jewel in the center or add glitter glue over the petals. Other additions include sequins, buttons and little pieces of lace or ribbon.


Most items should attach easily with hot glue suitable for fabric. However, if you'd rather attach an item by sewing, this might prove sturdier in the long run.
Keep in mind the weight of any added adornments; less is usually best.
 Glue the flower to the hair clip and consider reinforcing it with thread, if needed.


Add a few dabs of hot glue to the bottom of the flower and then place on top of the hair clip. Consider opening the clip during the application phase so you don’t glue the clip together.
If possible, stitch the bottom of the flower to the clip for extra durability. This type of reinforcement is good for longevity and durability, and is recommended if a small child is to wear the clip.
 Make any adjustments if needed, such as snipping off loose threads, etc. It's time to try it on!

