 Tip the beans into medium bowl and fill with warm water. Soak beans in a bowl for about 20 to 45 minutes, until soft and skin is peeling.;
, With your hands, begin to rub the beans together while submerged in water. As the skins of the beans float to the top, remove with the spoon strainer. Pour water and repeat until all skin is removed.
 After all of the water has been drained out one final time, pour the softened beans into a blender, along with two cups of water. Begin to blend. Continue to blend until the beans turn into a smooth texture. Add more water if the mixture is not completely smooth.
 Set aside for later use and mixing.
 Cut the red peppers, onion, and habanero peppers. The size of the cut vegetables does not matter, just as long as the pieces can be blended in a blender.
 Put the chopped vegetables and 1 1/2 cups of water into the blender/ Begin to blend until smooth. Crush the Maggi stock cubes into the blender and continue to blend with the vegetable mixture.
 Mix both together and begin to add in the seasoned salt, salt and vegetable oil. Continue to mix well.
, Start by pouring 3 cups of water into the pot. Place on low heat to warm up slowly.
 Fold in half, hamburger style.
 Fold the ends about 1/4 of an inch 3 to 5 times.
 Fold either left or right, depending on which way you folded. Fold about a 1/4 inch for about 3 to 5 times.
 Repeat the steps above until you've produced 10 or more sheets.
, With your index finger and your thumb, squeeze the opening closed and begin to twist (either clockwise or counterclockwise).
, Cover the large pot after all has been used. It's okay for the moi moi pockets to be stacked on top of each other as long as they are facing upward.
 Allow the moi moi packets to cook for about 45 minutes to an hour. Be sure to check back every 10 minutes.
 Once cooled down to your preferred temperature, take one moi moi packet using an oven-mitt or tong utensil and place onto a plate.
 And the Moi Moi is ready to eat. Enjoy!

,