 Some renters or condo associations will not allow subletting so be sure to research this before initiating the process. Some will allow it but only with notification, sometimes with a period of notice like 30 days in advance of move-in. Some will charge additional fees or have their own process for approving subletters.Read your lease, condo agreement, or directly ask your renter/condo association.


Even if your lease doesn’t place any restriction on subletting you should still notify your landlord so they’re kept in the loop.;
, You’ll need to determine how much you’ll charge for monthly rent, what you’ll need for a security deposit, and how long the lease will be for. If you’re subletting the entire apartment and plan to live somewhere else, you should charge them the cost of your rent. If you’re only subletting a portion of the apartment, you could divide the rent by the number of bedrooms and charge for the number of rooms the subletter is taking.


If you’re charging by room, you should consider the relative square footage of the rooms and adjust the rent according.
A common security deposit is one month’s rent.
 Most New York City apartments require renter’s insurance so it’s likely that you already have coverage. However, not all insurance plans will cover someone either than the primary resident. Contact your renter’s insurance company and determine if you need additional coverage for a subletter., Photos will greatly increase the chances that someone will inquire about your sublet. Take photos of all of the relevant rooms including the bedroom being rented, the kitchen, bathroom, laundry, living room, and anything else that will be used by the subletter. Try to get as many angles as possible to give a comprehensive view of the room.If you only have a camera phone, see if you can borrow a professional high-definition camera to improve the quality of the pictures.
If you have a bird’s eye view of the apartment, include that on the ad as well.
 Include all of the important information about the terms of the lease and size of the apartment, the availability of parking, as well as rules like whether or not smoking or a pet are allowed. Make sure to describe the apartment building, the neighborhood, local restaurants and attractions, and your proximity to public transportation as well.If you are only subletting one room and plan to stay there, include information about yourself so they know what kind of roommate you will be. Include your profession, hobbies, if you have a pet, how often you go out, if you’re quiet, and if you tend to have people over.
Try to use descriptive adjectives like “spacious” and “convenient” and describe the subtle benefits like the view.
 It’s preferable to sublet with someone you know or at least someone you can meet through someone else you know. You will have a better sense of whether or not you can trust the subletter to make their rent payments and be generally responsible.Use social media pages like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram to post your rental advertisement and ask your friends for referrals from anyone they might know that is looking for an apartment.
 Use pages like Craigslist’s Housing section and Sublet.com to post your ad as well. These sites will allow you to post specifically for New York City and include all of the relevant information about the apartment.You may want to delete and repost your ad periodically so that it remains near the top of the search results.
 Ask potential tenants for at least one reference from a prior landlord to learn about their habits as a renter. Ask the landlord if they paid rent on time, if they left the apartment in decent condition, and if they ever received complaints for noise or any other untoward behavior.
 Ask potential tenants for proof of their income. They can either provide a recent paystub or contact information for an employer to confirm this.
 Always write out an agreement outlining all of the key terms and responsibilities of both parties.Use your own rental or condo agreement as a guide for this and make changes to fit the sublease situation. You can also use the sample sublease agreement at the end of this article as a template.
 As the renter, you are expected to provide a clean space for the subletter. Make sure you vacuum any carpet, mop hard floors, and provide a fresh coat of paint to the walls if necessary. You should also clean the bathroom thoroughly as well as any common areas.


You should clean as soon as possible so the apartment is presentable for the photos you take for the advertisement and for a tour of the apartment.

