 You won’t be able to do this alone, so you’ll need some people to help. Find a friend or two who cares about the environment like you do. This way, you can show others that people are already interested in your club, and you have members to help do the organizing to get things going.When you talk to other people about your club, listen to their ideas and concerns too. You might be able to fit into your potential club, making it more attractive for them to join.;
, Any club that wants to draw in students and use school facilities needs to have permission from your principal or other school leader. They will tell you all the things you need to do to become an official school club, probably some paperwork. Along with this permission, they can also provide additional advice for good ways to start your club and get the word out., Most school clubs need an advisor from the faculty to help become official. Your faculty advisor will supervise your meetings, offer regular advice, and may even pitch in to help if needed. Your advisor doesn’t need to be an environmentalist, though someone who shares your concern for the environment would be a good place to start. Science teachers are probably the most likely to help, but anyone can be interested in helping the environment., When you start planning your first meeting, remember that you will need a classroom to hold it in. Make sure it is a room you can get to regularly. You will use it for scheduled meetings to discuss upcoming projects.The classroom of your advisor is probably your best bet, but check first. Someone else might be using it at different times, which will limit when you can schedule your meeting.
 Now that you have a club, make sure people know about it. There are a variety of ways to spread the word about a school club. For all of them, remember to include the name of your club, and the time and place of your first meeting. You can include other information if you want, but it needs at least that much. If people don’t know about your club and your meetings, they won’t know to attend.


Post fliers around the school. Your school probably has lots of posters for different clubs and activities. Look for ways to help yours stand out and get people’s attention. You might try printing on recycled paper, green color paper, or posters with pictures of celebrities who care about environmental causes.If your school has rules about posters and fliers, make sure you know what they are, and that you follow all instructions.
If your school does announcements in the morning, over a loudspeaker or a television, make sure your club gets a mention. Talk to the person who controls the announcements, usually the principal or a teacher, about how to make sure your message gets read to the school.
A good way to get people’s attention is to give a presentation in front of them. You probably won’t get the whole school, so talk to your principal or teacher about giving an announcement in your homeroom or other classes. This will give students a chance to see you directly, rather than having your club announced with a bunch of other things in the morning.
Another good way to spread the word is to have your members talk to a new potential member about the club and try to encourage them to come to the next meeting. You won’t get all of these people, but even a few new arrivals can help your club grow., Once you have some people interested, and a place to meet, have your first meeting. Get people to show up and talk about what the club will be doing. Talk about what you want the club to accomplish, and how everyone will be involvedThe most important thing you can do at this meeting, along with making sure people know about your club, is to get contact information. If someone shows up, make sure you get people’s names, phone numbers, and emails. This way, you’ll be able to keep in contact with them when trying to schedule future meetings. Be sure to also give them some contact information for the club, so they can contact you if they need something.
One good way to encourage people to show up to the first meeting is to provide snacks. If you are going to have food, make sure you mention it when you tell people about the meeting, so it will encourage them to come.
During your first meeting, make sure you schedule and announce your next meeting. Regular meetings will help people build time in their schedule and make sure to attend, which is important for a new club.
 Once you have some people gathered, you’ll need to figure out how your club should be structured and run. It shouldn’t just be one person doing all the work and deciding what happens. Instead, create some rules for how the club decides what to do, and choose some officers.If you can, try to give your club a statement of purpose, a couple of sentences that explains who you are and what you are trying to do. This is important to help explain to people what your club believes in, and why they would want to join up.
Your first meeting might be a good time to decide the kind of officers you want your club to have rather than picking him right away. Some positions to consider include a president, project coordinator, secretary, treasurer, and public relations coordinator. Make sure your club is clear about what holding these positions will entail, so you can find the right people for them.
 Once your club has started, you’ll want to start doing projects to carry out your environmental goals. The list of potential projects is endless, but to start with you should probably focus on doing something around the school.This will help spread the word about your club and get more students interested. Once you get a larger club, you’ll be able to take on even bigger projects.


You should probably have one or two ideas when you start the club. That way you can get started on something quickly, which will keep your new members interested. Once those are done, you can start taking ideas and suggestions from other club members, which should give you a nice long list of things to do.
Part of planning projects may include raising money to pay for those projects. When you start your club, your school may have a budget that you can use. That may not be enough, though, so when you start planning projects think about how much money you will need to do things and how you can raise that money.