 If you have been dealing with a teacher who seems to hate you for a while, then it is important to talk about it with someone. Tell a parent, friend, or school counselor what is going on and why it upsets you. Share on a regular basis. Don’t just hold on to your frustration until you can’t take it any more.


You can also try writing about the situation in a journal. Try writing about what your teacher did and how it made you feel every day after school. Keep your journal at home to avoid having it fall into the wrong hands.
 Communicating with a teacher who seems to have it out for you can be stressful and it might be hard to keep your composure. To ensure that you are prepared, try practicing what you want or need to say ahead of time. You can enlist the help of a parent or friend to help you role play the situation.Try having a parent or friend play the part of your teacher. Then, say what you want or need to say to your parent or friend as if that person is the teacher.
Do this multiple times to make sure that you feel ready for the real encounter. You might even ask your teacher or friend to do a worst case scenario role play with you. For example, your parent or friend could yell at you and say things to try to upset you. If you can stay calm and communicate effectively even with the worst case scenario, then you may feel more confident in your ability to talk to your teacher.
 If you feel your teacher dislikes you so much that he or she is bullying you, then it is important to get help. Although it is rare, teachers can sometimes bully their students, which can interfere with your learning and affect your overall well-being.Some things that might be considered bullying by your teacher include yelling at you in front of the class, slamming his or her hand on your desk, calling you names, or using other tactics to upset and embarrass you.
Talk to your parents about the situation. It may be necessary for your parents to have a meeting with the teacher or to talk with the school principal about the situation.
Try saying something like, “I think my teacher might be bullying me.” Then, describe what has been happening to lead you to this conclusion.
 In many cases where teachers seem to dislike their students or vice versa, that issue may simply be that you both have very different personalities.Consider this as a possibility for the problems you are having with your teacher.


For example, if you are an outgoing person and your teacher is a quiet person who prefers solitude, then this could be a reason why you clash. If your teacher loves to read and you hate reading, then this could also be a possible reason why you might clash.
Instead of being frustrated by these differences, you can try to look at the situation as a learning experience. For example, what might you be able to learn from this teacher that you would not learn from someone who shared all of your interests?

