 If you think you have a federal case, you should also understand that filing suit in federal court is complex, time consuming, and expensive. An experienced attorney already knows the system and its procedures.
 To sue in federal court, you must show that the court has jurisdiction over both the subject matter of the suit and the people in the suit.Federal courts only hear contract law cases when the parties to the case have a diversity of citizenship.
This includes situations where you and the person you are suing are citizens of different states, as well as those in which the two of you are citizens of different countries.
If you’re suing a corporation, you probably need an attorney. Diversity jurisdiction of corporations is a more complicated matter, since corporations can be “citizens” of more than one state.Even where the two parties are diverse, federal courts only have jurisdiction in cases where more than $75,000 is at stake.Most lawsuits that can be filed in federal court can also be filed in state court. Usually you’ll have a simpler, cheaper, and quicker resolution if you file in state court., As in state court, you’ll have to draft a summons and complaint that discusses the facts of your case, applies the law to those facts, and asks for monetary damages or other relief for the losses you’ve suffered.


Your complaint must first discuss the facts of the case. Specifically, you should outline the terms of the contract, any acts performed under the contract, and all actions that led up to and culminated in the breach of the contract.Despite the fact that you’re in federal court, contract law is a state law issue. Thus, your complaint needs to state what state law applies, and how that law would interpret the facts of your case. You should also make note of the state statute of limitations and ensure you’ve filed your case before that deadline.
Review some sample complaints to make sure you’re using the correct format.
 The filing fee for opening a civil action in federal district court is $400.If you cannot afford to pay the filing fee, you can file a request to have the fee waived. If your request is granted, you want have to pay the fee., As with state court, federal court requires you to use a process server to present the documents to the person you’re suing and give them notice of your lawsuit and when they need to appear in court.

