 Bail is a payment of something (usually money) that an arrested person gives to the court to insure that he or she shows up for future court appearances, even after being released from jail. If the defendant doesn’t show up for hearings, the court may keep the bail and issue a warrant for the defendant’s arrest.


If the defendant cannot pay the bail that is set by the judge, a friend or family member can pay instead.
If someone other than the defendant pays bail and the defendant does not show up for court, that person will lose any money that was paid.;
, The judge has the option of setting different types of bail for someone who is in jail. The following types of bail payments may be accepted by the judge:



Money payment: usually, bail is a set dollar amount that the defendant or a friend must pay in order to get out of jail. The amount of money will vary widely based on the severity of the crime that the defendant is charged with.

Signature bond: A signature bond is an alternative type of bond that allows someone who has been arrested to leave jail without paying money for bail. If the judge allows a signature bond, the defendant may be able to leave jail without paying as long as he signs a document stating that he will appear for any required court dates and hearings. In some states, a small amount of money must be given to the court along with the defendant’s signature. If the judge gives your friend a signature bond, you will not have to pay for his release unless the judge also requests money.

Property bond: a property bond allows someone in jail to use the deed to property that they, their family, or their friends own as security to insure that the person returns to court for later hearings. Here, instead of money or a “signature” acting as collateral to get the individual to comply with the terms of bail, the property is the security. If the judge offers your friend a property bond, you will only be able to pay it for your friend if you own a home or other property.
 Because bail can often be very expensive, there are ways for a defendant to “make bail” without personally putting up the full amount. A “bail bond” allows someone to pay part of the bail amount instead of the whole thing. If you want to get your friend out of jail on bond but you can’t pay the full amount, determine whether the court where your friend is charged allows private or public bail bonds.


Private bail bonds: Private bail bonds are allowed in many states, but are not permitted in Oregon, Illinois, Kentucky, and Wisconsin. In states that allow private bonds, a judge sets bail and someone can pay a “bondsman” (usually a private company that is in the business of bail bonds) about 10 percent of the full amount as insurance. If the defendant shows up for court, the bondsman keeps the money. Otherwise, the bondsman gives the full amount of bail to the court.
Public bail bonds: in states that do not allow private companies to lend money to people for bond, the court handles bond payments. For instance, in Wisconsin, the judge sets bail which is paid to the court directly. If the defendant shows up, the money is refunded in full. If the defendant does not show up, the money goes to pay any restitution and help defray the taxpayers costs.
 In most cases, a defendant’s bail is set at a certain amount of money and typically, a family member or someone close to the defendant agrees to pay that amount in exchange for freeing that individual from incarceration. If you are considering paying to get your friend out of jail, make sure you consider the following:


the terms of the bond: figure out whether you are required to pay the full amount that was set for bail, who you should pay, and what happens if your friend doesn’t show up for a court date.
who is responsible: figure out who is responsible for the money if your friend can't be found or does not show up to a court date. If you use a bail bondsman to pay for your friend’s bail, the bail agent usually agrees to be responsible for the money if he cannot locate the defendant when the court requests his presence. However, if the defendant cannot be found, the bail bondsman usually will come after the family of the defendant to try and get the money that he or she was required to pay to the court because of the defendant’s no-show.
how bail is set: the amount of “bond” that a defendant is required to pay depends on the amount that bail is set at by the judge. Read up on local court practices to figure out how judges assess bail according to the severity of the crime. Understand that if a judge considers a defendant a flight risk, the judge may either raise bail to a staggering financial amount, or deny it altogether. If this is the case, you will not be able to get your friend out of jail regardless of whether you are able to pay.
 A bail bondsman or bail bond agent is any person or business that will act as a surety and pledge money or property as bail for the appearance of persons accused in court.Unlike with a property bond, where the person who owns the property is usually a family member of the defendant, a bail bondsman usually is part of a business, and does not know the defendant.


Bail bond agents charge a fee for fronting the money to the court: Bond agents generally charge a fee of 10% for a state charge and 15% for a federal bail bond, with some states requiring a minimum fee in order to post the full amount of the bond. This fee is not refundable and represents the bond agent's compensation for their services.
For large bail amounts, bond agents can generally obtain security against the assets of the defendant or persons willing to assist the defendant. For example, for a $100,000 bond for a person who owns a home, the bond agent would charge $10,000 and take a mortgage against the house for the full penal sum of the bond. Therefore, if you are using a bail bondsman, consider whether you are extra security for the amount you are borrowing.
Before working with the bail bond agent, ask to see their license and identification to make sure they are legitimate. Afterward, make sure to get receipts and copies of signed documents.
Additionally, you can see if the bail bondsman has any type of payment plan to offer you. A lot of bail bondsmen provide payment plan options depending on your credit history. While the bail bondsman may not give you a deal, it never hurts to ask!

, If your friend fails to appear in court, the bond agent is allowed by law or contractual arrangement to bring the defendant to the jurisdiction of the court in order to recover the money paid out under the bond, usually through the use of a bounty hunter. Therefore, you should make sure that your friend will appear in court after being released on bond.


Even if you think that your friend will comply with the terms of bail, keep in mind that being charged with a crime is a stressful experience, and can make people do things they otherwise wouldn't do, such as skip out on a court hearing.
Additionally, the bail agent may sue you to collect the extra money he spent, even if you have no idea why your friend didn’t show.
if you post bail for someone, you are guaranteeing that they will show up for court, therefore you should only do this if you are sure that your friend is trustworthy.

