 This is where you display all of the biographical information that you'd like to include about yourself. By default, only your full name and gender are required to be visible to anyone on the web.
 This is called your scrapbook.


Clicking "Add photo" will allow you to upload photos from your computer or to choose an existing photo from an album. You can only choose one photo at a time.
 Each also comes with its own drop-down menu for adjusting privacy settings.


For employment and education, add institutions by typing in your school/employer name. Fill out the first and last years of your involvement with them, or check the "current" box if you are still involved.
For the map of the places you've lived, just type in the city name. The Google Map will automatically locate it and place a pin in those locations.
Unlike Facebook, you cannot set a relationship status with another Google+ user. So you can say that you are in a civil union, but you cannot specify with whom and be linked through your profile.
 Determine whether you'd like your Google profile to be indexed by search engines. If you want your profile to appear in search results, check the box.
 Click on it to edit.


Click on "Add custom link" to add links to your profile. For each link, input the title and URL. Check "This page is specifically about me" if applicable; that makes it easier for people who are searching for you on search engines to locate that page.
If you add a link to content created by you (e.g., digital art portfolio) and tagged using authorship markup tags, that page will show up in the +1 section of your profile. When that page comes up in Google search results, your profile picture may also be displayed next to it.Google might also suggest links for you based on other Google products you use, other websites that you have connected to your Google account, and other public web pages. If you'd like to take their suggestion and add a link to your profile, click on the adjacent + sign.
Click "Manage connected accounts" to view the third-party websites that you have allowed to access your Google profile information.

