 If a police officer has a "reasonable suspicion" that criminal activity is occurring, the officer can perform a "stop and frisk." A stop is a brief detention short of an arrest, and a frisk is a pat-down to check for weapons. Both the stop and the frisk must be justified by the circumstances to be legal."Reasonable suspicion" is a lower standard than "probable cause."A stop is a briefer detention than an arrest, and a frisk is less invasive than a search. However, if the officer has a reasonable suspicion to do a stop and frisk, and then his or her suspicion develops into probable cause as a result of the stop and frisk, then the officer can arrest and search you further., Officers can stop people during an investigation or to prevent crime before it happens. An officer is justified in stopping you if the officer reasonably believes you:


Don't fit the time or place;
Match the description of a wanted suspect;
Act strangely, or are emotional, angry, fearful, or intoxicated;
Are loitering or looking for something;
Are running away or acting evasive or secretive;
Are at a crime scene; or
Are in a high-crime area (which is not alone sufficient for a reasonable suspicion)., If an officer has stopped you, he or she can pat down your outer clothing to check for weapons. If the officer feels something that he or she reasonably believes is a weapon or some other contraband, the officer can take it from you. You may be frisked if the officer:


Is concerned for his or her own safety or the safety of others;
Suspects you are about to commit a crime involving a weapon;
Is concerned by the behavior, emotional state, and/or appearance of the suspects;
Asked questions and received evasive answers; or
Factors in the location and time of day (which alone is not sufficient to justify a frisk)., If an officer stops you, you are not automatically under arrest. Even if you believe the officer lacks a reasonable suspicion to stop you, stay calm and comply with the officer's instructions. You can contact a lawyer later.


A stop is only supposed to last as long as is reasonably necessary for the officer to investigation the situation.Make a mental note of how long you were detained and make a complaint if the detention was unreasonably long.
Many have complained of officers abusing the stop and frisk process and harassing the public.Whether or not you believe your stop is justified, just assume that the officer is concerned for his or her own safety. You can file a complaint after the situation has resolved.
 If the officer finds a weapon or other contraband during the frisk, you will probably be arrested. Remain calm and request a lawyer. If you cannot afford one, one will be provided to you. A lawyer may be able to challenge the constitutionality of the officer's conduct or negotiate a favorable plea deal on your behalf.

