 Because of the delicate bone structure of Turkish Angoras, you should make sure they do not get obese. To help with this, feed your cat a meat-based diet. Check the ingredient list on the label. Meat should be in the top two or three ingredients. Don’t give your cat foods that contain less than 40% protein.To monitor your Turkish Angora’s weight, weigh them once a month. If your cat starts gaining a few pounds, cut back on their food.
Look for the AAFCO certification on the cat food to ensure it is quality. You can also talk to the vet for high-quality cat food suggestions.
 Turkish Angoras are usually healthy cats, but they can develop heart and hearing problems. To make sure they stay healthy, take your cat to get the vet regularly. You should take them at least once each year.


Get your cat all their vaccinations and their boosters each year. Your cat should receive FPV, Rabies, FeLV, FIV, FIP, Chlamydophila felis, Bordetella, and Feline Giardia vaccine courses soon after adoption. They will also need an annual rabies booster., If you are not planning on breeding your cat, have them spayed or neutered as soon as possible. You can desex your cat at around five to six months of age. Spaying or neutering can help reduce negative behaviors, like spray marking, and help also reduce the risk of mammary tumors and uterine infection common in unspayed female cats.
 Turkish Angoras that have blue eyes may develop hearing problems. If your cat is white with two blue eyes, they may develop complete deafness in both ears. If your Turkish Angora has only one blue eye, they will probably only use hearing in one ear., Turkish Angoras are genetically predisposed to have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This is a common type of heart disease that cats get where the muscle thickens. Take your cat to the vet to get them screened for HCM.Reputable breeders won’t breed Turkish Angoras that have HCM. However, never trust a breeder who promises you an HCM-free cat or that the car came from a HCM-free line.

