 Combine five parts dark vinegar with one part salt, mixing well to dissolve the salt.


You should prepare enough of the solution to completely cover your brass piece.
Use a plastic or glass container since a metal container can have a reaction to the chemicals present, thereby tainting the process.
Dark vinegar refers to any vinegar available in a deep shade, like black vinegar or balsamic vinegar.
 Submerge your brass piece in the salted-vinegar solution, making sure that all sides are covered. Allow it to soak for an hour or more.


When submerging more than one piece of brass, make sure that nothing overlaps and that none of the pieces touch during this part of the process.
 Preheat the oven anywhere from 400 to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (200 to 230 degrees Celsius).


The higher the temperature, the more dramatic the patina will be.
If desired, prepare a metal baking sheet by lining it with aluminum foil. You can leave the foil off, but leaving the pan unprotected may cause the pan to become discolored.
 Remove the brass from the vinegar solution and place it onto your prepared metal baking sheet. Bake it for 60 minutes, or until you like the appearance of the developing patina.


Note that the look that develops during this time will not be the final look.
 Take the brass out of the oven and submerge it into the solution again for about 5 minutes, coating all sides of the piece. Return the brass to the oven and bake for another 30 minutes.


Use tongs when handling the brass since the metal will be extremely hot.
 Remove the brass from the oven using tongs and dunk it into your vinegar solution again, coating all sides well.


This final submerging will create a blue-green patina. If you do not want this tint of color, though, skip this step and move onto the next one after taking the brass out of the oven.
 Spread out two or three sheets of wax paper, layering them one on top of the other, and place the brass on top. Set it aside until dry and cool to the touch.


This can take anywhere from a few hours to overnight.
 A nice patina should have developed by this point, so the brass can technically be left as is. If desired, you can buff the piece with a clean rag to enhance the appearance, or #0000 steel wool to lighten it.


You should also consider sealing your piece in clear lacquer or soft wax to preserve the patina finish.

