 When you adopt a vegan diet, you’ll probably start eating a lot more beans and legumes, which are a good source of protein. These are made of sugars, carbs, and fiber. Sensitivity to these foods or their constituent ingredients may cause bloating. If you continue to feel bloated for weeks on end, you might consider leaving veganism.


You might initially feel bloated when eating these foods, but gradually adjust to them as you progress in your vegan diet. Don’t give up quickly if you experience bloating.
Another alternative to quitting veganism is to just reduce the amount of legumes and beans in your diet. There are many other avenues to getting an adequate amount of protein without lots of legumes and beans.
 Iron in the blood provides a substantial amount of energy to the body. Vegan diets may lack adequate iron content and often don't get enough protein.You can easily correct iron deficiencies by taking a multivitamin or iron supplement. You can boost your iron absorption by eating iron-rich foods in combination with foods in which vitamin C is present.
 Did you transition to a vegan diet because you wanted an easy way to restrict your calorie intake and lose weight? While this in itself is not unhealthy, if taken too far, it might indicate you might suffer from anorexia.Anorexia is an illness in which you avoid eating to attain a thin body. Signs you might be obsessed with your food intake include:


Feeling guilty for everything you eat
Over-thinking every time you eat
Trying to always eat the “perfect” nutritional profile or calorie count.
 While vegans have far lower rates of obesity than omnivores, a vegan diet does not guarantee you’ll arrive at a healthy weight.Perhaps you’ve replaced your standard diet with one organized around candy, chips, and soda. If so, you might gain weight and consider moving away from veganism.


Alternately, you might try introducing more vegetables, fruits, and beans into your diet. Vegan versions of foods you may have eaten as an omnivore (burgers, deli meat, cheese) are easy to find in most local grocery stores as well.
A balanced diet is important no matter whether you’re vegan or not.