 Alchemy is mostly used to create potions, flasks, and elixirs, which can be used to provide a temporary increase in power to whoever consumes them. These items support every class equally.


Herbs gathered from the Herbalism profession are the main material used by Alchemists. If you have Alchemy as a profession but not Herbalism, you will need to purchase or obtain your herbs from other sources.;
, Blacksmithing is mostly used to create Plate armor for Paladins, Warriors, and Death Knights. If your character is a different class, you can still create Plate armor to sell, but you will not be able to equip it.


The primary material used by Blacksmiths is ore obtained from Mining. If you have Blacksmithing as a profession but not Mining, you will need to purchase or obtain your ore from other sources.
 Enchanting is mostly used for enhancing pieces of gear to provide extra attributes. For example, if you use an intellect enchant on your gloves, you may gain an extra 10 intellect while you have the gloves equipped.


Enchanting is a profession that supports every class equally; enchanters are also able to disenchant most pieces of gear.
Disenchanting a piece of gear will destroy it and give you shards or dust. Shards and dust are the main material used by Enchanters to enchant items.
 Engineering is a profession that can create random items such as portable mailboxes, portable repair bots, and teleportation devices. Engineers are also able to enhance items to provide various effects such as speed boosts and invisibility; these benefits support all classes equally.


The primary materials used by Engineers are ore and stones obtained from Mining. If you have Engineering as a profession but not Mining, you will need to purchase or obtain your ore and stones from other sources.
 Inscription is the profession used to create glyphs. Glyphs provide players with extra abilities, or enhancements, to existing abilities.


Anybody can use glyphs, but only those who have learned Inscription are able to create glyphs.
The primary materials used by Inscription are herbs obtained from Herbalism. If you have Inscription as a profession but not Herbalism, you will need to purchase or obtain your herbs from other sources.
 Jewelcrafting is mostly used for creating gems, necklaces, and rings. Some weapons or pieces of armor have what is called a gem socket. Gems created by a Jewel crafter can be inserted into the gem sockets to provide increased power.


The primary materials used by Jewel crafters are ore and stones obtained from Mining. If you have Jewelcrafting as a profession but not Mining, you will need to purchase or obtain your ore and stones from other sources.
 Leatherworking is mostly used to create leather and mail armor used by Druids, Monks, Rogues, Shamans, and Hunters. If your character is a different class, you can still create the armor to sell or trade.


The primary material used by Leatherworkers is leather obtained from Skinning. If you have Leatherworking as a profession but not Skinning, you will need to purchase or obtain your leather from other sources.
 Tailoring is mostly used to create cloth armor for Mages, Warlocks, and Priests. If your character is a different class, you can still create the armor to sell or trade.


The primary material used by Tailors is cloth. Cloth can be found from looting most types of enemy monsters.
 Herbalism is a gathering profession used to obtain herbs. If you have learned Herbalism, you will be able to pick up herbs from various places all over the world.


The main purpose of most herbs is to be used by people who have taken up Alchemy or Inscription as a profession.
 Mining is a gathering profession used to obtain ore and stone. If you have learned Mining, you will be able to mine ore and stone in various places all over the world.


The main purpose of most materials gathered through mining is to be used by people who have taken up Blacksmithing, Engineering ,or Jewelcrafting as a profession.
 Skinning is a gathering profession used to skin enemy corpses and obtain leather.


Leather is most commonly used to create items with the Leatherworking profession, but it can also be used to create a few items for other professions including Tailoring and Engineering.
 If you are on a character whose race grants a profession bonus, you can see it in your spellbook. To open your spellbook, press P, and you will see a list of abilities on your screen. For example, if you are a Draenei, you will see an ability called Gemcutting with the description “Jewelcrafting skill increased by 10.”


You will not need to do anything to activate the bonus—all eligible races automatically have it.
These are the races that have profession bonuses:

Draenei – Jewelcrafting
Gnome – Engineering
Worgen – Skinning
Blood Elf – Enchanting
Goblin – Alchemy
Tauren – Herbalism
Pandaren – Cooking


Humans, Night Elves, Dwarves, Orcs, Trolls, and Undead do not have any racial profession bonuses.
All the racial bonuses are for primary professions, except for Pandaren. The Pandaren bonus is for Cooking, which is a secondary profession.
Racial bonuses are only one of many factors to consider when choosing your primary professions.
 Most of the professions produce items or gather materials that support all classes equally. For example, Alchemists create potions and elixirs that offer comparable benefits to all classes. However, when it comes to armor that can be equipped, the situation is slightly different.


There are 4 types of armor in the game—Cloth, Leather, Mail, and Plate. Each class in the game has a preferred type of armor. If you are leveling a profession to create gears for yourself, you may want to choose the profession that supports your character’s class.


Tailoring is used to create powerful Cloth armor, used by Mages, Warlocks, and Priests.

Leatherworking is used to create powerful Leather and Mail armor used by Druids, Monks, Rogues, Shamans, and Hunters.

Blacksmithing is used to create powerful Plate armor used by Death Knights, Paladins, and Warriors.


While being able to create armor through professions may be convenient at times, it is not the only way to acquire armor. Choosing a profession that creates the armor type used by your class is just one of many options.
 Once you have decided on the 2 professions you want to choose, the next step is to actually learn them on your character. To learn a profession, you must speak to a profession trainer. Profession trainers are located in all major cities, including Stormwind for the Alliance and Orgrimmar for the Horde.
 Once you are in Stormwind or Orgrimmar, click on a town guard. A dialogue window will pop up asking what type of directions you are looking for.


Look for the “Profession Trainer” option and click on it. You will see a list of professions (e.g., Alchemy. Blacksmithing, Enchanting, etc).
Click on the profession you want to learn, and a flag will be placed on your map indicating the location of the trainer for that profession.
 A window will show up with a list of what you can learn from the trainer.


For example, if you are looking at an Engineering trainer, you will see an option called “Apprentice Engineer,” or if you are looking at a Blacksmithing trainer, there will be an option called “Apprentice Blacksmith.”

, Select on the appropriate option, then at the bottom of the window, click on the button that says “Train.” You have now learned the profession.

