 GrouponGetaways is an affiliate of Groupon that advertises deep discounts on vacation packages, as long as a certain amount, such as 10, are purchased, and you purchase them within a 24 hours to a week of when they are advertised.


GrouponGetaways offers a large amount of vacation packages to the Western Caribbean region. However, there are some restrictions, so read the fine print before you purchase. Most of these deals do not include airfare.
 The advantage of these sites is that they allow you to mix services from different airlines, hotels and car rental agencies, which can reduce your price, layovers and purchases.


You can also click on the "Last Minute Deals" section on each of these sites, and they will show you prices that have just dropped for travel within the next month. Choose either the Caribbean regions if you are looking for a cruise, or choose the specific destination in the drop down menus, to look at the last minute deals that are being offered.
 If you already have a membership to Costco, they may provide excellent "all-inclusive" offers to Caribbean islands, or good deals on cruises.


All-inclusive is a vacation package term used when all meals, and even some drinks, are paid for in your package. An all-inclusive package is ideal for families or people looking to stay in a resort for most of their stay. It is not recommended for people who will want to do a lot of sight-seeing and eat at local restaurants.
 You can look directly on the cruise line's websites, on airline websites, on travel aggregate websites and on cruise deal websites, such as cruises.com, vacationstogo.com or cruisedeals.com. After choosing the region of the Caribbean that you want to travel to, you should make a chart to show how much flights are to the cruise departure port, the cost for the cruise, the cost for excursions and whether the site features an on-board credit.


All of these sites offer good Caribbean travel deals, depending upon the time of year, the number of cabins they have available and the agreements they have with the cruise line. Make sure to at least check the cruise ship's website before you go with a cruise deal website. They often offer better perks or upgrades for booking directly. You may also need to call the cruise company to get last minute pricing.
 You can list how many adults, seniors and children you have in your group, so that you can customize your package. Compare these prices to what you see on a travel aggregate site, and make note if the packages are all-inclusive or not.

