 Anchors are available in several types. Those commonly used for fishing boats include the following:


Plow-style: This anchor is so named because it resembles a farming plow and gets its holding power from plowing into sediment on the lake or river bottom.
Danforth: This anchor has 2 thick, pointed flukes that dig into the bottom to give it its holding power. (Because of its design, the Danforth is also known as a fluke anchor.)
Mushroom: This anchor features a round, heavy bottom with a continuous lip and is so named because it resembles a large mushroom. Its holding power comes primarily from how its weight is distributed. It is best suited for smaller boats and not suited for anchoring in choppy water.
 Use a length of 3 to 6 feet (0.9 to 1.8 m). The chain will stand up to wear and tear caused by rock, sand, mud, or brush better than a fiber line.
 This line will stretch and contract as waves lift and lower the boat while it's anchored, absorbing the shock. You'll need to purchase enough line so that you can pay out 5 to 7 times the depth of the water you're fishing in plus the distance from the anchor cleat to the water's surface. If you're fishing in 18 feet (5.4 m) of water and the anchor cleat is 2 feet (0.6 m) above the surface, you'll need to pay out from 100 to 140 feet (30 to 42 m) of anchor line to cover the 20 feet (6 m) from the cleat to the lake or river bottom.


The best way to store the anchor line until needed is on a windlass near where you normally sit when fishing or operating the boat with guides to keep the line between the bow cleat and windlass next to the gunwale. Some windlasses feature a hand crank with a quick release feature for lowering the anchor.
 The ideal place should be away from other boats, out of the wind, and away from current.
 A depth sounder can help you find how deep the water is and also help determine whether the bottom is sandy, muddy, or rocky, coupled with your observation of the nearest shoreline.
,,,


Once you have set the anchor, find landmarks to establish your position and check these periodically to make sure your boat isn't drifting.
Some anglers use both a bow and a stern anchor. If you choose to do this, always set the bow anchor first, and never use the stern anchor alone; if you do, you risk swamping and capsizing your boat.

