 If you adopted your dog or purchased it from a breeder, you may not have too much control over the initial training schedule. However, it is best to start training your puppy prior to 9 weeks, if possible. This is a crucial time for socializing with other puppies and humans. It is also a good time to introduce some of the rules of self-control, such as refraining from jumping or biting.Old dogs can learn new tricks, however. You’ll just need to be patient and methodical in how you introduce any desired changes.
It might be helpful to choose one trick or behavior to focus on before moving on to something new. For example, you can work on teaching your dog how to sit. Or, maybe you'd like your dog to stop jumping on others.
 Some breeds, such as border collies, are highly intelligent and require daily stimulation. If you fail to give them that attention, then they will find trouble elsewhere. If your dog is an active breed and begins to act in an unruly way, you may want to add in a few extra play sessions somewhere., Place your dog in scenarios where they can ‘win.’ This gives them the best possible chance to behave in a good way and reap the rewards. This will also reduce your stress as well, as you can simply watch them behave in a good way. For example, you might close doors in your home so that your dog’s unsupervised time is limited.Or, if your dog is afraid of loud noises, you might be careful when planning trips outdoors.
 Search your city and “dog obedience” to find classes in your area. This is a good way to teach your dog new skills or to reinforce lessons that they have learned, but forgotten. You can also look for a class that will address specific behavioral problems, such as biting or jumping.
 No matter how frustrated you become, do not hit or strike your dog. This will only make your dog fear you and can prompt a whole new host of problem behaviors. Instead, take a deep breath and think about what you would like to happen differently in the future. Then, make sure to be consistent in establishing rules for your dog to follow., With all of this effort and training, you may forget the joys of interacting with and owning your dog. That’s why it is important to sometimes simply relax with your pet without an ulterior motive. Lay on the couch and cuddle during a movie. Or, go outside a play a relaxed game of ball.It may also help to post happy, positive photos of you and your dog around your home. This will remind you of the potential that is there.

