 Many people mix up having a moral purpose with having religion. While religion certainly helps many people find meaning and purpose in life, it is not essential for someone to live a meaningful life.


There is no absolute meaning to life. Every person creates meaning from their own lives. Life means something different to everyone.The meaning of your life should be what you believe your life is ultimately building towards.
Do you want to dedicate your life solely to getting rich, or do you believe life should include helping others in some way?
You may find that living a life of integrity and strong moral character can give life meaning in itself. However, this is something that only you can decide for yourself.
If you believe religion can help you find your purpose in life, then pursue it. Find a religion that speaks to you, do some research online, and join a congregation near you.
 Once you've identified what you believe is the meaning of your life, you'll need to step back and honestly assess whether you're living in a way that serves that purpose. You may find that you're well on your way, or you may realize that there is room for improvement.Be honest and critical in your assessment. If there's room for improvement, acknowledge it.
If you haven't been living in a way that serves your purpose, that's okay. The important thing is recognizing this and making changes going forward.
If you currently spend any of your time, money, or efforts thinking about or actively working towards your identified purpose in life, then you're already on your way to living with meaning.
 When you live with mindfulness, you are aware of your purpose in life and you actively try to demonstrate integrity. Mindfulness requires you to be conscious of the way you think, speak, and behave every day, and to work towards carrying out those activities in a more meaningful way.Focus on your senses. Think about the way things look, sound, smell, feel, and taste, and try to be aware of your reaction to all of that sensory information.
Concentrate on your breath. Breathing mindfully, being aware of the sensation of each inhalation and exhalation, can help you remain focused and in the present moment.
Try meditation. Meditating, whether through mindful breathing or mantra recitation, can help you gain a deeper awareness of your thoughts and your actions every day.
Consider exploring religion. Not everyone needs religion, but many people find it gives their lives greater purpose and a sense of morality.
You can find meditation and mindfulness classes in your community by searching online. You can also find information about religious organizations near you by searching the internet or by talking to practitioners you know.

