 Before you file a charge, you will need evidence to support your claim of ethnic discrimination.You may want to consider keeping a diary or journal in which you write down the details of incidents – particularly if the discrimination is an ongoing thing. This will allow you to keep dates and details straight because you wrote them down when they were still fresh in your mind.
National origin harassment and discrimination can include differential treatment or derogatory remarks made about your home country, ethnicity, or accent.
For example, if your supervisor tells you that you should stay in the back rather than assisting customers because he doesn't want to lose a sale when people are afraid of your Arab features and accent, that would constitute ethnic discrimination.
You also should collect any written documents or physical evidence of the discrimination you're experiencing.;
, Typically you must give your employer an opportunity to address your problem before you submit a charge to the EEOC.Put your notification in writing so you have proof that you told your employer about it. Include as many details as possible about the instances of discrimination you are experiencing, such as the dates, times, and locations where incidents occurred and the names of employees who were involved or present.
State that you consider the incidents you described to be illegal ethnic discrimination and that you are protecting your rights under state and federal law.
If you don't feel comfortable bringing the problem to your employer's attention before filing a charge, you should be prepared to explain why when you talk to an EEOC agent.
Federal law requires you to file a charge within 180 days from the date the most recent discriminatory act occurred, so if your employer is dragging his or her feet, you should go ahead and look into filing a charge., If you decide to file a charge against your employer with the EEOC or your state's workplace discrimination agency, you must first make sure you meet the requirements to do so.While federal anti-discrimination laws apply to businesses with at least 15 employees who have worked at least 20 calendar weeks in a year, state laws typically cover smaller employers.
The EEOC has an online assessment tool at https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/ that you can use to easily determine whether you meet federal eligibility requirements.
 The EEOC has a three-page intake questionnaire for you to provide details about yourself, your employer, and the discrimination you've experienced.If you are eligible to file a charge with both state and federal agencies, contact your state agency and find out if it has a dual-filing program. Many states will file your charge with the EEOC for you if you file a charge with the state agency first.
You can download the EEOC's questionnaire at https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/uniformintakequestionnaire09.pdf and fill it out on your computer, or pick up a paper form at any of the EEOC's field offices.
 Although you can fill out your application on your computer, you still must print it up and take it to an EEOC field office to file your charge.To locate the EEOC field office nearest you, check the EEOC's map at http://www.eeoc.gov/field/index.cfm.
The EEOC has 53 field offices, but the closest one to you still may require you to travel quite a distance. If it's too far away, call the office and explain that you want to mail your charge. An agent will assist you to ensure your charge is received before the deadline lapses.
 Once the agency receives your charge, an EEOC agent will contact you to discuss the discrimination you've experienced and how the agency will proceed.If you mailed your questionnaire, you may receive a phone call from an EEOC agent, or the agent assigned to your charge may mail you a list of questions to answer.
However, if you take your questionnaire into the field office in person, you typically can complete your interview the same day.
 The agency will send a copy of your charge to your employer within 10 days after your interview, along with a notice describing the agency's action.Typically the EEOC either sends you and your employer to mediation or assigns your charge to an investigator. If your charge is assigned to an investigator, your employer must submit a written response to your charge.
You typically must complete the mediation or investigation process before you can file a lawsuit in court.
The EEOC will give you a right-to-sue notice if it finds no violation. You also will receive a right-to-sue notice if the agency finds a violation but you and your employer are unable to reach a settlement through mediation and the EEOC's legal team declines to file a lawsuit on your behalf.
The EEOC generally has 180 days to investigate your charge. At any time before that point you can request a right-to-sue notice. However, the agency won't give you one unless the agent believes the investigation is unlikely to be completed within that 180-day period.
 After you get a right-to-sue letter from the EEOC, contact an attorney who is licensed in your area and has experience representing employees in discrimination cases.Most employment discrimination attorneys will work on a contingency fee basis, so there's no need to worry about out-of-pocket expenses when hiring an attorney.
In ethnic discrimination cases, you might feel more comfortable hiring an attorney who shares the same ethnic background as you. If there are nonprofit organizations in your area that advocate for your ethnic group, you might want to start your search there.
You also can search for attorneys by going to the website of your state or local bar association. Many have an attorney referral service that will match you with an attorney who has experience in your type of claim if you answer a few quick questions or provide a brief description of your case.
Try to interview several attorneys before you hire one. Ask each attorney how many employment discrimination cases they've litigated and what their track record is – particularly with cases similar to yours.
Since different types of discrimination can involve different issues and arguments, look for an attorney who has experience successfully representing plaintiffs in situations like yours.
 Before your attorney drafts your complaint to initiate your lawsuit, he or she will need all the details you have about the discrimination you've experienced and the people involved.


You can start by providing your attorney all the information you provided to the EEOC when you filed your charge. If you have copies of your intake questionnaire or other documents you submitted to the EEOC, you should provide those as well.
Once your attorney has the necessary information, he or she will draft your complaint and go over it with you to make sure you understand it before you sign.
Your complaint will have information about you and your employer, as well as a list of facts that constitute your allegations and how they add up to a violation of federal anti-discrimination laws.The last part of your complaint will describe the injuries or losses you've suffered as a result of the discrimination and the amount of monetary damages or other relief to which you believe you are entitled as a result.
 You will initiate your lawsuit by filing your complaint and any other required paperwork with the clerk of the court you want to hear your case.Although you can file your complaint by taking it to the clerk's office in person, the federal courts provide the option of filing a complaint electronically. This is typically the method your attorney will use.
When your complaint is filed, the court will charge a filing fee of $400. Your attorney will pay this amount and add it to the costs of your lawsuit, which will be deducted from your award or settlement.
The clerk will assign your case to a judge and give it a unique case number which will be used to identify your case on all subsequent documents filed with the court.
 You must provide your employer with a copy of your complaint and a summons to appear in court using a legally recognized method.After you've filed your complaint, you have 120 days to complete service under federal rules.
In federal court, a complaint typically is hand-delivered by a U.S. Marshal. The Marshal then completes a proof of service form to file with the court.
 Your employer will have 21 days from the date your complaint is served to file an answer or other motion in response to your complaint.If that deadline passes and your employer doesn't file a response, you may be eligible for a default judgment – but don't expect that to happen. The fact that your case has proceeded to this point indicates your employer probably will fight back.
Don't be surprised if your employer responds to your complaint with a motion to dismiss. Such a motion typically means your attorney will work with you to file a response, and then you'll have to attend a hearing where the judge will determine if your case can proceed.
Your employer's answer typically will include denials of most, if not all, of your allegations. It also may include other defenses your employer claims apply to the situation. While you will have to prove that each of your allegations are more likely than not to be true, your employer will be responsible for proving any defenses.
 Your employer may attempt to settle the lawsuit at any point during litigation of your lawsuit, including immediately after your complaint is served.When your employer makes a settlement offer, your attorney will notify you and give you the opportunity to review it. While he or she may offer you advice, you have the final decision on whether to accept the settlement.
Take into consideration the time, effort, and expense that will go into pursuing your case to trial when you're evaluating any settlement offer. While it may be less than you asked for in your lawsuit, it may end up being more than you would actually get if you went to trial.
Since your attorney is working on contingency, his or her fees as well as any costs your lawsuit has accrued up to that point will be taken off the top. Your attorney should provide you with a breakdown of the settlement and how the proceeds will be distributed.
 Assuming you haven't already accepted a settlement offer, your case will proceed through the discovery phase, in which you and your employer exchange documents and evidence related to your claim.Interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for production are referred to as written discovery because they involve answering written questions in writing or producing written documents for the other side to read and analyze.
In an ethnic discrimination case, you can request your employer produce copies of any documents related to your complaint and its own investigation into the incident, as well as any other communication related to your claim.
You also can request copies of personnel and other employment documents that might shed light on your employer's knowledge and handling of your claim.
Depositions are another discovery method in which attorneys interview parties or witnesses to the case under oath. These interviews are recorded by a court reporter, who creates a written transcript for future reference.
Depositions can be extremely important in ethnic discrimination cases. Your attorney can depose your employer, co-workers, and others to find out exactly how your situation was handled, whether your employer took your complaints seriously, and how pervasive discriminatory attitudes are in your workplace.
 Throughout the period before trial, expect the court to hold numerous hearings and conferences regarding various aspects of your case.The judge will hold a number of scheduling conferences, often over the phone. These conferences establish deadlines for various phases of litigation and ensure the litigation is proceeding according to schedule. Typically only attorneys attend these conferences.
You may have to attend hearings in court for motions that impact the allegations that will be addressed at trial. Other motions that relate solely to court procedure typically are decided by the judge without a hearing.
 Even though you may have already been through the process with the EEOC, some courts may require you to go through the mediation process before your case will be set for trial.The court may assign you a mediator, or provide you a list of court-approved mediators from which to choose. Each mediator is a neutral and objective third party with knowledge of the issues involved in discrimination cases. They are trained in dispute resolution and may be attorneys themselves.
At this stage, mediation should be significantly different than it was with the EEOC, since both you and your employer have a lot more information about your claim and the discrimination you experienced.
Any agreement you reach through mediation will be written up by the mediator, and typically must be approved by the judge.
If you are unable to reach a settlement through mediation, you will need to work with your attorney to develop a trial strategy and prepare for trial.

