 Come up with something about how it has been lovely talking but you really need to either say your piece, or perhaps leave now.


For example: "It has been so good to learn everything you've had to say Sally but I'm really pressed for time now, and I do have to let you know that X and then I have to go. Do you mind if I just quickly explain this, then bolt off? We can catch again another day.";
, In some cases, it's okay to just say "see ya" and take off or go into your own world. Are you out grocery shopping, getting your nails done, walking the dog down the street or sitting in your house when a neighbor comes over? If you were or are doing any of these things, it is alright to completely get up and walk away or just make a gesture that you've heard but you're now concentrating on something.
 If the person keeps talking without taking a break or letting you have say, stop caring whether or not they are in the middle of talking. All these things are “me time” situations. This gives you the right to not listen and continue your day.
 Show that it's time to wind up the discussion with some well known gestures aimed at identifying that enough is enough.


Start to tap your watch. Maybe the person will see that you are pressed for time.
In the middle of the conversation, just start yawning and looking away. Do this every five minutes. This clues the person that you are tired and need some rest.
 Make sure the person does not follow you. If this happens, you’re on your own. Now they have become stalkers!

, This is actually the fun part. You can be creative. You can say things like; “I’m late to salsa class”, “I forgot to make my bed”, “It’s time for me to juice my grapes”.
 to the person talking. You have had enough so they have earned such abruptness when they simply won't stop. Once they finished being shocked and realized what you've done, then either apologize for being a but too brusque or even stand up to make a move to go away. Either way, it will make them think twice next time about ear-bashing you, knowing how it affects you.


A less bossy way could be to infer that they are just talking too much by making a statement such as: "The quieter you become, the more you can hear." Or "Shhh, can you hear that? It's the sound of just being."
If the person has been gossiping, some curt lines include: "If you can't be kind/positive, at least be quiet." Or, "So much to say about the same issue! It suggests to me you really aren't as blameless as you're insisting." Or, "If it's not your story, then don't tell it."
If you're feeling totally fed up and mean, opine: "The secret to being boring is to say everything." Just be aware that it's likely to cause the other person to be shocked.
 Ask them if they would mind taking their conversation somewhere else in the room, where it's permitted, or to talk quietly.
 Only do this if they respect you; a bullying or bossy type will just think this is hilarious.
 If a person refuses to be quiet in a library or other quiet space, draw this to the attention of those in charge of the place. They'll enforce quiet rules for you.
 Most people don't mean to talk loudly, and some people don't realize how much the sound carries.

