 If you allow yourself to focus on revenge, you'll be dragging around the pain of this situation for years to come. Instead, accept that pain is an inevitable consequence of your current situation.As you move forward, you'll be able to learn from your experience, and grow as a person.
Work towards feeling compassion toward the person who's disappointed you. Though you may not understand the other person's decisions, you can try to accept them.
 If it helps, use daily affirmations, or post reminders in areas you're likely to see them. Just because you've been in love with the wrong person, or have been frustrated because it's the wrong time to develop a relationship, doesn't mean that you don't have value. Remember, your life is made up of a series of experiences and encounters, not just this one.You are exactly the right person at the right time, for someone else.
You may find that you're able to use this experience in rejection as a lesson in finding the right person for you.
 When you’re in love with the wrong person, it’s easy to feel sorry for yourself. It’s a sad situation, and feelings of self-pity can provide a temporary solace. The first step is to decide that you’re going to implement a zero tolerance policy towards self-pity in your life.If you notice feelings of self-pity creeping in, remind yourself of something that you feel good about.
You’ll probably slip into self-pity as you try to quit, because of ingrained patterns of thinking. Don’t get angry at yourself; just notice when this happens, and turn your attention to something more positive.
When you start to realize that self-pity isn’t a solution to your problem, you’re ready to try new things.
 Forcing yourself to pay attention to the good things in your life which you might otherwise take for granted will help you counter your feelings of sadness. The best practices in keeping a gratitude journal include writing in detail about particular people you’re grateful for, and recording events which were surprising or unexpected.Write without worrying about the quality of your writing in a gratitude journal. You can write in complete sentences, or you can just jot down a couple of words, ideas, or images.
When you’re feeling overwhelmed by negative feelings, writing a list of things that you’re grateful for can help turn your attention to more positive things.
You can read through your gratitude journal to give yourself a boost any time. After all, no matter how hard your life might feel at the moment, there are always things to be happy about.

