 If you push yourself, you are also likely to infect friends, family and co-workers, as well as risk become worse by running down immune system.


It can be tough, but if you need to, take a day off from work. Keep your kids home from school as well. Their teacher and all the other parents will appreciate it!
Virus's are often spread through droplets sprayed by coughing. Make sure you or your child always cover your mouth when you cough. Try to cough into the crook of your elbow and wash your hands immediately if you cough into them.;
, Use a vaporizer or take hot, steamy showers. You can also leave bowls of water around the house, especially near sources of heat, so that the water evaporates into the air.
 Drink water, water, and then more water. You can add honey and lemon (another source of Vitamin C), and warm up the water. Other fluids can include tea, juices, and clear chicken or vegetable broths. While you should try to keep hydrated at all times, it's even more important when you have a cold. If you have a dry cough, you want to moisturize that cough.


At a minimum, try to drink eight to 10 8-ounce glasses of water a day.
Try drinking green tea, as it contains antioxidants.
 Try to eat small amounts of easily digestible food. Avoid greasy and heavy foods. You want to give your immune system enough energy to fight off the illness, so you will need to eat these meals frequently. Include quality protein, such as fish and skinless poultry, as well as complex carbohydrates. Some good foods to eat when you are sick include:


Hot cereal, such as oatmeal: Adding a pinch of cayenne pepper can help break up the mucus and increase drainage.
Yogurt: the active bacterial cultures can boost your gut bacteria and boost your immune system at the same time.
Foods rich in Vitamin C and antioxidants: Foods that have high levels of Vitamin C include red peppers, oranges, berries (like blueberries, strawberries, raspberries) and leafy green vegetables.
Foods rich in beta-carotene and vitamin A: These include any yellow or orange food, including carrots, squash and sweet potatoes.
Chicken soup: Keep it light with brown rice and a few easily digestible vegetables, such as spinach, peas, carrots, celery, or summer squash.
 Salt water will have little effect on your cough, but it can soothe a sore throat, which may accompany a cough. Add 1 teaspoon of salt (table salt or sea salt both work fine) to about 6-ounces of warm water. Stir to dissolve the salt and then gargle with it.


Don’t swallow! Just gargle and spit it out.
The salt water does at least two things: First, the salt helps reduce any swelling in your throat, making a cough less likely. Second, the sea salt can help supply various minerals that can be useful for the immune system (zinc, selenium, magnesium).
 Coughing is the body’s natural way of literally getting rid of the virus or other pathogen. Coughing also gets rid of the phlegm (mucus) that builds up during an infection or as a reaction to an irritant. So, it is generally best not to suppress a cough and to let your body get rid of the virus and fluids that are making your life miserable.


On the other hand, the reality is that coughing can really affect your well-being. In some cases, coughing won’t let you sleep and causes it to hurt when you breathe. If this is the case, it's probably a good time to consider a cough suppressant.

