 Whisk the flour, yeast, and salt in a large bowl. Add the water, beer, and vinegar.


Fold the mixture with a rubber spatula. Use the spatula to scrape off the dry flour from the bottom of the bowl until a raggedy ball forms.
 Allow the dough to sit at room temperature for 8 to 18 hours. If leaving it overnight, take care not to leave near an open window if there is a cold breeze., Place the sheet of parchment paper inside the skillet, and spray the top of the paper with non-stick cooking spray., Knead lightly 10 to 15 times. There is no need to knead it beyond this amount., Do this by pulling the edges into the middle and creating a seam where the edges meet. Gently push the ball together.

Remove the dough ball from the work surface and place it onto the parchment-lined skillet. Place it seam-side down. Spray the surface of the dough with non-stick cooking spray.
Cover the dough ball loosely with plastic food wrap.
Leave the dough to rise for about 2 hours, until it doubles in size, and doesn't spring back when poked with your finger.
 About 30 minutes before baking, put the oven rack in the lowest position. Place the Dutch oven (with lid) on the rack. Preheat the oven to 500ºF (260ºC)., Make a slit in the dough; take a razor blade and make a 6 inches (15.2cm) long and 1/2 inch (1.27cm) deep slit along the top of the dough.







Another variation is to make a cross when slitting, as seen in this image.
 Lift out the pot from the oven with care (wear oven mitts), and remove the lid (keep your mitts on).

Pick up the dough by lifting the parchment paper from its opposite edges. Lower the dough into the pot gently and fold down any overlapping pieces of parchment paper over the pot's edge. Replace the lid and put the bread dough into the oven.
 Bake the bread for 30 minutes with the lid sitting in place on the Dutch oven.







After 30 minutes, remove the lid. This will allow the top of the bread to brown. Continue baking until you can see a deep-brown color. You can also test the center of the dough with a cooking thermometer – the bread is ready at 210ºF (99ºC) in the center. This will take another 15 to 30 minutes.
 Remove the bread from the pot and allow to cool on a wire cooling rack.







Leave it to cool completely on the rack. It will reach room temperature in about 2 hours.




 Marmalade makes a delicious choice

Serve with butter or other spread as wished.
 You'll need:

300 g flour
9 g kosher salt
5 g powdered yeast
1/4 quarter cup (or small handful) of flax meal or wheat germ
A handful of brown sugar
A big pinch of each dried thyme and dried rosemary
200ml water.;
, A cover is nice - but you could use plastic wrap, a damp towel or even place the whole bowl in a plastic bag.,, Mix wet and dry - all you are trying to do is to get all the flour incorporated in the dough. Pretty doesn't count., Short is still not bad., It needs a top to hold in steam. Spray oil on the top and bottom., Work in the surface flour (adding as necessary). When done, make a ball and place in the baking pan., Minimum is doubled in size but could be 4x size for lighter bread., Set at 425ºF.,, Spray mist the oven with water. Set the timer for another 15 minutes., Let cool for 1 hour. Don't burn yourself., Spread with butter. Congratulate yourself and decide with whom you will share the rest of this loaf.