 To keep hair from getting on the squirrel meat, wet down the fur. Do this by either placing the squirrel in a bucket of water, or dousing the squirrel with a hose.;
, Lay the squirrel belly-down on a flat surface. Using a sharp knife or razor blade to cut a horizontal slit 1.5 inches (~4 cm) beneath the base of the squirrel's tail. This slit will be below the anus running horizontally across the butt. The incision should be shallow, only deep enough to penetrate the skin, not the underlying flesh.


Leave the tail intact, you will use it later to help remove the pelt.
 Holding the squirrel, carefully extend the original incision along the back of the hind legs (rump). The incisions should be shallow, only deep enough to penetrate the skin, not the underlying flesh. You will now have a long incision running up the back of both legs and across the butt, under the tail and anus.
 Rest the squirrel on a flat surface that is clear of dirt and leaves. Grab hold of the hind legs, step on the tail and pull the squirrel out of its skin by its hind legs. Think of removing the skin as you would a sweater. The pelt should come off the torso in one piece. Stop when you get to the front legs.
 Holding the squirrel by the tail, separate the pelt from the flesh of the the hind legs. To do this work your fingers under the pelt and separate the muscle from the skin. This can take a little time, just be persistent. Do not try to speed up the process by using a tool. A tool is more likely to damage the skin, just use your fingers.
 Separate the pelt from the flesh of the the front legs. To do this work your fingers under the pelt and separate the muscle from the skin. This can take a little time, just be persistent. Do not try to speed up the process by using a tool. A tool is more likely to damage the skin, just use your fingers.
 Continue to pull the pelt until its around the squirrel's neck.
 Use a sharp and sturdy knife to slice through the muscle and ligaments of the hands, feet and head of the squirrel. Then with your hands twist and crack off the appendages. You may find pliers helpful for removing the hands, feet or head. Do not try to cut through the bone. This will dull your knife and splinter bone into the meat.
 Next gut it.

