 A simple once-over on your bike should be enough. You should always be prepared for long rides with food, water, and a spare tube. If you don't know how to change a tire, practice one in the safety of your garage before heading out. Right before you get on your bike, check out:



Wheels: Push your tires-- they should be firm. Grip the spokes and make sure they don't bend or feel loose. Spin them and make sure they don't rub against the brakes.

Chain: Rub it with your finger -- a small amount of oil should come off. If not, you should clean and lube your chain.


Brakes: Spin a wheel, then pull the brakes, making sure they stop the wheel instantly., In a perfect world, your feet will be moving at the exact same speed the entire ride, making the same number of revolutions per minute (RPMs) for the entire ride. While this isn't practical, nor advisable in a race, the general principle is the same -- you want to shift so that your feet keep moving freely, not speeding up and slowing down constantly. You'll save energy and keep a more consistent, even pace this way, which is essential over long rides.


You want to aim for 80-90 RPM, meaning your foot makes one and a half full rotations every second.
You want to shift before a hill gets difficult, shifting slowly so that your feet can keep moving at the same pace., Learning to descend a hill safely, but quickly, is essential to conserve momentum and shave minutes off of your time. Keep your body loose and relaxed to react quickly to turns or potholes. Grab the drop bars to decrease air resistance. If there are no turns coming, avoid braking -- you'll just lose speed you have to pedal to get back. If there is a turn:


Brake to your comfortable speed before the turn comes -- you don't want to be slowing down as you hit it.
Shift into a middle gear -- easy enough to pedal quickly but hard enough that you get some speed on the way out of the turn.
Put some weight on the outside pedal (it should be down) and lean your body slightly into the turn. If you're nervous, practice this skill on flat turns first.
Stand up and pedal hard out of the turn for 3-4 seconds to regain speed, then lower back to the drop bars., You want to shift before the climb, just as it is getting difficult, to keep your legs pumping at an even, maintainable speed. You'll likely drop some RPMs, ending up around 70-80, but the goal is a consistent speed that doesn't immediately tire you out. You have the low gears for a reason -- you'll be faster sticking to one of them than trying to slog up in a heavy gear and shift later on.There is nothing wrong with standing at the end of a climb -- it shifts the muscles you're using for a quick burst of power. Standing, however, is much more intense on your lungs than seated riding, so save it for the last push of the hill.
 Riding in a pack is a skill by itself, but all it really requires is careful attention. Only ride as close to another rider as you feel comfortable. On hills, either up or down, spread out into smaller clumps of 2-3 riders, minimizing the chance for massive, dramatic pile-ups.


Always pay attention to your front wheel. If you want to chat and enjoy the scenery, give some distance or ride side-by-side.
If you're near the front of a group, call out any potholes, sticks, or broken glass in advance and point out its location. Many riders behind you, especially those focused on your back wheel, won't see the dangers until it is too late if you aren't vocal., "Bonking," is the not-so-technical term for running out of energy mid-ride, and it hits many riders who don't come prepared. In general, you should have a full water bottle for every hour you're riding, and you should have some sort of snack if you plan on going longer than an hour and a half. If you're doing a long ride, have a some food once or twice every hour and stop at gas stations to refill your bottles. Something with quick sugars, a little bit of protein, and a very little far is perfect, and sports drinks make good substitutes for shorter rides. Good, portable choices include:


Apples and bananas.
PBJ sandwich
Bag of low-sugar cereal or granola.
Packet of Fig Newtons, crackers, or pretzels.
Energy bars, gels, and beans.