 Cold or stormy weather can worsen conditions like arthritis. Just prior to the start of winter or a cooler season, take your dog to the vet, especially if your dog is older or has a history of arthritis or other joint issues. Ask the vet for any necessary medications or advice about your dog’s specific needs., When keeping your dog warm during extreme cold, think about how comfortable you’d be in a given temperature for a prolonged period of time. If you wouldn’t be comfortable outside, it’s probably too cold for your dog.Try to avoid long walks during extreme cold. Consider taking your dog out more frequently if it’s an active breed and requires a significant amount of exercise, but limit walks to around 15 minutes.
If you do let your dog play in the yard during cold weather, make sure it can access a draft-free shelter. Provide an insulated doghouse, and cover its floor with wood shavings, hay, or a blanket., Avoid longer walks during extreme cold, especially if you have a short-haired dog. Clothe your short-haired dog before going outside in a breed-specific, snugly fitting garment. While being sure it fits well enough to provide warmth, make sure it doesn’t restrict your dog’s movement.It’s best to avoid sweaters or jackets with full sleeves, as these get in the way of a dog’s natural gait.
 Cold temperatures can lead to cracked or irritated paws, so check them daily during cold spells. Use a wet towel to wipe your dog’s paws and belly after each walk to remove salt or chemical deicers, then dry these areas off using another towel.Consider applying petroleum jelly or using booties to keep your dog’s paws free from irritation and help prevent salt or chemical buildup.
 Bathing a dog too frequently during periods of cold weather can remove oils necessary for keeping its skin and coat healthy. This can lead to dry, flaky, and irritated skin.Bathe your dog only when absolutely necessary during extreme cold. Consider investing in a moisturizing shampoo if you do need to give it a bath. Ask your dog’s vet if they recommend a moisturizing cream or rinse if you notice your dog scratching excessively or see flakes or red patches.

