 After enough time has passed and you feel that you both got some perspective, you should start giving your ex the opportunity to see you having a great time. Starting going to the parties where he goes, or run into him with a friend at his favorite coffee shop or bar. Don't be too obvious about it, but let him see you with your other friends and remember how much fun it is to hang out with you.


If you know you'll see him, look your best without being too obvious that you're dressing up for him.

When you do run into him, greet him with a smile and a surprised look -- you were so busy having fun that you didn't even think about the possibility of him being around.
 This doesn't work for everyone, but if you think that having your ex see you with another guy, or just flirting with a group of guys, will make him want to be around you even more than go for it. This doesn't mean you should get another boyfriend just to make him jealous. Just let him see you flirting, tossing your hair back, or even getting on the dance floor with another guy or two.


Don't go too far with this one. If he thinks you're actually dating someone else, he may back off. Or who knows -- that might make him want you even more.
 Without being too obvious, post some photos of you having a great time with your friends, you at the beach, or even you hanging out with a few guys. This will make your ex remember how great you look and feel sad that he doesn't hang out with you anymore. Don't post anything too often -- just once or twice a week to remind him of how amazing you are.


Pick a time when you know he's likely to be online -- if you know his schedule, you'll have a sense of when he's most likely to look at your pics.
 Start making your relationship a bit more friendly. Move on from the casual hello to a short conversation, and then even stick around and chat with him for ten or even twenty minutes. Make sure you always say goodbye first, though, and don't make him linger longer than he wants to. This will make him even more sad to see you go. Then, wait for him to ask you to grab a coffee, or be bold and ask him for a drink.


Don't give him any sign that you want to date him again. Just be really amazing and friendly, and he'll want to be with you again.
 As you start hanging out maybe once, or twice a week, let him see that whatever quality he didn't like about you or your relationship is no longer there. If he thought you never listened to him, give him a chance to talk more. If he thought you were too clingy, let him see how independent you've become.


Don't be too obvious about it. Don't say, "Don't you see how I'm no longer jealous when you talk to other girls?" Instead, just don't look jealous when he talks to other girls, and he'll figure out the rest.
 If your ex wants to get back with you, you'll know. How did you know that he wanted you the first time? It's likely that he'll be sending similar signals your way. If he flirts with you, tells you that you look nice, lightly touches you, or just always asks what you're up to or if you're seeing anyone else, then yeah, he probably wants you back.


Look at his body language. Does he make eye contact, try to stand close to you, and does his face light up with you walk in the room? If so, then he may want you back.
If he just wants to keep you in the Friend Zone, then he won't act affectionate or loving towards you.
Check out his Facebook or try to find out if he's seeing someone from mutual friends without being too obvious about it. He may be seeing someone else and is just talking to you to be nice or because he wants to be friends.
 If your ex starts to flirt with you and picks up on the fact that you want him again, he may just ask you out again if he's feeling it too. Or if you think he's liking hanging out with you again, you can just be bold and tell him how you feel, and then start dating him again if he feels the same way.


This time, take it easy. Don't see him more than a few times a week. Work on building a solid foundation instead of jumping right in where you left off.
Unless one problem in the relationship was your independence; you should be more independent than last time. Don't build your social schedule around your boyfriend's, and spend more time with friends or just doing your own thing.

