 Use a tool, like a knife or awl, to poke a small hole in the ends of plastic eggs. Feed fishing line through the holes in these eggs to string the eggs up and create hanging tree ornaments. Tie the end of the fishing line to a branch to hang the ornament.Tie a simple knot at the bottom end of your hanging tree ornaments to prevent the eggs from falling off the line. Be sure the knot is thick enough to prevent eggs from falling.
Hang several of these ornaments from trees throughout your yard. Avoid areas thick with branches; when the wind blows, your ornaments might get tangled.
If you live in a windy area, you might want to keep your hanging tree ornaments roughly the length of your forearm. Otherwise, the wind might whip the ornaments around dangerously.;
, Wicker baskets will break down when exposed to the elements, so avoid using these. Use brightly colored plastic baskets around your yard and in exposed areas. These will hold up to the elements best.


You can often find baskets like these at dollar stores, general retailers, thrift stores, and craft stores.
The baskets don’t have to be plastic, but they should be made of a weather resistant material.
 Around Easter time, inflatable Easter themed lawn ornaments are sold at most home centers and general retailers. You may be able to find cheaper priced versions of these at yard/garage sales and at thrift stores. Easter themed cutouts, like one of a large rabbit carrying a basket, can add a whimsical feeling to your Easter scene.


If store-bought decorations are outside your budget, draw a bunny shape on a piece of wood. Cut the shape out with a saw. Spray paint it black, and you have a homemade rabbit silhouette.Paint egg shaped rocks like Easter eggs. Use bright pastel colors. Arrange egg-rocks in groups or scatter them around your yard. , On a large piece of sturdy paper, like card stock, use a pencil to draw the top part of a carrot. Use markers or paint to color the top, leafy part of the carrot bright green. There should only be a small orange part of the carrot visible.Use a fastener, like tape or a tack, to attach your carrot to a wall on the outside of your home so that the carrot is close to the ground. This will make it look like the carrot is growing out of the ground.

