 Every state has different labor laws and ways of making employees aware of them. As an employer, you need to understand your state's law regarding the display of state-mandated labor law posters. To find out about your duties, contact your state's labor agency. If your business operates in multiple states, you may have different rules that apply to different offices. Each state will name their agency something different but a simple internet search should get you where you need to be (e.g., search for "labor agency").


In Minnesota, for example, it is called the Minnesota Department of Labor & Industry.In Texas, for example, it is called the Texas Workforce Commission.In Georgia, for example, it is called the Georgia Department of Labor.;
, Once you access your state's labor agency website, search for "workplace poster mandates" or something similar. Every state should have in-depth information regarding their specific requirements. If you are having trouble finding the information online, call the labor agency and ask for assistance. Each state will have different legal requirements pertaining to their state labor laws.


For example, in Minnesota, you have to post at least five separate posters. Each one should be at least 8.5" x 11". These posters provide information ranging from age discrimination to workers' compensation. The posters are free and can be printed from any computer. The posters do not need to be replaced annually unless the law changes. You can determine whether the law has changed by looking at the "updated" section of the poster page., Most states provide required posters free of charge. You can usually find PDF copies online on your state's labor agency website. Download them directly from the government website and print them out. Make sure you print out enough copies so they can be posted throughout your office as required. Minnesota, for example, even has a packet containing all the required posters. If your state offers this type of packet, simply download the packet and print the various posters.


Some states will offer different sizes to choose from. Simply pick the size that suits your need and download that one. There is no need to download or obtain both sizes.If you do not have access to a computer, you can order the posters by calling, emailing, or sending a letter to the labor agency directly. Make sure you include your name, address, and phone number to any request., Once you obtain the required posters, make sure you display them properly. Each state will have their own rules regarding how big the posters must be, where they must be posted, and how many must be posted. For example, in Texas, payday law posters must be posted "prominently in the workplace." If you take part in the Texas Workers' Compensation Program, a Notice of Ombudsman Program must be posted in the human resources office (if you have one), as well as in the workplace where each employee is likely to see the notice on a regular basis.As you can see, some posters only need to be posted once while others need to be posted multiple times. In addition, some posters can be posted almost anywhere while other posters need to be posted in specific offices. Make sure you know the posting requirements that go along with each poster.
 Every state will have a set of optional posters you can display in the workplace alongside the required ones.While these posters do not need to be posted, you should do so if possible. Making employees aware of their rights will increase their likeability of management and will put them on notice of certain rules. While some notices may benefit the employee, other notices may benefit you.


For example, while you might not be required to post information about equal employment opportunity laws, posting them may help employees understand exactly what employment discrimination entails. If your employees understand this information, they may be less likely to sue you for employment discrimination if they clearly understand the legal boundaries.
 Some legal notices do not need to be posted at all but instead must be provided to employees at certain times. Make sure you check with your state labor agency to determine if you have any notices you need to provide at any given time. For example, in Texas, you must notify your employees of the federal Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) each year no later than March 1st. If you are required to provide EITC notices, information and posters can be downloaded on the internal Revenue Service (IRS) website., In addition to displaying state required employee rights posters, the federal DOL also requires certain employers to display posters. The DOL operates an extensive website offering great information about the types of posters you are required to post in your workplace.


If you do not have access to a computer, you can call the DOL for information as well., The DOL offers an interactive online program that will walk you through your business's poster requirements. All you have to do is the elaws FirstStep Poster Advisor website and click on the "Begin First Step Poster Advisor Now" button. You will then be asked a series of questions about your business. The questions you are asked will vary depending on your answers. Once you finish answering the questions, the program will tell you what federal posters you are required to display., If you do not have access to the FirstStep Poster Advisor, you can search through the DOL's Workplace Poster Requirements Chart that will help you determine what you need to display. The chart provides a brief description of each type of poster, what employers must post it, and what the penalty is for failing to display it. You can simply scroll through the chart and determine which posters apply to you.


For example, the Job Safety and Health Protection poster must be displayed by all private employers engaged in a business affecting commerce. If a covered employer fails to display the poster, he or she can get citations and penalties.
In another example, the Notice Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act poster must be displayed by agricultural employers, agricultural associations, and farm labor contractors. If a covered employer fails to display the poster, a civil money penalty can be assessed., Once you know which posters you must display, you need to print them out and display them correctly in your place of business. In general, federal labor law rights posters must be displayed in conspicuous places where they are easily visible to all employees. Some posters (i.e., FMLA, EEO, and EPPA posters) are required to be posted where they can be seen by applicants for employment.In almost every instance, federal posters and notices must be offered in other languages upon request.Therefore, if an employee speaks Spanish and cannot understand the poster written in English, he or she may request a poster in Spanish.
 If you are a federal contractor (i.e., you do business with the federal government by offering goods or services) you are required to inform your employees about certain rights under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). The NLRA is the primary law governing relations between unions and employers. In Executive Order 13496, the President required federal agencies and departments to include contract provisions in all of their federal contracts that require contractors to post certain notices. However, collective bargaining agreements, contracts for certain purchases, and in cases where the Secretary of an agency exempts the agency, these provisions do not need to be included.Therefore, if you are a federal contractor, look through your contract to determine whether you have to abide by the following notice rules.
 If you are required to abide by the notice requirements set out in Executive Order 13496, your notices must contain your employees' rights to form, join, and support a union and to bargain collectively with their employer. The notice must provide examples improper employer and union conduct. In addition, the notice must provide information about how to contact the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), which is the federal agency that enforces the NLRA., Posters with the required content can be acquired from various federal offices. You can always get the posters from the federal agency or department you contract with. In addition, you can contact the DOL's Office of Labor-Management Standards or the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs.The posters should be given to you free of charge.
 Once you receive the proper posters, you must display the information conspicuously in and around your office so it is prominent and readily seen by your employees. If you have other notices (e.g., state and federal labor law rights posters), this notice should be placed alongside the other ones.


If you post your employee notices online (e.g., on your website or on employee web portals), this required notice must be posted along with a link to the Office of Labor-Management Standards website. Electronic posting is never a substitute for physical posting.
If some of your employees do not speak English, you will be required to provide those employees a copy in their preferential language. The Office of Labor-Management Standards will provide you with translated copies.