 Whether it's at school, a local Jewish community center, or even a personal tutor, doing this will make you much more committed to learning the language as well as understanding it better. If you live in Israel, you can enroll in multi-level immersion programs called "ulpan" or "ulpanim", where you live and breathe nothing but Hebrew.;
, Instead of listening to your regular radio station, listen to Israeli radio (perhaps on line), buy/download music in Hebrew, read easy books, etc.
 Disney has many books in Hebrew translation, such as Aladdin, Cinderella and Hercules. There are also many well known Israeli writers of children's literature to choose from such as Leah Goldberg.


You can purchase books at many locations throughout Israel. One convenient location is the book shop located in Jerusalem's Central Station, you see the store when going up the escalators.
Jewish Community Centres also often have libraries filled with Modern and Classical Hebrew books for children and adults of all ages.
 These two sounds are very important to Modern Hebrew's inherent sound system and are foreign to that of English.
 Hebrew, like other Semitic languages, are similar to many European languages (i.e. German, French, Italian, Spanish) in that they use gender for subjects and objects. Masculine words often have no special ending, while feminine words end with "it", "ot", or "ah".
 How are you? (towards a female)
Ma shlomcha? How are you? (towards a male)
Shalom - Hello/goodbye/peace
Ma nishma - What's up? (male/female)
Korim li ___ - My name is (literally, "they call me")
Ani ben (number) - I'm (number years) old (if you're male)
Ani bat (number) - I'm (number years) old (if you're female)
Ha Ivrit sheli lo kol kakh tova - My Hebrew isn't very good.
Ani meh ___ - I'm from ___
Todah (rabah) - Thank you (very much)
Bevakasha - Please/you're welcome
Eich korim lekha/lakh? - What's your name? (speaking to male/female)
Eifo ata gar?/ Eifo at garah? - where do you live? (male/female)
Eich omrim (word you are trying to say) beh'Ivrit? - How do you say (word) in Hebrew?

, The plural for male usually ends with "im" and the plural for female ends with "ot". In verbs, the plurals end with "oo". There are a number of irregular verbs, however, and there is no pattern to them. You just have to memorize them.
, However, in Hebrew, almost every form of the verb is different based on gender and who is being talked about and the tense. Take, for example, the word "Ochel", meaning eat:


(I) ate: achalti
(You singular for male): achalta
(You singular for female): achalt
(He): achal
(She): achla
(You plural for a group including even one male): achaltem
(You plural for a group of all females): achalten
(They): achlu

, Use a special dictionary of conjugation to help yourself, and don't worry. This is the part of Hebrew in which most people struggle and make mistakes, so you are in good company.

