 If you are lost for words, then looking around and commenting on something in the environment may help to get a conversation going again. This can be just about anything, such as:


A painting or picture on the wall.
Items on the menu at a restaurant.
Someone walking a cute dog.
An interesting looking building.
 This is where you can insert some good old fashioned small talk into the conversation. If there has been an awkward pause and the conversation isn’t moving forward, just change the topic. Ask something personal about the other person, tell them what you did last weekend, or mention that it’s hot outside. Treat this moment like you were initiating any other new conversation.If you are out with friends and the conversation suddenly stops, try saying something like “So, has anyone been to the movies lately?”
Another way you could start a new conversation is to give everyone an update such as, “I am moving across town next month to a new apartment.”

, If you can add a twinge of humor to it, this is especially effective. It is usually best not to call the silence “awkward” since this would imply that you aren’t comfortable. Instead, make a comment about the previous conversation or how you are moving on to a new topic.To do this, you might say something like “Well, seems like we’re beating a dead horse on this Marvel verses DC conversation.”
People often go around in circles on controversial issues. In an awkward pause, you can simply throw out something like “Seems like everyone has heard enough about this year’s election.”

, A moment of silence can be your cue to slip out of a conversation politely. The conversation is naturally at a stopping point, or at least a pause, so you can excuse yourself to go to the restroom, step out for fresh air, go home, etc. Do this politely and make it seem as though you were planning to excuse yourself soon anyway.In this situation, you could say something like “Well, it has been great talking to you, but I better get home before dinner time. Hopefully we can catch up again soon.”
A way to end the conversation during an awkward silence at work is say “I better get going. I have a deadline that I can’t miss. It was great talking to you. We will talk again soon.”

