 There are many topics you can choose from; however, choose something that appeals to you. What do you like to talk about? What would you want to read about? Here are some options:


Evaluate a significant experience you've had and its impact on you. This could be an ethical dilemma, a risk you have taken, or simply an achievement. Avoid the "Look how great I am!" and opt for self-evaluation.
Discuss an issue of concern and its importance to you. This could be on any level: local, national, or global. But don't turn it into a righteous lecture.
Describe an experience that is telling of what you would bring to MIT's college community. The admissions board is looking for students who will actively contribute., As all universities, MIT has several deadlines that must be met in order to be considered. In addition, there is a $75 application fee for processing.


For early action, the interview scheduling deadline is October 20th. November 1st is the ultimate deadline for reference letters, essays, and the application itself.
For regular action, the deadline to schedule an interview is December 10th. January 1st is the ultimate deadline for reference letters, essays, and the application itself.
The SAT and ACT tests dates should be in November and January, respectively.
 Some schools accept one or the other; however, to get into MIT, you should take the ACT and the SAT.


For the SAT, MIT released their 2012 admissions datain the 25th/75th percentile form. The first number represents the score of a student in the 25th percentile (25% of students got this score or lower). The second number represents the score of a student in the 75th percentile (75% of students got this score or lower). The higher the percentile, the more students below you.

SAT Critical Reading: 670/770
SAT Math: 740/800
SAT Writing: 680/780


For the ACT, MIT follows the same guidelines.

ACT Composite: 32/35
ACT English: 31/35
ACT Math: 34/36
ACT Writing: 8/10


MIT has incredibly high average test scores. It's in your best interest to sign up for a prep course and/or take the test multiple times. These are considered good practices, not second chances.

