 Having other people with whom you can discuss sexuality and dating honestly is a great way to explore your own feelings in a safe environment. It is also a great way to find potential partners. While sexual orientation shouldn't be the main way you find friends, everyone likes to talk to someone who "gets it."

, Being gay is not an obvious, flamboyant lifestyle choice. Chances are good that, if you get to know the people in your office, a few of them will be lesbians as well. Take people up on drink offers and group dates or parties, and let yourself get to know everyone. The queer friends will pop up when you least expect them.


Once you've made a few lesbian friends, ask them if they'd introduce you to anyone else.
 Almost all college campuses have LGBTQ (Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Queer) alliances and groups that are safe places to meet other men and women. Cities the world over have similar groups, and you can often find brochures and information in bookstores, at gay clubs or restaurants, or searching online.


Roller derbies, bike co-ops, and DIY workshops are a great place to get out and meet people, lesbian or not. These locations have a reputation for being popular gay destinations.There are often gay/lesbian newspapers in major urban areas that list events, meetups, and news on the nearby gay community.
Contact the National Organization for Women (NOW) if you need support or help finding a nearby group., People can't resist playing a little matchmaker, and close friends are often the best people to help. This doesn't just mean finding you a romantic partner necessarily. Many straight friends are happy to help your find other lesbians to hang out with, and social networking is the best way to expand your friend group., Usually marked by a rainbow flag or LGBT tag, many queer groups coalesce around music and events just like any other social group. All-female bands, though it seems stereotypical, are often a good, safe place to meet other lesbian friends. You can also check out your area's Pride conventions/parades, or The Femme Conference.Musical venues have the added benefit of easy conversation -- "How'd you like the show" becomes a perfect conversation starter.Many bars, especially gay bars, will advertise a "Lesbian Night" once a week.
 The internet is a fantastic place to meet people from all walks of life. Head to lesbian or queer issue blogs and start commenting, making friends with people and seeing if anyone lives nearby. Put "LGBTQ-friendly" in your next posting for roommates, and check out forums and sites about queer culture in your area. Even if you can't meet in person, there are tons of sites where people just want to get to know each other. You only have to put yourself out there.
 Having positive media depictions of people like you can make a huge difference in your self-image, and it provides a great conversation starter when meeting new people. Luckily, things have changed a lot in the last couple of years. You can find positive portrayals of lesbians in everything from The Fosters to Glee, Orange is the New Black to Buffy the Vampire Slayer, But I'm a Cheerleader to Imagine Me and You.


Many cities have gay-themed art shows, film festivals, and more. These are not only a great place to meet people, it is the perfect way to immerse yourself in the vibrant and incredible queer subculture of your town.

