 One way to motivate your loved one with OCD is to help her identify the advantages and disadvantages of change.If the individual still has trouble becoming motivated for treatment you can do some of the following:


Bring literature home.
Encourage the person that treatment can help.
Discuss ways in which you have accommodated the OCD behavior.
Suggest a support group.
 Your support is one of the most important aspects of helping an OCD sufferer, as it will lift some of the weight off her shoulders and will help her find the best treatment possible. Make it a point to discuss the treatment options with your loved one, in order to introduce it as a discussion topic.


Be sure to let your loved one know that OCD is very treatable and her symptoms and distress can be seriously decreased.
You can ask your general practitioner for more information on OCD treatment as well as a list of local mental health specialists.
Don’t force anything on him or her, but rather discuss the different therapy methods and what might be most suitable for their specific case. These methods can include medication, cognitive behavior therapy, and family support and education. Several medications have shown success in treating OCD, and work to control some symptoms, but are not cures.
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), exposure therapy, and response prevention are the treatments of choice, with or without medication. For OCD, exposure with response prevention will help with the OCD symptoms.This form of therapy gradually helps the sufferer refrain from engaging in their rituals. Another treatment which may be helpful for the whole family is family therapy. This could serve as a safe place to discuss emotions and offer support.
 In order to find the most effective treatment, you will need to see a psychiatrist (MD), psychologist (PhD, PsyD), or a counselor (LPC, LMFT). Family involvement in treatment has been shown to help decrease OCD symptoms.Preferably, you should see someone who specializes in OCD or at least has experience treating the disorder. When deciding on which doctor to go to, be sure you ask if the doctor has experience treating OCD.
 Research shows that family involvement in behavioral interventions or treatment of OCD helps reduce symptoms of OCD.Family treatment can help to encourage helpful communication and reduce anger.You can assist your loved one in completing diaries or thought-records which can help her track her obsessions and compulsions., Although thinking about your loved one taking psychiatric medications can be an unnerving thought, be sure to support the doctor's assessment.


Do not undermine the medication instructions that have been given by the doctor.
 Give up control over your loved one. Recognize that you have done all you can and you can’t completely control or help your loved one cure herself. Self-care is critical when trying to care for another person. There is no way you can care for another person if you can’t care for yourself.
Be sure not to support her OCD symptoms, but do periodically remind her that you are there to help when she is ready.
Above all, remember that you have a life and have a right to your own life.

