 Isolation in general is the experience of being separated from others. Taking some time to be alone is okay, and can be a healthy choice for some people to heal. However, isolation becomes excessive, a person may develop feelings of loneliness, social anxiety, helplessness, depression, and more. There are two types of isolative behaviors:Social isolation involves the absence of social relationships. Someone who is socially isolative can spend days at home without seeing or speaking to friends or acquaintances.
Emotional isolation is a result of social isolation. Someone who has developed emotional isolation will usually keep feelings and thoughts to themselves, and are shut off from receiving any form of emotional support from others.;
, In your mental health recovery, your therapist or counselor serves as one of your biggest sources of support. Take advantage of this professional’s role, and confide in them about your feelings of isolation.You might say, “I’m making a lot of progress with my depression, but I can’t help feeling all alone in this. I worry if I talk too much about what’s going on, friends and family will alienate me.”
Your therapist can to help you tackle the underlying emotional and psychological problems that lead you to your isolation. They can also be able to help you develop and learn to utilize healthy coping skills to manage symptoms effectively.
 Support groups can help you feel included because everyone there empathizes with your situation. Most support groups strictly involve members who are coping with the same or a similar mental illness as you. Some groups are also open to family members and peers of those affected.

Ask your therapist about a support group in your area. You may even ask family and friends to join you, or attend a special support group for loved ones. That way, all of you can get needed support for your recovery., Your family and friends are your natural support system. These people love and care for you, and want to see you getting better. Don’t be afraid to reach out to them when you need someone to talk to, or simply want the company. Chances are, they all desperately want to help you, but just don’t know how.Call up a sibling or friend and say, “Hey, I could really use a day away from it all. Want to go see a movie or visit the spa?”

, There are tons of online resources available for people with mental illnesses and their families. Check out a blog or locate an online community dedicated to your condition. This is particularly helpful when you are distressed at night or when other members of your support system are unavailable. You can log on and read the testimonials of individuals who are going through the same thing as you.Be cautious of online communities. While many are designed to uplift, some might have negative undertones. Exit any forums that make you upset or worsen your symptoms. Also, never take advice from someone online concerning your treatment without first consulting your doctor or therapist.

