 The rectangles should each be 73 inches (185.42 cm) long and 37 inches (93.98 cm) wide.


For this version, you will end up creating two layers of fabric, giving yourself more versatility.
The outside layer has very few restrictions and can be made of nearly any material and with nearly any print.
The inside layer should be made from a material that has good grip or traction so that the turban will not slip or come undone as you wear it. Use something like cotton or chiffon, and avoid smooth fabrics like silk or satin.
Make sure that all four edges are straight before continuing on.
 Lay the two layers of fabric on top of one another with the "right" sides together and the "wrong" sides facing out. Pin each side in place, positioning the pins directly along all four edges.
 Stitch around all four sides of the turban, leaving a seam allowance of about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) on all sides. Skip a section roughly 12 inches (30.48 cm) long in the middle of one long side of the piece.


This step joins the two layers while also hiding the raw edges of the fabric on the inside of the work.
It is essential that you skip a 12-inch (30.48-cm) length of fabric so that you can turn the turban right-side out later on.
Once the entire perimeter has been sewn up, minus the skipped over section, clip all four corners by snipping off the tips. This prevents the corners from looking or feeling lumpy when you turn the piece right-side out.
Use a simple straight stitch on your sewing machine or a back stitch if sewing the turban by hand.
 Feed the fabric through the opening you left in the side, forcing it the "right" sides to the outside of the piece. Top-stitch the opening closed when done.


Before stitching, make sure that the edges of the opening are turned under to hide the raw edge of the material. If you have difficulty keeping the edges turned under, pin them or press them in place with an iron before sewing.
Note that the stitch you make here will likely be visible, so it is important that the stitch is neat and made with coordinating thread.
 This turban will wrap around all sides of your head, including the top, and the ends will be hidden by tucking them into the sides. With the conclusion of this step, your turban is now complete.


Place the center point of the turban on your forehead.
Wrap both ends around the sides of your head and across to the back. Tie it snugly at the nape of your neck.
The cloth should cover the top of your head, extending from the forehead to the back of your head. Carefully arrange the turban on the top of your head so that it covers the top completely, and tuck the ends into the portion of the fabric already tied around your head.
Wrap one side of the turban around your head. Keep it level across your ears as you wrap, or twist it as you wrap for a slightly different look. Make sure that a 12-inch (30.48-cm) section of fabric remains free at the end of this wrap-around.
Repeat the previous step with the other side of the fabric. Wrap it around your head, leaving another 12-inch (30.48-cm) section free.
Tie the two ends together and tuck the excess into the sides.
All the material should be securely wrapped and kept in place, and your turban should be ready to wear.

