 The observation of certain activities is very important in identifying the signs of meth abuse. Some common social problems faced by those who abuse meth are:


Heightened and unsafe sexual activity due to drug effects like confusion and inability to make decisions.Excessive aggression leading to relationship problems with parents, peers and siblings.Keeping company with those who either abuse drugs or have easy access to drugs.
 Pay attention to the person's behaviors and notice if they are uncharacteristic of the individual.


Notice excessive talking.For example, the person may try to finish others sentences and give advice to others, whether he knows anything about the topic being discussed or not.
Impulsivity may mean the person behaves recklessly and refuses to worry about the outcomes of his risky behavior., Meth users often have financial issues due to their drug use. For example, some meth users may spend all of their money to get the drug.Keep in mind that it is often difficult for teenagers, who only get pocket money from their parents, to afford drugs, so they find ways to make up for this shortage of money through various means.Some signs of financial issues are:


Inability to meet financial needs because of excessive spending on drug related activities like buying drugs or supplying drugs for a party. Notice unpaid bills or not being able to afford normal items like food.
Excessive debt as a result of asking for money from others in order to finance their drug habit.
Problems with friends and peers over money issues, due to the drug user's inability to pay back debts.
Problem with parents and complaints over not having any money.
Inability to report where the money is being spent when asked.
Stealing.
 Meth users tend to hang around with other people who abuse drugs. This is one of the easiest ways to detect drug abuse. Meth abusers often have the following kind of company:


People who abuse meth or any other drug.
People who have easy access to drugs.
People who don't pose a threat — i.e. those who won't tell the drug user's family or criticize him for his addiction.
 When using, the person may spend the whole day in his room with a closed door, not allowing anyone to enter. Additionally, the person will behave in a very closed off, secretive manner to hide their drug use., If you find certain drug taking apparatus in the person's headquarters, it is a pretty definite indication that the person is taking meth (or another drug).Items to look out for include:The tube of a ballpoint pen or surgical tubing that might have been used to sniff meth.
A crumpled can of aluminum foil.
A small bag of white powder or crystals.
A soda can with a hole on one of its sides.
A syringe that might be used to inject drugs.

