 Take it slowly as there is many layers you have to peel back, but it's something that you'll have to do eventually, because you can run away forever, or stop running now.


Often the mind wants to frighten you away and it can be incredibly effective at this. No one knows your weaknesses better than you do. This can be a big progress marker when your mind frightens you away as it can show that your desires have been ruling you for some time and that should you observe them, they won't have the same power. To maintain their hold, desires use all kinds of tricks.
If you feel terrible about having unpleasant thoughts or having your chatterbox brain not responding to what you want, it is wise to reflect that's how the mind is. Often, some strive to reach an inner goodness, but end up finding inner "badness" everywhere they look and so feel like they have hit a wall. This is a reflection that the mind is what we make it and that natural goodness comes only from letting go of troubles and by encouraging virtues. It is an art of balance and training until you reach a stage where you can decide for yourself how you wish your mind to be.
Be firm. You might be horrified to see the whole "life" thing as unreliable and conditional on so many things, but that is exactly what it is and always has been.
 Are you in effect sinking or indulging in these feelings? A hard question to ask in hard times, but see if you are feeling depressed, sad, angry or whatever because you want to be.


If you feel lost, try to compare what it was like when you didn't. Feeling lost is often because there is an awareness of change, or that an idea or belief we thought was real and were happy with became exposed as just an idea. The problem then is then the mind often starts stressing, which is a separate process. The only way to overcome this is to study it and let the stressful processes go.
Practice loving kindness, appreciation, compassion and equanimity. These are excellent for finding stability and form a good foundation to start overcoming your problems. In essence, a positive and a negative can balance each other but when you have balance, you can start developing a habit of being more gentle and generous.
 Compassion and wisdom need to work together, otherwise it's like rowing a boat with one oar - it simply goes around in circles.

