 Chronic constipation, straining, and long periods of sitting on the toilet are causes associated with hemorrhoids. These can all put more pressure on and block your veins, impairing circulation. Pregnancy is another condition that puts a lot of pressure on these veins, especially during delivery when straining happens and can lead to hemorrhoids.


Hemorrhoids are more common as you get older and in people who are overweight.
Hemorrhoids can either be internal (inside the rectum) or external (around the outside of the anus). Internal hemorrhoids are painless while external ones are painful. But, both types can lead to bleeding if they rupture., If you have internal hemorrhoids, it may be hard to see symptoms until they are bleeding and they'll probably be painless. But, if you have external hemorrhoids, several symptoms will appear including:Painless bleeding during bowel movements. There won't be very much blood and it will be bright red.
Itching or irritation in your anal region.
Pain or discomfort.
Swelling around your anus.
A sensitive or painful lump of tissue near your anus.
Leaking feces.
 Look in the mirror with your back turned to it and note any lumps or mass-like protrusions around your anus. The color may vary from your normal skin tone to darker red. It may be painful if you press on the lumps. If so, you probably have external hemorrhoids. Pay attention to any blood on the toilet paper after you use the bathroom and wipe. Hemorrhoid blood is usually bright red, rather than dark (which could indicate bleeding from somewhere deeper in your digestive system).


It can be hard to see internal hemorrhoids at home without the right tools. Make an appointment with your doctor. You'll be asked to give a detailed medical history to catch any other possible reasons for bleeding such as colon cancer and polyps, since both of these masses can bleed.
 If you still have symptoms or pain after a week of home remedies, you should see your doctor for an exam. Bleeding can be a cause for concern, especially if you're at risk for or have another condition, like inflammatory bowel disease or colon cancer. You should also get medical attention if the blood is dark red or your stools are dark/tarry in color. These can mean there's bleeding higher up in your intestines or from a bleeding mass.Try to estimate how much blood you've lost. If you start to feel fatigue/anxiety, look pale pale, have cold hands or feet, a high heart rate, or confusion accompanied by blood loss, you should see your doctor immediately. You should also be examined if the amount of blood has increased., Your doctor will determine if you have hemorrhoids by looking at the outside of your anus and performing a digital rectal exam. Your doctor will insert a lubricated index finger to feel the walls of your rectum for lumps, masses, and look for any blood. If it's suspected that you have internal hemorrhoids, the doctor may insert an anoscope (a plastic tube) through your anus into the rectum. This lets the doctor shine a light and look for swollen, distended, or bleeding veins.


Your doctor may do a guaiac test, which involves a smear of fecal matter on a strip of paper. This can detect microscopic blood cells within the feces, which can indicate several conditions including hemorrhoids, colon cancer, and polyps.
If you do have a guaiac test, it is important not to eat red meat, turnips, radish, horseradish, cantaloupe or uncooked broccoli three days before, since they can cause false positive results.