 Drugstore kits are designed for the removal of any unwanted hair color. There are a variety of these kits on the market, each of which contain different chemicals and instructions.


Look for extra strength as black hair dye is the most difficult dye to remove.
Consider your length and how heavy the color dye is that you used. Think about getting two boxes in case you need a double treatment. Two boxes can also come in handy if you have long or thick hair.;
, Be sure to carefully read the manual contained in the kit, and follow all steps as indicated for the best results.


Check for any possible side effects like a color change or intense drying that you may need to prepare a conditioner to treat.
 You may want to add a towel around your shoulders in case the chemical is watery and drips.


Put on clothes you are ok with staining. Something that you only wear at home or would feel comfortable getting paint on. This is not something you want to do in formal wear.
Brush your hair before application. The chemicals could get caught in the tangles of your hair and remove more dye in these areas. This can cause you to have spots throughout your hair where more dye was removed.
Use a balm like vaseline to cover your face and around your hairline to avoid any staining or skin interactions. This will keep the skin from having too much chemicals on it. This is also a great option to remember the next time you dye your hair to keep your skin from changing colors.
Put on your gloves and start mixing. Now that you are prepared for working with the chemical read the instructions and mix it before putting it on your head. Some kits will have a very sulfur or rotten egg smell that could be distracting. It may be best to turn on a bathroom fan.
 Now that the chemical is ready it is best to apply to your hair evenly. Some of the color-removing kits have a more watery consistency than others.


Apply in 1 inch strips starting from the bottom half of your hair and moving up to the crown. This will give you consistency throughout the hair. It will allow you to control how much product gets on your hair as well.
Cover and wait for the allotted amount of time. If your product works best with heat look at placing a blow dryer on a heat resistant stand pointed down at your head while you sit on the floor.
 You may need to apply a color removing kit more than once for your desired results. Especially if you have dyed your hair black many times. If you feel like this might be true it is best to purchase an extra box or keep any remaining chemicals after you are done with the initial application.
 This is best to have prepared just in case you need it for brittle or damaged hair.Add a hair mask or consider not doing styles that require excessive heat or blow drying for best results.
 When using an at-home hair color removal kit, be aware that you may have to dye your hair following the removal of the black dye. This is due to the fact that your hair will likely be lighter in color than its natural shade following the removal of the black hair dye. While this may be acceptable for some, you may prefer to add additional color to get a more natural look. You may also want to wait to color your hair again for at least a couple of weeks to give time to rest. However, many kits will say your hair is safe to dye immediately after use.

