 The internet can be a great way to entertain yourself. Try googling something like, "Cute pug photos" and spend some time looking at adorable pictures of dogs. You can also browse videos of cute animals or babies to pass the time.If you're talking to a friend who is also bored, you guys can share video clips and photos you find of cute things online.
 If you're at a loss for what to do, browse your cabinet. You probably have some flour and sugar. See what baking supplies you have and find a recipe online you can easily make. Doing some baking can be a fun and productive way to pass the time.If someone you know has a birthday coming up, you can try baking them something.
 If you have blank CDs lying around, try making some mixes. You can make mixes for friends, or make CDs for yourself. You can, for example, make a CD to listen to while driving.Go for creative mixes, as these will keep you thinking about what to add. For example, don't do a mix like, "Best Songs of the Summer." Instead, try something like "Best Songs of the Summer of 1997."
You can also just try mixes centered around a random topic or feeling. For example, you can make a mix of songs about animals, songs that make you sad, or songs that make you want to get moving.
 Turn on some music and start dancing around your living room. You don't have to worry about looking silly if no one is watching. Even if you don't usually like dancing, you may have more fun than you expect if you're just dancing alone for fun.If you're interested in learning how to dance, try watching someone online dancing videos and imitating the moves.
 Old photographs can be fun to revisit. You may be surprised, for example, to see how much you've changed since 8th grade. You may laugh when looking through pictures from your freshmen year of college, as you'll be amazed by how different your style is now.If you don't have physical pictures lying around, look through old digital albums. You can browse your oldest Facebook album, for example.
 There are many comedians who operate YouTube channels and post funny content. You can also watch clips of standup comedians online. If you're feeling bored, try looking at funny content online. Laughter will make the hours pass by more easily.If you don't know where to start, a simple Google search for something like "best online comedians" or "funny videos" should yield plenty of results to keep you busy.

