 These types of tires work reliably in all seasons, but if you are in a climate with heavy snow and ice, snow tires might be better for you.;
, Check out the type of tires that are on your car.


Consider buying the same tires that came with your car, if they are all seasonal. Engineers often match the tire suspension to the rubber when they are putting tires on your car.
 You can find safety reviews in Consumer Reports, or consumer magazines such as Car and Driver or Popular Mechanics.


Check websites belonging to consumer magazines for more updated reports than the printed publications often contain.
 The person or business that does most of your car repairs may be able to recommend an all seasonal tire for your car.
 Look at what Michelin, Goodyear, Bridgestone and other well-known brands have to offer in all seasonal tires.


Compare prices. Unless you are buying tires of an unusual size, most all seasonal tires will cost between $130 and $200 per tire when they are new.






Check the tire tread. Look for something that will provide good traction on all road surfaces and in all weather conditions. Look for an open tread pattern and a narrower tread.






Research the ability of the tire to accelerate and brake. You can ask a tire sales associate about this, or read up on it in safety reviews.
 All tires are rated for their ability to grip the road. You will see a stamp that says A, AA, B or C on the tire. Buy A or AA for the best traction.
 If you put few miles on your car and you find tires that are used but reliable, you can probably save money on your all seasonal tires.
 Find out how many miles can go on the tires before you will need to replace them.
 Talk to your dealer or mechanic about the best tires to buy, and then look for the best deal you can find.


Check discount tire centers. Their prices are often more competitive than car dealers.






Look for tires online. There are wholesale tire retailers online who might have lower prices than the tire stores you visit. Check sites such as Tire Rack and Tire Buyer.
