 Before delving any deeper, always analyze a dream at its most basic level first, and that is done by looking for the most obvious meanings. Some questions to ask of your dream include:


What do you recognize from waking life? For example, you might have misplaced your car keys the night before and your dream shows you that you left them in a bowl on the umbrella stand instead of your usual hook on the wall. In this case, there is probably no need to wonder what keys and bowls symbolize!
Do you see things in your dream you've already experienced? Sometimes we dream about something we've done, a TV show, or something we've read online or in a book, and our subconscious is bringing it to life in technicolor (basically, a free show!). The meaning behind this is probably simple entertainment as your mind sorts through the daily chaff.
 Are there particular events going on in your daily life that have elements of concern, or that lack resolution for you? You may be having a dream that addresses these events in a straightforward way. If so, your interpretation job is simple.


If you had a fight with your mom, and you dream about fighting with her, you already have the answer to what that particular dream means.
If you have a big test or deadline coming up, and you dream about failing or missing it, you've had a straightforward anxiety dream, and there's probably no need to look for deeper symbolism.
 Dreams that are straightforward with recognizable objects and events are very useful. They are a means by which you can solve problems that have been dogging you throughout the day, week, or month, even where your worries are not conscious.


If you dream over and over about fighting with your mom, it's more than just a reflection of the day's events; it shows that this issue is bothering you so much that it stays with you all night, and it's something that should be addressed in waking life.
Dreams about real life issues you need to solve can help you figure out a solution. History is filled with the inventions begun in dreams, from scientists to fashionistas.
Dreams help you to learn as you process the day's experiences. They layer down the things you've learned during the day and smarten up your learning so that on awakening, you ought to be a little cleverer at whatever it was you learned the day before.