 Inform your child that eating a balanced diet is important. Fruits and vegetables are a great source of vitamins, minerals, and dietary fiber. You’ll need to take your child’s age into consideration with this strategy; state the importance of a healthy diet in a way that your child can understand.Some of the many benefits of eating fruits and vegetables every day include: helping children and teenagers grow and develop, boosting vitality and energy, reducing the risk of obesity and other chronic diseases, such as heart disease and high blood pressure.Teach your children to eat sugar in moderation. Too much sugar in a diet may increase the child’s chances of developing diabetes and other problems such as obesity and cavities.
 Most kids aren’t too concerned about their health, and find words like “fiber,” “vitamins,” and “nutrition” to be abstract terms.Be imaginative with your explanations; explain that vegetables will help kids grow bigger and stronger.


For example, pretend that your child is a dinosaur who needs to eat several “trees” of broccoli to stay strong.
Try telling your child something like, “I bet that Batman always eats carrots; that’s why he’s so strong.”
You could bring sports into the discussion if your kids are athletic. Explain to your children that doing sports and having an unhealthy diet just doesn’t work. Say something like, “If you don’t eat enough vegetables, you won’t have the energy you need to play soccer.”

, The American Academy of Pediatrics has established guidelines stating that children should eat two to three servings of fruit per day. As a broad rule, children should eat fruits and veggies with every meal, and these should fill roughly half of their plate.This breaks down by age group:


Toddlers (1–3 years), a single serving of fruit equals:

¼ cup of cooked, frozen, or canned fruit.
½ piece of fresh fruit (half an apple or pear, for example).
¼ to ½ cup of fruit juice.


Young children (4–6 years), a single serving of fruit equals:

¼ cup of cooked, frozen, or canned fruit.
½ piece of fresh fruit (half an apple or pear, for example).
1/3 cup of fruit juice.


Older children (7–10 years), a single serving of fruit equals:

1/3 cup of cooked, frozen, or canned fruit.
1 piece of fresh fruit.
½ cup of fruit juice.



