 When you’re busy with classes and homework, it’s easy fall into poor eating habits, or even to forget to eat altogether. Eating well will help you feel more energetic and better able to handle your classes and other responsibilities.Don’t skip breakfast. Even if only have time to grab a little fruit and a bagel or piece of toast before heading to class, eating breakfast is vital for giving you the energy and focus you need to feel well and succeed in your classes.
Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, and calcium-rich foods to help you stay energetic, keep your body strong, and help you feel energetic.
Keep snacks with you. Healthy snacks can boost your energy and focus while you’re studying or even sitting in class. Try pretzels, nuts, fresh or dried fruit, or whole grain crackers.
 A lot of people have trouble remembering to drink enough water during the day, and it can be even harder for a busy student. Try bringing a bottle of water with you to class.
 Depending on your individual metabolism, a cup of coffee now and then or an occasional drink with your friends is probably okay. However, always use moderation and common sense, and get advice from a doctor if you are worried about your caffeine or alcohol habits. Excessive caffeine or alcohol intake can interfere with your sleep, cause dehydration, and contribute to other health problems.
 It can be tempting to stay up late studying or having fun, but most people need 7-8 hours of sleep a night to be at their best.


Utilize daylight for study as much as possible so that you have evenings for relaxation and rest. Pulling an all-nighter before a big test can ultimately be counterproductive.Try to get into a regular sleep routine. Set aside a little time before going to bed each night to unwind away from your computer or phone.
 If your living space is too noisy or distracting, find a place that is quiet and conducive to study. You might find a corner of your campus library or a spot in a study hall that works for you.


Well-lit environments work well for study. Having enough light can help you concentrate and feel more energetic.Listening to music can help you study, but make sure you select music that helps you concentrate instead of creating a distraction. Try music with nature sounds or instrumental classical music.Some people benefit from studying in groups, while others find it distracting. Experiment with meeting with classmates for study sessions and see if it works well for you.
 Studying so long that you become fatigued is counter-productive. If you start to get sleepy or restless, take a break to walk around for a few minutes, have a snack, or even put your head down for a catnap.
 Even if you don’t have time to go to the campus gym, set aside a few hours each week or a few minutes every night to go for a brisk walk or do a little stretching. Getting occasional physical activity can help you feel more energized during the day and sleep better at night.
 In addition to studying and working towards your academic goals, college is an opportunity to have fun, make friends, and discover new interests. Find out if your school has any clubs or student organizations that match up with your interests. Take time to work on creative projects, play games, or just hang out.

