 High self-esteem typically occurs when an aspect of oneself – like one’s job – is both considered highly important and positive. If you lose your job, the importance may remain, but the positive turns to a negative, harming self-esteem. Psychologists believe that the best way to restore self-esteem is to focus on other positive aspects of oneself. In other words, elevate the importance of the positive areas of your life, such asYour relationship with your spouse
Family
Friends
Religion
Hobbies
Volunteer activities
Intrinsic factors: intelligence; appearance

, Volunteering not only keeps you active and provides fulfilling work, it also gives you another positive identity around which to build self-esteem. And the right volunteer activities can help you land a job. To get the most out of your volunteering:


Network – Volunteering is a great way to meet people with common interests and to grow a network that might help you get a job.Offer Your Skills Pro Bono – Whether you help balance the books, create a fundraising strategy, build an addition, or cater an event, putting your skills to work for a non-profit will keep them sharp and allow you to display your worth. Check out VolunteerMatch, Idealist, Taproot Foundation, Catchafire, or Voolla, all of which match non-profits with volunteers.Work as a Career Coach – There are many non-profits that offer job training. Offering your skills will give you a chance to help others, while also reconfirming your own skills and thus boosting your esteem., One of the silver linings of unemployment is that it gives you more time to spend with your family. Whether you are a mother or father, husband or wife, son or daughter, engaging with your family provides you with psychological support and shores up an important aspect of yourself that can help to compensate for the damage to your work identity.
 In countries where being religious is the norm, including the United States, religious believers tend to have much higher self-esteem.Religious communities both emphasize the value of the individual and provide a network of likeminded people that can help to overcome the isolation of being unemployed.
 One of the worst parts of being unemployed is the feeling that you have lost control of your life, a feeling that can be particularly intense if you are looking for and failing to find work. A hobby that you are passionate about gives you something that you can control. It is also something that you can improve at and see tangible progress. All of these things can help to boost your self-esteem.And in time, your hobby might even grow into a job., There are many studies that show participation in team sports improves self-esteem.A team gives you a social outlet, provides exercise, and gives you a chance to demonstrate your value to people engaged in a common pursuit. Studies show that even rooting for a team can boost self-esteem, particularly when done in public forum like a sports bar or at the stadium., Studies show that gardening can significantly boost self-esteem. Being outside elevates mood, while successfully raising plants gives one a feeling of accomplishment.