 When an easement is terminated by a merger, the dominant and servient estates come under common ownership. This is the case because an owner cannot have an easement over his or her own land. In order to start this process, contact the other parties involved and negotiate with them to purchase their land. Terminating an easement in this manner is uncommon unless you or the other landowners were already planning on selling their land. It is uncommon because you would normally not purchase a parcel of land simply to terminate an easement. As you can see form the other methods, there are other ways to terminate an easement that do not involve such a drastic input of money and/or stress.
 If all parties agree that having you purchase all the other parcels of land is in the best interest of everyone, you will want to go through the process of purchasing their real estate. The process of purchasing real estate includes:



Making an offer and writing up a contract.You will first need to make an acceptable offer to all other interested land owners and get your agreement to purchase their land in writing. The contract will be legally binding, although there are usually contingencies allowing you to back out in case some of the other steps do not go as planned.Disclosure review.After you have signed the contract, the seller(s) will provide you with a disclosure statement, which is a document that discloses any number of things, including flaws with the property and a preliminary title report.If you see something in your review concerns you, you may be able to back out of the deal.Inspections.As part of the real estate contract, you usually have the right to inspect the home for yourself to make sure everything looks good.

Closing.Finally, after you have done all of your due diligence, you will sign your closing papers, pay for the property, and the process will be complete., Once you or the other party hold title to both parcels of land, record your real estate purchase as well as an easement termination document with the applicable registry of deeds.Because a lot of easements are recorded interests in real property, if you do not record its termination, the easement may still appear on a title search and may affect the land's value and potential uses.You can usually find an easement termination document by going to your county's court website or by calling your county's clerk of courts and asking for help.When you look on the website or call the clerk of courts, you will be looking for, or asking for, an easement termination template you can use to record a terminated easement.
To record something, you will have to take your real estate document terminating the easement to your recorder's office and pay a fee.The document will then be given a number and a time-stamp indicating when the document was recorded.It is then filed with any other documents that have been recorded on that specific piece of property.
Recording documents provides a traceable chain of title to a specific piece of property, including any other interests that may exist on that piece of property (e.g., mortgages, liens, and easements), and it is therefore incredibly important that you record documents quickly and accurately.Because of the importance of recording, you should consult an experienced real estate attorney whenever you are going to record something. He or she will be able to help you through the process and will ensure you accomplish the goals you set out to accomplish.

