 This is especially important if you plan on selling or trading your quarter later. Many collectors find tarnish desirable.Cleaning collectible quarters can decrease their value greatly.Because of this, it is best to leave old, valuable quarters alone.


Some collector's quarters can be worth up to $400, if not more.;
, to remove any grit and oils from your fingers. Prepare your working area by laying down several layers of thick towels flat across the surface. This will provide a soft landing place for any quarters that you might drop, as well as an area for them to dry on.
 Fill a plastic container with very hot water and dip the water inside. Do not use metal, glass, or china because their hard finishes will scratch your quarters. Metal containers may also react with the surface of the quarter.


You can also hold the quarter under running hot water, but make sure that you have the drain covered. Hold the quarter by the edges, between your thumb and forefinger.
If you are soaking more than one quarter at a time, make sure that there is enough space between each one. If they are all touching, they are more likely to get scratched or dinged.
Check the dates of the quarters to avoid soaking two different kinds of metals together. Quarters minted in 1964 and earlier were made mostly from silver. Quarters minted in 1965 and after were made from copper and nickel.
 Fill a plastic container with 1 tablespoon of dish soap and 2 cups (475 milliliters) of warm water. Stir just enough to mix the two together but not so much that you get suds.Place the quarter into the water, and leave it there for several hours. The soap will help loosen any dirt.


If you are soaking more than one quarter at a time, make sure that there is enough space between them.
 Hold the quarter by the edges, between your thumb and forefinger. Make sure that the drain is covered, in case you drop the quarter. If the dirt is stubborn, you can very gently rub it off using your fingertip or a soft bristled toothbrush (such as a baby toothbrush). Work in an outward direction, from the center of the coin to its edges, until the dirt is gone.


If the dirt is very gritty, do not rub it off. The tiny particles may scratch the surface of the quarter. Instead, consider soaking the quarter in the soapy water for longer. You can also move the quarter around under the running water to dislodge the grit.
 Fill a plastic container with distilled water. Dip the quarter into the water, swish it around, and lift it out. Running tap water is great at dislodging dirt, but it often contains minerals that may cause water spots. Distilled water is pure, and does not container these minerals.
 Gently pat the quarter dry with a clean, soft, dry cloth. Be very careful not to rub the coin.Try to use a lint-free cloth, such as microfiber. You can also dry the quarter by wrapping some tissue around it, then placing it between the pages of a book. Close the book, open it, then take the quarter out.