 What are your feelings in being in the Army. Do you like doing Physical Fitness (PT) early morning at the crack of dawn? Do you like the travel? Do you like the regimental way of life? Consider about the Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) you are in right now. Do you like the job? Realize that whatever you decide, you alone decide. If you choice right, it's your reward. If you choice wrong, it's your punishment. You get what you pay for.;
, In practice, your first line supervisor should provide you monthly counseling statements on your performance. They should give you a realistic assessment of their perspective about you. In the real-world, by now, you can sense if your superiors like what they see in you. If they push you to do better, it might be good thing because they see potential. If they dismiss you, it means they won't invest in you. That is a bad thing.
 "The Wire" is the fence line between military and civilian life. A lot of soldiers who leave the Army for numerous reasons regret leaving because they do not have anything lined up outside in the civilian world. If you're going to college, check on your school on enrollment. If you got a job, better be sure you have an offer letter in hand before leaving for the Freedom Bird.
 Case in point, the military is downsizing food specialist positions and would like to move excess people to other jobs. Consider your ASVAB scores as your Frequent Flyer Miles you've obtained coming in. The magic number for any soldier in the Army to get any job is GT score 110. (circa 2000-ish, please consult your recruiter to verify) If you have a lower score, consider enrolling yourself in the Basic Skills Education Program (BSEP) to improve your Armed Service Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) scores. Consult with the Base's Educational Services or your S-1 for more information.
 By now, you're probably itching to become a Non-Commission Officer (NCO) yet, somehow, it's seems to be a chore to advance to a specialist (E-4) rank. If you are a specialist for a considerable amount of time (2 plus years in rank), and you are doing everything humanly possible to better yourself like attending college courses at night or submitting correspondence courses up the wazoo and no one in your unit is getting promoted? Better look for another job.
 They will give all the necessary information that you need to get what you ask for. So, with that in mind, it's crucial that you learn as much as you can about what the Army can offer. Of course, ensure you are still marketable also. If you are a model soldier, these soldiers can perform feats to keep you in. If you are a substandard soldier or "oxygen thief", they may brush you aside as a low priority.
 Soldiers have an opportunity of between 3 months and 1 year to make the decision to re-enlist. If a soldier decides to re-enlist after his 3 months expired, you better have a damn good reason you waited that long. By then, it's up to powers to be to decide. Do not wait till the last moment.