 Don't go running 10 miles (16 km), just start off jogging or walking around the block.;
, Many are tempted by sweets and junk food. Clear out your cabinets and fridge of all these unhealthy foods and start fresh. A sweet treat is not bad every once in a while though!

, That way, you won't even be worried about food. For example, a day at the mall with friends (plenty of walking, just watch those food courts!), going to the gym.
 (also, the bragging rights are pretty nice too!)

, Many people think "oh I’ll get the Caesar salad, and be fine" surprisingly, hundreds of calories can be hiding in the dressing and cheese so watch out! You can always ask the waiter/waitress for a calorie sheet or a low fat menu, they are sure to help you.
 It's much easier when you know you have someone by your side for this weight loss.
 Even after you have lost the weight, don’t just go back to your old eating habits. That won't help you one bit. After achieving your desired weight loss goal, keep eating healthy, exercising and don’t just sit around! The pounds can easily pile back on. You will be surprised at how energetic you feel after losing the weight and if you have always had soda and candy and instead you have water and fruit those "addictions" will go away and you won't have the desire or need for those *extra pounds*!

, Every day a person consumes about 2,000-2,500 calories. Don't waste 150 calories just on a soda or candy bar! Make sure to have breakfast before noon and dinner before 8 pm, this will ensure fullness throughout the day and a better night sleep! If you have dinner at 10 pm at night then go to bed. You'll just have all that food to be stored as fat. You want to make sure you can get some type of exercise after dinner even if it's just walking up and down the stairs. (breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner) each of your meals should have the right amounts, don’t pile stuff on to your plate, try using smaller plates, the smallest things can make a difference! Your eyes will see the plate and your brain will assume you're eating a large plate of food! Also, before having a second plate of food wait 10-20 minutes to see if you're actually hungry. It takes your stomach some time to digest and tell your brain that you are full!

