 Bend your legs at the knee at a forty-five degree angle and keep your feet on the floor. Tighten your abdominal muscles (the muscles of your stomach) so that they push out and away from you. Hold the position for five seconds, then relax your muscles. Next, flatten your back against the ground. Try to bring your abdominal muscles down and keep your back flush with the ground. Repeat the cycle five times each day.


Try to add one or two reps each week as you grow more flexible. Aim for a maximum of thirty each day.
You should be able to feel a flexing in your lower back at each pushing out and pulling in of your abdominal muscles.
 Your core includes muscles in your torso and back (such as the rectus abdominis, obliques, and latissimus dorsi) that protect your spine.Strengthening these muscles may help you avoid back pain, especially pain caused by soft tissue injury or back muscle strain.Exercises to try include the pelvic tilt, sit-ups on an exercise ball, back extensions, cat curls, and more. Speak with a physical therapist or certified trainer to help you determine the best, safest way to strengthen your core and to ensure you are using the proper form while exercising., Try to make your elbows touch behind you. Hold the position for five seconds. Relax briefly, then repeat. Do this exercise twice each night and three times each morning.
 Lifting weights can strengthen your back, but you must always maintain proper form or risk hurting your back. When you lift something — even when you’re outside the gym — keep your back straight and use proper body mechanics. Squat to pick objects up and push off the ground with your knees.Do not bend over at the waist and attempt to pick objects up.


Get a partner to help you lift things that are too heavy.
 Try to walk at least 10,000 steps per day. If you swim, try to progressively lengthen the distance and number of laps you can perform to build back strength.


With any exercise, don't over-stretch or over-exercise. This can pull or strain your muscles and leave you in pain.
 Hold it there by placing both hands over the knee. Maintain the position for five seconds. Put that leg down and bring up the right leg. Hold it again for five seconds by placing both hands over the knee. Put that leg down, then bring up both legs to your chest. Place your right hand over your right knee and your left hand over your left knee. Hold both knees to your chest for five seconds. Repeat the cycle each day, once in the morning and once at night.
 Place your feet flat on the floor and bend your knees at a 45 degree angle. Lift your shoulders slightly off the ground. Roll both knees slowly to the right as far as you can. Your right knee should touch the ground. Hold the position for 10 seconds. Bring your knees back up to center and roll both legs over to the left as far as possible. Your left knee should touch the ground. Repeat the whole cycle daily once in the morning and once at night.
 Cross your left leg over your right leg and place the elbow of your right arm against your left knee. Twist your torso gently to the left and hold for 10 seconds when you’ve reached your maximum turn. Repeat on the opposite side by crossing your right leg over your left and placing your left elbow against your right knee. Repeat three times in the morning and twice each night.
 Tighten your abdominal and gluteal (butt) muscles. With your shoulders and head on the floor, raise your pelvis so that your trunk and thighs are parallel to each other. Hold the position for as long as it takes you to breathe in and out deeply three times. Lower your pelvis and relax for a few seconds. Repeat five times daily.


As you begin to gain strength in your back, slowly add more reps to your bridge exercise regimen. Add one or two each week and aim for a maximum of thirty per day.
 Your knees should be bent at 90 degrees and your hands should be straight under your shoulders. Gently arch your back by pulling your stomach up and in. Hold it for five seconds. Return your back to its original position and rest for a few seconds. Then, push your back in and your stomach out. Hold it for five seconds, then return to the starting position. Repeat three times in the morning and twice at night.

