 A healthy, well-balanced diet can potentially stop a tic within days.Make sure you're eating enough leafy greens and nuts for magnesium, and bananas for potassium. Consider taking a supplement for these specific minerals, or a general multivitamin.Omitting or limiting your sugar and caffeine intake are additional steps you should take to get rid of a nose or mouth twitch.
Drinking the recommended amount of water for your body size is also recommended. A good general rule is to drink eight 8 oz glasses of pure water every day. Drinks with caffeine and alcohol in them do not count as part of your daily water consumption.
 In addition to getting your diet on track, make sure you're getting at least 7 to 8 hours of sleep a night. Sleep deprivation appears to play a part in the occurrence of motor tics. Sleep loss, especially in combination with stress, can also exacerbate the issue's severity.Make sure that you practice good sleep hygiene.
 Both situational stress and general anxiety contribute to tics and twitches. Before seeing a counselor, you can try out techniques at home to relieve stress. Breathing exercises, self-massage, and meditation can also help improve your sleep habits and quality of sleep.


Wash your hands before giving face a massage. Use gentle, circular motions with your fingertips.Put on soothing music and use slow, deliberate breathing exercises to relax yourself.
Look for other ways of getting into a good state of mind: what makes you most relaxed?

, It might cause discomfort to suppress a tic, but it can be possible to delay the motion.Work on holding it back if it makes you self-conscious in social situations. Concentrate on refocusing the energy that gives rise to the tic to another part of your body, and release the energy using a voluntary movement.


Some therapists try to have you refocus or distract yourself when you are having the tic, such as by diverting your attention onto something else. For example, you might place your feet flat on the ground and pay attention to how this feels, count down from 100, or rub a penny between your fingers.

