 The DASH diet involves reducing the consumption of saturated and trans fats. These are types of fats which raise the level of cholesterol in your blood, which is dangerous in itself, as high levels of LDL cholesterol increase your risk of stroke and heart disease, and can also lead to weight gain.Foods encouraged by the diet are low-fat dairy products, fat-free products, fish, beans, nuts, fresh poultry, and vegetable oils.
Foods you should avoid while on the DASH diet include full-fat dairy products, fatty meats, and tropical oils, including coconut oil.
 The DASH diet suggests reducing the consumption of sweets and sugar-sweetened beverages like soda. Simple replacements, like opting for water instead of juice or reaching for an apple when you would have otherwise eaten a donut, are good ways to get less sugar in your system.


You don’t need to deprive yourself of sweets entirely. Just limit consumption to five or fewer servings per week.However, this does not mean you can eat five pieces of cake per week. Make sure to count things like the sugar you add to your coffee, jam you put on your toast, and anything else that contains sugar.
 The main way to do this is to opt for lean meats, fresh poultry, and fish instead of high-sodium foods like ham or bacon. As a whole, the DASH diet involves limiting daily sodium levels to 2,300 mg. You can also drop sodium intake to 1,500 mg if recommended by your doctor.Another way to reduce sodium intake is to avoid adding salt when cooking pasta or rice or when flavoring food.
Read food labels when shopping and opt for foods that are low in sodium.
 Aim to eat 4-5 servings of vegetables as well as 4-5 servings of fruit per day.Vegetables you could add to your diet include tomatoes, broccoli, carrots, and sweet potatoes. These don’t have to be side dishes - they can be thrown into recipes like stir-fries or served over dishes like brown rice.
There is a wide array of fruit that you could add to your diet, from apples to pears to kiwis or oranges. Bananas are also great choices, as they are high in potassium. Many fruits are high in fiber and low in fat, so it’s wise to eat a piece of fruit with every meal plus another fruit daily as a snack.

Keep in mind that foods that are high in fiber can cause temporary bloating and diarrhea. To prevent this, transition to the DASH diet gradually and increase intake of water as you add more fruits and vegetables.
 Eating whole grains that are high in fiber is an important part of the DASH diet. Aim for six to eight servings of whole grains every day.For example, you can start your day with oatmeal, use whole grain bread to make a sandwich at lunch, and have some brown rice as a side dish with dinner.

