 No successful person has gotten where they are without pushing through “perceived” limitations and failures. Winston Churchill flunked the sixth grade. Oprah Winfrey was told she wasn’t fit enough for television. Colombia Pictures thought that Marilyn Monroe wasn’t pretty enough, and Walt Disney was told he lacked imagination! However, none of these individuals sat around and sulked in their apparent faults. They went out and made it happen and you can, too!, Join a group that has the same interests as you, like veganism or chess. When you see someone you would like to meet, be natural and ask him or her about something that pertains to the moment. Does this cheese have rennet or is it a vegan cheese? Volunteering is another great way to meet people. It gets you out of your normal routine and helping others is a good feeling, too.
 For all kinds of reasons, someone may not want to get to know you, and you may never know why. Try not to take it personally because they really don’t know you. Perhaps he or she is a particular religion or race and has been raised to only become friends with people from his or her community.
 It’s okay to fail. It’s how we learn what works and what doesn’t. Whether it’s an inspired idea, a blind date or an unexpected career opportunity, embrace it as a chance to grow. Too many people live in fear, and never tap into how great they really are!


Most people have lots of opinions. Take into consideration what others say, but you don’t always have to believe what they say about you. Often, it’s just projections based on their own fears!
Many are fine going unnoticed in the world, not straying from the opinions of others, and not ruffling any feathers. On the inside, though, these are the ones hoping for positive change. Be the lone duck from the crowd, and stay true to yourself. As long as you’re not hurting anyone or yourself, then it’s fine.The most important thing is you tried. It takes confidence to put yourself out there, so pat yourself on the back for it! There are many people on the planet. Eventually, you will find your tribe.

