 Factoring is a way to simplify expressions by removing factors that are common across all the terms in the expression. To start, find the greatest common factor that all of the terms in the expression share - in other words, the largest number by which all the terms in the expression are evenly divisible.


Let's use the equation 9x2 + 27x - 3. Notice that every term in this equation is divisible by 3. Since the terms aren't all evenly divisible by any larger number, we can say that 3 is our expression's greatest common factor.
 Next, divide every term in your equation by the greatest common factor you've just found. The resulting terms will all have smaller coefficients than in the original expression.


Let's factor our equation by its greatest common factor, 3. To do so, we'll divide each term by 3.

9x2/3 = 3x2

27x/3 = 9x
-3/3 = -1
Thus, our new expression is 3x2 + 9x - 1.
 Your new expression isn't equal to your old one, so it isn't accurate to say that it's simplified. To make our new expression equal to the old one, we'll need to account for the fact that it has been divided by the greatest common factor. Enclose your new expression in parentheses and set the greatest common factor of the original equation as a coefficient for the expression in parentheses.


For our example expression, 3x2 + 9x - 1, we would enclose the expression in parentheses and multiply by the greatest common factor of the original equation to get 3(3x2 + 9x - 1). This equation is equal to the original, 9x2 + 27x - 3.
 You may now be wondering why factoring is useful if, after removing the greatest common factor, the new expression must be multiplied by it again. In fact, factoring allows a mathematician to perform a variety of tricks to simplify an expression. One of the easiest of these involves taking advantage of the fact that multiplying a fraction's numerator and denominator by the same number gives an equivalent fraction. See below:


Let's say our original example expression, 9x2 + 27x - 3, is the numerator of a larger fraction with 3 in the denominator. This fraction would look like this: (9x2 + 27x - 3)/3. We can use factoring to simplify this fraction.

Let's substitute the factored form of our original expression for the expression in the numerator: (3(3x2 + 9x - 1))/3
Notice that now, both the numerator and the denominator share the coefficient 3. Dividing the numerator and denominator by 3, we get: (3x2 + 9x - 1)/1.
Since any fraction with "1" in the denominator is equal to the terms in the numerator, we can say that our original fraction can be simplified to 3x2 + 9x - 1.



