 Separate the eggs first, and place the yolks into a mixing bowl. Add the granulated sugar, instant coffee, and milk. Beat everything together with a whisk.

Save yourself some cleaning and use a microwave-safe bowl. Avoid glass.
Discard the whites or save them for another recipe, such as meringues or macarons.;
, After about 1½ o 2 minutes, pause the microwave, and give the mixture a stir. The mixture is ready when it thickens slightly and the sugar dissolves., Plug a sink and place the bowl inside. Add lots of ice, and start filling the sink with cold water. Stop when the water is level with the mixture inside the bowl. Let the mixture cool in the ice bath for 15 minutes.

Do not use a glass bowl for this. If you used a glass bowl previously, pour the mixture into a ceramic or stainless steel bowl first.
While the mixture cools, save time by preparing the coffee sauce and frosting.
 You can do this in an electric mixer or in a food processor fitted with whisks. For a more traditional tiramisu, use mascarpone cheese instead., Pour in half of the egg mixture into the cream cheese. Mix it in well, then repeat with the remaining egg mixture. Be sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl using a rubber spatula. This helps everything mix more evenly., Pour 1 cup (240 milliliters) of heavy cream into a mixer or food processor fitted with whisks. Beat it until it forms stiff peaks., Use a rubber spatula to scoop the whipped cream into the beaten cream cheese. Gently fold it in, scraping the bottom and sides of the bowl often., Pour the hot water into a small mixing bowl. Stir in 2 teaspoons of instant coffee. For something more traditional, you could use cold espresso instead., Pour in the coffee liqueur and ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract. Stir everything together until combined.If you don't like the flavor of liqueur, you can replace the liqueur with water., You will be brushing this onto the ladyfinger layers in the cake. This will help give the cake flavor and moisture., Pour ½ cup (120 milliliters) of heavy whipping cream into a small mixing bowl. Add in the confectioners sugar, 1 teaspoon of instant coffee, and ¼ teaspoon of vanilla extract., You can do this in an electric mixer or in a food processor fitted with whisks. Keep mixing until the color is uniform and the texture is stiff.From time to time, pause the mixer or processor, and scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula., You will be adding this layer last, so it might be a good idea to keep it in the fridge., Use a sharp knife to split the ladyfingers fingers in half lengthwise. If you are having trouble doing this, you can use whole lady fingers instead; your tiramisu will simply be more cake-y., Choose a 2½ to 3-quart (2½ to 3-liter) baking dish or soufflé dish. Line the bottom of the dish with the lady fingers, cut-side-up. You can also try lining the sides as well with more ladyfingers.Save any remaining ladyfingers for later. Don't try to cram them all into the dish.
 Use a pastry brush to coat the ladyfingers with about 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of the coffee sauce.Alternatively, you can dip each ladyfinger into the coffee sauce for 1 to 2 seconds, then place them back into the dish., Use a rubber spatula to scoop the cream cheese filling onto the ladyfingers. Gently smooth the layer flat with the rubber spatula, making sure that there are no gaps., Add more ladyfingers on top of the filling. Brush them with more coffee sauce, then spread on the rest of the cream cheese filling. Finish off with a final layer of lady fingers and coffee sauce., This time, press them cut-side down., Scoop the whipped cream on top of the ladyfingers in small mounds. Use a rubber spatula to gently blend the mounts together, forming a thick, even layer., Cover the tiramisu with a sheet of plastic wrap. Place it in the fridge. Let it chill until it firms up. This will take about 2 hours., Once the tiramisu is firm, pull off the plastic wrap. For a more traditional touch, sprinkle it with cocoa powder.