 Assume the potential customer has reached out to others for estimates as well. If you have letterhead for your business, it gives your estimate a more professional polish and makes it stand out.If you don't yet have letterhead, you can create something basic on any word processing program. Make sure it includes your name, your business name, and contact information such as address, phone number, email address, and the URL of your website if you have one.
Include your logo in your letterhead if you have one. This is another way to make your estimate look professional and help it stand out from any others.
 If you're sending the potential customer an estimate, it must be labeled clearly as such. Try placing the word "ESTIMATE" at the top of the page (directly under the letterhead) in large red capital letters.You might also include a disclaimer immediately under the word to the effect that the actual final cost may be higher or lower than the estimate you've given.
 For an estimate, you don't have to go into extensive detail about the services you will provide. However, you should break down the steps of the job as much as possible.You can group services into broad, general categories for an estimate. This can help you more easily find a ballpark price without having to spend too much time finding exact figures just for the purposes of an estimate.
For example, if you are building a deck for a homeowner, you may have cost breakdowns for "materials" and "labor."

, If you're an independent contractor, you may be required by state or local law to carry certain licenses or to be bonded. Information about these should be included on your estimate.Memberships in professional or trade organizations also make you appear more trustworthy and can set a potential customer at ease about doing business with you.
If you have badges from any review sites or social media platforms, such as Yelp, you might include those too so potential customers can see what other people have to say about your services., An estimate is never legally binding, and you should state this up front so that your potential customer is aware that the actual price may differ from the estimate you gave.Make a statement at the end of your estimate even if you have something written under the word "ESTIMATE" at the top of the page. For example, you might say "The above price is a ballpark estimate, not an exact quote. Your actual price may be higher or lower depending on a variety of factors."
You can describe the factors that might contribute to a difference between the actual price and your estimate, but it isn't strictly necessary. If you do include reasons for a difference in prices, don't get too detailed or verbose in your explanation.
 In some cases, there may be significant factors that would result in a tremendous difference in the price. In these situations, it can be helpful for you to give your potential customer several estimates so they can make a more informed decision.For example, suppose the customer said they want their new deck built as soon as possible, but at the latest they need it completed before a holiday gathering they have planned in three weeks. You might provide an estimate for getting the deck completed just by their deadline, and another for getting it done more quickly by hiring additional labor. It may be worth the extra cost for them to have the peace of mind of knowing that their deck will be completed before their party, even if there are weather delays.
 Once you've finished your estimate, proofread it carefully before you print it off. Sign the letter and date your signature, then make a copy for your own records before delivering the estimate to the potential client.