 It is important to believe that you are cool, fun, and whatever else you want to be. Thinking poorly of yourself will reflect in your behavior around your girlfriend. Believing in yourself will build confidence, which will help when you’re around your girlfriend and with life in general.Don’t give into thoughts that tell you that you’re acting weird or uncool. Remember that she agreed to be your girlfriend for a reason.;
, Trying too hard means acting like you wouldn’t normally act around friends, thinking about conversations before they happen, and simply not acting like yourself. You should make an effort to treat your girlfriend with kindness and respect, but that doesn’t mean acting unlike you normally would. Be in the moment with your girlfriend. Don’t plan ahead how you’re going to act, look, or what compliments you’re going to give her.If you’re a very nervous person, you can plan a few conversation topics, but don’t plan out the entire conversation.
 Feeling nervous is totally normal, but don’t let that feeling control your behavior. Take a few deep breaths and remember how great the situation is. You have a girlfriend at a wonderful time in your life. Remember how great that is so you can enjoy your time with her without the worry.If you’re very nervous, think of things that make you happy to help you calm down. For example, think of a favorite song or movie.
 Awkward moments will happen during a relationship. You or her may say something that doesn’t come out as intended. Or, one of you may simply be in a bad mood one day. Don’t take it wrong if she seems quieter than usual, doesn’t hug you at the beginning of the day, or compliments another guy or girl. Simply ask if something is bothering her if you feel the need to do so.Don’t get angry with her or act upset over a small situation—like her forgetting to say bye after class.
 Expecting a certain outcome can take a toll on your confidence. It can affect your confidence if the outcome you imagine doesn’t happen. For example, your behavior can change if you expect your girlfriend to let you kiss her after you compliment her. Or, expecting a certain outcome can make you overbearing or approval seeking. Accept whatever happens., Immature people may make fun of you for being very nice to your girlfriend, but don’t let that change your behavior. Show her that you respect her and treat her with kindness. You can do this by talking to her in a courteous way, which means not making cruel comments or saying inappropriate things. Showing her respect also means giving her your full attention when you’re with her, not flirting with other girls, and trusting her.What is inappropriate largely depends on the type of relationship you have with your girlfriend. It would usually be inappropriate to make sexual comments about your girlfriend during school.
 Compliment her on anything you like about her. Tell her how beautiful you think she is, especially when it’s obvious she put effort into her outfit that day. You should also compliment her on her strengths and accomplishments. For example, tell her how awesome you think it is that she does well in school. Or, congratulate her when she makes it onto a team.It’s great to compliment her, but don’t overdo it. Complimenting her on anything and everything will make your compliments seem less sincere.
 Having a close relationship is great, but being overly attached can have a negative effect on your relationship. Being clingy could mean following them around constantly, overanalyzing their interactions with others, checking in on your girlfriend when you know she’s busy. You can avoid being clingy by being confident in yourself and trusting your girlfriend.Listen to your girlfriend and respect her wishes if she says she needs some space.
 It’s okay and encouraged to brag about how wonderful your girlfriend is. It’s not okay to brag about what happens between you and your girlfriend. For example, if your girlfriend lets you kiss her for the first time between classes, don’t tell all of your friends about it. Things get around quickly at school, and she may not be happy about everyone knowing about her personal matters.


You should also avoid bragging on social media. That can carry over into your school environment.
 First, it is important to know what type of affection she is okay with. Her limit could be holding hands or kissing. Then, keep in mind that you are at school. It usually isn’t acceptable to show a lot of affection during school hours. If you do show affection, be private about it. Hug her when no one is around, or kiss her quickly in an empty area.To know what she is okay with, you could ask her to tell you what she is and isn’t okay with directly or ask her “Is it okay if I kiss you right now?”

, If you have a locker, write a short and sweet note and slip it in between the cracks of the door. If you don’t have a locker, you can put the note into her notebook. Write something like “You look pretty today,” or “Great job on the presentation today.” Try to do this once a day or at least a few times a week., You don’t have to do this all the time, but it’s nice to do every once in a while. Offer to carry her books when it seems like she is carrying more than usual or when she appears stressed out. If she says no, offer once more in case she is being shy and then respect her answer., You can do this in class if you don’t have assigned seats, or you can save her a seat at the lunch table. This will make her feel special and let her know that you think of her. You could even find a special place for just the two of you to have lunch—like a bench outside if it’s allowed., The gift doesn’t have to be expensive or cost anything at all. A simple gesture, like baking cookies, will let her know that you were thinking of her on a special occasion. For Valentine’s Day, write her a note and bring her a flower. For her birthday, consider what she would like. If she likes a certain band, draw her a picture of one of their album covers.If you have a creative hobby, like knitting, utilize that hobby for her gift. Knit her a hat or scarf.

