 If you absolutely can't go to class, like if you are sick, injured, or have a busload of homework, don't go, but if you're just lazy and don't feel like going - go. In class, you will work on your technique. ans learn new steps, which will only help you at your feis.;
, If your teacher says you need to improve on something, try to think about it while you practice. Eventually, you will always do it, and it will just be a natural thing you do while you dance.
 You will be amazed at how much easier class is if you practice. You should be practicing at least this much a day, every day:


Beginner: 15 minutes
Advanced beginner: 30 minutes
Novice: 45 minutes to 1 hour
Prizewinner: 2 hours
Preliminary or open champ: 3 hours

, Talk with your parents and see how far they're willing to take you. If you see a feis your parents are willing to take you to-sign up!

, If you only practiced when you felt like it- discipline yourself. If you want to do well in your feis, you need to practice.
 Are your hard shoes getting small? Go buy new ones. Need a new solo dress? Find one. Now is the time to get those last-minute stuff.
 Take it out of the dress bag and closet and lay it outside.If your dress has panels, place it flat on a table and put books on the panels to make them flat and stiff. Make sure it is in a safe place,though.
 As the feis gets closer and closer, feed your body better and better. Try to limit sugars and fats, and get lots of protein and a limited amount of carbs so you'll have energy on feis day.
 While you may not be able to improve everything your teacher says you need to improve, it will still help.
 Grab your dress, wig, shoes, and do your dances. If you have a practice floor like the ones at the feis, use it. This will make it seem more realistic.
 Most feiseanna will post their stage schedules during the week before. Print it out and see how much time you have during competitions.
 Take the books off your dress and put it into its dress bag. Then, pack a feis bucket or bag with the items you'll need. Here are some many dancers bring to their competitions:


sock glue
soft shoes
hard shoes
something to attach your number to your dress: safety pins (not recommended),string, or a card holder.
Makeup, if you're wearing it.
Deodorant
An mp3 player or iPod with practice music on it
A first-aid kit
A water bottle
Healthy, energizing snacks
Your dress or vest

, Practice for about an hour at most, maybe more if you're in an upper level, but don't come home from school, practice, eat dinner, and go to sleep.
 You may be tense for tomorrow, but truth is, you really need to wind down. Try taking a long, hot bath or shower, reading a book, or taking a nice walk around the block.
 Again, you may be so excited or tense you might find it hard to sleep, but you need it! It will charge your body, and if you are only half awake, you might find yourself forgetting your step or doing your hornpipe in the treble jig!

,, If you have to leave for the feis at 6:30, give yourself adequate time to get ready, at least an 2 hours.
 Don't skip!! You need the energy! If you don't eat any breakfast, you'll get hungry and won't have enough energy, which will show in your dancing., Try to show some school spirit, wear as much stuff from your dance school as you can! Put on a tank top or t-shirt and shorts. If it is cold out, grab a sweatshirt and sweatpants. If you're a girl, wear a sports bra.
 Make sure you have everything, or make a checklist.
 Grab a buddy, book, or some video games to entertain yourself.
 Give each other feedback, and cheer each other on.
 Get the feel of them and see what it will be like when you compete., Check on the feis website to see if any scheduling changes are made. Keep in mind, though, that they can run fast or slow.
 Stop eating half an hour before your first competition and use the bathroom, from then on, only take occasional, little sips of water. That way, your stomach won't be full, which will not be fun to dance with.
 I personally like to do the wig at home, to get rid of added stress. You don't want to stay in your costume too long, but you need to allow yourself adequate time to change.
 Try not to line up with someone from your school, as they may be doing the same steps as you.
 Enjoy, and dance your best!

