 The type of chocolate depends on what you’re making, and what type of chocolate you like. You can choose from dark, milk, or white chocolate. Chocolate can be bought at almost any grocery store. Keep in mind that some types of chocolate are easier to chop than others.Chocolates with a higher percentage of cocoa butter and milk solids are easier to chop than unsweetened chocolate.;
, Make sure you have made a clear space in your kitchen. Choose a stable cutting board. A dry, plastic cutting board is the best choice. A wooden cutting board works perfectly fine if it is very dry. Put the cutting board on a table or counter on your kitchen. Place the chocolate on a cutting board.Wooden chopping boards are more prone to contain moisture, which you want to avoid when chopping chocolate.
 You will need to use a long bladed the knife. You need to use this type of knife because it will provide room to chop the chocolate, and provide protection for your fingers. A serrated knife is recommended if you want your chocolate to be finely chopped. A chef’s knife is a better choice for larger chunks of chocolate, though it will work if you want a finer chop too., Firmly grab the knife handle in the hand you favor. To have more control over the knife, place your hand on top of the dull side of the blade as you cut. You should place your hand towards the end of the knife, but not at the point. To chop, use the part of the blade closest to the handle for the most force.You should use one hand to hold the handle, and the other handle to exert force.
 Chopping chocolate is easier if you start at the edges and cut at an angle. Choose any corner to start from. Begin chopping as finely or as chunky as you desire. Rock the blade from from point to hilt as you begin to chop.For a fine chop, you should begin chopping only a few millimeters at a time.
 Turn the knife towards you in a semi-circle as you chop. Continue chopping the chocolate until you have made it all the way through the block or bar. There should not be any large chunks of chocolate left when you are done.Using the part of the knife closest to the handle gives you more control.
Depending on the size and type of chocolate, cutting it might take some arm strength.
 Look over the chopped chocolate to see if you are satisfied with how fine or chunky it was chopped. If you are not satisfied, repeat the chopping process until the chocolate is the way you want it. You do not have to start at a corner or rotate while you chop this time since it is no longer in one piece.Once it is finished, you can put the chocolate into a bowl to weigh for the recipe. Make sure to subtract the weight of the bowl.

