 The easiest way to make broiled lobster is to pick up some lobster tails, either frozen or fresh, from the supermarket or your local fishmonger. Lobster tails are the meatiest part of the lobster. You can certainly broil the other parts, too, but if you're looking for an easier preparation experience, you can't go wrong with tails.


If you choose fresh lobster tails, keep them refrigerated until use.
If you buy frozen lobster tails, thaw them in the refrigerator overnight before using. This will help ensure they cook evenly.;
, Just before you're ready to broil the lobsters, preheat the broiler. If your broiler operates inside the main part of your oven, place the oven rack in the center of the oven to ensure even broiling.
 Wipe them clean with a paper towel.
 Use a sharp pair of kitchen scissors to cut a rectangular window shaped-piece along the top curve of the lobster tails. This exposes the flesh so that it will cook thoroughly under the broiler. Don't remove the shell entirely: just cut away a section that's a few inches wide and runs the length of the lobster tail.


You can use a knife to do the job if you don't have a pair of scissors. Try a serrated knife, which is less likely to slip on the slick lobster shell.
If you prefer, you can simply make one cut along the length of the tail, then pull the shell halves apart with your hands to expose the flesh.
 Since lobster meat dries out pretty quickly when it cooks, it's usually broiled with flavored butter to keep it moist. The most important ingredient in the butter sauce is the butter, of course - and it can be flavored any way you like. To make a delicious basic butter sauce, mix the following ingredients together in a bowl:


1/4 cup melted butter per lobster tail
1 minced garlic clove per lobster tail
Salt and pepper to taste

, Place them flesh-side up in a small roasting pan that will catch all the drippings. Pour the butter sauce over the lobster tails, allowing it to pool inside the shells.
 Put the baking pan under the broil and cook the lobster tails for 10-12 minutes. The lobster tails are ready when the flesh is opaque in the middle and the butter has browned. Remove them from the oven.


If the flesh still looks a little translucent, the lobster tails aren't ready yet. Broil them for another 2-3 minutes and check again.
Don't overcook the lobster - the meat could become a bit rubbery. Be sure to check after 10-12 minutes to see if the lobster is done.
As a general rule, broiled lobster requires 1 minute per ounce of meat to cook properly.
 Broiled lobster tails are delicious with extra butter sauce, a squirt of lemon juice and a sprinkling of fresh herbs such as dill or chives. Serve the lobster immediately after cooking for best results. The meat can be left inside the shell for presentation or may be taken out.

