 The desire to be thin may be a result of anxiety and destructive thinking. It sometimes is hereditary, but it's important to recognize that these thoughts will damage your body image and your body.


Negative emotions that you might experience may include sadness, anger, nervousness, insecurity, and others.
You might have noticed that you have an intense fear of gaining weight and an intense desire to lose weight. These feelings are symptoms of anorexia. Try to remind yourself that these thoughts are from the disease.;
, When you find yourself admiring other people’s bodies and comparing their bodies to yours, try to stop and think about what you’re doing. By doing this, you are acting on an impulse driven by insecurity and anxiety, an impulse that’s produced by anorexia. Recognize it for what it is--disrupted thoughts and feelings fueled by an anorexic thought process.


When you catch yourself judging other people’s bodies or comparing your body to theirs, force yourself to stop. Instead remind yourself you should accept others, no matter what their body type, and to accept yourself as you are.
Think about your friends and family. They come in all shapes and sizes and you love and care about them all. Your love for them does not have anything to do with their size and neither does their love for you.
 The internet can be an excellent source of accurate information, resources, and support for those with eating disorders. But it also contains unhealthy, damaging, and triggering content that can reinforce poor body image and drive unrealistic expectations. Avoid these unhealthy sources to help yourself cope with your feelings.Even your social media outlets may contribute to your feelings. You may want to reduce your exposure or avoid social media altogether for a while.
You may also want to avoid visiting fitness websites and applications because these can also be triggers for some people.
 You may be tempted to become anorexic or engage in behaviors that lead to anorexia because of unhealthy images of body types, eating habits, and situations that promote extreme thinness. Learning what makes you want to become anorexic is essential to learning which situations you need to avoid.Some questions that may help you figure out what is causing you to want to become anorexic include:


Do you have a group of friends who obsess over how many calories they consume? If so, these friends may be influencing you. Try to spend less time with them or ask them not to talk about calories so much.Does a family member often make comments about your body or your weight? Or did they make comments to you while you were growing up? Comments like these and any bullying you experienced is important to identify and discuss with a counselor. You may also want to talk to them about it and explain how it makes/made you feel. You should also let another family member know about this so you have someone on your side.Are you constantly reading fashion magazines or watching shows that focus on thinness? If so, take a break from these images for a while. Keep in mind that these images have been Photoshopped and these girls do not look like that in real life., Your friends’ attitudes toward food and their bodies can impact your own eating habits and body image. Try to find people who have positive self-images and healthy attitudes toward food and weight and spend more time with them.Loved ones can also be helpful in reframing your attitudes about food and your body. If a loved one voices a concern that you are too thin or unhealthy-looking, then you should listen and take it seriously.
 Try to limit your exposure to unhealthy situations, and think about how you can spend your newfound time. If you are involved in a hobby or exposed to an environment that is making your anorexic behaviors worse, then it might be time for a change.Choose to do something that is positive for you instead.


Consider stopping gymnastics, modelling or any hobby that focuses on your size.Avoid weighing yourself or checking the mirror too much. Frequent weight checks and constant attention to your physical appearance can reinforce negative behavior patterns that many anorexic individuals share.Avoid friends who always talk about how much they weigh and compare themselves to others.Avoid websites, TV shows and other outlets that are portray unrealistic body types., If you have anorexic tendencies, then you probably have a high level of cortisol, which is a stress hormone.When you are anorexic, you may be obsessed with being perfect, having control, or hiding insecurities. Being obsessed with these things causes significant amounts of stress. To help counteract stress, take some time to relax every day.


Pamper yourself. Get a manicure and pedicure, go for a massage, or spend a spa night at home.
Try yoga or meditation. Both of these activities have shown to reduce stress.

