 Are you riding street, park, trails?

For asphalt surfaces, aim for a pressure close to the limit specified on the sidewall of the tire. Anything more can cause a blowout. In addition, excessive pressure will make for an uncomfortable ride. The main advantage of a higher pressure is reduced rolling resistance.
For gravel and trails, aim for a pressure where the tire deforms slightly while turning or going over bumps. This helps absorb bumps and maximizes grip when turning. Try to deform the tire by hand to get an idea of how it will perform.
For sand, go as low as possible without having the tires move on the wheel. This increases the surface area of the contact patch, meaning the tires won't sink in as much.



 

;
, Doing back flips or 10 feet (3.0 m) drops? Keep this in mind and decide whether or not it's a good idea while pumping air into your tires.
, Certain tires go 50psi (ex. Eastern Curbmonkey OE) others can exceed 100psi (ex. FIT FAF-K Folding or other folding tires)


If you don't have an already semi-pumped tire or it has gone flat, you may want to test the tube for leaks or holes. Fixing holes is generally not worth it.
Also check your rim for nicks, cracks, and flecks of metal, these can puncture the tube.






Put the tire onto the rim, then the tube into the tire. There should be no folds or creases, as these are prone to blowouts and will make the tire misshapen.
Use a tire lever to get the tire completely onto the wheel. Be careful not to damage the inner tube.
Have the valve nozzle sticking out of the hole in the rim. Line up the label of the tire with the valve. This makes it easier to locate the valve but more importantly it looks good.
 Make sure it is on all the way and secured to prevent air from leaking out.

If using a compressor, pay close attention to the pressure gauge. If the compressor doesnt have one, feel the tire to get an idea of how full it is. Do not overfill the tire.
When using a hand pump, keep pumping until the gauge reads the right pressure. Alternatively go by feel.
Check the tire to make sure it's still on the rim.







