 Most modern printers have Wi-Fi capability, allowing you to set them up without connecting to any of your computers. The printer will need to be in range of your wireless router in order to connect to it.


If your printer does not have wireless capabilities, see the next section.;
, You'll be connecting to the wireless network directly from the printer, so you don't need to connect it to a computer first.
 The process for this will vary depending on the printer. You'll need to know your Wi-Fi network name (SSID) and password.Many printers will allow you to connect to the wireless network using the built-in menu system. Refer to the printer's documentation for the exact location. If you can't find your manual, you can almost always download a PDF copy from the manufacturer's Support site.
If your printer and router both support WPS push-to-connect, simply push the WPS button on your printer, then press the WPS button on your router within two minutes. The connection will be made automatically.
Some older wireless printers may require you to connect to a computer first to set up the wireless connection. This is common if the printer doesn't have a built-in menu, but does support wireless. Connect the printer to your computer via USB, and use the included software to set up the printer's wireless connection. After configuring its wireless, you can disconnect it from your computer and place it where you want.
 After connecting the printer to your network, you can add it to your Windows computer so that you can print to it.Open the Control Panel from the Start menu (Windows 7 and earlier), or by right-clicking the Windows button (Windows 8 and later).
Select "View devices and printers" or "Devices and Printers."
Click the "Add a printer" button at the top of the window.
Select your printer from the list. It may take a moment to appear.
Install any drivers if prompted. Windows should be able to automatically install drivers for most popular printers.
 If you're using a Mac and the printer is Mac-compatible, you can add it after connecting it to the network.


Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences."
Click the "Print & Scan" button.
Click the "+" button at the bottom of the list of printers.
Select your new printer from the list and follow the prompts to install any necessary software.
 Once your printer has been added to your operating system, you can select it from any program that can print. Your new printer will appear in the "Printer" selection menu when you go to print your document or photo.If your new printer isn't showing up, make sure that your computer is connected to the same network. Sometimes restarting your printer can make it appear again.
 Before you can print from your Android device, your printer will need to be properly connected to your home network using the steps above, or directly to your computer via USB. You'll be adding the printer to Google Cloud Print, which will allow you to send print jobs to it from anywhere from any app that support printing.


If the printer supports Google Cloud Print, you'll be able to add it with minimal fuss. If the printer does not support Google Cloud Print, you'll need to add it using a computer that the printer is already installed on.
 If your printer supports Google Cloud Print, you'll be able to connect it to your Google account directly from the printer's built-in menu. Follow the prompts to log in with your Google account. Make sure this is the same Google account that is associated with your Android device.


If you can connect your printer to Google Cloud Print, you can skip down to Step 9.
If your printer does not support Google Cloud Print, you can still add it through your computer.
 If the printer cannot connect directly to Google Cloud Print, you'll need to add it to your Google account manually. The downside to this is that the printer will only be available while your computer is turned on and logged in.


You'll need Chrome to set up your Google Cloud Print services.
Make sure you're using a computer that can already access the printer on the network. Follow the steps in the previous section to connect your computer to your wireless printer first.
 This will open a new tab.
 You'll find the Google Cloud Print section towards the bottom of the menu.
 You'll see a list of your currently-connected devices.


If you are asked to sign in, make sure you sign in with the same Google account that's associated with your Android device.
 You may have multiple devices listed here, especially if your printer is a fax machine as well.
 This will add your printer to your Google Cloud Print account.
 This will allow you to access your Google Cloud Print printers from your Android. You can download it for free from the Google Play Store.
 Once Google Cloud Print is installed, you can print to your Google Cloud Print printers from any app that supports printing. Printing support varies from app to app, though most apps that open documents, images, and emails support printing. You can usually access the "Print" option from the ⋮ menu.


If you added the printer from Chrome, the computer that you added it from will need to be turned on with Chrome open or running in the background. If the printer can connect directly to Google Cloud Print, it just needs to be on and connected to the network.
 This feature allows iOS devices to send print jobs directly to the printer. Look for the AirPrint logo on your printer or for an AirPrint option in the printer's Settings menu.


Some printers need to be configured to use AirPrint first.
AirPrint printers will need to be connected to the same network as your iOS device. Follow the steps at the top of this article to connect your printer to the network.
If your printer doesn't support AirPrint, you'll need to find a printing app from your printer's manufacturer.
 Not all apps support AirPrint, but most apps from Apple and other major developers do. You'll be most likely to find AirPrint options in apps that can open documents, email, and pictures.
 Use the app to open the document, picture, or email that you want to print.
 This will allow you to select your AirPrint printer.


Make sure you're connected to the same network as the printer.
 Your file will be sent to your AirPrint printer.

