 Before you consider taking a supplement, you need to have a good idea of what might possibly happen to you as a result. With some supplements, you may decide the side effects are too much to risk, even if the product does really work.Government health or medical agencies often are a good source of information about the side effects of weight-loss supplements. In some cases, the side effects may be so severe that the supplement has been banned in various countries. If you're looking at a supplement that any country is banned, find out why.
The website of the National Center for Complimentary and Alternative Medicines, based in the United States, is a good source for general information about many different weight-loss supplements.
Look at reputable medical websites online to get detailed information about the supplement so you'll know what to expect. Consider the types of side effects, as well as how common they are, before you make the decision to add a particular supplement to your weight-loss regimen.
Keep in mind that even "natural" supplements may have unpleasant or dangerous side effects., While reviews and testimonials may not give you a clear indication of whether a particular weight-loss supplement really works, they often give you a better idea of the side effects of taking a particular supplement.Keep in mind that just because one person experienced unpleasant or uncomfortable side effects as a result of taking a weight-loss supplement, that doesn't mean you'll have the same experience.
However, if through your research you find that a majority of the people who've tried the supplement have had similar side effects, you probably want to avoid that particular supplement just to be on the safe side. The modest benefit you receive from the supplement likely isn't worth the risk of unpleasant side effects.
 In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration does not regulate weight loss supplements. While some prescription weight loss drugs have FDA approval, over-the-counter supplements have not been tested by the government for safety or effectiveness. Understand that you are taking that risk when purchasing weight loss supplements.Keep in mind that just because a product is sold in stores doesn't necessarily mean it's been approved as a weight-loss aid or proven safe for that use. In the U.S., check the FDA's website to see if a weight-loss supplement you're interested in has raised any concerns with government researchers.
 You should always have your doctor actively involved in any weight-loss plan you start. If you're interested in adding a weight-loss supplement, ask your doctor whether they recommend it, and what results you can expect.Typically you can expect your doctor to be skeptical of many weight-loss supplements, particularly over-the-counter weight-loss supplements that are unregulated by any governmental authority.
If your doctor approves of a particular supplement, they may be able to offer suggestions on dosage or even recommend particular brands.
Depending on your weight loss goals, your doctor may be willing to prescribe you a weight-loss supplement. Prescription weight-loss supplements have a higher success rate than over-the-counter supplements, and have been the subject of more research.
If you want to lose weight in a healthy and effective manner, ask your doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian.

