 Like any dog breed, Westies are prone to certain health conditions. One that affects many Westies at a young age is Craniomandibular Osteopathy, an irregular enlargement of skull bones.This condition most often affects puppies between four and eight months.
Warning signs include swelling of the jaw, drooling, and difficulty opening the mouth.
There is no cure for this disorder, but a careful diet can alleviate the worst symptoms.
Westies with this condition will experience jaw conditions for the rest of their lives.
 This condition causes a decreased blood flow to the head of the femur (the large bone in the rear leg). The femur can begin to disintegrate at the point where it connects to the pelvis.Warning signs include limping and visible atrophy of rear leg muscles, usually in puppies about six months old.
This condition can be corrected by surgery if caught soon enough.
 This is a common eye condition that causes the lense of the eye to become opaque, harming the dog's vision.The eyes of a dog with cataracts will take on a cloudy appearance.
This condition is most common in older dogs, but in West Highland White Terriers can show up in juvenile dogs.
Cataracts can be removed with surgery.
 This disease, sometimes called "Westie Lung Disease," causes scars in the lungs that can block the flow of oxygen into the blood.Symptoms of this condition vary from one dog to the next. They can include a general weakness or loss of energy, rapid breathing, a crackling sound in the lungs, a dry cough, shortness of breath, and other problems breathing.
This disease has no cure. If discovered early however, preventative measures can make the dog more comfortable and extend its life. Generally, owners of Westies with this condition are encouraged to limit the dog's exercise and keep the house cool to limit scar growth.
 In this condition, the knee joint of the dog's rear leg can slide in and out place. This condition, which typically affects smaller dogs, can cause pain and even cripple the dogSevere cases require surgery to allow the dog to continue using the leg., Even a health dog should get a check up regularly to catch any potential problems before they become severe.


Visiting the vet about once a year is adequate for most healthy dogs.Older dogs may require more frequent veterinary attention.

