 It’s a common scene in horror movies to have someone sitting facing the wall, responding to some unknown entity. Most often they have their back to the audience, and are gently rocking back and forth in a rocking chair., This is not something you want to do in broad daylight around a large group of people. It’s a great prank for a sleepover if you have up to 3 other people over.

If you’re doing this at a home where there will be parents present, make sure the parents know about the prank, otherwise they might wonder what's going on when they hear someone laughing maniacally in the middle of the night.
 Sitting in a big cushy armchair facing the wall won't have the same effect as sitting in a wooden chair or rocking chair. You want to be easily seen, and you want your body language to be as clear as possible., Practice what you’re going to do before you do it. Make sure no one hears or sees you doing this unless you want them in on the prank., You may want to act completely normal all the way up to the point that your friends find you sitting in the chair, or, you might want to give little hints that something isn’t right with you throughout the night.

You could eat and then say you’re not feeling well, and say that you haven’t been feeling well a lot lately — something up with your stomach.
You could mention that you’ve been having bad dreams, and then describe dreams in which a weird face appears in the darkness above you, or in which shadow people hover over you in your sleep.
 Once everyone is in the bedroom and lying down/ready to go to sleep, lie down and then within seconds toss and turn, and then stand up and walk towards the door.

If no one says anything as you leave, say “Ugh I have to pee again already” as you walk out, just to make sure they notice you’re gone.
If you’re worried no one will notice you, or that you might wake up other people in the house, you can even do the prank in the bedroom — in this case, you’ll want to be the first one in the bedroom so that when everyone comes in, you’re already sitting in the chair in your “trance”.
 Position a chair so that it’s facing a wall or even the corner of a room, and sit down in it. It’s important to consider your body language as you sit:

Will you slump in the chair or sit perfectly upright, almost as if something is pulling you up toward the ceiling?
Your body language is important here, so whatever you do, keep it in mind.
 Begin by staring at a point on the wall or ceiling. You can move your head or keep staring at the one spot. Have an idea of what you’re looking at — really imagining it will help you behave more realistically.

To figure out how to move your head, imagine there is something moving around on the wall or ceiling and that your gaze is following it.
You might even imagine that something is something crouched in the top corner of the room staring down at you.
 Start quietly, but not so quietly that no one can hear you — ultimately you want to get the attention of your friends. You can speak to the “thing” you see, or laugh lightly and then get louder.

Really you can make whatever sounds you want — just make sure they’re creepy!
If you’re planning on screaming when your friends find you, keep your noises fairly quiet. That way, the abrupt change in volume will be extra frightening.
 When your friends find you, you can react in a number of ways. Don’t let them know that you notice them until they come right up to you and try to talk to you or touch you.

When a friend tries to touch/talk to you, you can stare at them blankly and then scream, or you could stare at them blankly for a moment before blinking your eyes and shaking your head a bit, then returning to normal.
If you do the second option, make sure that you act defensive or like you have no idea what they’re talking about when your friends try to mention the incident.
 Unless you want your friends thinking you’re actually crazy, you’ll want to come clean to them at some point. When you do is up to you; just don’t keep it going on too long.