 Optometrists will often have free trial lenses that they can give you following your eye exam. There are different brands and types of contact lenses (ex. Daily’s, two-week lenses etc) and your optometrist should be able to provide you with a trial pair for the different types/brands., If you keep asking your optometrist for free trial contacts they may become suspicious after a while, so you may want to come up with other reasons why you need a free pair. Before trying this, understand that it requires you to lie to your doctor about your comfort or vision. Lying to your doctor is not a good idea for a number of reasons, one being that it creates conflicting data that makes it harder to be fit properly with lenses. Your optometrist will likely be happy to give you some free contacts to try and find the perfect fit for you, and after that you should accept that you need to pay for them. If they are too expensive, ask your doctor about coupons, less expensive brands, or stick to glasses. If you do decide to go this route, however, here are a few reasons you may need to test out new contact lenses:


You can tell your optometrist that your last trial pair did not fit properly and bothered your eyes.
You could say that your current contacts are prone to rips and tears and you want to find a more durable lens.
You are interested in testing out prescription color contact lenses to freshen up your look and want a trial pair.
You find the daily contact lenses you currently use a bit of a hassle and would like to test out the two week lenses (or vice versa).
 Ask your optometrist for a copy of your prescription. In order to get contacts from another optometrist or online you need to have a copy of your prescription. If you don’t have your prescription you may need to pay for another eye exam. Your eye doctor should readily give you a copy of your prescription upon request — providing a copy of your contact lens prescription is required by law., Once you have your prescription you can shop around to different optometrists and retailers for free trial contact lenses.


It works best with contacts that are at least two-week wear. Think about it — is it really worth it to do a round-robin with seven different opticians for one free trial pair of dailies?

