 You can search for a club registered with the Academy of Model Aeronautics (AMA) at their website, www.modelaircraft.org. Your local hobby shop should also be able to provide information about clubs in your area.;
, You will find that people who fly radio controlled aircraft are friendly and willing to talk to you about their equipment and what training programs they offer for new and prospective pilots.
 Many clubs have a trainer that can be flown with an instructor with a "buddy box". This is simply two transmitters connected via a cable which allows the instructor to take-off and then hand over control of the aircraft to the pilot in training. The trainer can re-take control in the event that the aircraft is in danger of crashing. Buddy box training is the preferred method of flight training until new pilots demonstrate they have mastered skills necessary for safe flight.
 Your local club will also require you to join. Annual membership in a local club varies in cost depending on the circumstances, but usually ranges between $50 and $150 annually. Many clubs offer discounts to new members.
 A new radio control pilot will need to determine if they are more interested in airplanes or helicopters. Choosing a club that has members that have the same interest will ensure that you have access to individuals with more experience who can support you in your new endeavor.
 As a new pilot you can expect to spend anywhere from $200-$500 for the minimal equipment you will need to start flying. Most hobby shops provide a discount to the members of local flying clubs, and the hobby shop may even pay a portion or all of your first year's dues to the club. The hobby shop wants you to be successful so that you will continue to return to buy more equipment. However, you may not need to buy new equipment to get started. Most clubs have a listing of equipment that members are interested in selling. Ask for input from others - including club members, hobby shop staff and online forums such as RC Universe. If you are buying used equipment, ask a more experienced person to check out the equipment with you to make sure that you are not purchasing gear that is damaged or unsafe. There is nothing worse than taking your first flight to have it end with a crash.
 Talk to all of the instructors at the local clubs and choose an instructor with whom you feel comfortable. You will be spending a fair amount of time with your instructor, so be sure they are someone you feel comfortable with and that you like. You can expect to spend between 15-30 hours flying with the instructor before taking your first solo flight. Flight instruction is almost always free. The pilot in training will be expected to provide their own fuel and other basic equipment for instruction.
 During the first few flights you can expect to do less flying and more talking about safety. Spinning propellers and fast moving planes can be dangerous, learning and following safety procedures is an essential part of your training. In your training you will be taught and given time to practice straight and level flight, turns, take-offs, and landings. The amount of time it takes for mastery of these maneuvers differs from person to person.
 You will most likely be on the "buddy box" as a safety precaution, but you will do all the flying unless an emergency occurs. Successful completion of your solo flight will mark the end of your basic flight instruction.

