 A relaxed boho vibe shouldn’t rely on traditional and formal floral details. Use non-conventional sources like wildflowers, fresh herbs, climbing ivy and wild grasses. Roses are a typical choice for weddings, but try mixing them with simpler flowers like baby’s breath, lavender sprigs, daisies and honeysuckle. Keep floral accents loose and “undone.” Avoid rigid wreaths and arrangements.Instead of typical-looking “perfect” floral arrangements, look for organically shaped bouquets and more natural combinations.
Suspend fresh flower bundles from the ceiling or hang them on the walls.
Shop for locally grown flowers and herbs, or head out into a nearby field and collect flowers and wild grasses yourself.
 Fresh flowers are a must, but dried flower arrangements and bouquets can make a unique bohemian statement. If the budget is an issue, dried flowers can be a beautiful way to save some money. You also don’t have to worry about dried flowers wilting or being damaged. Find a supplier and create dried flower bundles yourself. Tie them together with natural fibers like twine and burlap.


Suspend the bundles from the ceiling, tie them to chairs, place them on tables and work them into the centerpieces.If you’re a DIY boho bride and have the resources, consider harvesting and drying the flowers and herbs yourself, either from your own gardens or from the wild.
 Roses and lilies are common choices for bridal bouquets, but consider using baby’s breath and daisies to create a more rustic vibe. Surround the simple blooms with fresh or dried herbal greenery. Lavender sprigs are a popular and fragrant choice and the tiny lilac flowers work well with bohemian color schemes. Eucalyptus makes a gorgeous, pastel green filler for bouquets.


Tie the bouquets together with lace, velvet or satin ribbons in muted colors that match your wedding theme. Twine and burlap are also great natural-looking choices.Baby’s breath, daises and herbs are very cost-effective, especially in comparison to traditional options like roses.
 Arrange the flowers of your choice in mason or apothecary jars for a rustic, pastoral vibe. Create high drama on a budget by putting together large fluffy arrangements of baby’s breath and herbs and placing them in vintage cocktail glasses. Adorn the tables with lanterns and candles.Fill tall glass vases with water and submerge sprigs of baby’s breath in them to create a unique look. Float tealights in the water and light them before the guests arrive.Do away with conventional vases altogether and fill vintage glass bowls or other vessels with water and float the blooms of your choice on the water’s surface.Another alternative is running fresh green garlands down the length of the tables. Weave or tuck the flowers of your choice into the garlands.