 Thinking about your homework is stimulating, so you want to complete it a few hours before going to bed. If you leave your homework to the last minute, you will need time to unwind before you will be able to fall asleep.For example, avoid doing homework within an hour of your regular bedtime., Caffeine is a stimulant and could make it difficult to fall asleep if consumed before bed. As a result, you should avoid drinking caffeinated beverages, such as soda, energy drinks, coffee, and tea anytime after midday., Exercise helps to increase your metabolism and provide you with energy. If you take part in exercise during the day it can actually tire you out, making it easier to fall asleep at night. That being said, if you engage in rigorous exercise immediately before bed, you will likely struggle to fall asleep.For example, you could exercise by running, dancing, playing a team or individual sport, or working out at the gym.
 You will be able to sleep in longer if you prepare for the school day before you go to bed. For example, you can bathe or shower in the evening to save time the next morning. The evening is also a convenient time for you to pack your school bag and plan what you will wear, eat for breakfast, and take for lunch the next day.Even if you wear a uniform to school, you can lay out your clothes including socks, shoes, and any hair accessories to help save time in the morning.
Ask your parents to make you a breakfast that can be eaten on the bus. For example, peanut butter toast with a banana on the side.
Preparing the night before, will allow you to wake up at the last possible moment before heading to school!

, It is okay to take a short nap if you come home from school feeling exhausted. Your nap should be no longer than 20 to 30 minutes and should not take place after 5pm. If you are going to take a nap, set an alarm so that you do not oversleep.Sleeping for longer than 30 minutes could cause you to go into a deep sleep and you will feel groggy when you wake up.
Similarly, napping too close to bedtime could make it difficult for you to fall asleep.
 Many young kids and teens, like yourself, engage in a variety of extracurricular activities. Although these are often fun and positive experiences, they may impact the amount of sleep you get each night. For example, your extracurricular commitments may cause you to complete your homework later in the evening, making it difficult to fall asleep.Make a list of all of your after school activities and commitments, such as a part-time job, track and field practice, homework, socializing with friends, etc. Then decide which activity you can cut in order to ensure you get enough sleep.
 You must be as productive as possible throughout the day. For example, work on your homework during short periods of free time between different activities. This will help you complete all of your daily tasks without impacting your ability to get a good nights sleep.A period of 10 to 15 minutes may not seem that long, but you may be able finish a short homework assignment if you get several of these free moments throughout the day.

