 The person might invite you to games several times. If someone on Webkinz invites you more than eight times, they could be trying to get your password out of the game. If someone invites you for the ninth time, decline the offer.;
, They might try to do unfair trades. Unfair traders usually can find out passwords and users easily, so if someone trades unfairly, cancel the trade. Sometimes people do it because they do not know how to trade fairly, so do not do this every single time.
 They might try to get your password out of you with Kinzchat. Although this is highly rare (less than one percent of players), some people know how to do a Webkinz glitch that can send your password through Kinzpost if you chat with them. So if they do faces in this order: smiley, heart, Webkinz sign, question mark, do not respond to them or use Kinzchat until they leave.
 This one is usually easier to tell. They will say how oak are you? That means how old are you? Some people respond using this: won=one too/to=two tree=three for=four fire=five sis=six several= seven eat=eight pine=nine tent=ten elevate=eleven too leave=twelve tree lean=thirteen. If anyone says anything from how oak are you? to what is your past way?, say it's not for telling or nothing at all.
 They can do a glitch by typing how is you and your mom? and afterwards they type c1. Do not chat after that until they leave because if you do, they will get all your information you gave to webkinz while adopting via kinzpost.
 They will add you and stalk you. If they start stalking you, they are onto you for information. Avoid this by deleting the user, turning on do not disturb, or saying no to their invites. Also do not trust this user when they ask for your information and say come on i won't use it or tell anyone or something similar. Do not trust them.
 They might send you a letter through kinzpost that threatens you if you do not give them your information. Like: I will deli (delete) you if you do not give me your aid. (age) Or: If you do not give me your past (pass) way (word), I will report you for saying something bad. If they threaten you, report them for threatening you. Or delete them. (It is highly recommended that you report such encounters.)

