 If you’re offering condolences to your close friend, then you don’t have to worry about overstepping boundaries. With a close friend, you can sincerely give your condolences, hug the person, and watch the person cry and maybe even join in. Just think about how the person reacted in other difficult situations and use this to get a sense of how the person may deal with the death.


If you know your friend is very emotional, try to give your condolences during a private moment so she can let her emotions out.
If you know that your friend doesn’t like to be touched, then don’t overwhelm your friend with a big hug.
 Giving your condolences to your loved one is tricky. Since you’re comfortable with that person, you should be able to talk about anything, but everyone has a different way of dealing with grief. Just tell the person you love him and that you’re sorry about what happened. Tell him you’ll do absolutely anything for him and hold him for a long time if he wants to be held.


To offer condolences to someone you love, holding and touching that person is just as important as saying the right thing. Just be there physically for that person.
 Remember to respect boundaries when you offer condolences to your boss. You can offer them to your boss in person, and even send your boss flowers or a card to show how sorry you are. Just don’t give your boss a big hug unless you have a warm relationship, and remember to give your boss space and to keep things professional.
 If you know that someone in your neighborhood or office has lost someone and you happen to run into that person, you may want to offer your condolences. This is especially true if that person knows that you know the news. Just say, “I’m really sorry for your loss” and add “let me know if there’s anything I can do for you” if you mean it.


If it’s a neighbor, you can offer to water that person’s plants if he goes away for the funeral; if it’s a classmate, you can offer to take notes for him while he’s away.

