 Work is a thing you have to do if you weren't born with a trust fund. For most of us, it's not a lot of fun. But does it need to be? Work doesn't have to be your life. Spend your time at work working, and spend your free time living your life and enjoying yourself. It doesn't need to be a big part of your identity.


"What do you do?" is a common conversation question among lots of people, but in some cultures it's seen as a rude question. Your work is your business. It doesn't need to define you as a person.
 Join social groups that allow you to meet with all kinds of different people from different social classes and groups. Join a church, or a community organization that will cross cultures and make you feel like you're a part of something bigger and more important than you might feel at work.


Volunteer when you have free time to connect with other people. Volunteer at soup kitchens, animal shelters, and hospitals. Find time to give back and find fulfillment in ways outside of work.
 Your free time should be your own, and should be spent in the presence of loved ones. When you leave work, make a point of spending time with your peers and your family. Have fun.


Sometimes, it's tempting to want to relax with a couple drinks and some television, but Try to make a point of getting active after work too. Spending too much time alone can make it difficult to stay happy.
Don't complain about work too much with your friends and family. It's a common theme, but it can sometimes only serve to keep you focused on how you don't like your job, instead of focusing on things you enjoy doing together.
 If work doesn't leave you feeling fulfilled, use your paychecks to fund your real passions. Don't identify with your job, identify as a record collector, or an aspiring singer, or as a comic-book artist. Work on old guitars in your free time, or sell antiques on eBay. Find hobbies that fulfill you and keep you busy.


Maybe you spend your days working in restaurants, but spend your weekends devoted to your band, or to your novel-in-progress. You don't have to introduce yourself as a cook. You're a musician, or a writer, or an artist.
 When you imagine the perfect working life, it's important to imagine the other intangibles as well. Who do you work with? Where do you work? What do you see out of your office window? In some cases, if you're unhappy at your job, it may be that a change of scenery might be in order.


Working at a restaurant in Tulsa might be dragging you down, but what if you were working at a restaurant in Houston? Or New Orleans? Consider moving to a culinary capital.

