 Do you want to collect donations from your work or church? Or will you branch out to a general audience and advertise across your area? Making concrete decisions about this up front will help you stay organized as you go along.


If you're new to organizing food drives, stay small. Stick to your office, church, or civic organization and get a feel for the challenges of the process. Make note of what worked and didn't work for future food drives.
If you feel confident in your ability to attract the attention of a larger audience, try expanding to your neighborhood or town. Keep in mind that these people will not be donating partially due to your relation to them. You will have to create incentives for the participation of mass numbers of community members. You may not need to offer anything in return, but rather organize a show or broadcast the results of the food drive on the local news to make larger audiences feel appreciated.
Larger venues have the potential of raising greater amounts of food. However, it is much easier to organize a food drive in a smaller venue. The risk of failure is also much smaller when dealing with donors you know personally.;
, If you are organizing this through a church or your work, it will be easy to find others to help form a special committee with you. Otherwise, look to family, friends, or neighborhood associations to help with the food drive. You can’t do this alone, and spreading the duties around will help you keep a positive attitude., You won’t be able to nail down a specific time or place until you have contacted potential venues. Nonetheless, you should have a time frame in mind. Try to pick a couple ideal weeks, and have a reason. For example, organizing a Halloween food drive should be in the last two weeks of October.
 Pick a charity, non-profit, food bank, or government agency you will donate the goods to and make contact with them. They will be able to tell you what foods are needed in your area. They will also be a great source of information and resources.National charities and nonprofits like Heifer International and Meals on Wheels are good for larger food drives. For smaller food drives, look for community food banks. You can find your local food bank on Feeding America's website., You want to organize a food drive that is marketable and serves a distinct purpose. By communicating your goals clearly to the public, they will feel better about donating to your food drive.For instance, you might organize a food drive that collects food essentials like canned beans and green vegetables.
You could also have a food drive that collects more specific items like soups or chowders.
 This is a simple way for your food drive to get people’s attention. It is also a quick and easy way to communicate your goals and strategy to your potential donors. Look for puns and pop culture references so no one is left in the dark about the meaning of the slogan.


For example, you might call a food drive that collects soup in mid-February the ‘Souper Bowl.’

, How many boxes or trucks of food do you want to fill? Deciding this will help you stay on track and organized. If you are creative, it can be another marketable aspect that you present to the public. Be on the lookout for ways to make your food drive interesting or catchy.For example, you could collect enough cans of soup to fill your car. Or, thinking bigger, you could collect enough to fill the bed of a pickup truck. Either way, these receptacles are an attention-grabbing way to communicate your goals to the donors.
 In most cases, you will be taking the food to the charity, non-profit, government organization, or food bank you made contact with. Some food banks can pick up the food, so be sure to ask. Either way, they will be able to tell you the procedures for handing off the donated food., This may seem like an obvious detail, but it can get lost in all the planning. If your goal is 10 shopping carts, make sure you have enough cars to transport all the boxes you fill. Picking a receptacle on wheels, like a pickup truck, can make it easy for you to transition from the food collection phase to the drop-off.
 Since not all venues may be able to host a food drive in the time period you decided on, have some backup plans. If this is organized through your workplace, it seems natural to have it there. If you are asking the community for donations, you may need to ask around for a host., Pick locations that are easily accessible by car and public transportation. Let them know who you are, your strategy, and the food bank or organization you are benefitting. Many churches and businesses are open to having food drives in their facilities.Choose a local business that is accessible and open to the public throughout the day.
You may have seen certain businesses advertised as sponsors in local charity events in the past. These are good to ask because it is likely they follow a certain ethos in running their business. They may also get tax cuts or other benefits by donating time, resources, or facilities to your food drive.
Visit their website, email, or call to find out how to speak to the general manager. They are often the only personnel authorized to make decisions about benefiting charities and other organizations.
 This is another great way to maximize your exposure. With regular foot traffic, you should get additional donors outside the intended group. Many schools and universities are happy to allow people to organize food drives on their campuses.For schools you will probably end up speaking to the principal to get approval. However, it is always a good idea to go through the secretarial staff for initial contact.
For universities and colleges, look for an event planning office. Many campuses concentrate all their event scheduling books in one office - even if that office has to coordinate with numerous facility managers throughout campus. Nonetheless, the event planning office will be able to tell you who to contact if they are not in charge of the venue you are interested in.
 If you want to have the food drive in your place of work, make sure you know your policies. Plan on setting up the food drive in a place accessible to the greatest number of people. However, make sure it is secure. You don’t want unsupervised food to be stolen or damaged due to inattentiveness.


Your company may or may not have a human resources department. Go to the secretarial staff and let them know you want to organize a food drive for the office. They will be able to direct you to the proper personnel.
 Once you have decided on a venue, you need to settle on a date. Schedule the food drive through the venue so that they have you on their books. Start printing materials with the exact dates as soon as you have them so people know where and when you will be accepting food. It is also important to have a range of dates if your ideal venue is booked on the first date you tell them.Certain venues may have a deadline for booking their facilities, such as a number of weeks or months in advance. It is good to start planning early not only to stay ahead of these deadlines, but to give yourself enough time to advertise your food drive. Announcing a food drive in the same week you plan to complete it will not result in nearly as many donations as one that first announces it a month or so in advance.
 You will need to advertise your food drive loudly and often. Many charities and non-profits are able to supply food drives with basic poster and art supplies. In addition to visual advertisements, use media to communicate your event to the greatest number of people possible.Emails. This will be easy if you are organizing the food drive through your company. If you are seeking a larger audience, reach out to community organizations to circulate your announcement emails.
Posters. Put up posters around the appropriate area. For instance, if the food drive is intended for your company or church, put up posters in those facilities. For community or town-wide food drives, look for bulletin boards at public facilities like community centers, libraries, pools, farmer's markets, etc.
Radio, TV, and newspaper. Look for cheap or free ad space to circulate word of your event. Many public radio stations will announce your ad for free.
 Your donors will want to know how their contributions are building toward your goal. This is another time you can thank all present and future donors. It is also a way to get people excited about meeting the goal, and encourage them to donate more.


You might have all donors sign a ledger when they bring food. Have them list their contact information, and set up a listserv for the food drive. Keep everyone updated on the progress of the food drive every week, or even more frequently if you wish.
 In case anyone is unsure how they would transport foodstuffs, have containers available. This is a way of removing any doubts or hesitations people may have about donating. It also shows you are dedicated to making this affordable and convenient for everyone.For smaller food drives, milk crates are a great option. They are stackable, sturdy, and easy to pick up. You can ask kitchens or cafeterias to donate these, or browse the classifieds.
For handling larger quantities of food, larger containers will make it easier for you to transport the food. Look for large plastic storage containers or coolers to create fewer trips back and forth from the transport truck.
 Make sure you never stop talking about what you are trying to accomplish. This makes the charity seem more about the people it will serve, not the organizers. It also shows people you have an achievable goal in mind that you can accomplish.
 If the group you are asking for donations is split into groups already, this will be easy. If you have multiple drop-off locations, keep up with how many items are in each of them, and encourage them to donate more than the others. This tactic will get people excited about a little friendly competition, and result in more donations.Gift certificates or material reward can be a great motivator. Ask local businesses what they can contribute for your prizes. They get this question often, so don't feel like you need to go into minute detail about what a food drive is. However, you may need to sell them on why yours matters. Tell them the scope, your goals, and who it will benefit.
Try to keep prizes relatively small and specific (i.e., not a lump sum of cash) to retain the spirit of charity.
 It is important to thank your donors every step of the way, especially afterwards. You want them to feel good about what they did. When you hold future food drives, they will remember how easy, fun, and social it was to donate food to your food drive.For example, split your company into departments. Show how human resources, sales, and accounting are stacking up against each other!

