 You do not necessarily need experience house sitting, but you will need to provide homeowners with a short list of 3 to 4 people who will vouch for your character, trustworthiness and responsibility. It helps also if you have any experience with pet sitting or housekeeping.;
, Calculate what you think an average month's rent might be at the type of house you are interested in sitting for, and prepare to use that amount as a deposit. Not all homeowners request security deposits, but many do and, even if they don't, offering a deposit is a great way to attract homeowners and multiply your options. It further establishes your trustworthiness as a house sitter.
 You will use this to find sitting jobs.


Begin with a strong headline. It should be unique, attention-grabbing (though not overboard) and should highlight what you feel are your strongest assets. For example, a good headline would read something like, "Compulsively clean pet lover seeking an opportunity to make some new animal friends and experience life on the beautiful Santa Barbara coastline."
Explain why you want to be a house sitter, as well as what qualities you have that make you think you would be a good fit for the job.
Give details about past experiences you've had that you feel qualify you to house sit for a stranger. Even if you've never been a house sitter, chances are you've been in situations that required the skills of a sitter. For example, if you babysat for the neighborhood children as a teenager, walked dogs for extra cash or cared for a sick grandmother in her home, you have experience to list on your marketing blurb.
List any extra benefits you offer, such as a security deposit and/or a background/criminal screening.
 You may promote your house sitting services through a variety of avenues.


Take out an ad in the classifieds section of a newspaper that is local to the area you want to house sit in.
Post advertisements in free classifieds websites like Craigslist.
Pay to place a listing on house sitting websites like housecarers.com. There are a number of websites dedicated specifically to the purpose of connecting homeowners with sitters. Search online for these companies, then pay a small fee to be listed in their directory of available house sitters and let them do the advertising for you.
 The same companies that manage house sitting directories often also sell lists of homeowner advertisements seeking the services of a sitter.
 Interview for each opportunity, then choose 1 of your liking. Prepare your answers to typical interview questions such as "What would you do if my dog started acting up?" Make sure to emphasize your good qualities of being a responsible and caring house sitter.

