 If you'd like, you can lightly dust each cup with flour, but be sure to shake out any excess flour afterwards., In a large bowl, mix together 2 cups (253 grams) of peeled, cored, and diced apples, with 2 teaspoons of all-purpose flour and ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon. Set the mixture aside when you are done., Sift the 2 cups of all-purpose flour into the bowl first to break up any clumps, then add the baking powder, salt, and cinnamon. Stir everything together until all the ingredients are well-combined. When you are done, set the flour mixture aside., Cut the butter into small cubes first, then add it into a bowl with the sugar. Beat the butter and sugar together using a hand-held mixer or a stand mixer for about 3 minutes. If you do not own an electric mixer, you can use a food processor instead., Beat the butter mixture well after each egg that you add. Once you have the eggs added in, stir in the vanilla extract. Be sure to blend the mixture well; you do not want to see any streaks of egg yolk., Fold in half of the flour mixture first, then add half of the milk. Stir everything together with a rubber spatula, then repeat with the rest of the flour mixture and milk., Be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl often, so that everything blends together evenly., A simple way to do this would be with an ice cream scoop. This will ensure that each cup gets the same amount of batter., They are ready when a toothpick poked into the center of a muffin comes out clean. If the muffins are underdone, bake them for another 5 minutes., Melt ½ cup (115 grams) of butter and pour it into a bowl deep enough to dip a muffin into. In a separate bowl, stir together the ¼ cup (55 grams) of granulated sugar with ¼ cup (30 grams) of ground cinnamon. Set the bowls down side-by-side on the counter., After the muffins have cooled for about 10 minutes, take all of the muffins out of the tin. Then, working one muffin at a time, dip the top of the muffin into the melted butter, then quickly dip it into the cinnamon sugar.Hold the muffin by the bottom, and rotate it slightly as you dip it into the butter and cinnamon-sugar. This way, you can ensure that the entire top of the muffin gets evenly coated.
 They are ready to eat once the butter sets, and the cinnamon sugar hardens into a crust-like topping.