 Use scissors or pinking shears to cut off the hem of your shorts, cutting parallel to and just above the long seam holding the hem of each leg in place.


You can cut away as much of the material as you would like, but the cut should always be parallel to your original hem.
Use standard scissors or pinking shears for this method. The former will create more fraying from the start while the latter will limit the amount of initial fraying. Since you will be doing other things to control the amount of fraying, though, pinking shears are not critical.
 Use the sharp tip of your scissors or shears to tug down on the denim fibers around the perimeter of each raw edge.


Doing this helps to draw out the frayed fibers from around the raw edge of each leg.
 To minimize the amount of future fraying, use your sewing machine to sew a straight stitch roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the new bottom of the shorts.


Note that if any of the fraying has already extended past this length, alter the position of the new stitch so that it falls somewhere above the uppermost frayed fiber.
You could also hand sew this line, but sewing it by machine may make it sturdier. Additionally, machine sewing is much faster than hand sewing.
This stitch prevents the frayed edge from extending too far up. It acts as a new hem, essentially, preventing the material from unraveling above it.
 Toss your newly cut shorts into the washing machine and run it, putting it through a setting that has a spin cycle.


You can add detergent or skip it this time around. The choice is up to you and will have no effect on the fraying of your shorts.
Similarly, you can dry your shorts by machine or by air without making a difference to the frayed edge.
For best results, wash the shorts this first time around in a small load or by themselves. Doing so will maximize the amount of agitation and, therefore, the amount of fraying.
Note that this completes this method. No fray glue is necessary; the shorts should not fray past your new hem.

