 Would-be rescuers frequently become victims when they fall through the ice as well. You should avoid approaching the hole in the ice unless the victim is unconscious or in imminent danger of slipping into the water and drowning, either from weakness or an inability to swim. If you do have to approach the hole as a last resort, then you should still not run or walk, but crawl, to minimize the impact of the weight.;
, Dial your country's emergency number (Call the Emergency Services), or your local emergency dispatcher to have trained rescuers/paramedics sent to the scene. However, you should do this very quickly, and not leave the victim at any cost. If you waste time calling for help instead of helping the victim, the consequences will be dire., If the victim just fell in and remains conscious, he or she can most likely get out without physical assistance. Tell the victim to keep calm. Reassure the person that you know what to do and that you will come to them if necessary. Let them know, truthfully, that as long as they stay afloat, they have plenty of time. They'll experience a "cold shock" for the first 1-3 minutes, during which they'll hyperventilate, so the important thing is for the person to keep their head above water.


Encourage the victim to control his breathing to stay calm. They will most likely be hyperventilating. Advise them to take deep, slow breaths through pursed lips.
 Tell the person to swim to the edge of the ice and use his elbows to lift himself partially out of the water. Have him go to the edge of the ice where he was coming from, since it held his weight up until that point, whereas the ice around the other edges might be weak. The weight of their wet clothes will probably make it impossible for them to lift themselves up out of the water––the main objective is for them to just get a grip on the edge of the ice, so don't let them waste energy trying to pull themselves out.


If he has any keys or sharp objects to use as picks, especially ice picks, encourage him to use them to get a grip on the ice.
Instruct the victim to kick his legs and to try to get as horizontal as possible while using his upper body to drag himself out. They should kick their legs as they would if they were swimming and come out of the hole in a horizontal position, with his belly on the ice. Leaning on his arms too much to lift his body or he'll be more likely to break the ice with his weight.Once the victim is out of the water, he should roll away from the hole to minimize the impact of his weight on the ice.

