 It's absolutely essential that you warm up properly before stretching or attempting the splits.









Warming up helps to prevent pulled muscles (which can put you out of action for a while) and will also help you to get a deeper stretch.
You can warm up any way you like, as long as it gets the blood flowing around the body—try doing 5 to 10 minutes of jumping jacks, running around the block, or energetically dancing to your favorite song.
 If you want to achieve the splits in a week or less, you're going to have to really commit to your stretching routine.


You have to practice twice a day, without fail, for about 15 minutes at time. If you can get a third 15-minute session in (without pushing yourself too hard) then that's even better.
Try to accomplish other tasks while doing your stretching to make the time go more quickly. Listen to music, do it while watching TV, or while learning something for school—like spellings or math tables.
 Doing any task is easier when you have a friend there to help you and push you to do better.









A friend can help you to stretch and split deeper by pushing down on your shoulders or legs when you're in position. Just make sure that they'll stop immediately if you tell them to—you need to be able to trust them completely!
You could also try to make it a competition to see who can achieve the splits first—this is good motivation to work harder at your stretching.
 Wearing the right clothes will help you to feel more comfortable and flexible while you stretch, and will also help to prevent clothes from ripping while you're doing the splits.


Wear comfortable athletic clothes that are either loose and baggy, or stretchy and elastic (so they move with your body). Martial arts gear is also a good choice.
One good tip is to wear socks while practicing your splits, as these will allow your feet to slide along the floor more easily, helping you to achieve a deeper stretch.
 Achieving the splits in a week or less is a pretty difficult task, so it's important that you don't push yourself too hard trying to achieve it -- your safety is more important. You will slow yourself down if you are injured. A good rule of thumb is to only stretch mildly if you wake up sore. Wait a whole day or more if you totally bypassed your limits to do any intense stretching. Prevent needing this by taking it slow and always warming up.









While you're practicing the splits, you should feel a good, intense stretch in your muscles, but you should not feel any pain. If you experience pain, this is a sign that you are pushing yourself too hard.
Pushing yourself too hard can lead to strained muscles and other injuries, which will prevent you from achieving the splits anytime soon (if at all).
Remember that it's better to take your time and achieve the splits safely, than it is to rush and hurt yourself.

