 Take 15 minutes to half an hour extra waking time that will be "you" time. Naturally, this needs to be before the kids wake up. Take a quick walk outdoors and start the day taking in the early morning sights, smells and sounds. Or, do some yoga or floor stretches. If you like to write, maybe this is the time to pen a few words before the day begins. Or just enjoy your coffee and the morning paper before the noise and chaos descends.;
, Without fail, have that shower, no matter what the kids are doing. If you have very young children and you have nobody else to watch over them, bring them into the bathroom with some toys to occupy them and take a quick shower. The important thing is to be dressed, fresh and ready at the start of the day to ensure that you have a confident beginning. There is nothing more demoralizing than taking a shower at noon or 6pm.
 the night before. Once the kids are old enough to feed themselves, expect this of them. And also expect them to put all the dirty dishes in the sink. The time that you save here will be time you can spend attending to your makeup, to following up a phone call, to getting rid of some other chore that can then free you up later.
 Children are naturally curious - capitalize on this to teach them food preparation as early as possible. Even a four year old can slap a piece of pre-cut cheese between two pieces of bread and call it a sandwich. Do not fall into the trap of always doing things for your children that they can learn to do themselves. A great idea for school mornings is to start a production line for lunches that includes the kids. Vary their tasks dependent on their ages but always make sure that each one is participating to some extent. It does speed up the process and it creates a sense of personal responsibility in the children for what they eat. Children under school age can still participate by helping their older siblings or you.
 We give kids time-outs a lot. We should also give ourselves time-outs, only for us this is a blessing, not a form of chastisement! And the earlier that you teach your kids that a 20 minute nap or book read for mommy is sacrosanct time, the better. Younger children will not understand this at first but as the children age, they will learn that mommy has boundaries, as do most people in life. It isn't a harsh lesson - it's a realistic one.
 Not every outing in your life needs to be one accompanied by the kids, no matter how young or old they are. At least once a month you should arrange with your partner, a friend or a trusted neighbor for a block of time of at least 3 hours duration to babysit the children. Sadly yes, some husbands do have to be asked to "babysit" but just accept that with grace - you can retrain his thinking in the process once he gets used to the reality. Use this special time wisely and not for bill-paying or grocery shopping. Have a spa treatment, a hairdressing visit, a museum or art gallery tour or just lie under the sun in the local park with a book. The point is to do something that pampers you - heart and soul and for you to do it without guilt.
 Kids are very good at wheedling their way around bedtimes. Be strict on this because the more time they stay up, the more of this time is your time that they are eating into. As a compromise, let them have more leeway on some nights, such as a Friday or a Saturday, when there are no pressing commitments to meet the next day, such as school or sports practice.
 When life feels like it is getting into a rut, it is merely an indication that you are ready to move into a new phase. To do this, you will need to explore new options for hobbies and maybe even studying. Start small - attend a local lecture or exhibition on subjects you've never considered before

, The sooner that your kids enjoy hobbies and activities with you, the sooner it will feel like "time for you". Sometimes it is all about re-imagining "me time" and including the kids in activities you enjoy so that you do not lose the activity but you can still involve the kids. Get out into the garden with them - give them the hose while you plant the flowers. Give the kids a pile of coloring books while you lie back and read for 20 minutes. Give the kids a pull-along in a wagon while you take your daily walk.

