 Don't settle for excuses. You deserve a healthy puppy and this takes knowledge and planning on the breeder's part.


Check the pedigree papers to see if there are a high number of titled dogs in the first and second generations. If a puppy's ancestor was titled, initials such as FC, JH, CH, CD, OTCH or WC will appear before or after the dog's name. Although most pedigree papers show three to five generations, the first two are of the most important. These titles show that the dog was able to meet minimum performance standards and is likely a well socialized, trainable dog. Higher level titles show exceptional intelligence, team work and trainability which should mean that offspring also have a higher likelihood of being smart and easy to train.
 If you are getting your dog from a breeder, ask to see the papers for the sire and dam of the litter.


Verify that both parents are at least 2 years old. Final hip clearances cannot be given before that age. Even if the dog had a hip clearance screening at a younger age, it is still possible for problems to develop that would prevent certification once the dog reached 2 years old. Check the parents' papers to make sure both dogs have hip certification from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals as well as registration from either the Canine Eye Registry Foundation or a current annual eye clearance from a veterinary ophthalmologist.
 Where will the puppies be born and raised? Will they get regular handling and socialization from a young age? What sorts of experiences will they encounter? At what age will they be allowed to go to their new homes? Puppies should never go to a new home until they are at least 8 weeks of age. In some states, like California, that is the law.


It's a good idea to see the puppy with its mother and litter mates. That way you know that the dog was not born in a puppy mill and that the breeder is actually breeding the dogs.
 Sold as Labrador Retrievers, cross-bred dogs or poorly-bred Labs are commonly found in pet stores. Quite often, pet stores get puppies from puppy mills who breed indiscriminately and without regard for the health or quality of the dogs. The breeding pairs, particularly the dams, are housed in poor conditions and the puppies rarely socialized.


Some states are cracking down on puppy mills and the pet stores that buy from them, but the practice is still quite common. Be forewarned that buying from a pet store encourages the puppy mill problem and increases the likelihood of problems for you later.
Some pet stores offer space to rescue groups for adoption events, this is a different situation entirely and should be encouraged.
Once again, it's best to see a puppy while it is still with its mother and litter mates. This will show you that the dog was not breed in a puppy mill or other horrible conditions.
 Even some local breeders will not allow you to visit and want to meet in a parking lot, or somewhere off site. This should be a red flag to stay away from this breeder.


Think first before considering having a puppy shipped. Shipping puppies is very stressful on them and often results in a sick puppy when you pick them up from the airport. A health guarantee does not actually guarantee against everything that might happen to the puppy, and, if your puppy is sick when you get it, what recourse do you have if the breeder is thousands of miles away?

, A healthy dog should be clean, well fed and energetic, with clear eyes, nose and ears. The puppy should have a nice hair coat without mats or fecal material and nails trimmed. Their appetite might be off a few days at first, but the puppy should be eating and drinking. No vomiting, no diarrhea should be present.
 There are people who do not breed the dogs themselves, but act as brokers for puppies. Getting dogs from various sources and advertising and selling the puppies to unsuspecting people is how they make money. Again, ask to visit the breeder’s location if you want to deal with a broker. If that is not possible, keep looking.
 Labrador retrievers are frequently bred and sold without papers through classified listings. This is a great way to find a cheap puppy that will need a lot of future health care, so start saving for vet bills now.


Similarly, don't adopt a puppy being sold by the box out front of a store. Impulse purchases are never a good idea. Remember that buying a sickly or sad looking puppy does not just save that puppy, it also funds further irresponsible breeding. It is not a good idea for you for supporting unethical breeding practices is not advised.

