 Hold the middle of the bow with your non-dominant hand. Rest your dominant hand over the bow, just above the frog. Keep the fingers of your dominant hand relaxed and naturally spread apart.


The bow should be in a horizontal position.
 Bend the thumb slightly so that the tip touches the point at which the frog meets the rest of the bow, or the "contact point." Your other fingers should gently curve over the top of the bow stick and down the side.


Do not allow the pinky finger to rest on top of the bow stick. This position might be comfortable to you if you have ever played the violin or viola, but your hand will not have enough support if you repeat it with the French bow. Instead, the pink should curve and extend over the top of the bow stick with the rest of the fingers.
Release the bow from your non-dominant hand once you have a good grasp with your dominant hand.
You can let your fingers extend past the bow, or you can keep them perched higher up. The choice is yours. Experiment to determine what placement feels most natural and gives you the most control.
 While the method just described is the most common holding technique used for a French bow, there are variations you can use if holding the bow in this way feels awkward or uncomfortable for you.

Try imitating the placement of teachers, mentors, or favorite performers to try slight variations on the French hold, such as placing the pinky finger in the "U" of the frog.Playing a bass is very personal, but it takes practice to find your ideal holding position.
The length of your fingers and size of your hands will likely determine how "relaxed" your hold is, or how your spread apart your fingers tend to be on the bow. Try bringing your fingers closer or farther apart along the length of the frog.
One good rule of thumb, regardless of your hand size, is to place your fingers a natural distance apart. You can locate this natural distance by allowing your hands to fall at your sides, naturally curving at the fingers and thumbs. The distance between your fingers in this natural relaxed posture should be the same when you grip the bow.
 The initial grip is much easier than maintaining that grip through heavy playing. It is important to exercise your hands with daily playing so that you will have the stamina to hold your grip through several songs.

Do not overstrain any particular fingers. Try to keep the tension between all of your fingers and thumb. Do not allow your pinky or thumb to straighten.

