 At intersections with traffic lights or stop signs, obey the signals! This simple step is the easiest way to stay out of trouble. You don’t have to worry about right of way because the traffic light is calculating it for you. Just stay in your lane and wait until the light turns green. That means you are allowed to go. A blinking red light means that you should treat the stoplight as a stop sign. Stop, yield to others already at the intersection, and then continue on your way. If you arrive at the intersection at the same time as another person, the car to the right goes first.
A blinking yellow light means proceed with caution. You should go slow, and there may be a crosswalk ahead. Yield to anyone in the crosswalk.
You must yield to emergency vehicles with their lights on even if you have a green light.
 If you see a sign saying "no right on red" then you must wait for the light to turn green again. Similarly, if there is a red arrow pointing right inside the stop light, you must wait for the light to turn green. You are never allowed to turn right on red in New York City.
 If you and another car arrive at the intersection at the same time, then yield to the car to the right. It isn’t always easy to determine who arrived at the intersection first, so try to make eye contact with the other driver. This will help you establish who is going to go first. Flashing your lights is an indication that you want them to go first. If they flash their lights at you, that means they are waiting for you to go. , When a one- or two-lane road intersects with a larger road, the driver on the smaller road must yield to cars on the multi-lane road. Wait for a safe opening in the traffic before you try to enter into the multi-lane road. Never expect the traffic to stop for you. If you have to come to a complete stop before entering the multi-lane road, that’s okay.
 When a road dead-ends into a through street, the driver on the dead-end road must yield to traffic on the other street. You don’t want to go driving out into oncoming traffic. Oftentimes these intersections will have a stop sign, but if not yield right of way to oncoming traffic.
