 Having fun, lightening your mood, and kicking back are also key elements in managing stress. Different people have different approaches to this, so pick an activity that works well for you. Many people find it helpful to talk to a friend when they are stressed out.


For some people, it is helpful to vent their frustrations. Getting whatever is stressing you out off your chest can help you relax. Call a friend who won't mind a 10 minute venting session.Other people prefer to be distracted. Call a friend who is fun, or who makes you laugh. This can help take your mind off your troubles and de-stress.
 Even if you can't reach a friend to talk to, laughter can be a powerful way to relieve stress.Fortunately, there is plenty of content online that can help you laugh your troubles away.


Look up jokes on the internet, and take 10 minutes to have a good chuckle.
Look up funny videos that will make you laugh. This could be cat videos, clips of your favorite comedy show, sports bloopers, or something else. Whatever you find funny can help you get your mind off your troubles.
 Many people find physical activity relaxing. This doesn't have to be something as formal as mindful walking. You can move around in your home in ways that help you relax.


Some people find cleaning the house to be a good way to relieve stress.Find a small cleaning project you can do for 10 minutes. Vacuum your floor, wipe down some counters, or clean the tub.
For some people, a little dance party goes a long ways.Either by yourself or with a friend, take a few minutes to dance to your favorite music. Just cut loose for a few minutes.
 If you don't like dancing, you may still find music is a great way to decrease stress levels.Play some tunes that help you feel calmer.


For some people, this means relaxing or mellow music, like classical or smooth jazz.
For others, some upbeat happy tunes are what take the edge off. Experiment with different types of music and see what works best for you.
 Many people find showering to be a good way to de-stress.For some people, hot showers work best. But for others, a cool shower might be most relaxing. Again, find what works best for you.


There are body washes and other shampoos that are designed to help relieve stress through aromatherapy. Try one of these to see if it helps you.
 Some people find eating certain foods to be very calming. It might be sugary sweet,a salty snack, or a favorite fruit.You know your own tastes, so pick something that works well for you.


It is important not to overindulge as a means to managing stress. This can lead to a variety of health problems including weight gain, high cholesterol, and diabetes. Make your indulgences small. Have a single piece of candy or a handful of chips. Don't consume the whole bag in an attempt to eat your stress away., There are lots of other activities that can reduce stress, from kissing to praying to drinking tea. Try out some of your own ideas, and see what works best for you.