 When you find out that your parent is dying, talk to the doctor. Find out what treatment will be done and what management techniques should be used. You need to find out how much care they will need and what arrangements you can make for it.If you are not going to be the primary caregiver, get your parent’s permission to discuss medical needs with them.
 Often, people who are dying undergo pain management to help with their pain. Other problems, like respiratory or digestive problems and fatigue, are also something doctors treat terminal patients for or help them learn how to manage. Discuss your parent’s treatment and management plan with their doctor, and be sure to let the doctor know if something isn't working.Often, morphine and other painkillers are prescribed to help ease pain and provide comfort. Morphine also helps with shortness of breath. Medications can also be prescribed for nausea or vomiting.
Dry skin can occur in terminal patients. Alcohol-free lotions and lip balms can help skin and lips, while ice chips or damp cloths can help with dry mouth.
 Bed sores are a common problem when people are bedridden and dying. To help prevent bed sores, your parent should be turned every few hours. Turn them from their side to their back, and then to the other side. Bed sores often occur on heels, hips, lower back, and the base of the skull.Foam placed under heels or elbows may help prevent bed sores.
Keeping your parent clean and their skin moisturized can also help.
 If your parent is too weak or doesn’t have the energy to eat, you can help them. Offer to feed them, making sure to do it slowly. Give them enough time to chew and swallow. Offer them food in small portions and avoid feeding them too much at once.Offer them their favorite foods if they are able to eat them.
Don’t force them to eat. Some people stop eating when they are close to dying for many reasons. You may encourage them to eat, but never force them.
 People who are dying may be sensitive to temperatures. They may be hot or cold regardless of the outside temperature. Often, they may not tell you, so watch for signs. If they are cold, make sure they have blankets and warm clothes, and turn up the heat. If they are cool, remove excess blankets, turn on a fan, and give them a cool cloth.


If they are cold, they may shiver, pull the covers around them, or have a rigid body posture. If they are hot, they may be flush or sweating, and they may kick any blankets away.

