 Open the gift with care and consideration–-this means avoiding ripping it gleefully. Make a show of being excited about receiving the gift.;
, For example, you could say: "Wow! This is amazing!".


If you are perplexed by the gift, feel free to ask what it does but do so politely. For example: "This looks incredibly interesting. I've heard about these but I'm not sure what to do with it. Would you mind explaining?"
If you already own the gift, consider carefully what to say. If it will be obvious to the giver that you already have it, you won't have any choice but to explain that and to ask whether they'd mind if you exchanged it for something you don't have, preferably something related to the gift. If they wouldn't realize, it might be best to stay quiet and show thanks for their kindness, then later pass it on to someone who hasn't got the same item. This will all depend on who is giving the gift to you and what is right in the given context; some people would much rather help you to exchange it than to not know.
 Compliment both the person who gave you the gift: For example, "You have such great taste!"; "You know me so well!", and so forth. Compliment the gift itself too; For example: "Wow, it's so pretty!"; "This is awesome"!


If you actually don't like the gift, just tell yourself that you do until the party is over. Use less exciting adjectives, such as: "Wow, this is interesting!"; "This is unique!" Do not mention using it or putting it on display.
 Regardless of whether or not you like the gift, be thankful. Look the giver in the eye, smile genuinely and say "Thank you!" or "Thank you so much!" Some people say "Thanks" without smiling or looking the person in the eye. This doesn't make the gift givers too happy.


Pretend that this person just gave you the best thing you could ever imagine for if you don't much like the gift. Remind yourself that it is the action of giving that counts the most––this person has made an effort, has spent time and money on it and has gone to the trouble of giving the item to you.
 Slightly show it off but not too much! Just enough so that the gift giver will know you really like it (unless of course you don't. If you don't like the gift, tone down this step.)

, When everyone leaves, say thank you again. This time, say it to everyone! But to make it more personal, say "Again, thank you so much for the _____!"

, Preferably do this as soon as possible so that you remember correctly and it's over and done with.

