 Real property includes land and buildings. You can sometimes get a lien on this property, which is a legal right to payment. However, the following rules apply:

The real estate can’t be covered by a homestead exemption. In Florida, this means you can’t levy the debtor’s home, but you can levy other property.The debtor must own the property in their name only. If they own it jointly with their spouse, then the property is probably exempt unless you have a judgment against both spouses., You’ll work with the county sheriff to levy the property. Some counties have detailed instructions for what you need to do, so pick up a copy of the instructions from the sheriff or the court clerk., Take a certified copy of your court judgment to the land records office for the county where the property is located. Tell the clerk you want to file the judgment lien. Your lien is good for 10 years and can be renewed for another 10 years., Go to the court clerk’s office and take your certified court judgment with you. Make several copies, in case the sheriff needs more than one.Ask the clerk for a writ of execution.

If you misplaced your copy of the court judgment, you can pick up another from the clerk.
 The sheriff needs to know if other creditors have put liens on the debtor’s real property. Go to the land records office and check to see if any have been filed. Write down the names of any other lienholders as well as their addresses and the date they recorded the lien.Include all of this information in a signed affidavit.
 You must specifically describe the real property for the sheriff. Look at the legal description of property (and not the tax records). Your instructions for levy should state the amount due and the amount of prior payments.

Check with your sheriff’s office. They may have sample language you must include in your instructions for levy.Your levy instructions should be typed, not written.
 You must gather the following to take to the sheriff’s office with you:The original writ of execution
A copy of the signed final judgment
Your affidavit of judgment liens
Your specific levy instructions

, Hand all documents to the sheriff and pay your cost deposit. This will cover the sheriff’s costs, such as advertising fees, recording fees, etc. You’ll be refunded your deposit if the sale brings in enough money., Either you or the sheriff will notify them of the sale, depending on your county. Check the instructions. For example, in Palm Beach County, the sheriff will send notice using certified mail.However, in other counties, you should send notification this way.

Your notice should tell the lienholders the date and time of the auction.
 You also need to give the public notice of the auction by advertising in a local newspaper for several weeks. The advertisement should list the time and location of the auction. Ask the court clerk or sheriff about which paper you should advertise in., The highest bidder for cash in hand pays the sheriff for the property. At the end of the auction, the sheriff will distribute the proceeds from the sale based on the following priority:The sheriff recoups their fees and costs. If enough money comes in to cover all costs, you get your cost deposit refunded.
You get $500 for expenses, whether you really spent that amount or not. This amount is set by Florida law.
The sheriff pays lienholders based on their priority on filing their lien. You might end up getting nothing if the sheriff runs out of money before getting to your lien.

