 Praying can help you by allowing you to remember the abilities and strengths you possess. If you are unsure how to pray or what to pray for, talk as if you are talking to a friend. Verbally processing issues can help in resolving them.;
, What you are doing is not trusting that God really forgave you because you have not forgiven yourself yet. This often happens when we are "talking the talk" but not "walking the walk". We cannot lie to ourselves and we know when we are actively engaged in change. You start to forgive yourself when you actually stop drinking or using drugs and start leading a healthy life.
 They may want to blame it on something or someone else. Faith and God take the excuses away. Faith and God do not avoid responsibility. They challenge us to a higher ideal, a higher belief, a higher dream. They are our potential for something more. Addiction is a selfish pull away from faith and God and does not acknowledge ownership of choices. A belief in faith or God is an acknowledgement of fault and a trust in the capabilities for something more.
 Practice trusting that faith and God will prevail. Trust may be difficult when you first stop your addiction as you are use to shutting others out and only trusting yourself in order to protect yourself from hurt. To regain trust, begin by allowing yourself to trust one person. Do this completely (whether it is your Mom, Grandparent, etc). What this will teach you is that everyone you give trust to won’t hurt you.
 Emotions may be scary and unfamiliar at first as you have covered them with drugs or alcohol for so long. Your emotions are essential in changing your life. They will tell you when your life is off course. Listen to them. If you are having negative emotions, look at them as a signal that change is needed.
 Do not allow past problems to define who you are. You are either moving toward a solution or still stuck on the problem. To focus on faith and God reflects what you want your life to represent and be about. Everyone makes mistakes, but you don’t have to focus on those mistakes for the rest of your life.
 To continuously focus on avoiding the drug or alcohol monster makes this monster even stronger. If you constantly focus on the past pain and troubles of your drinking or drug use, this is what your life will be about, the pain and troubles of the past. We are what we focus on.
 Once forgiven, God does not remember your past mistakes or sins. They are gone, forgotten. You have a clean slate. Holding on to past pain may give you the excuse to continue to drink or drug again. Watch how you judge yourself as you need room for growth which comes from faith and God and the belief in something more.
 You may feel that if you relapse you have failed or are unworthy of God’s help. Or you may only feel valued if you “follow the program”, remain sober or attend meetings. We are all different. We are all human and will make mistakes. Sometimes it is better to follow that voice that resonates deep within you than blindly follow someone else’s rules for “recovery”.

