 These programs will reward you based on how much you play and can give you the opportunity to cash in for additional benefits. Compare the incentives of different casinos or sites, and choose the casino based on the benefits or freebies that are the best for you.


As a member, you may get additional offers in mail or online. During casinos' off-seasons, it's common for them to try to lure you in with free play, free food, or a free hotel stay (or all three). So if you're going to spend your money anyway, you might as well sign up. Always check the player desk daily to learn about daily promotions and special offers; many of them are not advertised online.
If this is your first time, walk around and get to know the facility, especially if you are staying as a hotel guest. Generally, casinos are layed out with the action in the middle and the services around the perimeter. Notice where the rest rooms and emergency exits are located. Look at the floor and you will see the ugliest carpeting you have ever seen; that is there on purpose to keep you looking up, not down. But the floor will also show you where the main walkways are, should you become lost. Also notice the overhead signs that indicate different areas and how to get back to where you were.;
, Though there are different types of machines all of varying, payouts, popularity, and method, how they work is generally all the same. There's just a few things you should know how to work:


You can pay with a previous payout ticket, your member card, or cash. Often (if not always), the previous payout ticket will go in the same slot the cash can be inserted. Most machines take $5, $10, $20, $50, $100 dollar bills, though some also take $1, too. These areas will be lit up and unmissable. If you see the Bill Acceptor not lit, or flashing blue, it is in need of service or what is called a Bill Drop . Press the HELP or SERVICE button to summon an attendant.
Most machines no longer spit out coins. If you're looking for a coin tray, you may be looking for a while. New machines use the TITO system . Some casinos have reverted back to coin usage in the high limit areas, as it takes less time to play coins that it does to insert paper. But for machines of $500 denomination and higher, you will need a ticket to play.
For certain variations of games, the methodology is spelled out on the glass above the screen. It'll tell you what type of game it is, what each spin pays out, and details on the jackpot. If it's there, read it before you sit down. Some machines will be blatantly better than others. Machines tend to be grouped by denomination, style and brand name. Video slots have a HELP or INFO button that will walk you through the various payouts, play lines, bonus games and special features.
Each machine has a light on top of it called a 'candle'. The candle contains a color indicating its denomination, and also serves to notify the slot attendant if service is needed. The candle flashes in specific patterns for service needed, entry made into the machine, jackpot, door not secure, and other functions.
Locate the "Cash Out" button. This is how you'll finally be freed from your semi-conscious state and released into the world of windows, clocks, and not-for-free soda. Press it and it'll tabulate your winnings and issue a ticket, which you can then take to the cashier or to the payout redemption machine -- if you win, of course. Keep in mind that tickets are bearer instruments; whoever holds it can redeem it. So guard it as you would cash. If you find one on the floor or other location, do NOT attempt to redeem it; turn it in to Security or other official. All tickets are numbered and time-stamped, and attempting to cash out one that isnt yours can get you in trouble, up to and including being ejected and barred from the location!

, With slot machines, you can bet a surprisingly high amount of money in no time. In fact, they can move faster than some table games. There are machines where you'll get by betting 50 cents and other machines that, in order to really be playing, you'll need to bet $5. Find an amount that doesn't make your stomach churn?


Generally speaking, if more money is needed to hit the jackpots, you should bet it (why play if you can't win?). So if you're not looking to dip into your grandmother's inheritance, the penny, nickel, or quarter slots may be more to your liking. And you'll get more playing time out of your dollar in the long run!
Most casinos lay out these machines in sections. You'll see giant lit-up signs displaying "5¢" or "25¢" or "1¢." If the casino is a maze (as some seem to intentionally be), just grab a waitress or attendant to be pointed in the right direction. High limit slots, usually $5 and higher, are located in separate rooms or 'salons', with their own attendants and cashiers.
 Sure, casinos employ a certain level of strategy in placing their slots, but each one varies and it's not something so simple as to be understood with a quick glance or paragraph. What's more, with technology nowadays, they can change a machine's payout at the click of the button. So before you go asking that cute hostess where you should play, think again.


While we're at it, the concept of a "hot" machine also doesn't pan out logically. Realistically speaking, a slot machine is a like a pair of dice. You may feel like after you roll four sixes in a row you're probably not going to get another six, but in all likelihood, the six is just as likely to come up again as every other number. With each roll, the dice starts back over. And the slot machine is the same. It's only over the course of an absolutely Titanic-sized number of turns that the casinos are getting their payout numbers.Unless you plan on making a career out of risking your money, there's no point in letting it factor into your decisions.

