 Rinse the whole oranges under running water. Use a vegetable brush to scrub the skins and remove any dirt or particles. Pat the oranges dry, and then use a sharp knife to cut the top quarters off each orange.

Depending on the size of the oranges, you may be cutting off the top 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of each orange.Only use as many oranges as you want to make cakes. The cake batter recipe will make enough for eight oranges, but you can reserve leftover cake batter for something else.;
, Use a grapefruit knife or another small knife to cut the flesh of the orange away from the insides of the skin. Cut as close to the skin as you can without cutting into it. Do this with the bottom and cap of each orange., Once you’ve cut the flesh away from the skin, you can use a spoon to scoop out the fruit. Use the spoon to dig away any fruit that may still be stuck to the skin. When you're done, you'll have oranges and caps that are completely hollowed out.You can eat the fruit that you remove from the orange, use it to make juice, or transfer it to an airtight container to eat later.
 In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Whisking will help to remove lumps from the dry ingredients, and make for a smoother cake batter.

Instead of whisking, you can combine the ingredients in a sifter and sift them into the mixing bowl.
To make a chocolate mocha cake, add 1 teaspoon (5 g) of espresso powder to the mix as well., Crack the eggs into a small bowl, and then transfer them to the mixing bowl with the dry ingredients. Add the milk, oil, and vanilla. Beat the mixture with a hand mixer on medium speed for two minutes.Use a whisk to combine the ingredients if you don’t have a hand mixer.
Cracking the eggs into a separate bowl will give you an opportunity to pick out any shells that fall in with the egg.
 Once you’ve added the water, beat the batter for another minute, until all the ingredients are fully incorporated. Don’t worry if the batter appears thin, because it’s supposed to be like that.

Instead of making your own chocolate cake from scratch, you can also use a prepackaged cake mix.
You can also use a brownie recipe or mix to cook in the oranges., To cook the cake in the orange on a fire, you need a bed of hot coals. Once the fire is burning hot, stop adding fuel and let the fire die down. When the flames die down and there are a lot of glowing red embers in the bottom of the pit, use a shovel or stick to rake the coals and spread them evenly over the fire pit.

The oranges will be cooked directly on the coals, so make the bed of coals as flat as possible.
 Pour enough batter into each orange to fill it three-quarters full.This will work out to about 1 cup (235 ml) of batter per orange. When the oranges are full, place the cap back on each orange.


When the batter cooks, it will rise and fill the orange.
 Tear off a square of heavy-duty aluminum foil that’s about 1 foot (30 cm) long. Wrap one of the oranges with the foil, making sure to keep the orange upright (with the cap at the top). Repeat with the other oranges.


Use two layers of aluminum foil for each orange if you're using regular-duty foil. This will help protect the oranges and cakes from burning., Use a pair of tongs to pick up one of the oranges. Place the orange down on the hot coals. Repeat with another orange, being sure to leave a few inches (several centimeters) of space between the oranges. This will prevent the coals from being smothered.

You can also cook the oranges on a barbecue if you don’t have a campfire. Place the oranges onto a grill that’s been preheated to 350 F (177 C). This is the temperature at which you'd bake the cake in an oven., Let the oranges cook on the fire for 20 to 30 minutes, turning them every 10 minutes with tongs.After 20 minutes, carefully remove one orange from the fire. Unwrap the foil, remove the cap, and insert a toothpick into the cake. The cake is done if the toothpick comes out clean.

If the toothpick comes out covered in wet cake, bake the oranges for another 10 minutes.
On a barbecue, bake the oranges for 30 to 35 minutes.
 When the cakes are cooked, use tongs to remove the oranges from the fire. Unwrap the foil and set the oranges aside to cool for at least 10 minutes. Before serving, you can remove the caps and garnish the cakes with your favorite dessert toppings, such as frosting, chocolate or caramel sauce, sprinkles, or chocolate chips.Transfer the oranges to individual servings plates. Use a fork to eat the cake directly out of the orange.

