 Some treatments for dark spots on your skin (due to sun damage) can only be done by a doctor. If you’ve tried home remedies and they have not worked, or if you prefer to start with a medical professional, make an appointment to see your doctor.Your family doctor may refer you to a dermatologist, who is a doctor that specialized in skin issues.
 Unfortunately only dark patches that are being caused by epidermal pigmentation can be treated effectively. If the problem is found to be dermal pigmentation, your doctor may have some other options, or they may inform you that the condition cannot be altered.Epidermal pigmentation means that the dark spot is on the outer layers of your skin and is accessible to various types of treatment.
Dermal pigmentation means that the dark spot is under the epidermal layer of skin and is not likely to be impacted by treatment.
 One of the first steps your doctor may try is to give you a prescription for a topical cream that can lighten the skin. These prescriptions creams contain ingredients like hydroquinone, tretinoin and some type of corticosteroid.Follow the instructions your doctor or pharmacist provides for the application and use of the cream.
Topical creams, in general, tend to take a long time to show a significant change in your skin, so you may have to be patient.
Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent that prevents enzyme reactions in your skin cells.Tretinoin is a type of vitamin A that helps your skin repair and renew itself., Chemical peels with either glycolic acid or trichloroacetic acid is a more invasive option that you doctor may present you with. In most cases a doctor may only recommend this type of treatment for more severe cases that do not respond to topical creams.Chemical peels are normally performed by a trained professional within your dermatologist’s office. A family doctor is not likely to perform such a procedure.
A chemical peel is exactly what it sounds like. A dermatologist will apply a gel or cream-like substance to your skin which contains one of the above mentioned acids. They will then leave it on your skin for a specific period of time before peeling it off.It is likely that you will need more than one chemical peel in order to see a significant change in the colour of your dark patches.

