 Eating too fast or talking while eating causes you to swallow more air, which leads to flatulence and bloating. Slow down and avoid talking with your mouth full.Take smaller mouthfuls and remember to chew each bite approximately 20 times before swallowing.
Taking smaller bites of vegetables and high-fiber foods, allows them to digest more easily when they have been chewed properly.
 Aside from eating too fast, there are several things that may cause you to swallow excess air while eating, drinking or chewing.Avoid drinking through straws. They usually cause you to suck up and swallow air, especially when you reach the end of your drink.
Avoid chewing gum and sucking on hard candies. Both of these actions tend to involve swallowing air.Tighten your dentures. Loose dentures cause you to swallow excess air when eating and drinking.
Stop smoking. When you inhale the smoke you are also inhaling air., Eating too much can overload your stomach and digestive system, causing flatulence and bloating.Avoid overeating by eating your meals more slowly. It takes time for your brain to register that your stomach is full, so eating quickly makes it more likely that you will overeat before realizing that you are already full.
Drink a glass of water before each meal. Sometimes you can mistake thirst for hunger, so drinking water helps you to avoid eating more food than you need. It also helps to keep you hydrated and can aid digestion.
Put your food on smaller plates. By eating smaller plates, you are tricking your brain into thinking you are eating more food than you actually are, which can prevent you from going back for a second helping.
 Although it is very tempting to be lazy after a meal and just sit on the couch, getting some light exercise is actually very good for your digestion and will help you to avoid bloating.Go for a brisk ten minute walk (or do some other form of moderately-strenuous physical activity) after a meal. This allows air bubbles to pass through your digestive tract more quickly, eliminating that bloated feeling.
Doing half an hour of moderate exercise at least three times a week will help you avoid bloating and can even relieve symptoms of digestive diseases, such as irritable bowel syndrome., Passing gas in public can be an embarrassing experience, but if you can, try to excuse yourself and go to the bathroom or find a semi-private location to let it rip. Holding it in will only make bloating and stomach pains worse.Passing gas can be difficult. Try going to the bathroom and sitting on the toilet, even if you do not need to go. The simple action of sitting on the toilet can send signals to your subconscious, letting it know that it is okay to release trapped wind.
Try getting down on your knees and placing your head on the floor. This position can help force trapped air from your belly.