 There is nothing worse than trying to be something when you know nothing about it. Make sure you have a thorough understanding of Gothic Lolita before attempting to get involved in it.;
, For one example, "Lolita" has been a nickname for "Dolores" in Spanish for centuries. For another example, the Gothic Lolita style is not as famous in the English-speaking world as the novel Lolita (narrated by the main character, a middle-aged man who married a middle-aged woman in order to seduce and rape her 12-year-old daughter Lolita while claiming he's in love) by Nabokov is. In fact, this is where some Japanese speakers got the idea of a "Lolita complex" (abbreviated as "lolicon," now a word in Japanese) from. If you're a girl calling yourself a Lolita (or a woman calling yourself a bitch, or a gay guy calling yourself a queer), that's one thing if you're aware of the negative connotations and determined to take back the term...and that's another, stupider, thing if you're oblivious to the negative connotations of "Lolita" (or "bitch" or "queer").
 Learn about the Gothic literature of the 1800s, the Gothic architecture of late medieval Europe, the Gothic tribes neighboring the Roman Empire, etc.
 These provide an excellent source of information. If you can't get your hands on one, try researching Gothic Lolita on the internet. Many sites will take you through the style and history of Gothic Lolita, as well as the entire Lolita fashion.
 Do you want to be a Gothic Lolita because your friends think it's cool? Because it's the "in thing" at your school right now? To adapt to the lifestyle of any type of subculture, you need to be doing it for the right reasons. You should be reading this article because you appreciate the style and culture of Gothic Lolita and want to be a part of it -- not because your peers are doing the same. If Gothic Lolita is not who you really are, it will show and you'll get labelled a poser.
 Chances are, your parents aren't ready to see you decked out in the full Gothic Lolita uniform, and neither are your friends. This is okay, as it gives you time to explore your clothing style and tastes. Firstly, try to imitate the Gothic Lolita style, but using ordinary clothes. This can be done by wearing the following:


Little girl blouses- your parents shouldn't object to these, as they are decent and rather like school uniform shirts. Try to get these in pastel, lighter colours to begin with. Later, move on to more complex blouses, like ones with peter pan collars and cap sleeves.
Knee length skirts. Your parents also are not likely to object to these. Try to get fuller, "poofier" skirts that sit on your actual waist. The colours can be pastel and light to start with, so as not to get too drastic. If you're looking for patterns, try delicate prints and embroidery.
Long socks. These are usually in white or black, just above or sitting on the knee. You can also try stockings. Wear these with the skirts and blouses.
Ballet flats. These can be considered Lolita when purchased in the right style and colour- again, light, pastel colours, perhaps with little ribbons. You can also try Mary Jane shoes.
Simple hair accessories. These include ribbons, plain alice bands, or alice bows.
 This may not be difficult at all, because this style works on some hair types and does not raise any eyebrows. Straight hair is easy to maintain if you have it. You could also try "properly" curled ringlets. Medium or long length hair is supposedly perfect. If you are allowed to, try dyeing your hair a dark or wild colour, such as black, dark brown, or auburn red. If you can't dye your hair then don't panic- just leave it as it is. Some good hairstyles are to just leave your hair loose with a headband or bow, or pigtails with ribbons. Bangs are also supposedly perfect. Take good care of your hair and keep it clean and healthy.
 Gothic Lolitas do not wear a face full of makeup- in fact, the bare look is considered quite beautiful by some people. Look after your skin- wash and moisturise daily, and don't sleep with makeup on. If you have fair or pale skin, this is supposedly perfect. If you have darker skin, don't worry. You could try using a powder that is just a shade lighter than your skin colour in order to make yourself look closer to the same race as Japanese Gothic Lolita teens, or better yet simply leave it. If your eyes need enhancing, use a little eyeliner and mascara. Lip gloss is good, clear or pink. If you want to wear lipstick, try natural colours such as bronze or dark brown.
 When you think your family and friends have adjusted to the style, you can start hunting down the actual Gothic Lolita clothes. Firstly, you need to get your hands on the essentials. These include:


Money to buy the clothes, or to buy material to sew the clothes.
A couple of white or black blouses. Make sure that these have a peter pan collar. The sleeves should either be blouse sleeved or cap sleeved.
A petticoat. Make sure the petticoat is a good shape- usually a bell shaped or A-lined.
A couple of full skirts. Be sure to purchase knee-length skirts, that are full enough to fit your petticoat underneath. The skirts should sit on your waist, not above or below, or the shape will become odd.

Boots. If you've eased enough into Mary Janes and ballet flats, try boots with wedge heels. Make sure they aren't fetish shoes though, as this will either ruin the style or appeal too much to guys with Lolita fetishes (depending on which fetish the fetish shoes are for). Or you can simply to stick to the shoes you had before.
 Try to keep your image sweet, doll-like, and elegant. This means no revealing clothing, no heavy makeup, no baggy clothing apart from the skirts, and no messy hairdos. Make sure you're well groomed all the time- from keeping your nails pretty to making sure your hair is clean.

