 iPhone and Android phones have settings that allow you to mute all notification beeps and calls during a time of your choosing. When you want to study, you should use your quick settings to turn this mode on, and don’t return to it until you have completed your study session.


On iPhones, swipe up from the home screen to access your basic settings. Tap the moon shape and this function will be enabled.
On Android phones, pull down the notifications drawer. Swipe down again to access the quick settings. Turn the Do not disturb function and select the amount of time you want it to be active.;
, After you have turned on your “Do Not Disturb” mode, set your timer for 30 minutes and place it far away from you. When the timer beeps, stop working and take a five to 10 minute break.


You can download an app called Pomodoro or Unplugged that set timers for you and tracks your progress. With some of these apps, they remind you to set the phone down if you try to use it during the allotted time.
 Also, turn off Wi-Fi. This will stop calls and texts from coming through, and it will not allow you to access distracting apps.
 Block out regular time when they know you will be unavailable.
, A physical barrier may make you feel ashamed that you can’t do without your phone. Make yourself accountable to someone.
 Crossing things off your list as you do them will give you a lot of pleasure.
 Make sure these tasks are no more than 25 to 30 minutes. This is the amount of time you can expect yourself to focus without any disruptions.Splitting your studying into separate tasks can also ensure you do a thorough job. For example, you may have a research session, an outlining session and a session where you write each of the major points in a paper.
 You may want to get one or two easier tasks done right away in order to feel like you’ve accomplished something, but then you should try to take care of the highest priorities while you are more focused., Try to clear your head by getting something to eat or going outside.
 Set your timer for five minutes so that you only take care of the most important things.
 Note the times when this happens and try to recreate the environment.
 After doing 25-minute blocks, you may be able to move to 60-minute blocks, where you are able to get larger tasks done.

