 Use your web browser and go to http://www.canon.com/cig/.;
, Use the email address and password you used in registering to log in. Click the login button to proceed.
 At the top of the landing page is a huge banner link for the “Online Photo Album.” Click on it. You will be brought to the Canon Image Gateway Library.
 On the header of the Canon Image Gateway Photo Album are two buttons, for “Library” and for “Album.” Click the “Album” button. You will be brought to the Albums page.
 Click the “Create Album” button to create a new album. You will be brought to the blank template for an Album.
 On the left side of the page are the album details. Enter the album’s title on the first field with the red asterisk.
 Under the album’s title is a big blank text field. Enter your notes or comments for the album here.


This is optional.
 On the right side of the page is where you put the photos to be included in this album.
 All the photos in your library can be found on the bottom panel. Use the horizontal scroll bar to go left and right through the photos. Click the ones you want to be added to the album.


Selected photos will appear inside a highlighted box.
 Drag the selected photos upward to the empty space, and drop them there. The photos will now show inside the album space in thumbnails.
 If you want to set an album cover from one of the album photos, select the photo, drag it over to the box on the topmost left of the page, and drop it there.


The photo will now appear inside the box and will be used as the album cover photo.
 Click the red “;Create” button to create the album, along with all the photos you've put inside it.
 On the header of the Canon Image Gateway Photo Album are two buttons, for “Library” and for “Album.” Click the “Album” button. You will be brought to the Albums page.
 From the list of albums, click the one you’d like to view and download. The album will load with all the pictures inside it in thumbnails.
 On the album header are three buttons. Click the one in the middle titled “Download Album.”

, If it’s your first time to download an album, you will be asked to install the utility that supports downloading images by batch. You will be prompted by a dialogue window on the screen.


Click the “Yes” button to confirm downloading and installing of this utility.
If you already have this utility, disregard this step.
 The Album Plugin Utility will load. The selected album and all its photos will be shown. Ensure that the photos you want to be downloaded are ticked.
 Once your selection is complete, click the “Download images” button on the lower right corner. Identify the destination folder on your computer, then wait for the download to finish.


A progress dialogue box will appear.
 Once the download is completed, you can now access your photos directly from your computer.