 That is, you may find that you don't actually need to give your dog away. If you're moving to a new area, you should be able to find a rental that accepts pets, for instance. You can find solutions to many of the common problems that would cause you to give a dog away.If you don't have time to walk the dog enough, consider hiring a dog walker. Often, you can find a neighborhood kid who's willing to do it for a small fee.
If someone in the family has an allergy, think about options such as allergen air purifiers and allergy pills. Vacuuming, dusting, and sweeping often can also help with allergens.
If your dog has a behavioral problem, consider taking it to a training school to help deal with the problem.
If you or your spouse is pregnant, don't worry. Most of the time, dogs get along just fine with a new addition to the household.
 The truth of the matter is a dog who is spayed or neutered has a much better chance of being adopted than one who is not. Most people prefer a pet that has already had this procedure done.If you're worried about cost, you'll find that most communities have low-cost spay and neuter programs. Sometimes, these programs only roll around monthly or quarterly, so ask your vet if they know when the next low-cost clinic will be.
 A scruffy-looking dog is harder to rehome than a clean dog who has recently been brushed and trimmed. Take your dog out to a groomer if you can, so it looks its best. If you can't afford a groomer, do your best at home to make the dog presentable by bathing and combing the dog., If possible, work on behavioral issues before trying to rehome your dog, including potty training. A dog who is potty trained is much more likely to be adopted than one who's not. In addition, a dog who is at least somewhat sociable will do better than one who's not.If your dog needs to work on some behavioral issues, consider taking it to a trainer for a little while to help work on those issues.
 Take your dog to the vet to have its health checked. Make sure its had all of its shots and is up-to-date on any medications it may need, such as heartworm medication. Making sure your dog is healthy will make it more adoptable., If you got the dog from a breeder, the breeder will often take the dog back if you don't want it anymore. Additionally, you may be able to find a spot more easily at a rescue if you take it back to the original rescue you got it from.Most rescues will automatically take a dog back that they've had before.
 Look online to find rescues in your area. You can also call your vet to see if they have any recommendations. As you call the rescues and shelters, see if any of them will be willing to take your dog. Prioritize rescues over shelters, as shelters often employ kill policies if they have too many pets.If a rescue is full, they won't be able to take your pet. However, you may be able to get on a waiting list.
Ask the rescue to put up a post about your pet if they can't take your pet in. Most rescues will do that much.
 While placing a dog in a rescue will make it easier on you, you can work to find a new home for your dog without the help of a rescue. It just takes some work on your part to advertise your dog in your community.Start by taking a good photo of your dog. That photo is going to help sell your dog to its new owner.
Post fliers around your neighborhood with a picture of the dog, your number, the purpose of the flier ("Needs a good home!"), and a story about why you need to give the dog up. For instance, if you need to give the dog up to move to a nursing home, that's likely to win some sympathy and a possible new home for your dog. Also include a few details, such as the breed, weight, and temperament of the dog, as well as if it is spayed or neutered.Use social media, too. Find local community groups on social media, including dog groups, and post about your dog and why it needs a new home.
Take the dog out. Go go the dog park, the pet store, the neighborhood park, and anywhere else dogs are allowed. Give your dog a chance to interact with other people, as it may be able to charm someone into taking it home.
 You may be in a hurry to find your dog a new home because of an emergency or something you can't control. However, finding a dog a new home can take time, so be as patient as you can possibly be.