 Get your muscles ready and your blood circulating before you attempt to duck walk. With your heels on the floor, squat down until your thighs are parallel with the ground. Hold for one second, then push yourself back up to a standing position. Perform 10-15 squats to make sure you’re adequately warmed up before you get mobile.You’ll find it easier to move around and get into challenging positions after your muscles have been primed.
An energetic stage show can make a good substitute for a thorough warm up.
 Lift one foot off the ground. Point your toes and hold for 5-10 seconds. Then, pull your toes back toward your shin and flex your foot, again holding for several seconds. Repeat this exercise a few times with each foot to help loosen up your ankles and prepare them to support your weight.You can also stretch your ankles by getting down into a full squat and leaning over the balls of your feet while making sure your heels remain on the floor.
 Do a couple minutes of static stretching following your warm up. Exercises like forward lunges, standing quadriceps and hamstring stretches and hip circles will temporarily increase your flexibility so that you can effectively move in a deep crouch. Stretching is critical for elongating and promoting blood flow to the tendons and ligaments, which can easily be torn or strained by awkward, low-leverage movements like the duck walk.Don’t neglect to stretch if you feel stiff, as it can greatly reduce your chances of getting hurt. The only thing you want to tear up is the music.
 Duck walking can be fun and entertaining in the right setting, but it’s not for everyone. Avoid any movement that feels uncomfortable or places your joints in unstable positions, especially if you’ve suffered an injury to any part of your hips, knees, or ankles in the past. Even the young and uninjured should be aware of the potential risks of duck walking, as it’s such an unusual form of locomotion.Those with arthritis or mobility issues should think twice before playing around with squatting movements.
If you experience pain at any point while duck walking, stop immediately.

