 While a wreath is an obvious choice for a door decoration, there are quite a few other interesting possibilities too. Consider what would look best given the type of front door and entrance area that you have, the colors of your house décor and the items you have available. How elaborate or simple you make the decoration is entirely up to your own preferences. The following steps will suggest a range of different Easter door decoration ideas.;
, Starting with the most obvious door decoration, wreaths can bring a lovely festive atmosphere and can hang where your Christmas wreath would usually go. Some ideas for wreaths include:

An Easter egg wreath: Make a wreath with real or artificial eggs glued around it. For more details see How to make an Easter egg wreath.






An Easter bunny wreath: Make a wreath featuring a round of Easter bunny characters and perhaps with a "Happy Easter" message on it.






A bird wreath: Make a simple wreath from twigs shaped into a circle. Glue little eggs to the base of the wreath and a hanger at the top. Tie a ribbon bow and glue either under the assortment of eggs or at the top of the wreath.






Make an Easter chick wreath: Using a strong yellow cardboard wreath base, glue several even rows of small yellow fluffy chick toys around the wreath. You can either keep them one layer or cascade or build up the layers, depending on what works best. The more rows, the better. The end result is simply stunning.






Make a woven yarn wreath: Weave yarn around a 3D wreath in various different pastel colors to make a pastel rainbow wreath. Make small felt bunnies or chicks in very simplistic style that mirror the colors around the wreath. Attach by gluing to the base of the wreath. The animals look best if they're of different heights and sizes, and are put together in a muddled row in the base of the wreath's ring.






Make a cross wreath: Make a paper, fabric, crocheted, woven, decoupaged, etc. cross. Attach to the wreath. Place some flowers at the base and on the sides of the wreath. Affix a ribbon to the top of the wreath and hang on the door.
 If your front door (or whichever door you're decorating) is weather-proof, a paper decoration can be a lovely option.

Make a scrapbook Happy Easter sign. Use Easter colors, 3D lettering, glitter, ribbon bows, and other features to jazz it up. It can be in the shape of an egg, bunny or chick, or use the words "Happy Easter" themselves as the outline.






Cut out a rabbit or a chick on cardstock. Have your kids decorate it any which way they like. Stick a hole through the top of the paper decoration and thread a ribbon through. Attach to the door.
 Attach a bird's nest in one form or another to the front door instead of a wreath. Provided everything has been carefully stuck into the nest, this feature piece will remain solid on its side.

Consider gluing in some eggs, a chick or two and some feathers. Decorate with ribbon, glitter, buttons or similar items.






Attach with a ribbon, twine or raffia from the top of the nest.






Another method for attaching the bird's nest is to make a cross using long, thin twigs. Attach this to the door with some hangers, then attach the bird's nest to the twig cross. Use ribbon or twine to help keep the shape of the cross.
 Depending on your skills and interests, there are many ideas that you could sew as an Easter hanging. Here are just a few:

Sew a naive art bunny using calico. Make it large and add buttons and embroider features. You can also use fabric markers to add features.






Sew a naive art Easter chick in the same fashion.






Sew small Easter animals in felt. Then attach the animals to various lengths of ribbon and tie together at the top with a bow. A variation to this is to sew felt carrots and weave these into the design. Attach to the door in the center, from the top bow.
 Find an unwanted tray and decorate it with an Easter design. Use decoupage methods to attach cut-outs of bunnies, chicks, eggs and to place the letters for "Happy Easter" onto the tray. Attach a long ribbon to each side of the back of the tray, with plenty of height for hanging from the center of the ribbon.
 Bunting is a great way to cheer up a dull door space. Usually flags are used but for Easter, substitute the flags with felt or fabric bunnies, chicks and eggs and arrange these across the length of bunting ribbon or cord in an evenly spaced order. Make as many as you think would look good on the door––just be sure to check the measurements first. This method allows for lots of possible options, including:

All one color bunting or mixed colors






All one style of felt or fabric animal or mixed animals






All felt or fabric eggs or mix the eggs in with the fabric or felt animals.
 Find a suitably sized basket for hanging on the door. Fill it with eggs sitting on Easter grass and perhaps some Easter decorations. Affix a length of ribbon on the center of the basket handle and hang from the door.
 If adding the decoration on the day that you're receiving guests for an Easter meal, a floral arrangement can be very welcoming and pretty. Choose from flowers in your garden or flowers that are easily obtainable locally. Arrange into a bouquet, cascade or around a wreath and attach to the door on the day it is needed.
 If you enjoy crocheting or knitting, you might be able to make a design for Easter using these crafts. As seen in this image, a crocheted cross placed on a crocheted circle with daffodils in the center looks very effective and is an excellent reflection of the meaning of Easter.

