 Depending on what kind of sea shells you collect at your town beach, you can see those and get bells for them. For instance, a pearl oyster is worth 1,500 bells!;
, Sometimes, when you shake trees, 100 bells could fall out! Be careful though, a bee hive could also fall too!

, If you go to a friend's town through Wi-fi or Wireless Communications, make sure you grab some fruit that isn't native to your town. Non-native fruit will sell more than fruit that is already in your town. It's 500 bells for non-native fruit, but only 100 bells for native fruit. Plant one of the fruits you collect, so you can keep selling it in your town.
 If you are good at fishing, you can earn a lot of money! You can get some rare fish if you fish a lot. Sell them to Tom Nook. If it's junk like boots, tires, or cans, throw it back or try and sell that too.
 With your trusty net, go catch some bugs! Note that, most bugs don't appear in the Winter, and some bugs are only native to one season. If you really wanna press your luck, so around and shake trees. Maybe, bees will come out, and if you are really lucky (and quick), you can catch one and sell it for major cash!

, Look for a crack in the ground. Take out your shovel and dig it up! You can sell up to 3 fossils a day to Tom Nook, so, choose your fossils wisely.
 On Sundays, Joan travels into your town to sell White and Red Turnips. Red Turnips sell more than White Turnips. Unfortunately, she only sell one pack of those for 1,000 bells. Get it, then go and plant it. Make sure you water it everyday. If you forget to water on any day, it will have wilted. The price varies on a White Turnip. You can only buy White Turnips in bunches of 10. White Turnips go rotten if you don't sell them buy next Sunday. Now, dig it up at anytime during the week and go sell it to Tom Nook. Depending on what price they are buying them for during the week, you could make more than you spent on the turnips or lose more.
 Go to the gate and talk to Booker, to see if has found anything. Most of the time, he finds pretty rare items that you can go sell.
 There's a special rock in town that, when you hit it with your shovel, throws out bells! If you do it quickly enough, your could get 8,000 bells at one time! But, if you do if without digging holes around you, you will keep scooting back! And, you'll waste time running back up to the rock. You only have about 6-10 seconds to hit as much as you can. So, here's what you can do. Dig holes around the rock you are going to hit. Make sure you are inside first. Then, hit the rock! If the rock you chose wasn't the one, just turn around and put the dirt back in the hole.
 If you have a slingshot, look out for a balloon every time the last digit on the game clock ends in 4. (Ex. 1:04, 1:14, 1:24, etc.). When you have shot it down, open the present and go sell it.
 When villagers come by your house on Flea Market day, they could be interested in some of the furniture you have displayed in your house. You could take their offer, or come up with one of your own. You couldn't make it too high, otherwise they won't buy it. Either make it lower than what they offered or about 100-200 bells higher than they offered.
 This works similar to the Flea Market, except your friends come over from Wireless Connection or Wi-fi. They can look around at all of your stuff and negotiate a price.
 Located in the Town Hall, you could look in the Recycling Bin for items other villagers have left in there.

