 The Pueblo is the first area you encounter- a small village with a few buildings.  You have to kill a set number of enemies to progress, but if you play your cards right, you can get this section complete with only one bullet.  Here's how:


Once you enter, you'll see a barn on your right.  Go to the house to the immediate left and kick the door open.  Now run to the right and push the chest of drawers halfway in front of the door.
Now, go in front of the door and shoot a hole in the door around the knob.  This will open up a hole.  Run towards it, get out your knife, and start swinging.
There you go!  You're untouchable, and are free to just slice away!

, Getting stuck in the Cabin with Luis is a nerve-wracking experience.  You can make it easier on yourself, though.


To start, push two bookshelves in front of the boarded up windows.  Just two, not all three.  Then destroy the boards of the one you left uncovered.  This gives you a chokepoint that you can easily control.  After they all start swarming in through all the openings, the Ganados are all in the small space with you.  Try shooting the Ganados in the head and try to kick a lot of them at a time.
When Luis urges you to go upstairs, this is where the Punisher really shines. Stay at the top of the stairs, and aim down them. The enemies will try to use ladders to get up to you, but Luis will always knock them down, forcing the enemies to use the stairs. As the Punisher blasts through two enemies at once for the same damage, it will make a troubling segment that much easier.
 Take the right path, buy a rocket launcher, and shoot El Gigante.  The Sheer number of Ganados you have to shoot on the left path is simply ridiculous, especially with Ashley following you around.
  Now, scope up and shoot the zombies.  Don't worry about hitting a vital point, they'll fall over when you hit them.  Instant kill.  Not to mention the Rifle pierces enemies, so you can potentially take out three Ganados with one bullet.  If you run out, switch to the Pistol.  No need to reload when the Semi-Auto Rifle is so close.
 After you take the truck out, run.  Just keep moving and get inside the Castle, it's triggered by a cutscene after you're over the bridge.
 But seriously, the worst part is when Ashley has to turn the two cranks on the upper level. If you still have some flash grenades, you can make them flinch while Ashley does her work.
 Remember your suplex on the elevator!  It makes you invincible, and is an insta-kill, most of the time.  Use it!  And remember, you can kick enemies off of the platform.
 It's honestly better to run away from most of the fights here.  Luckily, you have one of the best tools to do so- the Striker.  There's a glitch in the game where if you take aim with the striker- and before the aiming laser can show up, switch to another weapon - once you resume the action, Leon will be moving at 1.5x speed.  This is extremely handy, especially for slipping past "It".

