 Pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) can offer some relief from the discomfort of braces. Take a dose of acetaminophen (usually two tablets) every four hours.


Follow the instructions on the label to ensure proper dosage.You can also take ibuprofen (Advil) instead of Tylenol, although some dentists and orthodontists discourage ibuprofen because it can slow down the process of your teeth moving. At the very least, do not take both kinds of medication – choose one!

, There are a number of over-the-counter medications available that can numb mouth discomfort that you are experiencing. These are typically anesthetic, meaning that they numb the pain for a few hours, and they come in mouthwashes, rinses and gels. Products such as Orajel and Colgate Orabase can provide some relief.


Follow the instructions on the package for proper application. Some people experience allergies when using these products, so you should be sure to consult the instructions before proceeding.
 Salt water will soothe your mouth and treat any sores that may have developed because of the braces rubbing against your cheeks. To make a salt water rinse, put a teaspoon of table salt into a glass of warm water. Stir to dissolve all of the salt. Put a mouthful of this mixture into your mouth and gently swish it around for about one minute. Spit it out in the sink.Repeat several times a day, particularly in the first few days and whenever you are feeling more pain than normal.
 Hydrogen peroxide is an antiseptic and can reduce inflammation that irritates your mouth. Mix one part water with one part 3% hydrogen peroxide in a glass. Put a mouthful of this mixture in your mouth and gently swish it around for about one minute. Spit it out in the sink. Repeat a few times a day.


There are hydrogen peroxide-based products available at grocery and drug stores that are geared toward treating mouth sores and offering relief, such as Colgate Peroxyl Mouthwash.
The taste of hydrogen peroxide might be off-putting to some people, as is the foam that will inevitably generate from swishing it in your mouth.
 Orthodontic or dental wax is used as a barrier between your braces and the inside of your mouth. It is readily available at drug stores; your orthodontist may have given you some when you got your braces.


To apply the wax, break off a small piece of wax and roll it into a little ball about the size of a pea. This will also warm up the wax and make it easier to apply. Use a piece of tissue to dry the area of your braces where you would like to apply the wax, and press it directly onto the wire or bracket. Repeat as often as necessary.
 These mini rubber bands are hooked around your braces, helping to align your braces and jaw in a certain way. They can help in reducing the amount of time needed to straighten your teeth, so wearing them is definitely to your benefit. Your orthodontist will likely instruct you to wear them as much as possible except when eating or brushing, and to replace them frequently.


These rubber bands can often cause discomfort, especially in the first few days after you got your braces. But they can cause more discomfort if you are not used to wearing them. If you only wear them a couple of hours per day or a few times a week, you will experience more discomfort than if you wear them all the time.

