 FSD is only diagnosed if it is causing YOU significant distress about your sexuality. FSD can cause problems, or interfere, with a woman’s ability to respond sexually.FSD can be generalized/global (e.g. happens during every sexual encounter) or situational (e.g. only happens in certain circumstances).
FSD can be primary/lifelong (e.g. started when you first became sexually active) or it can be secondary/acquired (e.g. began at some point after you experienced no issues with sex).
FSD is usually divided into one of four categories: (1) Desire problems; (2) Arousal problems; (3) Orgasmic problems; and (4) Sexual pain disorders.;
, Formal diagnoses of FSD from a psychological perspective is based on the definitions provided in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which is used by psychologists and psychiatrists in Canada and the United States. There are three types of FSD as per this manual:Female Orgasmic Disorder (also known as anorgasmia) is when a woman has trouble experiencing an orgasm, or she is able to experience an orgasm, but it’s not as strong as it use to be.

Female Sexual Interest/Arousal Disorder is when a woman has significantly reduced interest in sex, or is unable to be aroused. This can include having no interest in having sex, not experiencing any erotic thoughts or sexual fantasies, and the inability to become aroused from stimulation. Sometimes this, the most common kind of female sexual dysfunction by far, is also known as hypoactive sexual desire disorder or inhibited sexual desire disorder.Gentio-Pelvic Pain/Penetration Disorder is when a woman has pain or anxiety with vaginal penetration. Depending on the specifics, this is also known as vaginismus (involuntary muscle spasms in the vagina that can be caused by scars, injuries, irritations or infections) or dyspareunia (pain during or after intercourse that can be caused by vaginal dryness, medications or hormonal changes) or vulvodynia (pain in the vulva). The specific name of the issue is based on the cause of the pain, as opposed to the fact that you have pain.There are physical therapists who specialize in helping women with these issues. Muscle relaxants and topical analgesics can also help.
These psychological problems can be caused by untreated anxiety or depression, or a history of sexual abuse. They can also be caused by: ongoing (sometimes internalized) issues you have with your partner; stress associated with work for family responsibilities; concern about your sexual performance; unresolved sexual orientation issues; and body image and self-esteem issues., There are many physical and medical reasons why you may experience FSD, they include:Medical conditions including cancer, kidney failure, multiple sclerosis, heart disease and bladder problems. You won’t discover you have one of these issues because you experience FSD. Rather one of these issues that you already have may be the cause of your FSD.
Medications such as antidepressants, blood pressure medications, antihistamines and chemotherapy drugs can decrease sexual desire and the ability to have an orgasm. Depression itself can also cause sexual dysfunction. Oral contraceptives are also known to decrease sexual desire.
Hormonal changes that occur after you’ve given birth and while your breastfeeding, and after you’ve gone through menopause, can decrease sexual desire. These changes also cause physical changes to your genital tissues that may reduce the overall sensation in that area and cause vaginal dryness.
 FSD is not any and every problem with a woman’s sexuality, and there is no ‘normal’ for women to measure themselves against. Normal is what you want it to be and are comfortable with.

Not being able to orgasm during intercourse, but requiring clitoral stimulation to orgasm, is not FSD. This is actually quite common among many women.
Simply not being interested in having sex, or being unable to become aroused by a partner, is not FSD. There are a large number of reasons why sex may not be welcomed, including: ongoing stress; tiredness; a new baby; headaches; etc.

