 Put fresh flowers in a vase. Place candles in the center. Arrange the table in an attractive way. Even if you don’t do it perfectly, she will still be impressed with your efforts, especially if it’s not something that comes naturally to you.


If you do something wrong, that’s okay. The important thing is that you tried. It will probably bring out the humor in her if you mess part of it up anyway. Many seasoned chefs, however, recommend not cooking a meal that you’ve never made before. So consider it whipping it for yourself once before inviting her over.
Don’t worry about having the best of the best. Keeping it real is important, too. If you can’t afford crystal glasses at this point in your career, that’s fine. You want her to accept all aspects of you and your life. If she truly cares for you as a person, then she won’t mind one bit!

, If you’re not a natural in the kitchen, pasta is one of the easiest dishes to make. Plus, if you don’t know whether or not she’s vegetarian, then it’s a safe bet, too. Bread and salad are also good accompaniments because then you don’t have to worry about cooking side dishes at the same time as the pasta., If you wait to do everything until she arrives, you could be slaving away the whole time versus spending quality time with her. Basically do everything that you can in advance. For the pasta, it’s good to have everything ready except for actually dropping it in the boiling water. Prepare the salad in advance.


Try and avoid having her feel as if she needs to take over for you in the kitchen!

, When she arrives, asks if she likes it. If not, ask her to put something on that she likes better. Many girls feel that guys aren’t caring enough and/or have a caveman mentality. Pulling out all the stops conveys to her that you have overcome these odds to make her happy!

, Making anything chocolate can make a girl feel not only good but great! There’s truth behind this, too. Chocolate contains a compound called phenylethylamine, a natural feel-good chemical linked to the release of endorphins. Offering coffee or tea with it can give both of you an extra energy burst if you served wine with dinner.