 Lunges are perhaps the most basic single-leg exercise you can do, and you can do them anywhere without any fancy equipment. For those reasons, they're a good place to start your single-leg training.From a standing position, step one leg forward. As you step forward, lower your hips until both knees are at a 90-degree angle.
If you've not done lunges before, it may help to start in front of a mirror so you can make sure your form is correct. Your front knee should be directly above your ankle with your lower leg straight up and your thigh flat. The knee of the leg behind you shouldn't touch the floor.
Push back up, keeping your weight in your heels as you return to your starting position. Do this 10 times to make a set. If you do multiple sets, make sure you include a rest in between.
You also can do reverse lunges, in which you step backwards instead of forward.;
, If you've mastered lunges, jump lunges make the exercise more difficult while also adding an aerobic element. Like regular lunges, you can do jump lunges anywhere without weights or additional equipment.To do a jump lunge, start in the same position you would if you were doing regular lunges.
Lower yourself into the squatting position, then jump. As you jump into the air, switch your legs.
When you land, you want to land with your knees bent at 90 degrees, as when you've completed a stationary lunge.
Repeat 10 to 20 times before switching legs.
 This exercise works out your gluteal muscles and hamstrings, which are often neglected in other workouts. The single-leg glute bridge technically is an advanced form of the regular glute bridge, so attempt with caution if you're a beginner.To do a regular glute bridge, lie on your back on the floor with your arms out to either side for stability and your feet flat on the floor. Your knees should be at a 90-degree angle. Slowly raise your hips off the floor until you've created a straight, flat bridge from your knees to your shoulders. Release to the floor, then repeat.
With a single-leg glute bridge, you're going to do a regular glute bridge, except with your hips raised you want to lift one foot off the ground and extend your leg until it's straight. The effect is to create a longer bridge from that ankle all the way to your shoulder. Release to the floor, then repeat.
As with many of the other single-leg exercises, you can do sets of 20 in which you alternate legs, or you can do a straight set of 10 reps that focuses on one leg, then do another set using the other leg.
 When you're building your single-leg exercise routine, interspersing lunges with squat thrusts and mountain climbers give the workout an interval-training quality.To do mountain climbers, start in a push-up position with your body forming a straight line from your shoulders to your heels. Lift one foot off the floor and raise it slowly until your knee is as close to your chest as possible. Then return to the starting position.
A squat thrust is much like a Burpee, and combines a squat with a push-up. To do this move, lower yourself down in to a deep squat, bring your hands to the floor, jump your legs backwards into a push up position, lower your chest to floor, push yourself up, step your legs back in towards your chest, bring your hands off the floor, squat, and stand up straight. You can do these in between other exercises, or use 10 or 20 quick reps as a good whole-body warm-up before you start your workout.
Alternate these exercises with either leg, doing sets of 20 reps (10 with each leg), or do 10-rep sets that focus on one leg only, and then follow up with the other leg.
 When you run, one leg is off the ground as the other does the work to propel you forward. For this reason, running and sprinting technically are single-leg exercises – even though both legs do eventually come into play.To have running work as a single-leg exercise, focus on short sprints rather than jogging for longer distances.
You can incorporate brief sprints into your overall workout as aerobic intervals between strength-training exercises such as lunges.

