 When trying to make money, it’s smart to have a goal in mind to keep you diligent about how you spend the money you are earning.


Write down what your goal(s) is. What are you are trying to earn money for? It could be anything from a new video game console to new clothes.
When asking your parents about earning an allowance, knowing why you want one can help you. You can explain that you are trying to save up for something special. Also, explain that earning an allowance is a great way to learn responsibility and build good work habits.;
, See if your parents are willing to pay you for doing certain chores around the house on a weekly basis.


Before asking your parents to pay your for completed chores, come up with a proposal. Make a schedule for the week. Write down what sort of tasks you are willing to do what you think those tasks are worth. Then, you and your parents can negotiate your allowance.Your parents need to agree to pay you for chores. If your parents expect you to help out anyway, try coming up with ideas that go beyond the standard list of chores. Offer to clean out the basement, do all the yard work, etc.
 Certain outdoor projects can take up a lot of time your parents may not have. Offering to complete these chores may be another way to earn money.


Offer to mow your lawn, rake leaves, shovel snow, and weed gardens, only if you are capable to do so. If you already provide this kind of service to the neighborhood, explain to your parents that you are trying to expand you client base. And that you will treat your house like any of your clients'. If you want to start your yard work business, explain that having your parents be your first client is a great way to get started and show good work. Then you will be able to get more business.
For seasonal, recurring chores like mowing the lawn or shoveling your driveway, talk to your parents about a set rate.
 If you have younger siblings, babysitting is an easy way to make some money.


Talk to your parents about letting you babysit your siblings instead of hiring an outside babysitter. Explain that you already know your siblings well, are responsible, and can take care of the house you live in.
You may have to offer to take a smaller payment than an outside babysitter to start. But if your parents are on the fence about letting you babysit, offering a lower rate may help. Although some parents may believe that they shouldn't pay their son/daughter for babysitting.
You can also take your babysitting skills elsewhere once you gain some experience. Babysitting can be a very lucrative job for tweens.
If you do expand and start babysitting for other families, consider treating it like a business. Pick a name and create a social media page that people can go to for information.
There are also websites that you can sign up to that help you find babysitting jobs. Sites like sittercity.com will let you create a profile and start getting work. 