 The best prices are often available a few months before the trip and a few weeks before you would be scheduled to leave. If you need to book a train vacation for more than 2 people, it is a good idea to book a couple of months in advance.


If you are planning on visiting 1 to 3 towns, buying separate tickets may be more cost effective than buying a railway pass.
Book a train pass with 1 provider, if you plan on staying in 1 country. Look at Amtrak, BritRail, BahnCard and other individual country passes. Check their maps to ensure that they service the towns where you will be staying. In some cases, you may want to arrange a transfer by taxi or rental car to a town that is nearby. If you are resident or student, consider booking an Inter Rail pass for 1 country for a month.
Book a Eurail Select pass if you plan to travel to 3 or more countries in Europe. This pass allows you to pick, 5, 10 or 15 days of train travel from 1 destination to another within a 2 month period.
Buy an Amtrak Rail pass if you plan to travel within the United States for 15, 30 or 45 days. The pass will cover train travel within that time period. You can also book a California-based Amtrak pass, where you receive 7 days of train travel within California over a 21-day period.
Buy a Eurailpass or an Inter Rail pass if you plan to live or stay in Europe for a long period of time. A Eurail pass is fairly expensive, but would pay for train travel to 18 countries. An Inter Rail pass works in zones and is only available to residents and students. You buy your pass for 1 of the zones and get to use it to buy second class rail fares for a month.
 If you know which days you will be traveling, then it is a good idea to book immediately in order to ensure your seat. If you plan to play it by ear, you can show up at a kiosk or train station the morning you want to leave. Occasionally, you may find the train is booked and you will have to wait for the following day.
 Do a combination of travel guide and Internet research to find hotels, hostels, cabins or camping that fit your style of travel. Do this at least a month in advance, or up to 6 months out for high season travel., Depending upon your plans, this could include tickets to attractions, city passes, rental cars, guided tours, transfers, cruises or even plane tickets.
 Many train companies have higher limits on baggage than airlines; however, the sizes may be different.
 Arrive at the train station 1 to 2 hours before your trip, depending upon your baggage and the age of your travelers.

