 Start by cleansing your face with the gentle cleanser (normal to dry skin) or foaming gel (normal to oily skin). This cleanser is designed to remove everyday dirt, grime, and makeup from your skin. The cleanser will leave you with a clean and fresh complexion.Use the cleanser twice a day, once during your morning routine and again during your nighttime routine.;
, After cleansing, apply the toner (same product for all skin types) to your skin in order to re-balance the pH levels of your skin. The toner is designed not to dry out your skin.Use the toner twice a day, once during your morning routine and again during your nighttime routine., “Clear” is the brand name of the step 3 product, which contains prescription-strength hydroquinone. “Clear” is designed to help correct the various discolourations on your skin to leave you with a more even skin tone. The same product is used for all skin types.The “Clear” product is only available by prescription.
Be sure to talk with your doctor about the use of hydroquinone and its potential side effects.
Use the “Clear” product twice a day, once during your morning routine and again during your nighttime routine., The step 4 product, Exfoderm® (for normal to dry skin) or Exfoderm® Forte (for normal to oily skin), is designed to exfoliate the skin on your face to help remove dead skin cells. This type of exfoliation helps to reveal newer skin cells which help give you a brighter and clearer complexion.Use Exforderm® only once a day, during your morning routine., Blender®, the step 5 product, also contains prescription-strength hydroquinone. Blender® is designed to gradually lighten your skin in order to remove age or sun spots and other types of discolouration that may appear on your face. The same product is used for all skin types.Blender® is available only by prescription.
Be sure to talk with your doctor about the use of hydroquinone and its potential side effects.
Use Blender® only once a day, during your nighttime routine., Step 6 of the Obagi Nu-Derm® system is Hydrate™, which is designed to help moisturize and hydrate the dry and flaky parts of the skin on your face. You only need to use Hydrate™ if you find these dry areas. The same product is used for all skin types.Use Hydrate™ as needed during either your morning or nighttime routine.
 If you are using any of the Obagi systems that includes a product with hydroquinone it is essential that you always use sunscreen on your face. Unfortunately hydroquinone causes even the smallest amount of exposure to sunlight to create a melanocytic activity, which in turn can cause skin cancer. Obagi offers a product called Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50 specifically designed to be used with the Obagi systems. It offers both UVA and UVB protection for your skin, and comes in a sheer, matte finish.This sunscreen can be used on all skin types.
Sunscreen only needs to be applied after you’ve completed your morning routine. You do not need to apply sunscreen before you go to bed.
 Obagi’s also had three products which can be used in conjunction with the Nu-Derm® System.Sunfader® is a cream product that can be used as the last step (before sunscreen) to target specific discoloured spots on your face. It contains SPF 15 and 4% hydroquinone to help correct and even out those discoloured spots. Sunfader® is only available with a prescription.
If you use Sunfader®, use it only once a day as part of your morning routine.Healthy Skin Protection SPF 35 is a sunscreen that also contains 9% micronized zinc oxide and 7.5% octinoxate. It provides broad spectrum UVA and UVB protection and can be used instead of Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50.
Physical SPF 32 is a sunscreen with 18.5 zinc oxide that provides broad spectrum UVA and UVB protection. It can be used instead of Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50.

