 Hold the goniometer over the wrist joint, aligning the pin of the instrument with the joint along the thumb-side of the hand.


The subject should hold extend the arm out and hand out straight, keeping the wrist straight in the process.
Line up both goniometer arms so that they are closed and positioned straight over the side of the hand.;
, Instruct the subject to bend the wrist down while keeping the arm and fingers straight. Adjust the movable arm of the goniometer to match the new placement and direction of the hand.The pin and stationary arm of the goniometer should remain in their starting positions.
Read the rotation degrees on the center dial, checking just beneath the center line of the movable arm. This should be your measurement for flexion.

While the full range exists between 0 and 90 degrees, the average measurement is around 60 degrees.
 Instruct the subject to bend the wrist up while keeping the arm and fingers straight. Adjust the movable goniometer arm to match the new position of the hand.


As before, you should not move the pin and stationary arm of the goniometer.
Read the rotation degrees beneath the center line of the movable arm while looking at the center dial.

The full range for hyperextension also exists between 0 and 90 degrees, with an average of 60 degrees.
 Place the goniometer so that the pin rests above the wrist joint. Both arms should be closed at extended straight across the hand.


The subject should return his or her wrist to the original starting position. The arm, hand, and wrist must all point straight out.
 Instruct the subject to bend his or her wrist joint in the direction of the thumb. Once the subject extends the wrist as far to the inside as possible, extend the movable goniometer arm to match the new position of the hand.


Do not move the stationary arm or goniometer pin.
Read the rotation measurement on the center dial beneath the center line of the movable arm.

The full rotation exists within a range of 0 and 45 degrees, but the average radial deviation is around 20 degrees.
 Instruct the subject to bend his or her wrist joint in the direction opposite the thumb. When the subject can no longer extend the wrist further outward, extend the movable goniometer arm to match the new direction and placement of the hand.


Keep the stationary goniometer arm and center pin in their starting positions.
Read the rotation measurement on the center dial, checking just beneath the center line of the movable arm.

The average ulnar deviation is around 30 degrees, but the full range exists between 0 and 45 degrees.



