 Skype is available for free for iOS, Android, Windows Phone, and Blackberry.



Click here for instructions on installing iOS apps.

Click here for instructions on installing Android apps.

Click here for instructions on installing Windows Phone apps.

Click here for instructions on installing Blackberry apps.;
, If you already have a Microsoft account from Windows, Office, or your Xbox, you can use it to log in.


If you are using your Microsoft account to log into Skype for the first time, you'll be asked to create a Skype username that will be displayed to people who aren't on your contacts list.
You'll need to have an active wireless or cellular data connection in order to log into and use Skype.
 If you don't have an account, tap the "Create account" button and follow the prompts to create an account. Creating an account is free and doesn't require any payment information.
 After signing in, you'll be prompted to scan your device's contacts for people to add to Skype. You can skip this step by tapping the "X".
 The Menu button looks like three stacked dots.
 You can search by Skype name, profile name, email address, or phone number.


It's best to search for other users by their Skype name or email address. If you search by a person's actual name, there will likely be multiple matching results.
 This will open a text chat with the person.


Depending on the other person's privacy settings, you may not be able to send them messages until they've been added to your contacts list.
 The other person will need to approve before they are added to your list.
 Alternatively, you can tap the speech bubble button at the bottom of the screen and then enter a contact into the field at the top.


The color dot underneath the contact's name indicates their online status. If there is no dot then the person is not logged into Skype, or has their status set to "Invisible

, Type your message into the field. You can add emoticons by tapping the Smiley-face button.
 If you want to add more people to the conversation, tap the "+" button and select "Add participants". You can then choose other people from your Skype contacts to add to the conversation.
 Tap the "+" button to add a file to your message. You can add images from your device's camera, as well as attach files stored on your device.
 The recipient(s) will receive your message virtually instantly.
 This will list all of your active conversations, with the most recent on top.
 You can call any Skype user for free as long as you have a wireless or cellular data connection. Skype calls will count against your data limit if you are using cellular data.


If you want to call someone's cellular or landline phone, click here.
 The call will be placed immediately, and if the recipient is online. Skype for mobile devices does not support multi-person video chats.


If you're using an Android tablet, you may be prompted to enable video calling before you can place a video call.
If you aren't able to make a video call, it means your device does not meet the minimum requirements for video calling.
The recipient will only see you during a video call if you have a forward-facing camera.
 This requires that your device has two physical cameras.
 While you can call any Skype user in the world for free through Skype, you'll need to pay if you want to use Skype to call a mobile or landline number. The rates vary depending on the location you are calling. You can find the latest rates at skype.com/rates.


Domestic and international calls to mobiles or landlines will both require payment.
Skype charges based on where you are calling to, not where you are calling from.
You can no longer make calls from Skype in India to phones also in India. You can still make Skype-to-Skype calls for free., Skype offers two forms of payment: you can buy a set amount of Skype credit, which your minutes will be subtracted from based on the per-minute rate for the country you're calling, or you can purchase different monthly subscriptions that offer set amounts or unlimited minutes. You can purchase subscriptions and credit through the Skype app or through the Skype website.


There are subscriptions that are country-specific, and there is the Skype Worldwide subscription. The Worldwide subscription offers unlimited minutes to any number in the world for $13.99 USD per month (as of February 2015). Depending on the country you are calling, you may be able to get an unlimited subscription specific to that country for less.
 once you've subscribed or added credit to your account, you can open the dialer by tapping the number pad button in the bottom-left corner of the app. This will open a phone dialer that you can use to key in any number you'd like. You can also tap the "Address Book" button in the upper-right corner to search through your contacts.
 As soon as you connect, Skype will begin counting the minutes and deducting them from your credit (unless you have an unlimited subscription). The current rate for the call will be displayed on your screen when the recipient picks up the phone.


The recipient will not be charged unless they are normally charged for receiving calls. The call will be like a local call from their end.
 You can see how much Skype credit you have by tapping your profile picture in the upper-right corner of the main Skype screen. Tapping on your current credit balance will give you the option to purchase more.
 If you haven't set a profile image yet, this will look like a generic silhouette.
 Tap the larger version of your profile image to set a new one. You'll be able to choose from pictures on your device, or you can use your device's camera to take a new one.
 This is the what any other Skype user will be able to see and search for.
 You can change any of the information in the "Personal info" section. Remember that anything you put here will be available to see by anyone.
 This is so that your contacts will know how to reach you, and adding a mobile number is required if you want to automatically add people to your contacts list. You can set this information to be private so that only your contacts will have access to it.
 This is located in the bottom-right corner.
 This will load you app and account settings.
, By default, you'll be able to receive messages and calls from anyone. You can switch this to "Contacts only" so that the person will need to be added to your Contacts list before they can get in touch with your.
 This will allow you to set how people can search for you on Skype. Note that people will always be able to search for you based on your Skype username and the email address you used to sign up.

