 THOMAS was created, at the direction of Congress, in order to make legislative information available to the public.While THOMAS does not stand for anything in particular, it was named after Thomas Jefferson. THOMAS is a government resource, and therefore the information contained within it is going to be objective, straightforward, and sometimes quite dry. While it is a great resource, if you are looking for opinions and write-ups on legislation, you may want to use one of the other resources available to you. If you are looking for straightforward facts about where a bill is being debated, or when a committee has a hearing, this might be a great site for you. Some websites, including GovTrack, will use information found on THOMAS.If you use THOMAS, you will be able to find information about:


Bills and resolutions;
Activities in Congress;
Congressional records;
Schedules and calendars; and
Committee information., If you think THOMAS may be able to help you track legislation, start by visiting the THOMAS site. On the home page you can access all of the information you will need.
 Once you access the THOMAS site, you can track legislation in any number of ways.


You can search for legislation by typing in a bill's number. For example, if you are looking for "H.R. 5", you can simply type that into the search box.
You can search for legislation by using keywords. For example, if you are looking for legislation about education, then type education into the search box.
You can search for a bill by who sponsors it. For example, if you want to look up legislation sponsored by your senator, simply find your representative using the THOMAS site.
You can also see what the most current activity in Congress is by simply navigating the THOMAS home page.
You can also see what the most popular topics are on the THOMAS site by looking at THOMAS' popular topics.
 Once you find a bill and you want to understand where in the process that bill is, you can look at the information THOMAS provides you. In general, THOMAS will provide you with the following:


The text of the legislation;
The committees that have considered it;
The latest title;
Any sponsors and co-sponsors;
Any related bills;
The latest major action taken on the bill; and
All action taken on the bill from its introduction to where it stands today.

