 Good targets are usually ones that do not move a lot, or don't move very quickly, such as a Sniper, a Heavy pushing the payload cart, or an Engineer that stands near his buildings. Snipers are particularly good targets as most of the time they stand perfectly still, looking through their scopes. Be careful when trying to taunt kill Heavies and Engineers though, as if the Heavy spots you he can deal some serious damage to you with his Minigun, and the Engineer will likely have a Sentry Gun nearby.;
, Try to flank your target or take a route that isn't used as often, as this will reduce your chances of getting spotted or having to confront an enemy. Use all of the mobility options your class has available to get to your target quickly.


Scout: Use the Scout's double jump and his natural quickness to get to your target quickly. The Scout also has many weapons that help with mobility, such as the Atomizer (allows you to triple jump), the Baby Face's Blaster (speed boost from dealing damage), the Bonk! Atomic Punch (grants invincibility), the Crit-a-Cola (increases speed when ingested), the Force-A-Nature (triple jumps from the knockback of firing it), the Soda Popper (three extra jumps when boost meter is full), and the Winger (higher jumps when active).
Soldier: Make use of rocket jumping. To rocket jump, shoot a rocket at your feet as you press jump and crouch. The rocket's explosion will propel you forwards.
Pyro: The Pyro can hold the Powerjack to gain a small speed boost, or the Pyro can flare jump with the Detonator. To flare jump, the Pyro must shoot a flare at his feet while pressing jump and crouch
Demoman: The Demoman can use any of his shields (Chargin' Targe, Splendid Screen, or Tide Turner) to get a burst of speed, or can sticky jump with any stickybomb launchers. To sticky jump, place a stickybomb on the ground and detonate it with right click while pressing jump and crouch.
Heavy: The Heavy can use the Buffalo Steak Sandvich to gain a speed boost, however be aware that this makes it so he can only use his melee weapon until the effect wears off. While the Heavy's Gloves of Running Urgently also boost speed, they don't have a taunt kill, meaning they can't be used if you want to taunt kill.
Engineer: The Engineer can place teleporters to help him get closer to his target, or the Engineer can use his Wrangler and a mini-sentry to get to high places by standing on his mini-sentry, aiming the Wrangler up, and then shooting himself to propel himself upwards.
Medic: The Medic can use the Overdose to get a small speed boost, as long as he has at least 10% of his UberCharge built, or he can use the Quick-Fix to gain any mobility boosts the person he is healing has, such as the Scout's speed.
Sniper: The Sniper does not have a weapon that grants him increased mobility, however the Sniper is relatively quick naturally, so use this speed to your advantage.
Spy: The Spy can use his cloak and disguised to make it to his target without confrontation. With these, you can take the main route and not have to resort to detours (if the main route is faster), as you will not be confronted if you are disguised or cloaked.
 Some taunt kills have different ranges from one another, so make sure to line up your taunt correctly. If you are using Scout, you might want to drink your Bonk! Atomic Punch (if you are using it) to grant you invincibility in case someone spots you. If you are using Spy and have used your cloak to reach your target, do not uncloak too close to them, as they might hear the uncloaking sound. This is especially true for the Dead Ringer, as it has a loud and distinct. Make sure to also undisguised if you are disguised as you cannot taunt while disguised.
 Press G to use your taunt, or if you have any equippable taunts equipped (such as the Conga), press G twice.
 If the taunt connect, congratulations, you have just preformed a successful taunt kill! If the taunt doesn't connect, the taunt is interrupted, or you get killed, better luck next time! Try again, and hopefully if will connect next time.

