 As soon as the puppies are born, rub a finger on the top of their mouths. If you feel an indentation in their upper palate, it may be a cleft palate. Frequent sneezing and a “runny” nose after nursing may also indicate a cleft palate.If you notice that puppies are not suckling or if they are unable to eat, it is most likely a cleft palate. Puppies with cleft palates often will latch to their mother’s nipple, but they will be unable to suckle.;
, The vet will be able to determine how severe the palate is and whether it is a hard or soft palate cleft. The vet can also provide you with supplies for tube feeding the puppy.Puppies with cleft palates often have other defects as well. Make sure the vet does a full examination to catch any other potentially problematic issues.
 If the puppy is underdeveloped in other ways, they may be at risk if left with the litter. In some cases, you may be able to let the puppy remain with the litter. This is ideal, because puppies cannot regulate their own temperature and the heat from the mother dog keeps them warm. You might separate them if:


The puppy is too small and you’re worried they will be crushed by the other puppies
The mother dog rejects the puppy and refuses to feed or warm them.
 Puppies with cleft palates require around-the-clock care if they are to survive. This is because the puppies need to be fed by hand every two to three hours (including nighttime). If you have to separate the puppy from its litter, you will also have to keep the puppy warm and help them eliminate by hand.


Since cleft palate surgeries typically occur around the three month mark, you will need to continue your care schedule around the clock until the surgery occurs., Depending on the severity of the cleft palate, the puppy may be at risk for pneumonia or other respiratory diseases. These may be caused by the accidental inhalation of milk into their nose or lungs. You can prevent this by tube feeding the puppy instead of nursing or bottle feeding the puppy.Take the puppy to the vet immediately if you notice symptoms such as:


Sneezing
Coughing
Nasal congestion and runny nose
Labored breathing