 Nothing is worse than bottling everything up then exploding into an emotional wreck when you see them with someone else. Take a day and just remember. Cry and get it out of your system. You'll be able to move on faster, and it's healthier for you in the long run.;
, When you see it, it just makes them seem like they're still with you, even when they're not. Those objects will also trigger unwanted memories and make it harder for you to move on.


You don't necessarily have to start a bonfire or drag everything to the garbage can. Simply store away items in boxes and shove them in the back of your closet. You'll avoid regretting your actions, and those items will still be there for you if you wish to use them in the future.
Store photographs of you and that person away. Avoid burning or ripping them up, as you might regret it.
 You shouldn't be replacing your feelings with hatred or making yourself unhappy for the sake of forgetting everything about the person.
 They can help distract you from heartbreak. They'll be there for you when you need to talk, and they'll support you in many different areas that no one else can.
 Talking about  the way you feel, the loss you feel, and what was is crucial when letting go. We can't have a better future if we don't realize what events brought us to this point, talking about it is cathartic, and brings perspective. It's a difficult process, and you don't have to do it alone.
 Many people have gone through the same thing, and they have survived. If they are able to still be happy without that person, shouldn't you?

, After all, it is better to have loved and lost than to never have loved at all. Think about your choices and ask yourself if they were good ones or not., It'll keep you active and take your mind off things. You'll also be brightening someone's day, and they may return the favor in the future.
 Studying is a great way to lose yourself and get ahead in school. It will focus your thoughts on greater promises for the future. Focus on a subject you enjoy, and expand in it. Don't forget to improve in other areas as well.
 Take it step by step and one day at a time. You might not get over it quickly and easily because your heart needs time to heal. However, know that it will be worth it in the end. This person is nothing but a stepping stone to your happiness.
 The truth is, you always remember your first love. However, you will find someone else better and who is a perfect match for you.

