 Navigate halfway down the menu on the left side and hover over ‘MailPoet.’;
,, This is located at the top of the next page

,, On the next page, below the heading, “Edit New Form” is the most basic form you may have; an email address field with a button that says “Subscribe!”

, To the right of the basic form is a box with a button that says, “Add New Field.” Below the button are some bars that have names of fields. This is where you add fields to your form.


By default, it gives you the following bars to be dragged to your form:
Divider
First Name
Last Name
List Selection
Random Text or HTML

, To add a choice not among the defaults (skip to step 9 if you only need the defaults), click the ”Add New Field” button, and then in the resulting dialog box, select the field type. Your choices are:


Text Input
Text Area
Radio Buttons
Checkbox
Select
Date
Choose a name for the field and add in the “Field’s Name” box. Select whether the field is mandatory, and if it’s a text-based field, select any validation for the field you’d like.
, Areas in which you can place the field will show up on the form as boxes made from dashed lines. Drag the field to one of the dashed boxes.
 You will be able to change how the field text will display in your form.


You will also be able to choose whether the inputs are mandatory or not. When finished editing, click the “Done” button.
Unless you’ve added the “List Selection” field to your form (if you did, skip to step 12), there will be a field beneath the form that says, ‘This form adds subscribers to these lists.’ Click on that to select from the options that drop down which email list you’d like to assign to this form. Skip to step 13.
 Select which lists you’d like to add as selections by choosing from the drop down menu and clicking the plus symbol. Arrange the order by clicking the arrow icons to the right of the list of lists. When you are finished, click “Done.”

, To edit the text people will see after they submit the form, edit the text inside the text box below the “After submit…” heading.
 Once you’re happy with everything, click the “Save” button at the bottom.
 At the bottom of the “Edit” page, next to the sentence that reads ‘You can easily add this form to your theme’s Widgets area.’ Click the “Widgets area” hyperlink.
 This will open your Widgets dashboard in a separate window. Find the widget titled, “MailPoet Subscription Form.”

, Click and drag the widget to the widget area on the right side of the screen in which you wish your form to appear.


Once you’re set with the widget location, click the arrow on the right of the widget to expand its settings.
 On the “Title” field, put what you’d like to show up as a heading for your form. Leave it blank if you’d like also.
 Under the “Select a Form” drop down, choose which form you’d like to show in this widget.
 Click the “Save” button, and you’ve added a MailPoet subscription form widget to your WordPress site.
, A code will appear that looks approximately like: . Please note that “wysija” may change to MailPoet soon, since the name of the plugin recently changed.
,, On the “Visual” editor for the page, paste the code where you wish it to appear.
, Click “Preview” and then navigate to the new tab that opens to check you work.
 If everything looks good, go back to your post or page, and click “Publish.” You’re done!

