 While most people don't equate building muscles with cardio, there is a variety of exercises you can string together to build lean, powerful leg muscles. Take 5-6 exercises and perform each one for 60 seconds. Rest for 30 seconds, then move on to the next one. After you finish all six exercises, rest for 4-5 minutes, then repeat 2-3 more times. You're legs will burn, but you'll quickly whip them into shape:


Jumping jacks
Lunges
Burpees -- do a jumping jack, then drop into a push-up. Repeat.
High Knees -- bouncing from toe to toe lift each knee as high as possible. You want to touch the floor as little as possible.
Lateral Jumps -- jump to one side, landing on one foot, knee bent, then explode back and onto the other foot.
Oblique twists

Box jumps or simple plyometric workouts., With your back to the wall for balance, "sit" down so that your knees are bent 90 degrees and your butt hangs in the air as if you were in a chair. Hold this position for one minute. Rest for 30 seconds and repeat two more times., To perform a squat, stand with your feet hip-width apart, back straight, head up, bracing your core. Put your hands on your hips or straight out in front of you, whatever is more comfortable. Lower yourself down into a squat as if you were about to sit in a chair. You want to keep your spine straight and your knees right above your toes, not leaning forward. Focus on dropping your butt. Do this 10 times, then do another 2 sets after a short a rest.









Bulgarian Split Squat: Put your front foot flat on the ground and place your rear foot on a surface like a coffee table or your couch. Lower down into a squat, and then lift yourself back up. You can keep your hands out for balance, or on your hips. Do 12 reps on each leg., Get on your hands and knees and kick one leg out and up, keeping it in a 90-degree angle. Do 12 reps on each leg., Lie on your back with your knees bent and feet on the floor. Lift your glutes off the ground to form a bridge. Lift your left leg up, keeping your hips up, and then lower your left leg down before doing the same move with your right leg. Do 10 reps with each leg.
 Lunges are a great way to build butt, hip, and hamstring muscles. To do one. Step one foot roughly 3–4 feet (0.9–1 m) in front of you. Your knee should be bent roughly 90 degrees. Lower your butt straight down to the floor, keeping your front knee over your toe and bending your back knee to the floor. Push back up and switch legs to finish one rep. Perform 10 on each side, then rest before 2 more sets.








If you have dumbbells or weights you can make the workout harder and significantly increase your conditioning. Even a gallon of milk in each hand will help.

