 In some cases, like if you've introduced a serious irritant or contaminant to your eye, you shouldn't bother with sterile eye washes. Instead, your focus should be on immediately and thoroughly washing your eyes, then getting medical help. If you accidentally splash your eyes with a chemical that is an acid, an alkaline (base), a corrosive, or some other kind of irritant, immediately stop what you're doing and flush your eyes with water.
 You can reach the Poison Control Center at (800) 222-1222 for advice. They will advise you either to wash your eyes or seek immediate medical attention based on the chemical contaminant.For instance, some chemicals—such as most of the alkali metals—react violently with water. The Poison Control Center can easily identify the correct steps for you to take.
If they advise you to call 911 and also to rinse your eyes, have someone else around you call emergency services for you while you concentrate on rinsing your eyes. The quicker you can get to a hospital, the more likely you are to prevent serious injury or blindness.
 Most places where you can conceivably splash dangerous chemicals in your eye will come equipped with special eye wash stations designed for just such a situation.Proceed immediately to the eyewash station, depress the lever (which should be brightly marked and easily accessed), and place your face in front of the water spouts, which will spray water at a low pressure. Keep your eyes as wide open as possible. You may want to use your fingers to keep them wide open.
 Water doesn't neutralize many chemicals. It simply dilutes them and washes them away. For this reason, a large quantity is needed. The volume of wash delivered should not be less than 1.5 liters/minute (0.4 gallons/minute) for fifteen minutes., If you can't immediately find an eyewash station, proceed to the nearest sink as quickly as you can. Tap water isn't ideal for eye washing, as it's not as sterile as the purified water used in many laboratories, but it's far more important to rinse the chemicals from your eyes than it is to worry about possible infections.Splash water into your open eyes as generously as you can. Continue for at least 15–20 minutes.If your sink has an adjustable faucet, point it directly into your eye at a low pressure and a lukewarm temperature and hold your eyes open with your fingers.
 If the Poison Control Center has advised you to see a medical professional once you’ve done the immediate eye rinsing, then seek medical attention.

