 Consider your options carefully before making a purchase. If at all possible, try to test the product on a small patch of your skin to see what color it is; there’s nothing worse than committing to a product without testing it, only to end up looking like an orange!


Self-tanning lotions tend to last longer than sprays, and you can control the application more easily with your hands that through a spray nozzle.
Gradual tanning products deepen skin tone incrementally, whereas instant tanning products make an immediate, significant change. Instant products are far more noticeable, though, and can look silly if you change your skin tone too dramatically in one sitting.
 Though the fine hairs on your arms and the rest of your body won’t really interfere with the evenness of your tan, leg and chest hairs tend to be thicker. As such, you want to make sure that you apply self-tanning products to freshly shaved or waxed skin in those problem areas.
 Dry and dead skin cells react to the tanning products differently, so you want to make sure you’re working with an even surface of fresh skin. By removing the dead cells on the surface of your skin, you’ll ensure more even, natural-looking tan.


If you don’t have an exfoliating bath scrub, you can use an exfoliating glove or a hard loofah. Rub gently in circular motions, pressing hard enough to invigorate but not damage the skin.
Dry your skin thoroughly after your shower, as the product will have trouble binding to the skin if you’ve left it damp.
 Regardless of whether you’re using a lotion or a spray, self-tanning products are messy. You’ll be using your hands quite a bit to apply the product evenly, and you don’t want to have freakishly dark hands by the end of the process. To protect your hands, cover them with latex gloves.
 To keep track of where you’ve already applied the product, focus on one part of your body at a time: start with your legs, then do your arms, then your torso. Wait until the next step to apply the product to your face and neck.


If using a lotion, squeeze as much tanning lotion as you would normal moisturizing lotion into the palm of your gloved hands.
Use large, circular motions to apply the product evenly across your dry skin.
If you’re using a spray bottle, hold the bottle at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) away from the skin when spritzing. This will avoid heavy, splotchy application and encourage an even mist.
Ask a friend to help you with your back regardless of which method you use, as it’s very difficult to both reach the skin on that area, and to see whether or not you’re applying the product in an even layer.
Don’t apply the product to the bottoms of your feet or your palms, as those areas don’t tan naturally.
 You don’t want to use as much tanner on your face and neck as you did on the rest of your body. The skin in these areas is more delicate, and the color will deepen far more easily here than on the rest of your body.
 Don’t put on any clothes while you’re waiting for the product to set. Be especially careful not to come into contact with any fabrics for the first ten to fifteen minutes after application, as the product will still be wet on your skin and will stain surfaces easily.


You can use a blow dryer to speed up the drying process.
Wait an least an hour before putting on any clothing.
 Once that period has passed, take a regular shower to clean your skin of any excess product that may have been left behind. Once you’ve done this, your self-tanning process is complete.
 Self-tanning products are temporary, and while some last longer than others, all will eventually fade away and reveal your fair skin again. Most products will have begun to fade within a week, so repeat the procedure whenever you feel you need to.


Remember that if your tan has not faded completely, you don’t need to use as much product to get yourself back to your originally desired color.

