 It is important to note, however, that you can only improve your power so much with strength training. Far and away, the biggest bang for you buck is to focus on form. However, with attention to better mechanics and an intelligent strength program, you can start to see improvement. More importantly, a strong arm is less likely to get injured.


Do not lift weights if you are under 16. The potential for injury is far greater than any added strength you'll get.
With all exercises, focus on smooth, slow motions. The amount of weight is not important, but getting through your entire range of motion is.
You want low weight, high reps for everything but the leg exercises. Don't risk long-term injury for a little more power., The best bang for your buck is a strong, sturdy set of lats. These muscles help you bring the power from your legs up into your arms to make sure you throw faster.



Overhead Pulldown: The reverse of a pull-up. There is a bar above you attached by cables to a weight. Sitting down, keeping your spine straight, pull the bar to your upper chest. Repeat 10 times.

Seated Rows: With your arms in front of you, grab a handle so that your hands are close together. You'll be using the rowing machine, which attaches to weights with a cable. Pull your hands into your chest, then slowly extend them back in front of you. Repeat 10 times.

Pull ups: You want the wide grip, palms facing forward kind.
 A lot of your upper body power comes from your pecs, and it is not surprising that they'll help you throw harder. Focus on:


Push ups
Bench Press
Pec flies.
 Take away your legs, and you take away your power. While a strong arm is important, you need to have a solid base to throw harder. Neglect leg day at your own peril.Dead-lifts
Squats
Leg Press

Lateral box jumps and plyometrics.

When doing jumps, lunges, or other active workouts, focus on side-to-side motions and rotations, as they are more similar to your pitching motion.
 Rotator cuff surgery is the most common fix many pitchers need, but you can prevent future injury with smart training now. Most exercises for the rotator cuff are low-weight, high rep. You don't want to feel a lot of burning or pain -- these are small muscles that you're working.



Internal/External Rotations: Stand with your elbow at your side, arm bent 90 degrees. Grip the cable so that it pulls your arm away from you. Slowly, rotate your arm to bring your hand inward, towards your belly. Repeat 12-15 times. When done, reverse it so that you now rotate your arm away from your belly. Do three sets of each.

Scapular Plane Elevation: Hold a small weight in your throwing arm. Point the arm diagonally away from you. Your palms should face to the sides, not pointing up or down. Lower the arm, then raise it until it is straight, keeping on the diagonal angle. Repeat 12-15 times, for three sets., Strong biceps help you counteract the force of your throw, slowing you down and keeping your arm in control. This helps form and injury-prevention. Note, however, that you don't want grossly over-large biceps. Work them out 2-3 times a week as part of your training program.


Curls
Chin-ups
Seated Rows

