 Smoking is one of the major risk factors for angina. This is because smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, resulting in high blood pressure. When the blood flow is blocked because of these narrowed vessels, it can lead to chest pain and even death. Therefore, giving up smoking is the first step towards treating angina.


Giving up smoking can be very difficult, and it may not be possible for long-term smokers to go cold turkey. Therefore, you should try gradually weaning yourself off cigarettes, and experiment with quitting aids like nicotine patches and nicotine gum.
For more information on how to quit smoking, see this article.;
, Feeling stressed out or upset can trigger chest pain. Therefore, it is important to minimize your overall stress levels and to avoid situations that risk triggering your angina.


If you work in a high-stress job, consider delegating some of your responsibilities, cutting back your hours or even taking some time off.
You can also reduce stress levels using relaxation techniques and exercises, such as meditation, deep breathing and yoga. Consider signing up for classes in your local area.
 Chest pain may be caused by over-exerting yourself physically. As a result, you'll need to become more of aware of your body and learn to recognize the warning signs of oncoming chest pain during exercise pr physical activity.


If you feel chest pain coming on, stop what you are doing immediately and take some time to rest. Sit down, catch your breath and wait for the warning signs to pass.
This doesn't mean that you should cut out exercise completely - in fact, exercise is an important part of keeping your heart healthy. You just need to learn to recognize your limits.
 Following a healthy diet is one of the most important things you can do to treat angina and keep your heart healthy. This means eating a diet that is rich in fruit and vegetables, high in fiber and low in cholesterol.


Eating whole grain foods is important, as whole grains are high in fiber (which lowers cholesterol) and help you to feel fuller for longer, which prevent the chest discomfort brought on by overeating.
In terms of protein, you should opt for low cholesterol animal products, like lean meat and skinless turkey or chicken.For more information on eating a heart-healthy diet, see this article.
 If you are currently overweight, it's a good idea to try to lose a few pounds. Losing weight will reduce the workload on your heart and also help to lower blood pressure.


Lose weight by eating a healthy diet (as recommended in the step above) and cutting out processed foods, high-calorie foods and foods high in trans fats. You should also limit your alcohol intake, as alcohol is high in exercise.
Try to incorporate 30 minutes of mild to moderate exercise into your daily routine. Activities like brisk walking, swimming, cycling, dancing and gardening will all help you to lose weight and keep your heart healthy.
 Nitrates are the medicines most commonly used to treat angina, as they help to relax and widen the blood vessels. This allows more blood to flow to the heart, while reducing the heart's workload.


Nitrates can be administered in two main forms: by taking nitroglycerine tablets orally, or by wearing a nitroglycerine transdermal patch on your skin.
 One of the most important aspects of angina treatment is lowering cholesterol levels. High cholesterol is one of the major contributing factors to heart disease. There are several types of medications that may be prescribed to lower cholesterol, such as:


Statins (atorvastatin or simvastatin)
Bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine or colesevelam)
Nicotinic acid (niacin)
Ezetimibe

, This herbal treatment is said to increase blood flow and is much less toxic than the pharmaceuticals currently in use.


The standard dose is 500 milligrams per day, but it's important to speak to your physician before trying this remedy, to ensure that it won't react with your other medications.
Taking an amino acid supplement called L-carnitine can also help to improve metabolism in the heart muscle. The recommended dosage is 1,000 milligrams, twice a day

, Oxygen treatments are usually administered at the onset of an angina attack, to increase the oxygen supply to the heart and reduce pain. The oxygen is provided through a nasal prong. The doctor will monitor the patient's heart rate and respiration rhythm to ensure that the treatment is working.
 If lifestyle changes and medicine cannot control angina, a patient might need surgery to treat the underlying heart disease. The most common medical procedures used to treat angina are:


Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty. This procedure is indicated for patients with one or two vessel diseases and normal LV function.
Coronary Artery Bypass Graft. This procedure is indicated for patients with significant left main coronary artery disease, two or three vessel diseases and LV dysfunction or diabetes mellitus.
 During an angina attack, the patient suffers pain that is normally experienced in the chest behind the sternum but can also be felt in the neck, jaw, throat, back, left shoulder, abdomen, left wrist and left arm.


The pain can be described as knife-like or stabbing and is often accompanied by sweating and breathlessness. However, angina may also be experienced as sensations of pressure, heaviness, squeezing, burning, or choking.An angina attack should usually only last for about one or two minutes. However, if the chest pain persists for more than ten minutes and is not relieved by rest, it is possible that you are experiencing a heart attack. If this happens, you should seek medical assistance,

, There are several common risk factors which may indicate that a person is more prone to angina. These include:


High blood pressure
Being overweight
High cholesterol
Not getting enough exercise

, Diagnostic tests used to detect angina include the following:



Graded exercise stress testing: This is the most widely used test for the evaluation of patients presenting with chest pain. It can be performed alone or in conjunction with an echocardiography or a myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.Coronary artery calcium scoring by fast CT: The primary fast CT methods for this application are electron-beam CT and Multidetector CT.

