 You will need a very good knowledge of which mushrooms are safe to eat, what they look like, and where they grow. Some popular varieties of wild mushrooms include morels, oysters, and lion's mane.
Be careful. Some species of poisonous mushroom can look very similar or just like some popular varieties of edible mushrooms
For example, the green spored lepiota mushroom is very toxic but resembles the white button mushrooms you can find in the grocery store.
Only eat a mushroom if you have a 100% positive id.
Even after identifying the mushroom's safety, only try a little to begin with to ensure that you don't react to it badly.
Use multiple field guides to identify a mushroom. If you aren't sure of an ID, ask an expert before you cook it.
When in doubt, throw the mushroom away.
 This activity is not for the casual forager. Poisonous mushrooms are highly toxic and can cause severe illness and death. Some mushrooms grow on fallen trees or roots, and others grow in the ground.
It is a good idea to carry a mushroom guide with you to help you identify areas where mushrooms will grow and what species they are.
Mushrooms have different seasons. The mushroom season is between late spring and early fall in most areas of North America.
The best time to look for mushrooms is after a rainy period. Mushrooms need a lot of moisture to grow.
If you're mushroom hunting somewhere new to you, ask locals for advice. Deadly twins exist, where a mushroom that is safe in one place may be poisonous in another even though they look the same.
 Make sure you keep each variety of mushrooms separate. If you accidentally pick a toxic mushroom, it could contaminate the rest. Grab a flat bottomed basket. You can also use a flat bottomed cloth bag reinforced with a piece of cardboard.
Avoid using grocery bags. These will allow too much moisture to build up and might diminish the taste and quality of your mushrooms.
Plastic grocery bags also don't offer enough protection. If you carry your mushrooms in these they might get bruised or ruined if you bump into anything.
Use a pocket knife to cut the mushroom at the base.
 You do not want any blemished or old specimens.Mushrooms are fresh if their caps are clean, bright, and have no blemishes or bruises.
The gills should be pale pink or not too dark.
If you doubt the freshness or integrity of a mushroom, don't pick it.
 If you don't want to go to the trouble or foraging for mushrooms or don't have the necessary knowledge to do so, mushrooms can be bought at the grocery store relatively inexpensively. Most chain grocery stores will at least carry white button mushrooms and portobellos.
Specialty stores will have rare and more expensive varieties of mushroom such as morels, chanterelles, truffles, and maitake.
Many stores are now selling rarer or imported mushrooms in dried form. These are often more inexpensive than fresh mushrooms and can be rehydrated for cooking.

