 Nothing is more tempting to a dog than a pound of sliced bologna sitting on the edge of a counter. Maybe you are making a sandwich and let it there for just a few seconds while you grabbed the bread, but for your dog it was an eternity. That bologna was just too tempting so it jumped up on the counter and then got in trouble.


Put up foods in tupperware containers. Place your bread in a designated basket away from the edge of the counter. Put cookies in the cookie jar and other pastries away in the cabinet. If your dog likes to eat fruit — as some do — move those to a designated place as well.
If your dog has learned how to open cabinet doors, use baby-proof locks to keep them out. Eventually, your dog will learn not to even try and then you can remove the locks., Does your dog love to go sit in your favorite leather armchair? If he does and every time he jumps up on it he leaves little indentations from his nails, just block off the area. Close doors or use baby gates to block off rooms. If you do this early enough — when your dog is first introduced to a space as a puppy or whenever — your dog will soon learn what areas are off limits. Your dog will respect your boundaries, especially if he sees you as the alpha male., If you want your dog in the room, but not on a particular chair, simply place something on it to stop them from climbing up. Pillows don’t really work that well. They might seem like better napping materials. They are also light and can easily be dislodged. Use books, magazines, or baskets to block off these spaces. Whatever you decide to use, just make sure that it is heavy — something a light nudge of the nose won’t knock over.
 Dogs often search out food sources when they are hungry. The source of your dog’s bad behavior might be instinctual more than purely disruptive. Try feeding your dog several small meals a day, following the amount specifications for your sized dog on the back of the package. Hopefully, this will cut down on your dog’s counter surfing.If your dog is on a diet, talk to your veterinarian about a suitable high-fiber food for your dog. He’ll be able to suggest a couple of high-protein, low fat options that will help your dog feel full., Sometimes, dogs cuddle up with their owners on the couch because they're cold or uncomfortable. Create a designated space for your canine companion. Put a blanket on a doggie bed in the corner. Give them a kennel and crate train them. This works especially well with puppies, who will come to love their separate space., Your dog might be climbing up onto things for attention, not for food. Some people enjoy sitting on the couch with their dog’s head on their laps. Others don’t. If you are in the latter group — either because you don’t want to ruin your furniture or your clothes — you should designate other time to spend with your dog. Remember it is a social creature and if you don’t make the time, it will by jump climbing up onto things to get your attention., If your dog is jumping up for attention and you give him attention, he'll learn that this behavior is acceptable. Instead, tell him off and don't pet him. When he has returned to the floor and is calm, feel free to pet him as much as you want. He'll then associate his place on the floor with attention., Too often dog owners will condone certain behavior some times and punish that same behavior later. Don't send mixed signals to your dog. It won't understand the intricacies of your decision making process. You need to make it cut and dry for them. Don't jump on this. Climb on that. Remember that dogs love structure. Give it to them.