 There are a variety of methods for braiding your hair. Once you learn them, you can incorporate them into your hairstyle in big or small ways. Here are some basic ideas.
 When you're first learning how to braid, start with a stable base such as a ponytail, half ponytail or pigtails. Separate three sections, and braid accordingly. Fasten at the end with a non-rubber elastic. When you've mastered the technique, try starting with hair loose for a messy, less-structured look.









Do a lot of tiny braids with the strands at the front of your head, directly above your face. Layer them back and forth over your usual part, for instance, moving the first braid so that it falls to the right, the second so that it falls to the left, and so on. Then pull your hair back into a low ponytail or bun.
 A French braid builds off the techniques of a basic braid, and includes the hair closer to your scalp.









Try a full French braid, or split into two French braids.
Alternatively, you can part your hair into two sections, French braid until you get to the back of your head, and gather both sections into a loose ponytail.
 A fishtail braid looks complicated, but it's easy to do once you get the hang of it. Start with a stable base, such as a ponytail, for a neater look; for a messy feel, start with hair loose at the nape of the neck. A fishtail braid that's braided a bit to the side and worn over one shoulder is a trendy look.









Try a chunky fishtail. Most fishtails require small pieces of hair to be pulled to the opposite sides. That type of fishtail can be very time consuming for people with thick to medium hair. Instead of small pieces, take big chunky pieces. It will take much less time, and still look cute and unique.
 This only works on longer hair; it looks sophisticated and yet it's very easy to do.









Take a section from the side of your hair.
Pin up the sections you don't need.
Start braiding a normal braid.
After finishing that braid, bring it up to the top of your hair and over the other side.
Pin it with a bobby pin.
Do the same thing on the other side.
Finished. Spray with hairspray if wished but it should stay in place without it.
 Brush your hair out so that it is smooth and free of tangles. Scoop all your hair to one side of your head and begin braiding. Once you get to the end of your braid, tie it off with an elastic.








