 Do not study with the TV on, your brothers yelling, and your mom banging pans in the background. Go to the library if you need to. The best place to study is somewhere you can be both comfortable and capable of concentrating on the task at hand.;
, Make sure you have no questions.


If you do have a question, write it down and ask the teacher the next day.
 There should be one less section than the number of days you have to study. You will study one section per day, and review on the last day.
 You should read it at least two times. It might help you to read it out loud at least one time. The more senses you use (sight and hearing as opposed to just sight) the more you will remember it.



For vocabulary words you should have the word on one side and the definition or translation on the other. ex. fleur-flower; pivotal-of great importance.
For people, you should have their name on one side and a description of what they did and why they are important on the other. ex. George Washington-The first president of the United States and the commander in chief in the Revolutionary War
For events, you should have the name of the event on one side and a description on the other. ex. Revolutionary War-The war in which the American colonies won independence from England.
 If there is any information you are having a hard time remembering, make a song or mnemonic to help remember it easily.
 Read through that section of textbook and notes one more time, in addition to reviewing your flashcards, songs, and mnemonics.
 It can be a friend, parent, or sibling. If all you have to study is vocabulary words, you could use your flash cards and test yourself.
 Go outside, play video games, go to bed if you want. Just do NOT study.
 The next day, do the same thing with the next section. You will do this until you finish all the sections, and it is the night before the test.
 Now that it is the night before the test, you should:


Review all your flashcards, mnemonics, and songs.
Reread your notes and textbook.
Have someone test you.

