 You officially go into closing when the seller signs and returns your purchase agreement (also called a purchase offer). Realize you can change this agreement, e.g., if you uncover problems during the home inspection. Nevertheless, you are in closing under the assumption that the purchase agreement is final.If all goes well, you'll close about 45 days after receiving the signed agreement.If you have a lawyer, give them the purchase agreement to review.
Also send it to your lender so they can begin the underwriting process.;
, In some states, you must deposit 5-10% into escrow to cover your closing costs. The money might also go toward your down payment. Ask your real estate agent if you need to make this payment., A professional inspector must check the house for structural problems, building code violations, and appliances that don’t work. An inspection will protect you in case there is a major, undisclosed problem. Also, many lenders require an inspection before they will give you a loan.Obtain a referral from your real estate agent or attorney. Alternately, you can look for an inspector online. A standard home inspection costs $300-500.
Book an inspection a week after you receive the signed purchase agreement., The inspection might have uncovered structural damage or other serious issues. At this point, the buyer has some options:


Call off the purchase. Read your purchase and sale agreement. It should give you the right to back out of the sale if inspection reveals a serious problem. Talk with your lawyer.Have the seller fix the problem. However, you might be pressed for time, and repairs could delay your closing. Also, you can’t be sure the owner will fix the problem properly.
Negotiate a credit. Ask the seller to give you money so you can make the repairs yourself.This might be the easiest option.
 You might have been pre-approved for a loan. Now you need to actually complete the mortgage application. The application can be 30 or more pages, and you’ll need to supply plenty of supporting documents, such as tax returns and bank statements.It’s best to start early. It can take a month for the lender to complete the underwriting process, so apply soon after receiving your signed purchase agreement.
 Your lender should create a plain language document for you to sign and return. This document summarizes the details of your loan, including the following:term length, e.g., 15 years, 30 years, etc.
interest rate
any prepayment penalty
projected payments
closing costs
total cash amount to close

, Your lender will want the house appraised, which the buyer will have to pay for. The purpose of the appraisal is to confirm the house is worth as much as you are paying for it. However, if the appraisal is low, then the lender might reduce the amount you can borrow. You might need to renegotiate the purchase price with the seller and amend your purchase and sale agreement., Your lender will probably require that you provide proof of homeowners insurance before closing. Shop around to find the lowest rate. Often, you can roll your first year’s premium in with the closing costs and pay at closing.You should also buy a title insurance policy. This insurance protects you in case there are problems with the title, such as contractor liens or unpaid taxes. You can shop for your own insurance or tell your lender that you are willing to use the same insurer they use.
 You can own the property in different forms, which will affect who inherits the property when you die. Spend some time considering the options, and consult with a lawyer if necessary:Sole owner. If you’re single and buying the home, then you can own it solely in your own name.

Joint tenancy. When a couple buys a home together, they have more options. One is to own the house as joint tenants with right of survivorship. You own the property equally and, at death, the surviving partner becomes the full owner.

Tenants-in-common. If you want to own unequal shares of the property, then you should take it as tenants-in-common. At death, the other partner does not automatically become the full owner. Instead, the deceased’s share will pass by will.
 You should have received several documents during the homebuying process. Find them all so that you can review them ahead of your closing. Collect the following:purchase and sale agreement
loan estimate
proof of title search
proof of homeowners insurance
home appraisal
inspection reports
closing disclosure

, At least one day before closing, you’ll be told how much you need to pay for closing costs and your down payment. The payment cannot be made in cash or with a personal check. Instead, go to the bank and get either a certified check or a cashier’s check.The closing agent should tell you which.


A certified check is drawn from your own funds. The bank will certify that you have sufficient funds to cover the check.A cashier’s check is drawn from the bank’s funds. You transfer money to the bank, and they issue the check.
 You generally have the right to walk through the property 24 hours before your closing. Definitely take advantage of this opportunity. Check that the property is as expected, without any new damage, and that the seller has removed their belongings from the premises.If you requested repairs, check that they were made. If they weren’t, contact your real estate agent to discuss your options, including delaying your closing., You can certainly close on a house on your own. However, you might need a lawyer’s advice if anything confuses you or if surprising information appears on documents. Accordingly, tell your lawyer when the closing is scheduled and ask them to attend with you.
 It generally takes up to two hours to complete a closing. If things move quickly, you could finish in one hour, but don’t count on it. Instead, budget for two hours so you don’t feel rushed., You need to show the closing agent certain documents, so gather them ahead of time to take with you. Bring the following:Photo ID. The closing agent needs to verify your identity, so have your driver’s license or passport with you.
Certified or cashier’s check, to pay your down payment and closing costs.
Proof of insurance. You must show the closing agent that you have the required insurance, so bring a copy of your policy and proof that you’ve paid for a year.
Purchase and sale contract. It’s good to have a copy with you, in case you need to refer to it.
 Several people will attend the closing in addition to the seller and the buyer. Don’t be surprised if there are quite a few people in the room. For example, the following may attend the closing:The closing agent, who runs the closing.
Attorneys. Both the buyer and seller can have an attorney. The closing agent might also be an attorney.
A representative from the title company.
Real estate agents.
The buyer’s lender.
 Many closing documents are written in confusing legal language. Take your time reading them and don’t let the closing agent rush you through the process. If you have questions, ask the closing agent or your lawyer before signing., This document will explain your monthly mortgage payment. It should identify how much goes to interest, principal, taxes, and insurance.If you have questions, ask the lender’s representative, who should be at the closing.
 This document should explain the details of your loan. Read it carefully and make sure the terms match what your lender told you in the loan estimate. The statement should contain the following information:amount financed
interest rate
annual percentage rate
total cost over the life of the loan

, This note is the agreement between you and your mortgage lender. It should contain information about the loan, such as the interest rate and prepayment penalties. Double check this note and confirm that the terms match those in the Truth in Lending disclosure statement.Sign this note to make it legal.
 By signing this document, you pledge the home as security for your home loan. If you default, your lender can seize the home. Read the document carefully before signing it., You should receive this document at least three business days before your closing. It will outline all of your financial obligations, including your closing costs, insurance obligations, and a breakdown of your mortgage.Compare this document to your loan estimate. The terms should be the same.
If the closing cost estimates or the loan details have changed, stop the closing and talk to your attorney. Your lender or title agent could be violating the law by springing new terms on you at the closing.
 These documents explain how the seller and buyer are dividing property taxes and possibly homeowner association dues. You may also split the cost of utilities. Review the papers to make sure they conform to your agreement before signing., You might need to sign up to 30 documents (or more) at closing. Read each one carefully. If you have questions, ask your lawyer or the closing agent. Some other documents you must review include the following:


Flood hazard statement. This document will identify whether your home is in a flood zone.Declaration of reports. The buyer must acknowledge they have reviewed the inspection and survey reports.
Abstract of title. This document records all documents that affect the property.
 After you sign all documents and pay for your closing costs, you should receive the keys to your new home. Congratulations, you are now a homeowner!

