 If you’re not already signed in to Twitter in your web browser, go to https://www.twitter.com and sign in now.


You’ll need to be able to access your website’s source code to use this method. If you don’t know how your website works, ask a web developer or IT person to help you with this process.
Some blogging sites have templates with customizable Share or Follow buttons you can implement with a few clicks. For example, if you blog at Wordpress.com, you can add a Share button by clicking Sharing Buttons in the Sharing section of your Dashboard., This site allows you to quickly customize Twitter widgets and buttons for your website.
 It’s at the bottom right corner of the screen.
 Click the button you want to create, then follow the on-screen instructions to enter a link, Twitter handle, or hashtag. Each button has a different purpose:Share: Allows visitors tweet the current page. You can add some text that can be included in the tweet and decide whether to include hashtags.

Follow: Lets visitors follow your site’s Twitter account. Type your Twitter handle when prompted to create the button.

Mention: Makes it easy for a Twitter user to send a tweet to your site’s Twitter handle (@name). You’ll just have to enter your handle to create the button.

Hashtag: Lets visitors compose a tweet that contains your hashtag. Enter the desired hashtag and any additional text you want to include in the tweet.

Message: Visitors can click this button to send you a Direct Message. Enter your Twitter handle and any text you want to include in the message.
 The button will now appear as it would on your website.
 Each button has different options you can customize to change the way the button looks and behaves. Follow the on-screen instructions, then click Update to save your changes.
 The button’s code is now copied to your computer’s clipboard.
 Paste the code wherever you want the button to appear. Here’s how to find the source code for a few popular services:


Tumblr: Click the Profile icon on your Dashboard, then select Edit Appearance beneath your blog’s title. Click Edit Theme, to open the editor, then click Edit HTML to view your source code.
Blogger: In your Dashboard, click Theme on the left side of the screen, then click Edit HTML.
If you’re using another site that’s user-friendly, it may have an "easy editor" on the admin page. Find the "HTML Code" tab or section, then paste the Twitter code.

