 Usually, folliculitis amounts to nothing more than a minor (albeit painful) irritation. However, like all infections, there is always the chance that it can develop into something more serious if left unchecked. If your folliculitis doesn't seem to be improving on its own or you develop more serious symptoms like fever or severe swelling and irritation, schedule a doctor appointment as soon as possible. It's much better to be safe than sorry - a timely doctor's visit can potentially save you lots of time and money in the long run.


Usually, it's fine to see your "normal" doctor (i.e. your family/general practitioner). S/he may subsequently refer you to a dermatologist.
 Hydrocortisone is a topical cream that treats skin irritation and relieves itchiness.Try a 1% hydrocortisone cream 2 to 5 times a day (or as needed) to dull the pain. Apply the ointment directly to the affected area, gently rubbing it in with your fingers or a clean applicator. If using your hands, wash and dry your hands before applying to ointment to avoid transferring bacteria into the wound.


Note that, although the hydrocortisone will dull the pain and inflammation, it will not actively fight the bacteria.
 To ease the pain and inflammation associated with folliculitis, you may want to use any one of the wide variety of over-the-counter medicines suitable for treating this condition. Cheap, common painkillers like acetaminophen and aspirin can help reduce mild cases of pain caused by folliculitis. Pain-reducing drugs with an anti-inflammatory function such as ibuprofen are also great choices, as these drugs will not only help with the pain but also temporarily ease the inflammation contributing to the pain.


Though most over-the-counter painkillers are very safe in small doses, heavy or prolonged use can sometimes lead to serious conditions like liver damage, so always follow the directions for safe use included with any medicines you purchase.
 For cases of folliculitis that don't respond well to home cleaning and care, it may be necessary to treat the underlying bacterial infection with antibiotics. Topical antibiotics are available at most pharmacies and grocery stores. More powerful oral antibiotics, however, usually require a doctor's prescription and are usually reserved for severe cases.
 As noted in the introduction, some cases of folliculitis are caused not by bacteria but by a fungus. In these cases, you'll want to use an antifungal medication to treat your condition. Antifungals are available in both oral and topical form. As with antibacterials, mild antifungals are often sold over-the-counter, while stronger medications may require a prescription.
 In particularly severe cases, folliculitis can eventually contribute to painful, pus-filled blisters and carbuncles. If you have these boils, see a doctor. While draining these boils will speed the healing process and reduce eventual scarring,you will not want to do so on your own. Attempting to lance and drain boils without the benefit of a sterile medical environment is a sure-fire way to develop a secondary infection.

