 This button necklace will be strung on a wire, making it more durable than those that use thread. To shape the wire into loops, you'll need crimp beads and jewelry pliers, which you might not have but can be purchased from your local craft store. Including these items, you'll also need:


Buttons
Chain
Clasp
Crimp beads (2)
Jewelry pliers
Jump rings (2)
Tiger-tail wire
Wooden beads (4)

, Your wire is where you'll be stringing your buttons and beads to create the pattern of your necklace. You will attach this length of wire to your chain to complete the neck chain, so you'll only need about six to eight inches (15 - 20 cm), plus four inches (10 cm) for connecting wire to chain with loops.
 Thread one end of your wire through your crimp bead and follow it with a jump ring. Now you can loop your wire around and bring it back through the way it came, keeping the loop on the outside of the crimp bead. Then use your jewelry pliers to crimp the crimp bead and fix the loop and jump ring into place.


Your loop should be about ¼ to ½ inch (½ - 1¼ cm) in size.
 These wooden beads will give a nostalgic aesthetic to your necklace while helping keep your buttons together. The beads you string first onto your wire will form the outside of your pattern closest to your crimp bead.


Be careful that your wooden beads are not so large that they bypass the jump ring.
 To create a uniform appearance, you may want to stick with buttons that are roughly the same size.Adding a variety of colors can give your necklace a lively appearance. String your buttons flat-wise one after another until you have about two inches (5 cm) of free wire remaining.To complete the symmetry of your necklace, you should end with two wooden beads, same as the beginning of your pattern.
 Just as you did with your starting loop, first string a crimp bead and then follow it with a jump ring. Then bring around the end of your wire to feed back through the crimp bead and use your jewelry pliers to crimp fasten the loop.


Your second loop should mirror your first, and should be about ¼ to ½ inch (½ - 1¼ cm) in size.
 Use the clasp of your chain to connect the jump ring at one end and then open the other jump ring with your jewelry pliers. Attach the loose end of your chain to the jump ring and bend it back closed with the pliers to complete the chain. Slip the finished necklace over your head or unclasp it and re-clasp it around your neck.


If you find that your necklace is a little on the long side, you can remove a few links of the chain with your jewelry pliers.
