 When you are considering different treatment types, it is a good idea to look into all of your options. Therapy is critical in furthering the healing process. Look into Experiential Therapy to see if it might be right for you.Therapy is a process that differs greatly for each individual. Experiential Therapy explores different activities to find ones that are most therapeutic for you.
Sensation based techniques are common in this type of treatment. That means you will use a variety of activities to get in touch with your senses and your emotions.
Two of the most common types of Experiential Therapy are music and art therapy. A therapist can help you cope with trauma through the use of creating a painting, for example.
You can also ask about less common techniques. For example, equine therapy has proven very effective for some rape survivors.
 Therapy is an important part of the healing process. Having your family and friends act is a support system can be just as beneficial. Consider asking your family to join you in some of your therapy sessions.Family therapy might mean that you have both individual and group sessions. Before having them join you in session, make sure that your family members are hoping to learning about your healing process.
You can try saying something like, "Mom, you are an important part of my life. I think it would be really useful if you could see what my therapist and I are working on and hopefully, find a way to participate."
Joint sessions can help your family members better understand what you are coping with. It can also help you to voice any relationship concerns that you may have.
 Therapy and support systems are excellent ways to further your healing process. Sometimes, though, you might need additional help. Ask your doctor or therapist is medication would be helpful in helping you deal with your PTSD.There are not medications that treat PTSD specifically. However, your doctor may be able to prescribe something that will help you cope with the symptoms.
For example, medication may be able to help treat depression or anxiety. You might find it easier to manage your symptoms with medical help.
Make sure to follow your doctor's instructions precisely when taking medication. Also, keep in mind that medication alone will not get rid of PTSD, so you will still need to use therapy along with medication.

