 Creating an eating schedule will help to teach your child that eating is a part of everyday life and that feeding herself is something she will need to be able to do when she grows up.However, just because meals should be routine does not mean that they should be lacking in fun. Pick out colorful toddler utensils, plates, and bowls for your child to eat off of. Look for ones with fun designs like pictures of dinosaurs or animals.
 There will be days when your child will simply want you to feed her and that’s okay. The next day, you may find that she is again up to the task of feeding herself. Her desire to feed herself is your chance to let her have at it.


Be prepared for your child’s independence to be messy; remember that you are teaching her a life skill—a little pasta sauce on your tablecloth is worth it.
 The important thing is that she learns from her mistakes and keeps on practicing.


Try not to get frustrated when she makes a mistake and food goes flying. While it may be annoying to clean up after your toddler, learning how to use utensils is an essential part of your toddler’s early life. Keeping a positive attitude will help your child to keep trying.
 Explain why you are choosing to use a spoon, rather than a fork, when you eat cereal with milk. Likewise, explain the necessity of using a fork when eating pasta.


Helping your child to understand your choices will help her to make her own choices in the future.
 Give allowances during feeding time and be reasonable with your expectations. You can’t expect her to finish all of her food in five minutes just because you said so. Know that feeding time can be daunting to her as well. The important thing is to make sure that feeding time should be an enjoyable time for both you and your toddler.
 If your child loves spaghetti, try introducing her to other pastas or using a different sauce. If she loves bananas, add them to her pancakes, oatmeal or yogurt. Doing this will help to keep her interested in her food so that she can keep practicing using her utensils.

