 Some of the credit counseling agencies that offer debt management plans also may do settlement plans. There also are independent for-profit companies and law firms that offer debt settlement services.Read the reviews of any debt settlement company carefully, and check for complaints. Many of these are scam artists who prey on people who are in debt and desperate. Make sure you do your homework.
Nonprofit credit counseling agencies that offer debt management plans as well as debt settlement plans may be your best option in the event you decide to go the settlement route. Because they are nonprofit, they typically will charge lower fees to administer the settlement plan.
 Once you've chosen the debt settlement company or law firm that you want to manage your debt settlement plan, you'll be assigned a settlement advisor. At your initial meeting, your advisor will verify your debts and review your financial situation.Explain the nature of your outstanding payday loans, and make sure the company is willing to consider such short-term loans as part of a settlement plan.
You typically will have to provide information about all your debts and the lenders, including contact information, so your settlement advisor can take over and start working on a settlement with them.
 Apart from any fees you have to pay to the credit counseling agency, a DMP won't cost you anything. However, when you enter into a debt settlement plan, you typically must pay the settlement company a percentage of the settlement.In addition to the amount you pay the settlement company, you may owe taxes on any portion of your debt that is written off by any of your lenders.
While your settlement representative will go over these costs with you, it's also worth talking to an independent financial advisor and getting their opinion on whether a settlement plan is the best fit for your situation.
 Typically you'll get better settlement terms if you're able to pay a large lump sum up front. Generally speaking, the larger the lump sum you can afford, the more generous the settlement terms.Your settlement advisor will work with you on a budget so you can free up money to put toward your settlement fund. You may have the option of paying this money directly to your settlement advisor, who will keep it in an escrow account until it's time to pay your lenders.
 Your settlement advisor will work with your original lenders, including the holders of your payday loans, to reach a settlement on the debt. The terms of the settlement depend on a lot of factors, including how late you are on payments and how much money you owe.If your debts have already gone to collections, your settlement terms will be less favorable than if the debt stays with the original debtor. For this reason, don't wait until you've missed several months of payments before you start doing something to consolidate your payday loans.
Your settlement advisor will explain the terms of each settlement offer, along with a breakdown of how much money you'll save and any tax implications of that savings. You may want to have your own attorney or financial advisor look over this as well.
 Once your settlement plan is finalized, the settlement company or law firm typically pays your lenders off. You are then responsible for making monthly payments to your settlement advisor until you've paid them back.While a settlement plan may mean you end up paying less money than you would if you got a DMP or took out a consolidation loan, it may have a negative impact on your credit. All your accounts will now read "settled" rather than "paid in full," which can lower your credit score.

