 Making a sea salt treatment is easy and the ingredients are available in most grocery stores. It exfoliates your skin and can dry out acne.To make a sea salt treatment, you will need:1 cup hot water
1 teaspoon sea salt
Green tea bag and/or 1 – 2 tablespoons aloe vera

, Green tea extract has been found to be effective as a treatment for acne, but using a cup of green tea as a base for this treatment should also help.You can either use one teaspoon of green tea leaves in a tea infuser or use a green tea bag.


Place the tea bag or infuser into a mug.
Then, boil some water and pour about 1 cup of water over the green tea.
Let the tea steep for about three minutes and then remove the tea bag or infuser.
 Measure out 1 teaspoon of sea salt and add it to the cup of tea. Stir the sea salt until it completely dissolves in the tea., Aloe vera has been found to be effective against acne and it also has moisturizing properties. You can add this instead of the tea, or try combining the green tea and aloe vera into one mixture. Add 1 tablespoon of aloe vera to the sea salt solution and stir well.


If you want to skip the green tea and only use aloe vera, mix 2 tablespoons of aloe vera gel with 1 tablespoon of sea salt. This will make a scrub that you can apply directly to your neck., Make sure that the solution is not so hot that it might burn your neck. Allow it to cool down a bit first. Then, you can apply the solution by soaking a clean cotton washcloth in the solution and placing the cloth over your neck.If you only have few places that you want to treat, then you can dip a cotton swab or cotton ball into the solution and apply it as needed.
 Don’t leave the sea salt solution on your skin any longer or it may dry out your skin too much. After time is up, rinse off your neck with lukewarm water and gently dry off your neck with a clean, cotton towel., After the sea salt treatment, apply some moisturizer to your neck. Make sure that you use a non-comedogenic moisturizer to avoid making the acne worse.
 Do not use this treatment more than once per day or you may dry out your skin too much, even if you moisturize after. Limit yourself to one sea salt treatment per day.

