 Shampoo is used to get everything clean before conditioner. Be sure to scrub your scalp and not just your hair., In general, however, there are a few types of hair to work with and specific shampoos that are most beneficial.


Fine hair is naturally thin, and needs volume. Conveniently, the shampoo for this type of hair is calling a volumizing shampoo.
Curly hair is, by nature, generally drier. Because of that, it's often recommended to use shampoo specifically tailored for that dryness.Natural oils, like coconut, are great for dry hair. Several other oils, such as grapeseed oil, help replenish the moisture.
Hair that produces oil in abundance (i.e. oily hair) does not need extra moisturizing products. Look for shampoo specifically designed for oily hair, which will also treat dandruff conditions.
 Water, in and of itself, works on the cuticles. Selecting cold or warm water is inconsequential as long as the shampoo is fully removed.Because moisture is still required for whatever type of conditioner you use, be sure not to get all water from the hair.
 Conditioner works on a molecular level by binding the dead cells of the cuticles together, at which point they are lying more closely and look less ragged.It's important to use conditioner since shampoo strips the hair. Some recommend conditioning each time you shampoo, but conditioning too much could make your hair listless and slick., Depending on your hair type, you may have to use trial and error to determine the amount. If your hair remains oily afterwards, too much conditioner was used. Too dry? Too little was used. Ultimately, the ideal amount used is about the size of a quarter., Believe it or not, there is a right and wrong way to condition your hair. Using conditioner incorrectly could have detrimental effects.The conditioner needs approximately one-to-two minutes in hair before being rinsed out.
Start where hair is at its worst. Hair is the driest, most damaged, and oldest (naturally) at the bottom. Starting at the top may lead to an oily scalp.
Continue application of the conditioner until about two-to-three inches away from the scalp.
Be sure to thoroughly rinse hair so as to unclog hair follicles and keep hair shiny.
 Pour the beer into a container and let it sit, or put it in a pot and boil it. Either method not only gets rid alcohol that can strip hair of its natural oils, but it also removes carbonation that, when combined with with water, can create a high mineral content environment - also known as "hard water" - that hinders the effects of shampoo.The type of beer you use is based on personal preference, so try experimenting with different brews to see which works best for your hair.
Try an organic beer to narrow down chemicals and other unknowns put into typical highly processed, commercial beers.Cut down on the beer smell by adding some apple cider vinegar, jojoba oil, some essential oils, or even a small amount of common conditioner., The beer has proteins and vitamins that help make hair healthy, and the malt and hops strengthen the cuticles, helping to repair hair damaged from blow-drying, coloring, and curling., Start from the bottom and work your way towards the scalp. Be sure to let the beer sit in the hair at least a couple of minutes., At this point, your hair is ready to be dried and styled, or you can condition further with a chamomile rinse.
 Other than the impact on hair, using chamomile tea has several additional benefits.Hair thinning and hair loss can be combated with chamomile tea.
Dandruff and itchy scalp may be helped because of the anti-irritant and anti-microbial abilities.
Chamomile has long been known as a calming agent. Not only will you get a fuller, healthier head of hair, but you'll also likely mellow some.
Eczema, a skin condition that causes very itchy skin, may be treated in some regard by chamomile.
 Wring out the extra water from your hair before applying the tea to allow the chamomile to better permeate the strands. Let the tea sit for a few minutes.


Applying the chamomile after the beer rinse will help disguise any remaining scent from the beer.
With repeated use, chamomile tea can lighten your hair, adding highlights or making blonde hair appear more vibrant.
Be patient. Seeing results when using chamomile tea may take a few weeks in order to really be effective., Dry and style your hair as usual.

