 Get the facts, myths, legends about vampires and empathize with the characters you learn about. You have to know what you want to embody, obviously. Some classics to consider: Drusilla, The Countess, Akasha, Lily Munster and Carmilla.;
, You can't stop drinking and eating, drink and eat richly, a lot, and enjoy that. Get to know about table manners, elocution, deportment and etiquette - you have to get the noble-lady-look.
 Wear romantic gowns, long dresses skirts for example, in rich colors, like burgundy, purple, blue, silver-grey, and black. High heels are considered really feminine by many, choose high heeled shoes or boots or any footwear you feel is appropriate. Show your curves and wear old, elegant jewelry. Ladies never dress bad or shabby, so always be well-dressed. A signet ring, jewel necklaces, sparkling bracelets and romantic hanging earrings will create a gentle and noble feeling.
 For a sweet vampire lady, soft curls or an elegant chignon is perfect, bound with a silk ribbon or held by a sparkling clip. An elegant french braid is good. Deep burgundy, deep brown or entirely black hair works very well for this look, but don't dye your hair if it hasn't the desired color either. As for a lady, your hair should be at medium length or longer, as you want to look feminine. Care for your hair, keep it well trimmed and don't straighten or curl it if you don't have straight hair/curls. Avoid damaging your hair.
 A pale skin tone is desirable by some, it supports the elegant, noble look a seductive vampire lady usually has. In early times, pale skin indicated that the person didn't work hard on the fields and was very rich to have this luxury. A vampire lady has never a tanned tone. Get your skin clean and soft.
 As a lady, you need to have defined facial structures. Apply a slight brown colour around the sides of your nose bridge to contour your skin. Also, do this with your cheekbones, the line connecting your nose with your lips, and the inner bottom side of your brows, creating the illusion of defined edges; also, do this with the edges of your face and chin. Then, highlight your nose bridge, your upper cheekbones, the outer bottom side of your brows, your chin, the inner part of your forehead (if you don´t have bangs), your cupids bow, and the part slightly above your eyebrows with a matte white eye shadow to define your face even more. Fill in your eyebrows: first, use a grey color as a base and then use a brown eyebrow pencil to fill them in. Those strong eyebrows will add a mystified look to you. Tight line and line your eyes with a dark eyeliner (brown, grey or black, but black will be very heavy), and maybe apply mascara. If desired, color your lids with a deep, rich eye shadow mostly in a burgundy, grey, purple or deep blue color It´s best to create a slight cat eye - this will give your eyes a very sensual look. Your eyes have to look hollow and mysterious, not extremely up-made. Skip the blush, as you want to look cold, and define your lips with a lip pencil or a concealer. This is the most important part: select a deep, burgundy or black cherry colored lipstick in a cold tone, and apply it after defining the edges. As long as the color of your lipstick is deep and cold, you can use any color as you wish. This is where the look comes together.
 If you are very bubbly, cheerful and outspoken, you will have to cool down a bit. Add a mysterious, haunting smile to yourself, and try to be warmhearted, but not overly hyper. You also have to be able to get serious sometimes, so don't be childish 24-hours a day. If you are a very shy, secluded and pessimistic person, try to be more outspoken and straight forward. You have to voice your own opinion. Also, be sure to be able to make friends and talk to others, but sometimes be distant, too. Find the balance in this - this balance adds the mysterious part.
 Avoid sunlight, maybe silver and iron, sacred icons, love the night-time, put an interest in history, etc. If someone cuts himself, discretely sniff or lick your lips. Be sensitive to temperature changes and get a soul-piercing gaze, as if you could right look through another person. Also, you can speak in a low, husky voice - this will make you alluring.

