 Olive oil (and other cooking oils like canola oil, peanut oil, etc.) work just as well as water for making a salt paste. They also provide a few side benefits on top of this — for instance, they're good natural moisturizers and leave skin feeling soft and smooth. Some also find that oils give their skin a healthy, attractive "glow."


Note, however, that oils aren't always a wise idea. If you have naturally oily skin already, adding extra oil may cause blemishes, for instance.
 Acetone is a chemical solvent used to dissolve certain types of adhesives and plastic compounds. Using acetone in your paste instead of water will make most types of super glue dissolve much faster than normal. However, care must be taken — acetone can be harsh on dry or delicate skin, so use it in moderation and follow up with a moisturizer.


Acetone is found in most (but not all) nail polish removers. Check the ingredients label on a bottle of nail polish remover before using it — non-acetone products may not work as well.
 Laundry detergent is great for working away at dried-on super glue. However, you won't want to substitute it for the water in the method above. Instead, add a drop of detergent to a small amount of water in a bowl (no more than 1-2 tablespoons) and mix salt into this. Use the resulting soapy paste to break down the super glue.


Rinse well with water when you're done. Leftover soapy residue on your hands can make its way into your next meal if you don't wash your hands. While this is unlikely to be dangerous, it can make you sick.
 The salt rub in the method above can be a great homemade beauty product even if you don't have super glue on your hands. Rubbing clean skin gently with the rub removes the top layer of dead cells, leaving your skin looking fresh and healthy.


Best of all, since the only ingredients are salt and water (or oil), this DIY exfoliating scrub stores well. Just keep it in an airtight container in a cool, dark place and the paste should keep for months.

