 Use rubbing alcohol or water and detergent applied from a good, big spray bottle. The spray bottles from home improvement and department stores are adequate. A better buy would be to use used and higher quality spray bottles for laundry pre-treatment, glass cleaners, car interior cleaners etc.


Alcohol - buy several large bottles of 70% rubbing alcohol and mix them with water at no less than 50% strength. Drench the ribbings of the mattresses and box springs, cracks where the walls and floors meet, and all cracks and crevices in chairs, furniture and other places.
Alternatively, use 90% rubbing alcohol and do not dilute; saturate the seams of the mattress. This kills them instantly but do open your windows for a while.
Detergent and water. Use this like rubbing alcohol and for cleaning of the bed before you encapsulate it. Detergent is a better cleaner than rubbing alcohol and kills bedbugs quickly.;
, This is optional, because the residual effect they have is minimal at best and its toxicity to humans. Use insecticide in out of the way places or where an aerosol spray would be more effective than from a spray bottle., After cleaning your bed especially at the corners, cover them with cheap, clear plastic bags for mattresses. Cover the box spring with the mattress cover too. Do not use the mattress cover with zippers because they cost more and especially if they have fibers in them that bedbugs can get a foothold on to climb and lay eggs. Seal the plastic bags with paper or masking tape.
 They can't live without feeding on you, so don't let them. Estimate how long they can live without feeding in your area and make every effort to starve them. Drape a plastic sheet over your bed and chair, it will be impossible for those bedbugs to pass this barrier. Move your bed away from the wall do not allow bedbugs to reach you by letting your blanket be a bridge from the floor to your bed.
 Cleaning includes washing clothes, sheets, pillows and rugs. Wipe down storage containers, and under and behind shelves and desks.
 Your neighbors or your friends might not mention it but they actually have an infested house., Did you get bitten by one? If you did, it's not a big deal because you can cure it.
 Don't fuss over a small situation. Bedbugs need food and it's just that way where they live. Even if they do come back, it's simple––kill them. On the flip side, if someone is young, old, handicapped or has an allergy, they are not going to be able to deal with bedbugs. People with untreated bed bug bites, from severe infestations, have required medical attention and hospitalization.
 There are a lot of bedbug stories on the internet. Read until the solutions become repetitious, so that you can become an expert on this subject. Ask other people about how they dealt with bedbugs. Deal with bedbugs comprehensively.

