 However, pay attention to your specific customers' needs. Launching a poll that asks your customers what the optimal amount of content is for them can be a good idea. You don’t want to overwhelm your customers with content, but you do want to periodically remind them of your presence.


Timing is also important. Studies indicate Twitter posts are most often clicked on after 6PM. Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays tend to get the most traffic on Twitter. Saturday is the most traffic-heavy day for Facebook. On weekdays, people tend to check Facebook most often between noon and 7PM.If you want to minimize your time posting content, the app Buffer can be integrated with your browser. It allows you to schedule posts to your social media outlets and access all your accounts at the same time., The easier it is for people to share your content and your products, the more likely they are to do it.


Social media buttons are images of various social media logos that link to your social media pages. Display the buttons prominently. If someone wants to share something on Facebook, for example, all they need to do is to click on the Facebook logo. Then, a window will pop up allowing them to write a quick post and share the article.You need to be posting content if you’re advertising your social media. Make sure you do not add social media buttons until you're established enough that you're adding content on a regular basis.
 You need to identify main customers groups within your customer base. One simple example would be if you were selling running shoes. There might be one group of fit young folks running 60 + miles a week, and another group of casual weekend runners. There are also trail runners versus road runners, endurance runners versus sprinters. You need to cater different parts of your website to these different buyer personas.


To accomplish this, interview existing customers. Design questions to determine what the customer’s needs and wants are. Once you’ve received a decent number of responses you can start to organize them into groups. In many ways the groups will define themselves. Once you’ve figured out what the groups are, you can start organizing your site around them., Videos can be a fun way to engage with your customers. However, long videos tend to bore consumers. On average, anything over 90 seconds is unlikely to hold people's attention. If you choose to upload videos advertising your company or product, keep them short., One simple way to increase attention for your product is through the use of images. Image-based posts generate over 50% more likes than regular posts. When announcing a new sale, product, or anything else related to your company, attach some kind of image. This can lead to more traffic going to your website, eventually resulting in more sales.