 Play dates are the perfect solution for kids who might be missing their classmates over the holidays. Run the idea by your child, then get in touch with a parent of the other child (in person or by phone). Be direct and say something like, "My son really enjoys playing with yours at the playground. Would you be interested in bringing him over sometime for a play date?" Keep play dates brief (no more than 2-3 hours) and keep a close watch over the children throughout., Watching movies is fun for kids, but it can be even more fun if their friends are involved. Ask a few of your child's friends over to watch a movie and make an event of it - print out admission tickets for each guest and set up a "snack bar" where kids can get their own individual bag of popcorn, as well as the candy and beverage of their choice. Turn out the lights, close curtains or blinds, and do your best to recreate a movie theater experience., Board games are an excellent way to gather friends and family to spend quality time together. Playing games can also be educational (e.g. playing Boggle Junior to help with spelling) and teaches lessons about fair play and following rules. Some fun board games to play with children are:Monopoly Junior
Scrabble Junior
Zingo
Junior Labyrinth

, Have your kids invite a friend or two over for a sleepover and camp out in your living room. Set up an actual tent, or make a tent with four chairs and a large sheet to drape over them. Light candles to give the feel of a campfire (making sure to supervise children very carefully) and sleep in sleeping bags if you have them.Make indoor s'mores to further the camping experience.
 There are a variety of winter day camps available for kids over the holidays that allow them to socialize and have fun with other children. These camps can provide entertainment for kids and quality child care for parents who need to work over the holidays, or simply wish to have some time to themselves. Look online for available day camps near you, which may be offered by:


community centers
churches
zoos or aquariums
museums
universities

