 The first step is transferring the data from the DVD to your computer so that you can work with it. In order to do this you will need DVD ripping software. There are several available on the Internet, with a few free utilities and several commercial products. A free utility will be sufficient. While it may not have as many features and is not as intuitive, it will get the job done. If you are a power-user, though, and need to back up a library of hundreds of DVDs, seriously consider buying a commercial product.;
, Many movies are 9 or more gigabytes in size. The DVDs that you can buy in the stores are generally 4.7 gigabytes in size. This unfortunately means that you have 2 options if you want to burn your DVD: you can compress it or you can split it into 2 parts and burn each part individually. Because splitting the DVD is more complicated and winds up with a movie that you have to watch in 2 parts, compression is recommended. Once again, you need specific software for this. If you have the software for it, the steps are pretty intuitive to follow.


When choosing to compress your video file, several different codec options will appear (the codec determines what type of file you will have, like an .mpg, .avi, or any other type). The codecs provide varying levels of quality, with the higher quality being larger. When backing up DVDs, you don't want to compress the file too much, because if you do you'll wind up with a very grainy video. It's better to use a higher quality codec and use more space if you're going to be watching the video on a large screen. They should be listed in order of quality, with the highest quality being the top option and the lowest quality being the bottom option.
 Once you've ripped the disc image and compressed it to the point that it will fit on a DVD, open up your DVD burning software, put a blank recordable DVD into the drive, and begin the burning process.


Make sure you buy the right type of DVD at the store. Check your DVD burner on your computer to see which type it can use (you can usually find it just on the front cover of the drive). Check to see which of the DVD+R, DVD+RW, DVD-R or DVD-RW it will burn to. Some drives allow all of them to be used. Once you have the right one you can put it into the drive, open up your burning software, select which file you would like to burn and then begin the process.
 Once you've burned your DVD, make sure to test it on your computer and your DVD player, as they read different types of files. If it plays on your computer, it does not mean that it will play in your DVD player. You should double-check this, and if it doesn't work, play with the compression/transcoding settings. Also be sure to check your DVD player on your TV to see which types of DVDs it will play.

