 Sometimes, parents use excessive praise as a stand-in for a real connection with their kids. Showing that you noticed an increase in a grade or improvement in a skill isn’t the same as sitting side-by-side with your child, helping them to improve.You can strengthen the power of your praise by having a strong core relationship with your kids. Spend one-on-one time with them. Talk about their successes and struggles often, and help them brainstorm ways they can improve., Parents often lean heavily on empty praise when their child isn’t taking on any new challenges. You run out of things to say, so you repeat the same general statements. Your child can build a sense of autonomy if you regularly help them identify new skills to try, and praise them for their efforts in these activities.Letting them do things on their own shows that you believe in their abilities, which counts much more than empty praise.
 The manner in which you praise your child should evolve over time, depending on your child’s developmental stage and unique needs. Typically, younger children require more praise than older children because they have fewer successes under their belt. When your child starts to see themselves as capable of mastering a skill, they don’t count on praise as much.Young children thrive on the observe-comment variety of praise. You see them do something noteworthy and exclaim it, like “Wow, you did it!”
Older children require more specifics in terms of their effort or strategy, such as “You have really been practicing on the recital music, Joe. Your sound is incredible!”

, Many parents lean heavily on tangible rewards to get their children to continue positive behaviors. However, parenting experts suggest refraining from using cash as a form of praise.On one hand, cash doesn’t allow you to expound on why they deserve praise, such as effort or strategy. Also, getting cash doesn’t help your child build an appetite for mastery as an internal motivator—they are simply doing it for the money.

