 Starfire is bubbly, sweet, and always willing to befriend new people. Since she came to Earth and adopted it as her new home, she has been trying to learn what she can about the planet and the people on it. To act like her, be friendly and outgoing, and introduce yourself to lots of new people.If there is anyone in your school classes you don’t know, for example, introduce yourself. Ask them questions about themselves and their lives. Make an effort to say hello to people you pass by.
Don’t be afraid to volunteer if anyone ever asks for help or if your teacher asks for the answer to a question. Starfire is very outgoing and extroverted.;
, Because of her outgoing personality, Starfire has a lot of fun. She seeks out the fun things around her. She makes even the seemingly boring, everyday things feel fun and exciting. You should, too! Find the fun parts of everything you do and embrace them.If you’re at a party, or some kind of get-together with friends, act like Starfire by having the most fun. Encourage everyone around you to have fun, as well.
 Starfire is known for always expressing her emotions. She is an open book, emotionally, especially when it comes to joy and happiness. When you’re feeling happy, let everyone know. Share your happiness and joy with others. Encourage other people to find the joy in everything they do, even if it seems mundane or uninteresting.If you want to act like the cartoon version of Starfire, you might even go further with expressing your happiness. Shout things like “Yay!” or “Awesome!” and clap your hands when you feel excited.
 Starfire has a reputation for really falling hard for her crushes. She has a tendency to be really flirtatious with the people she has crushes on. She even has a habit of kissing men she doesn’t know very well in order to learn their language, which is one of her abilities. To act like Starfire, try to be more flirtatious, especially with your crush.Standing close, giggling, and gently touching your crush’s arm are all good ways to flirt without being too forward. You could also just be extra friendly to them, or let them know they look nice.
 Starfire is fiercely loyal to her teammates and friends. She doesn’t hesitate to stand up for herself or for them. To act like her, you should be courageous and stand up for yourself and your beliefs. Stay loyal to your friends and family, and let them know you’re there for them no matter what.Starfire never wants anyone else to go through the bad feelings and experiences she has been through herself. Protect the people you care about and be a good friend and confidant for them.
 If you are going to a convention, or just want to do a cosplay of Starfire, you can purchase her costume. There are many different online websites that sell versions of her costume, or if you’re handy at sewing, you could put one together yourself. Depending on how provocative you want your costume to be, there are more modest versions available online, or you can make a modest version of Starfire’s costume on your own.You can also buy separate pieces of clothing and alter them to be your costume. For example, you might buy a purple skirt and add a purple cut-off top to make her clothing.
 Starfire’s comic book character definitely dresses a bit more on the provocative side. On the Teen Titans cartoon, her costume is a little more modest, but still shows her midriff, and her short skirt reveals her upper thighs. Starfire’s character finds the clothes on Earth to be “prude” and prefers not to wear them. To act like Starfire, you might consider showing a little more skin or dressing a bit more provocatively.Starfire requires the power of the sun’s energy in order to fly. So, she shows more skin so she can absorb more of this energy and have the ability to fly., If you don’t want to go all out and wear Starfire’s costume, you can simply dress in purple clothing. Starfire’s costume is purple, so wearing purple clothes will at least resemble it in some ways. If you are trying to build your own Starfire costume, make sure each piece is purple. For example, you might buy a purple crop top to match Starfire’s on the Teen Titans cartoon, and a pair of purple knee-high socks to mimic her purple knee-high boots.Try pairing a purple cropped tank top with a purple miniskirt, purple knee-high tights or socks, and purple platform shoes or boots.
If you want to follow her costume in the comic books, you’ll want to show even more skin. Starfire’s traditional costume reveals her cleavage, midriff, shoulders, and legs. You could try using a purple one-piece bathing suit, and add knee-high purple tights.
Starfire is very feminine and girly. However you choose to dress to imitate her, try to make sure your purple clothes are also feminine. You might avoid boxy t-shirts or masculine cuts of pants.
 If you already have long hair, you could dye it the brown/auburn color of Starfire’s with semi-permanent or temporary hair dye. Or, you can purchase a Starfire wig. You can find wigs online that are modeled directly after Starfire’s hair, or you can purchase a regular wig that looks close to it.In her comic book form, her hair is much bigger and poofier than on the Teen Titans cartoon. Depending on which version of Starfire you’re trying to emulate, you should style your hair or wig accordingly.
 Starfire has a long, interesting history prior to even arriving on Earth. Depending on which Starfire you’re more interested in, the one on the cartoon or the one in the comic books, her backstory varies a bit. Try reading about her online, or reading the Teen Titans comic book series to learn more about her story and history. That way, you can really channel her character that much more.


The internet is a great source of info on the individual characters from Teen Titans. You could even try asking people on Teen Titans message boards or forums about information on Starfire.
 Starfire can absorb the sun’s energy, or ultraviolet radiation, and use it as her powers. She uses this energy to fly, as well as to fire assaults at enemies when in battle. She always uses these powers for good, and to protect people in need.Starfire is an alien who came to Earth after being trapped and enslaved. She has experiments performed on her; this is how she became able to use her powers for destruction as well as for powering her flight.
 Over the years, Starfire’s different manifestations have come with varying backstories. She originally appeared in the New Teen Titans comic book series in the 1980s, and has since popped up in different story universes since then. If you want to act like her, it’s important to identify which “version” of Starfire you are emulating, so you can keep up with any changes to her character.