 People with weakened immunity who get CMV infection usually present with symptoms very similar to mononucleosis, or “mono.” Mono is caused by the similar Epstein-Barr Virus. Fatigue, body aches, fever, sore throat, headache, swollen glands in the neck, and enlarged spleen are tell-tale signs., Infection with CMV can cause loss of vision in immunocompromised adults, and can even lead to blindness. CMV retinitis is a well known complication of CMV infection in those with HIV. Make sure that you seek immediate medical care if you experience sudden worsening of vision., CMV infection can cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines. You might see blood in your stool if this is the case, and may have stomach pain after eating. Diarrhea is also common with CMV infection.Losing blood through ulcers in the digestive tract can lead to anemia, or low iron. It’s common to experience fatigue if you’re anemic.
CMV colitis is uncommon in immunocompetent patients. It is usually a reactivation of latent CMV in those with weakened immune systems.
 CMV can cause pneumonia, severe infection in the lung or lungs, in people with compromised immunity. There are many other causes in this population, as well, but be sure to get tested for CMV if you develop pneumonia.


Symptoms of pneumonia include cough, shortness of breath, fever, fatigue, loss of appetite and weight loss., Like in newborns, it is possible for adults to become jaundiced if their liver is dysfunctional. However, adults are more likely to experience inflammation of the liver due to CMV, which causes the liver to enlarge (also known as hepatomegaly). This is called viral hepatitis. Other than jaundice, symptoms may include swelling in the abdomen, nausea and abdominal pain, and itching., CMV infection in those with poor immunity can cause inflammation of the brain known as encephalitis. This can lead to changes in mental status (feeling confused, having trouble staying awake), coma, or seizures. If you have a seizure, get tested for CMV; if you experience any change in your level of consciousness or ability to think, get emergency medical care.