 Astroglide, K-Y Jelly, and other water-based lubricants can help supply the moisture you need during sex. Buy these at any local pharmacy or drug store. Use liberal amounts before and during intercourse or other sexual activity to reduce uncomfortable friction caused by dryness.Silicone-based lubricants like Pure Pleasure, Pink, and others are also good options, but may stain your clothes if you spill some. They may not be compatible with some sex toys.
Avoid oil-based products like mineral oil, petroleum jelly, and Elegance Women’s Lubricant.
Try using jojoba oil, coconut oil, or aloe if you prefer natural products.;
, If you want to skip the hormones, use a simple vaginal moisturizer.Brands like Fresh Start, Replens, and Lubrin should be readily available at your grocery store or pharmacy. Moisturizers are different from lubricants – lubricants are used only right before and during sex, whereas vaginal moisturizers can be used all the time for help with continuous discomfort caused by vaginal dryness.Make sure the product you buy is estrogen-free, fragrance-free, tasteless, and can be used with barrier methods of birth control (generally, condoms), if needed.
Use it once every 2-3 days., For some, vaginal dryness is a result of trying to have sex without being properly aroused. As you become sexually aroused, blood rushes to your genitals and your body starts to make its own vaginal lubricant. Try some ways to amp up your arousal, and if you continue to have problems consider discussing it with your doctor, a counselor, or a sex therapist.Take your time before having sex – spend more time on foreplay. Caressing, kissing, massage, manual stimulation, and oral sex can help your body feel ready for intercourse.
Use toys like a vibrator to increase sexual pleasure. Many women need clitoral stimulation to become aroused and climax.Try masturbation so you know what feels good to you, then share that information with your partner.

De-stress! Many women struggle with arousal because of psychological reasons. Consider doing something soothing before sex like taking a warm bath or a walk.