 Move the racks in your oven so that one is in the center of the oven. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (162 C). Get out a 9-inch (22 cm) springform pan. Spread a little butter around the inside of the pan.Ensure that you spread butter along the sides as well as the bottom of the pan.;
, Place 9 full sheets of graham crackers (from about 1 sleeve) into a food processor. You may need to break them up a bit so they fit. Add 6 tablespoons (85 g) of melted butter, 2 tablespoons of sugar, and 1 pinch of salt. Pulse the ingredients until they're crumbly and combined.

Press the mixture with your fingers. The crust mixture should hold its shape once it's well combined., Scoop the crust mixture into the buttered springform pan. Use your fingers or the bottom of a cup to press it evenly across the bottom of the pan. Bake the crust for 10 minutes or until it's golden and smells fragrant.Let the crust cool completely before you fill it with the cheesecake filling.
 Wipe the inside of the food processor to remove any graham cracker crumbs. Place 4 8-ounce packages (900 g) of room temperature cream cheese, 1 1/4 cups (250 g) of sugar, and 1 cup (230 g) of sour cream in the processor. Pulse the mixture until it's completely combined, smooth, and creamy.You may need to wipe down the sides a few times so that the cream cheese is completely incorporated.
 Let 6 large eggs come to room temperature and crack them into the cream cheese mixture. Add 1 tablespoon of vanilla extract and pulse the food processor to combine the ingredients. Spread the cheesecake filling into the cooled graham cracker crust.It's important to bring the eggs to room temperature. Cold eggs could cause the cream cheese to separate, causing lumps.
 Tear off a large piece of aluminum foil and set the cheesecake on the foil. Fold the foil up and along the sides of the springform pan to create a seal. Set the sealed cheesecake into a roasting pan. Carefully pour in hot water until the water is halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan. Just ensure that the water doesn't go higher than the foil.The roasting pan needs to be at least 10-inches wide so the cheesecake fits. It also needs to be at least 3-inches deep.
 Place the cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven. Bake the cheesecake for 1 hour and 10 minutes or until it sets on the edges. The center of the cheesecake will jiggle a little bit when you carefully wiggle the pan a bit. You may need to bake the cheesecake for up to 1 hour and 20 minutes if it's still uncooked.Don't worry if the cheesecake cracks while it's baking. You'll cover it with the pecan pie topping so the crack won't be visible.
 Leave the cheesecake in the water bath in the oven, but turn the heat off. Keep the door closed and let the cheesecake cool slowly in oven so that it finishes cooking. Let the cheesecake sit in the oven for one more hour.Letting the cheesecake cool in the oven will also make it easier to remove the water bath.
 Remove the cheesecake and water bath from the oven. Lift the cheesecake up and out of the water bath. Set the cheesecake on a cooling rack and run a knife around the edge of the cheesecake. Let the cheesecake cool on the rack until it's at room temperature. You can top the cheesecake with the pecan pie topping or store it until you're ready to serve it.To store the cheesecake, wrap it tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate it for up to 2 days.
 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (176 C). Get out a rimmed baking sheet and spread 1 cup (125 g) of pecans across the sheet. When the oven is hot, place the sheet in the oven and toast the nuts for about 15 minutes. You should be able to smell the nuts and they should be darker.Let the toasted pecans cool while you make the caramel sauce. You can halve or chop the pecans before you use them.
 Put a small saucepan on the stove and add 1/2 cup (120 ml) of heavy cream, 1 tablespoon of unsalted butter, 1 tablespoon of light corn syrup, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and 1 pinch of salt. Stir the sweet cream mixture and heat it over medium heat. The liquid should just start steaming when it's ready to add to the caramel.Keep the sweet cream mixture warm while you make the caramel. Just turn the heat down to low.
 Place 1/2 cup (115 g) of granulated sugar in a large skillet so that the sugar is spread evenly. Turn the heat on to medium and let the sugar melt, but ensure that you don't stir the sugar. You can lift the handle of the skillet to gently swirl the sugar as it starts to caramelize. Cook the caramel until it turns golden brown. Turn off the heat.If you stir the sugar, it will melt unevenly and make a lot of lumps that won't smooth out.
 Slowly whisk the warm cream into the caramel and turn the caramel sauce up to medium heat. Use caution since the caramel may bubble a lot when you add the cream. Cook the caramel for 2 minutes so that it thickens a little. Turn off the heat and let it cool.To test whether or not the sauce is ready to use, dip a spoon in the sauce. It should slowly bead up and fall of the spoon if it's ready.
 Scoop the pecan pie topping in the center of the cheesecake. Spread it around with a spoon or offset spatula to evenly distribute the caramel sauce. Let the topping spill over the sides of the cheesecake. Sprinkle the toasted pecans over the top of the cheesecake. Slice and serve the pecan pie cheesecake or chill it for up to 4 hours.To make it easier to slice, dip your sharp knife into a glass of warm water. Wipe the blade of the knife dry and slice the cheesecake. Warming the blade will make it easier to cut into the cheesecake.

