 Whether the motivation behind the arson is hate or reckless vandalism, a congregation views it as an attack on their life and beliefs. As with any arson prevention program, there are three factors which need to be addressed for places of worship: external security, internal security, and community awareness.







Use motion-activated lighting near doors and windows.






Keep shrubbery and trees trimmed so the building can be observed by passing patrols.






If in a rural setting, ensure crops are far enough away to allow proper illumination of the area.






Do not allow church signs to block the view of the building.






Many buildings have basement entries that are hidden from view. These should be secured with locking, ground-level doors when the building is not in use.






Ladders, external stairways, and fire escapes allowing access to the roof should be secured.






Painting the building white or constructing it with light-colored brick makes a human figure more readily seen at night.






Consider fencing the areas or sides that are not readily visible to patrols or neighbors.







Windows that can be opened should have adequate locks on them.






Consider decorative or wrought iron protection for windows. (Windows used as emergency exits must still be able to be opened in an emergency.) Doors should have similar protection.






Installation of a combination burglar and fire alarm with a phone dialer should be considered.






If there is a private security firm in your area, consider a contract with them as they will check the building at unscheduled intervals.






Keep a current list of all individuals that have access to keys and change locks periodically.







Be aware of individuals who may be disgruntled or likely to cause damage to property through arson or vandalism.






Be aware that vandalism may precede arson!






Open avenues of communication with fire and law enforcement officials regarding the arson problem places of worship are facing.






Appoint a person from the congregation to be a liaison with law and fire officials.






Promote neighborhood watches and educate the neighbors with the lighting arrangements (motion lights, etc.).






Educate neighbors on how to recognize and report unusual activities.






Encourage neighbors to make note of strangers spending time in the neighborhood, either on foot or in vehicles.






Write down the license plate numbers of suspicious vehicles and inform the proper authorities swiftly.






Do not advertise on signs or bulletins when the place of worship will not be in use.







