 If you are writing an academic essay, each paragraph should help further your overarching claim. Before you can write a paragraph, you must have your thesis statement firmly in mind. A thesis statement is a one to three sentence description of what you are arguing and why it is important.For example, are you arguing that all Americans should use energy-efficient lightbulbs in their homes? Or, are you arguing that everyone should have free internet access?
Make sure you have a clear thesis before you begin writing.
 For an academic essay, you will have to include many different types of paragraphs to fully explore a topic. These can range from descriptive paragraphs that illustrate a problem for readers with vivid details, to paragraphs that make a point in support of an argument and that then use evidence to support that point, to paragraphs that acknowledge the opposition’s main argument and provide a refute.


Identify what your paragraph needs to do and then begin gathering ideas for what to include in the paragraphs.
Some questions you might ask include, is this paragraph going to be read alone or as part of a full essay? What do you want to accomplish with this paragraph? What are the most important details for your readers to know? What is the most effective way to organize this information? What tone (serious, humorous, concerned, etc.) should you use to get these details across?
Take the time to answer each of these questions before you begin to write your paragraph?

, The topic sentence of each paragraph is a signpost that the reader will use to follow your argument. Your introduction will include your thesis statement, and each paragraph will build upon this thesis by offering evidence. As the reader goes through your paper, she will recognize how each paragraph contributes to the thesis.Remember that the thesis is the larger argument, and the topic sentence helps prove the thesis by focusing on a smaller topic or idea. This topic sentence will make a claim or argument, which is then defended or reinforced in the following sentences.Identify the main idea of your paragraph and write a mini thesis statement that states this main idea. Let's say your thesis statement is "Charlie Brown is the most important comic strip character in America," your essay might have the following topic sentences:


"The high ratings that Charlie Brown television specials have garnered for decades demonstrate the influence of this character."
"Some people contend that superheroes such as Superman are more important than Charlie Brown. However, studies show that most Americans identify more readily with the hapless Charlie than with the powerful, alien Superman."
"Media historians point to Charlie Brown's catchphrases, distinctive appearance, and sage wisdom as reasons why this character is beloved by adults and children alike."

, Often it is easier to start writing in the middle of a paragraph instead of at the beginning of the paragraph. If you are stressing out about writing the topic sentence, then focus on the part of the paragraph that is easiest to write, such as the evidence and analysis for an argumentative paragraph. Once you have finished the more straightforward component of a paragraph, you can return to the topic sentence.
 If you have to make an argument in your academic paper, then you will have to use evidence to convince your reader that you are correct. Your evidence could be many things: historical documentation, quotations from experts, results from a scientific study, a survey, or your own observations.Before you proceed with your paragraph, list out every piece of evidence that you think supports your claim.There are many different types of evidence that you might include, such as new reports, statistics, the results of different studies, or even firsthand accounts.
 For paragraphs that will present and analyze evidence, each paragraph should have just one to three related pieces of evidence. Take a close look at all the evidence you have gathered. Are there any pieces of evidence that seem like they fit together? That is a good indication that they belong in the same paragraph.Some indications that evidence might link together include:


If they share common themes or ideas.
If they share a common source (such as the same document or study).
If they share a common author.
If they are the same type of evidence (such as two surveys that demonstrate similar results).
 The 6 W's of writing are theWho,What,When,'Where,Why,andHow. This is the important background information your reader will need in order to understand the points you are making.As you write out your related pieces of evidence, keep your reader in mind. Always explain what your evidence is, how and why it was collected, and what it means. A few special things to keep in mind include:


You must define any key terms or jargon that might be unfamiliar to your reader. (What)
You must provide any key dates and locations, if relevant (such as where a historical document was signed). (When/Where)
You must describe how evidence was obtained. For example, you might want to explain the methods of a scientific study that provided you with your evidence. (How)
You must explain who provided you with your evidence. Do you have a quotation from an expert? Why is this person considered knowledgeable about your topic? (Who)
You must explain why you think this evidence is important or notable. (Why)

, After you present your key, related piece(s) of evidence, you have to spend some time explaining how you believe the evidence contributes to your larger argument. This is where your own analysis comes into play. You cannot simply list evidence and move on: you have to explain its importance. A few questions you can ask yourself as you analyze your evidence include:


What is it that ties this evidence together?
How does this evidence help prove my thesis?
Are there any counterpoints or alternative explanations I should keep in mind?
What makes this evidence stand out? Is there anything special or interesting about it?

, After you’ve written the paragraph, read over it. Ask yourself if the topic sentence supports the paragraph’s ideas and details. Do they fit together? Are there ideas that seem out of place? If so, think about how you can alter the topic sentence to cover all of the ideas in the paragraph.


If there are too many ideas, you may need to break up the paragraph into two separate paragraphs.
Be sure that your topic sentence isn't simply a restatement of the thesis itself. Each paragraph should have a distinct, unique topic sentence. If you are simply restating "Charlie Brown is important" at the beginning of each body paragraph, you will have to narrow down your topic sentences more thoroughly., Unlike full essays, not every paragraph will have a full conclusion. However, it can be effective to devote a sentence to tying up the loose ends of your paragraph and emphasizing how your paragraph has just contributed to your thesis. You want to do this economically and quickly. Write one final sentence that bolsters your argument before moving on to the next set of ideas. Some key words and phrases to use in a concluding sentence include "Therefore," "Ultimately," "As you can see," and "Thus."

, Unlike an argumentative paragraph, your creative paragraph isn't going to further a thesis. However, it should still have a purpose. You do not want your paragraph to seem aimless or confused. Ask yourself what you want your reader to gain from this paragraph. Your paragraph might:Provide your reader with key background information.
Advance the plot of your story.
Show how your characters relate to one another.
Describe the setting of your story.
Explain a character's motivations.
Provoke an emotional reaction from your reader, such as fear, laughter, distress, or sentiment.
 Prewriting exercises are a good tool to allow you to get to know the story you wish to write and to develop some good content for your paragraph. These exercises can also help you to see your story from new angles and perspectives. Some exercises to help you gain inspiration for your paragraph include:


Write a letter from one character to another.
Write a few pages of a journal from your character's perspective.
Read about the time and place where your story is set. What historical details are the most interesting to you?
Write a timeline of plot events to help you keep everything in order.
Do a "freewrite" exercise, where you spend 15 minutes writing everything you can think of about your story. You can sort it out and organize it later.
 The 6 W's in writing are Who, What, When, Where, Why, and How.If you are writing a creative, fictional story, you will need to have these questions firmly answered before you begin writing. Not every W will need to be addressed in each paragraph. However, you should not begin writing unless you have a thorough sense of who your characters are, what they are doing, when and where they are doing it, and why it is important.
 Creative writing paragraphs are more flexible than paragraphs in argumentative, academic papers. However, a good rule of thumb is that you should begin a new paragraph whenever one of the major W's of writing is switched.For example, if you switch from one place to another setting, begin a new paragraph. When you describe a different character, begin a new paragraph. When you describe a flashback, begin a new paragraph. This will help keep your reader oriented.Always change paragraphs when a different speaker begins using dialogue. Having two characters use dialogue in the same paragraph creates confusion for your reader., Academic writing often involves paragraphs that are roughly the same size. In creative writing, your paragraphs can be one word long to several-hundred words long. Consider carefully what effect you want to create with your paragraph, which will help you determine your paragraph length. Varying the length of your paragraphs can help make your writing seem interesting to your reader.Longer paragraphs can help establish a thick, nuanced description of a person, place, or object.
Shorter paragraphs can help establish humor, shock, or fast-paced action and dialogue.
 Like any piece of writing, taking time to consider the reason why you are writing and who will read what you write is a beneficial step. However, it can be even more crucial for business writing because you often have limited space and time to get your message across. Therefore, everything in your document needs to be on point. Before you start writing, ask yourself:What do I want/need to accomplish with this document? Your answer might be something like get a job interview, describe a problem to my boss, or sell a product.
Who is going to read this document? Your answer might be something like a member of the human resources department, my boss, all of my coworkers, or a customer.
What is the best way to get my message across to this audience? Your answer might be something like emphasize my qualifications for the job, be direct about the problem, explain the new policy in clear terms so that all of my coworkers will understand, or highlight the biggest selling points for this product and create a sense of urgency.
 The tone of your paragraph is also important to get your message across. Think about what the most appropriate tone would be for your situation and try to write with this tone in mind.For example, if you are trying to write a paragraph in an email to your boss to describe a problem, then a serious tone would be most appropriate. However, for a paragraph in a cover letter, you may want to use a friendly, professional tone.
It is fine to use humor occasionally in professional writing, but don’t overdo it. Also, avoid using sarcasm, dark humor, or any other type of language that could alienate or offend your reader.
 One good way to engage your reader for a paragraph in a professional document is to emphasize the positive. You can do this whether you are writing a cover letter or a sales pitch in an email. Try to focus on all of the positive aspects of hiring you or buying what you are selling.For example, if you are writing a cover letter, then emphasize your training, experience, and other qualifications that would make you an excellent candidate for the job.
If you are writing a sales pitch, then focus on what the reader will gain or how the reader will benefit from buying your product.

