 These can include any of the following:


Weight gain
Hives or an itchy rash that resembles poison ivy
Dark circles under the eyes
Eczema
Smelly breath
Runny or stuffy nose (at times causing sinus and breathing problems)
Aches throughout the body or in your bones
Swelling (especially around the ankles)
Stomach pains and digestive problems (sometimes leading to constipation, diarrhea or vomiting)
Loud snoring;
, If someone has corn allergy he may experience the following:


Headaches and migraine attacks
Compulsive behavior such as nail biting or nervous ticks
Mood swings
Mental blocks and thought problems
Depression
Feeling tired (especially after eating)

, These are all corn products.
Baking powder: Most baking powders contain corn starch. However, you can still use baking soda and baking powder that uses potato starch.
Caramel: Caramel is often used in soft drinks and bread. Most commercial foods use corn syrup, which must be avoided. However, you can still enjoy products that use cane sugar syrup instead of corn syrup in their caramel.
Cereals, packaged: Most of the packaged breakfast cereals you see on the grocery shelf contain corn -- this includes any cereal that claims it is a wheat cereal, oat cereal, flax cereal, etc. Because corn is so cheap, it is often used as an ingredient even where you'd least expect it.
Confectioner's sugar: Although this product is sugar-based it still often has corn starch as a type of preservative.
Dextrin and Maltodextrin: these thickening agents are made from corn starch and are frequently used in ice-cream, salad dressings and sauces.
Excipients: check the ingredients of any tablets you take to make sure they don't have this ingredient.
Fructose: Fructose is sugar, and in the U.S. it is usually derived from corn.
Glucona Delta Lactone: Make sure you don't eat cured meats that use this additive.
Glycerides: don't eat ice-cream, sauces or dressings that use mono-glyceride or di-glyceride.
Monosodium Glutamate (MSG): this ingredient is often used to enhance flavor in packaged food as well as in Chinese cuisine. MSG should be avoided because it is extracted from corn.
Multigrain breads and cereals: Anything that contains a variety of grains will likely include corn as one of those grains.
Natural flavorings: Anything called "natural" may be made with corn. Because corn is subsidized, it is cheap and therefore a favorite ingredient in the food industry.
Sorbitol: Sorbitol is found in many fruits and berries or produced commercially by breaking down dextrose. It may also be found in mouthwash and toothpaste.
Starch: all starch that is corn-based must be avoided, including food starch and modified food starch.
Sucrose: avoid all sucrose that has been extracted from corn.
Syrups: golden, invert, invert sugar, malt and malt extract syrups often contain corn starch, which must be avoided.
Vanilla extract: most vanilla extracts have corn syrup in them.
Xanthan gum: this ingredient is frequently used in milk shakes, mayonnaise and other prepared products. It is often used to thicken and ferment bacterium Xanthomonas Campestris X that may have been grown using corn sugars.

