 Flea markets and antique shops are great places to find cheap deals on some potentially good antique pocket watches. While the condition of the watches themselves may not be the best, there is still a good chance that you find a high value watch that’s been marked down in price. This is a good place to go if you don’t mind shopping around before you purchase your first antique pocket watch.


Do you research before buying anything. It’s hard to determine if there is anything wrong with a pocket watch unless you’ve been examining them for a long time.
A quick way to see what year the watch was made is to look on the back of the movement for a serial number. Go to the watch company's website, input the serial number, and it should tell you what year it was made in., If you don’t want to take any risks because you’re still new at collecting, going to an antique pocket watch broker will ensure the watch’s authenticity. Another thing they are able to do is guarantee that the watch works on the inside, and that the parts have been quality assured. Because they normally work with watches, there’s a good chance they are knowledgeable about the watch’s valuation, so if you go this route, expect to pay fair market value for your pocket watch.


Reputation is everything. Make sure that you only buy your antique pocket watches from reputable pocket watch dealers. Check their reviews online to see other customer experiences.
Let the dealer know what kind of budget you are working with, and that you are a novice when it comes to pocket watch collection. He can make recommendations on where he thinks good place to start would be.
 Pocket watches are made up of two major components called the watch movement and watch case. The case is the exterior of the pocket watch, usually made of a precious metal and the watch movement is the inside of the watch, and contains all the pieces that make it tick. There are three main types of antique pocket watches called the open face, hunter case, and the demi-hunter or half-hunter case.Open face watches do not have a metal cover, while hunter face watches do. Demi-hunter cases have a cover with a small see through window so you can still read the time., There are two main types of movements in most pocket watches and include quartz movements which are battery powered and only last a couple of years, and a mechanical movement which is in most traditional antique pocket watches today.Quartz watches keep more accurate time, but are less sought after as collectibles.Mechanical movements require upkeep, so if your watch breaks, it may be expensive to repair.
 Many watch sellers can be flexible with the prices on their antique pocket watches. Make sure to haggle with the person selling it. Try to get them to reduce the price by telling them that you can’t spend that much, or that this is your first time and you want to start a collection on limited funds. Make sure to look up the value of similar watches online, so you have a rough idea of how much the watch might cost. If you are buying a watch on an online auction, wait for a time where there isn’t many people bidding, and avoid bidding wars.


The more you save, the more you can invest in your next antique pocket watch.
Professional pocket watch sellers will probably be a little less flexible with their pricing. Haggle if you are buying one at an antique shop or outdoor market.

