 No matter what type of journal you start off with, there are several ways to decorate it and make it your own. That said, a beautiful leather notebook is a lot harder to decorate than a simple paper journal. There is no wrong journal to buy, of course. But you should think about buying a diary you won't mind decorating later on.Look online for customizable diary kits, which come with everything you need to make the diary yours.
Don't limit yourself to books sold as "diaries." Visit your local bookstore or art supply store to find a variety of sketchbooks, journals, and notebooks that can be easily adapted to your whims.;
, You don't have to have a theme, but if you're struggling to think of decorations, Brainstorm ideas of your favorite things, colors, patterns, and shapes. Think about whether you want your diary to look professional and sophisticated or playful and silly. For example, if you really like cats, you can make that a theme of your diary and use cats as inspiration to drive your decoration.


Pick a favorite quote or song lyric and use it as inspiration.
Cut out pictures from magazines or old photos to make the diary yours.
Make a personal collage. You could make your diary a collection of your favorite animals, music, movie stars, foods, etc.
 If you would like to change the front cover of your journal, you can glue a piece of fabric, wrapping paper, or any colored paper onto the front cover. You can also cut out shapes, like hearts or stars and glue them on. Pasting a paper cover over the front of the book makes it easier to decorate, and you can always remove the coating to start from scratch.


If you are using glue, try using a glue stick rather than a bottle of wet glue. This way, you will be less likely to get it onto the pages of your diary accidentally.
If you are starting with a leather journal, you will need to use hot glue or strong tape to stick fabric or other things onto the cover., Since the front cover of your diary is something you will see every time you open it, this is a great place to start decorating.


If you want your diary to be more sophisticated, try leaving the cover original or covering it with a solid dark color like forest green, black, or brown.
If you want your diary to be flashy and fun, use a few different pieces of colored paper and fit them over your cover like a puzzle.
 You can use the same fabric or colored paper you used for the front to cover the back if you want a cohesive, beautiful book. Or, you can go radically different on the backside, showing off another facet or your personality to make the book unique.


Keep in mind that the back of your diary will be touching the surface of whatever you are writing on, so it might not stay as clean as the front cover.
 Draw a pattern on the inside, front, or back cover with glue and sprinkle glitter onto the pattern. You can draw glitter hearts, stars, or even write words and cover them with glitter.


If you don't have glitter, you can even use a smudge of eyeshadow to create a shimmering effect.
Draw rainbows, music notes, clouds, puppies, or anything else you like!

