 The person you choose as the trustee of your pet trust should be someone you trust who is organized and good with handling money.Typically you should choose one person to act as a trustee and someone else to act as a guardian. The trustee manages the money while the guardian will take care of your pets on a daily basis. Although you could have the same person in both roles, having two people provides necessary checks and balances to ensure that the trust is being administered properly and your pets are being cared for.If you've already chosen an executor or personal representative for your will or for another trust, you may want to consider making that same person trustee of your pet trust as well.;
, You should sit down with each person you're thinking about naming as a trustee and discuss the position.


Where the person lives also will have some bearing on your decision, particularly if you want the trustee to make regular inspections of your pets' conditions with their guardian.
If the person already has a role in your estate planning, for example as executor of your will, make sure he or she is capable of handling the additional responsibilities that will come with being in charge of your pet trust.
 Being a trustee is different from being your pets' guardian, although the specific responsibilities depend to some extent on how you plan to structure the trust.


Generally, the trustee is responsible for managing the trust funds and dispersing them to your pets' guardian according to the terms you set out in your trust document.The trustee also is responsible for conducting regular inspections to ensure that the guardian is caring for your pets as required by the trust.Keep in mind that trusts are legally enforceable arrangements, and your trustee is the person who will need to go to court if your pets' guardian isn't following the terms of the agreement., In the event the person you've chosen is unable to carry out the duties when the time comes, you should name someone else who will be able to step in.


Having at least one alternate can prevent delays and ensure that your pets will be taken care of in the event your first choice is unavailable., Your pets' guardian should be someone who knows and loves your pets and wants to take care of them.


Most people choose guardians with whom their pets are already familiar.Knowing that your pet likes and gets along with the guardian you've chosen can be just as important as choosing someone you trust to take good care of your animals.
The person you choose as guardian also should have adequate facilities to care for your pet as well as the temperament to do so.For example, if you own a mastiff, your sister who lives in a small studio apartment may not be the best choice as guardian of such a large dog.
 You may want to talk to several people before you make a final decision on who you will name as the guardian for your pets.


Where the person lives may play a major role in your decision. For example, your sister may be your first choice as guardian of your pets, but if she lives on the other side of the country she may be unable to come and get your pets right away.
Additionally, where a candidate lives may effect whether he or she can even act as guardian of your pets. For example, if you have pet ferrets, you should choose a guardian who lives in a state where it's legal to keep pet ferrets. Some states such as California have made this illegal.
When you evaluate candidates for guardian, make sure you understand any legal requirements or restrictions where they live.Depending on where the long-term guardian you've chosen lives, you also may want to name someone as an emergency or temporary caretaker who can look after your pets until the guardian comes to collect them., The person you choose as your pets' guardian should have a good understanding of your pets' daily schedule and needs.


Explain that your trust will be legally enforceable.If there is any aspect of your pets' care that a potential guardian believes he or she will have trouble following, you need to know about that ahead of time and talk about it.
In some situations you may be able to adapt your requirements to work with a potential guardian's lifestyle and schedule. For example, if you normally take your dog for a walk at 4 p.m., but your first choice for guardian doesn't get home from work until 6 p.m., it's probably doable for your dog to wait two hours – but you'll need to make sure your final trust document doesn't mandate 4 p.m. walks to avoid difficulties.
 If you have any pets with medical conditions or other special needs, the person you choose as guardian should be able and prepared to meet those needs.For example, if you have a pet who gets seizures and requires medication several times a day, you should choose a guardian who is able to provide that medication for your pet on the same schedule. Your brother who routinely works 10-hour days, six days a week wouldn't be the best choice.
 In the event the person you choose is unable to care for your pets when the time comes, you should have someone else listed.


You also should give some thought to having more than one guardian. This will depend on the number and types of pets you have.For example, if you have a dog and a cat, and your chosen guardian is allergic to cats, you may want to choose two guardians: one for your dog and one for your cat.
 The type of trust you create determines how and when the provisions of the trust will take effect.


You can create what is called an "inter vivos" trust, which will go into effect during your life. This means that if you become incapacitated, the people you've named as trustees and guardians will come and take care of your pets.For example, suppose you are in a car accident and sustain a significant head injury which results in you being in a coma. An inter vivos trust would mean that your pets would be taken care of by the guardians and trustees you'd chosen while you were unable to do so.
In contrast, a testamentary trust only goes into effect when you die. Although it doesn't have to go through probate and its terms would go into effect immediately, it would not provide for your pets in the event you were still alive but incapacitated and unable to care for your pets., Check your records to make a realistic assessment of your pets' costs including food, grooming, veterinary care, and other expenses.If you want the trust to cover your pets' expenses for the rest of their lives, you also need to make a reasonable assessment of how long your pets will live.
You also should take into consideration the living situation of your chosen guardian. For example, if the person you've named as guardian is a renter, he or she may have to pay additional deposits or pet fees. These costs should be included in your calculations of how much money should be included in the trust.
The amount you provide in your trust should not exceed the amount of money reasonably required to maintain your pets' standard of living.You also should determine how much money will be necessary to administer the trust.This will vary depending on the size of your trust and may include banking or legal fees, as well as a stipend for your trustee., You should be able to find a free or low-cost pet trust template online that you can use as a guide to create your own trust for your pets.Once you find a template, you need to make sure it complies with the law in your state. The ASPCA has a list of pet trust laws along with summaries available at https://www.aspca.org/pet-care/pet-planning/pet-trust-laws.
You also may want to consult with an attorney who specializes in estate planning. If you've had an attorney draw up your will or other estate planning documents, you may want to work with him or her to ensure your pet trust complies with your state's laws and fits into the rest of your final plans.Keep in mind that most states require specific legal language to create a pet trust. An attorney may be essential if you're not confident that you can find and use this language correctly yourself.If your trust documents don't follow the specific rules of your state, it still may be recognized by a court as an "honorary trust," but its terms would not be legally enforceable., Include the names of the people you've chosen to administer the trust and take care of your pets, as well as contact information for each of them.Be sure to keep your trust documents up to date in the event one of the people named moves to a different location or changes his or her phone number.
 You may wish to name your pets specifically or use a more general description to avoid the need to update the trust through the years.


You can identify your pets as specifically or as generally as you want. For example, if you've had your pets microchipped, you can include that information. You may even wish to include information about DNA samples to identify the pets covered by the trust.However, you also may simply word the trust to cover any and all pets owned by you at the time of your death or onset of illness that renders you incapable of caring for them., Your description can be as detailed as you wish, depending on how much freedom you want to give your pets' guardian in caring for your pets.If your pet prefers a specific brand of food or enjoys certain activities, you can include these in your pet trust. You also should include the name and address of your pets' veterinarian and how often you take them for appointments.Keep in mind that your pet won't be able to communicate these preferences to the guardian, so feel free to be as detailed as necessary.For example, if your dog is attached to a particular toy, you may want to list that toy in the trust with a description to ensure your dog won't be without his favorite toy.
If you take your pet to a specific groomer, make sure you include information about that company or individual and the services your pet receives.
If your pet regularly receives certain medication, list the name of the medication and the dosage. Don't depend on your veterinarian to provide this information to your pet's guardian.
 Your trustee effectively acts as your representative to ensure that the terms of your trust are being followed by your pets' guardian.


The trustee also must be able to confirm that the money provided by the trust is being used for your pets' care., Depending on how your trust is structured, you may need to specify what will happen to any money remaining in the trust after your pets have died.


In most states, the trust automatically terminates when there are no surviving animals covered by the trust. However, a few states such as Alaska only allow pet trusts for a maximum of 21 years.Your remainder beneficiary need not be a person. For example, you could specify that any remainder go to the local Humane Society, or to a nearby animal rescue., You also can use your pet trust to specify how your guardian should handle your pets' deaths.


If you have a preference for a particular pet cemetery, you can list that as well. You may want to include money in the trust for handling your pets' remains after they die.

