 Most skin types fall into four categories: normal, oily, dry or sensitive. It is also possible to have a combination of these four. Here are some signs for each:


Normal skin has an even tone, smooth texture and it generally doesn't suffer from blemishes. It will feel neither dry or greasy to the touch.
Dry skin is often flakey as it suffers from a lack of water and/or oil. It might be uneven in texture and in tone and generally appear to be rough or scaly.
Oily skin tends to look very shiny and is often plagued by blackheads, pimples or cysts. Your pores might be more visible if your have oily skin.
Sensitive skin is often red and irritated; sometimes, irritations are triggered from chemicals in skin care products. Flare ups in the skin can also be caused by heavily fragranced products.
Sometimes sensitive skin is caused by a larger condition such as acne, eczema, rosacea, etc. If you suffer from one of these conditions, it might be best to consult a dermatologist to help treat it.;
, The most beneficial thing you can do for your skin is to protect it from the harmful, damaging rays of the sun. You should invest in an effective sunscreen with a minimum SPF 30 and wear it every day, even when it is cloudy or raining.Most importantly, sunscreen can protect you from developing skin cancer. Be sure to wear a full-spectrum sunscreen that protects against both UVA and UVB rays.
If you start wearing sunscreen in your teens and 20s, it will help prevent wrinkles from developing decades down the road in your 40s and 50s.
Wearing sunscreen every day will also cut down on any redness or uneven patches in your complexion, giving you a more even skin tone without makeup.
 Using the right cleanser for your skin type can dramatically improve the quality of your complexion. For most skin types, bar soaps will be too harsh for your skin. Instead, use a liquid cleanser specifically designed for the face.


If you have oily skin, you might need to cleanse two or three times a day; if you have very dry skin, you might only want to cleanse in the evening. Be sure to avoid cleansers with harsh detergents or alcohol as these can damage the protective layer of moisture on your skin.If you have oily, acne prone skin, consider using a cleanser which contains salicylic acid, which can help unclog pores and prevent break outs.
If you have dry or sensitive skin, you should avoid foaming cleansers on your face, which can strip moisture from your skin. Instead, consider using a cleanser with a creamy, milk-like texture or a gel-based consistency., Any basic skin care routine should include moisturizing; it maintains the protective barrier of your skin. Oily skin types should consider a moisturizer that has a thinner, lotion-like consistency. Dry skin types might need a thicker cream.


If you have oily skin, you might resist using a moisturizer. But if you properly hydrate your skin with a moisturizer, then your skin won't produce as much oil, reducing your risk for acne.
Consider using a moisturizer that contains some of the following ingredients, which can improve the stratum corneum, or the outermost layer of skin: ceramides, fatty acids, and hyaluronic acid (all help bind moisture to the skin).
Many common oils are also effective moisturizers. You can consider using oils found in your own kitchen cabinet -- like olive oil or coconut oil -- or more less common oils such argan, marula, jojoba or almond oil.
 To get a truly smooth, bright complexion, consider using an exfoliating mask to even out the texture of the skin. You should use a mask or treatment that has a combination of Alpha Hydroxy Acids (AHAs) and Beta Hydroxy Acids (BHAs). Avoid using face scrubs with harsh beads because this can do more damage to the skin.


You should especially avoid masks with pieces of almond or fruit stones in it; these can often make cuts into the skin.
 A Vitamin C serum can help even out sun spots or other forms of discoloration on your skin. Apply this before your sunscreen to get a great, natural glow., Start with your eye lashes. Where you might normally apply mascara, use your finger to gently push your eyelashes upward. You can also use an eyelash curler to give you eyes a fuller look.


Avoid licking your finger as you curl up your eyelashes as this can put bacteria into a very sensitive area of your face.
 You don't need tons of lipstick to create an alluring pout. Instead, use a hydrating lip balm that will enhance the natural plumpness of your lips.


You can also rub a strawberry or other red berry onto your lips to add a flush of color. This trick was popular in ancient Greece when make up was frowned upon socially.
 If you really miss your blush, you might be tempted to hit or pinch your cheeks in an attempt to make them turn red. Don't do this as it could cause injury to the skin. Instead, gently pucker your lips so they are sucked under the hollow of your cheekbones. Hold for three seconds and then exhale. The rush of blood back to your cheeks will add a rosy glow.
 Although this is typically a product used before you apply foundation, a good primer can help blur imperfections on its own without adding artificial color to your face. Use a silicone-based primer to help cover up noticeable pores.
 Although some cosmetics companies consider these products to fall under the category of "make up," you will find they are lighter and offer less coverage than a traditional liquid or powder foundation. If you are primarily concerned with evening out your skin tone, then these products can help.


BB creams were originally created in Germany, but they really made a splash on the Korean beauty market before coming over to the United States. "BB" initially stood for "blemish balm," but in the U.S. they have been rebranded as "beauty balm."
In texture, BB creams are actually not balm-like, but more like a lighter, thinner liquid foundation. They often come with a small amount of SPF in them (such as SPF 15 or 20). Do not rely on these as your primary form of SPF.You can apply these products to you skin after your sunscreen. Use clean hands, a brush or a sponge to blend them into your skin.
 Skin often looks its worst when it is dehydrated and sallow. Drink plenty of water to maintain a "lit from within" look. Water from fruits, vegetables and milk will also help keep you hydrated.
 Avoiding sugars and processed foods will help not only your waistline, but your skin. Foods with the antioxidant selenium (found commonly in Brazil nuts, shrimp, and other seafoods) have been shown to improve skin health and reduce the risk of skin cancer.
 The CDC recommends between 7-9 hours for most adults. Nothing will age your skin faster than dark circles under your eyes. Nothing will make you look more well-rested than an actual good night's sleep.
 Stress can negatively impact your hormones, which in turn can overproduce oil that leads to breakouts. Exercise, meditation, and making time for friends and family can help relieve stress.

