 For instance, if your child struggles every time you take a trip to the grocery store then you can safely assume that there’s something about those trips that is triggering the tantrum. Trying to figure out the triggers may at first be a bit of trial and error, but if you pay close attention eventually you will see a pattern emerging. Keep in mind that if you know what her triggers are in advance then you can focus on preventing the tantrum from occurring in the first place.


Try logging your child’s tantrums in a journal to get an idea of the triggers. Keep track of the time of day, who was present, where you were, and what happened before and after the tantrum. Eventually a pattern will emerge that will help you get a better understanding of the factors surrounding the tantrum.
Keep in mind that some children are more prone to tantrums than others. Children who are moody, hyperactive, or struggle with change or transitions may demonstrate tantrums more often than other children.
Fatigue, hunger, being forced to share a favorite toy, long car rides, trips to particular stores, or any other situation that your child finds difficult can trigger a tantrum.;
, Once you know what might be causing her emotional melt downs, try to modify the activity so that it is not as overwhelming for your child.Preventing a tantrum is much easier than trying to control a wailing three year old in the middle of Macy’s. Here are somethings that you could try:


Bring activities and snacks to occupy your child’s attention. Allow your child to have some control over which activities or snacks to bring.
Try to keep errands and trips to stores as short as possible, preferably under 30 minutes for toddlers. You may want to bring a prepared shopping list to help you get through the store quicker. Alternatively, you could bring an older sibling to help with the younger child. The older child can entertain the younger sibling while simultaneously experiencing a sense of pride for being able to help.
Make sure that your child is well-rested and that she is not hungry before going on errands. Schedule trips around nap time and meals.
When at home, be sure to put items that are off limits out of eye sight. For example, don’t leave potato chips lying on the counter.
 Tell her in advance what you are planning to do and try to stick to this plan as much as possible. Communication is important even when interacting with a young child. Do not underestimate your toddler’s ability to understand what you are saying; she probably comprehends more than you may think.Use simple and direct language when talking to a young child. Also, try to keep the communication short. For example, you could say to your preschooler, “We are going to the bank and then we have to do a little grocery shopping. After that we will have lunch and go to the park. Then it will be nap time.”
Be sure to give your child a ten minute warning before changing activities. This is important even for older children. Children often respond better to transition when they know that the transition is coming. So, for instance, you could say “Susie, in ten minutes we will be leaving the park.” You may want to remind her again at the five minute mark.
 Young children have a short attention span and are easy to redirect.When you notice that a tantrum may be on the way, try distracting her with another activity. For example, if you know that she is about to start wailing in the middle of the grocery store, try picking up her favorite stuffed animal and saying “Here is Mr. Piggy. Let me hear you say oink!”

