 Because cholangitis causes inflammation in the bowels, some cats might stop eating if they develop it. Pay attention to how much food your cat is eating, and take note if it leaves more in its bowl than it usually does., Some cats with cholangitis might try to eat even with inflammation, which might then cause them to vomit. All cats vomit from time to time, but if you notice your cat vomiting on a regular basis, or every time it eats, your cat might have developed cholangitis., Since cholangitis can cause disordered eating in cats, your cat might lose weight if it has cholangitis. Even if you don’t notice changes in food intake or vomiting, weight loss in your cat can be a sign of the disease., If you notice that your cat’s skin (especially on its ears or paws), eyes, or gums are yellow, your cat might have jaundice. Jaundice is a symptom of cholangitis, along with other serious health conditions. If you notice jaundice in your cat, you should take it to the vet immediately., Cats with cholangitis often have high temperatures. The most accurate way to take your cat's temperature is rectally. Cover the tip of a thermometer with some lubricant. Lift your cat's tail gently and then slowly and gently insert the tip of the thermometer into your cat's anus. Twist it gently from side to side and exert gentle pressure. Only insert it far enough that the silver end of the thermometer is covered.100.4 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit (38 to 39 degrees Celsius) is the normal temperature range for cats.Digital thermometers are generally the best because they beep when the reading is ready, and come in quick-read models that allow you to take your cat's temperature faster than a typical thermometer.
 If you notice that your cat is acting lethargic, it might have cholangitis. Lethargy is indicated by a decrease in energy levels. You’ll know your cat’s normal energy levels better than anyone else, so take note if your cat seems to be less energetic than usual, especially if they are exhibiting other symptoms as well., Cholangitis has symptoms in common with other diseases, so the only way to truly diagnose your cat is to take it to your vet. Your vet will likely give your cat a full physical. You should also share your cat’s full medical history with your vet to rule out any other issues., Your vet will probably order blood and urine tests to try to diagnose cholangitis. These can include a complete blood count and chemistry panel, or pancreatic tests, to rule out other causes of your cat’s symptoms., If your vet suspects cholangitis, they may order an ultrasound. During the ultrasound, they will look for changes in the appearance of the cat's liver and gall bladder. They may also aspirate the gall bladder to contents to check for infection., Because cholangitis often occurs along with cholangiohepatitis, which affects the liver, your vet might order a liver biopsy. This will likely occur if your cat is very ill or has been experiencing symptoms for quite some time., The most common treatment for cholangitis is the prescription of antibiotics. Your vet will prescribe the type best suited to how advanced the cholangitis is in your cat. Your vet will generally recommend that you hide the antibiotic pill in a treat or mash it up in your cat's food. Be sure to follow the directions your vet gives to you., If your vet feels confident that the disease is not caused by infection, they might prescribe corticosteroids instead of antibiotics. These help reduce the inflammation that is a signature sign of autoimmune cholangitis. As with other medications, your vet might recommend mashing up the pill and putting it in your cat's food or hiding it in a treat., If your cat’s illness has progressed quite a bit, it might require in-patient care. This could include the vet giving your cat fluids intravenously or feeding it through a feeding tube. This is especially likely if your cat hasn’t been eating., If it turns out that your cat’s bile duct is totally blocked, not just inflamed, your vet might schedule surgery for your cat. This is often a last resort and is usually necessary in only the most advanced and serious cases.The risks and success rate of this type of surgery varies greatly depending on your cat's age, overall health, and how far the cholangitis has progressed. Talking with your vet can give you a better idea of the risks and success rate, as well as how long it might take your cat to recover.

