 While wet brines are the traditional way to prep a roast chicken, many chefs are starting to experiment with dry brines instead, which lead to a more robust texture. The salt draws out moisture, which dissolves the salt into a thin, natural wet brine that the chicken then reabsorbs.Use course sea salt or kosher whenever possible for a dry brine. Fine-grained salts, like table salt, will coat too much of the chicken, dissolve too quickly, and make the final roast taste too salty.
 Use a paper towel to get as much moisture off the outside of the chicken as you can. You do not have to rub it down or squeeze water out, a simple pat-down will do.
 Dry brines are simply massaged into the chicken and are made almost completely of salt. That said, you can mix in other spices and flavors as well. Start with roughly 1 teaspoon of Kosher salt for every pound of chicken you have (4lb chicken, 4 teaspoons salt), then add any of the following spices that you want:


2 tsp cracked black pepper.
1 tsp paprika, chili powder, or cayenne
1 tsp rosemary or thyme
1-2 tsp garlic powder

, Rub the top, bottom, inside, and outside of the chicken with your dry brine. Use a little extra salt on thicker parts, like thighs and breasts.


You want an even, generous coating of salt. The whole chicken shouldn't be coated in salt, but there should be a fair amount of kernels on everything.
You may need an extra 1/2 teaspoon of salt to complete the brine.
 The longer you let the chicken brine, the better the results. Still, if you are in a hurry then you should see some results after two hours.


Aim for an overnight brining, at the very least. Two hours will work, but it will not be incredibly effective. The longer you let your chicken brine, the better. Try not to exceed 24 hours, however.
 There should not be much excess moisture on the chicken, and all the salt should be dissolved. Still, pat down any extra moisture or wet areas with a paper towel if you see them. When you're done you're ready to get the chicken in the oven and add any extra flavors.


Try stuffing lemon wedges, garlic gloves, and springs of herbs in the chest cavity or between the legs and wings for added flavors.

