 You have to negotiate with a goal in mind, and this goal is your best case scenario. If you got everything you wanted in negotiation, what would it be?


Of course, you can’t get everything in a settlement. The purpose of negotiation is compromise: you give something up to get something in return.
Nevertheless, come up with a best case scenario that is realistic. For example, if you are negotiating a debt settlement, then having your lender forgive 75% of the debt could be a best case scenario.
If you are negotiating a divorce settlement, it is probably unrealistic to get all of the property, the cash, the children, and permanent alimony on top. Instead, determine what is most important to you. You might want short-term alimony while you return to school and get a degree.;
, Now imagine if settlement discussions fail. What is your fallback? Do you have several? Consider the best one. This will be your BATNA (Best Alternative To Negotiated Agreement).Your best alternative may be to go ahead with a lawsuit. Look at your evidence and assess how strong it is.
If you owe money, then the best alternative might be to declare bankruptcy. Read up about bankruptcy’s negatives. For example, although you can wipe out certain unsecured debt (like credit cards), you might not be able to get credit for several years afterwards.
 Just as you need to negotiate with your eye on your goal, you also need to determine the absolute most you are willing to give up in order to settle. This number is called your “walkaway” point.You can come up with your walkaway point based on how attractive your BANTA is. For example, you might find declaring bankruptcy an attractive alternative to settling a debt. In this case, your walkaway point would be close to your best-case scenario because you have little to lose if settlement negotiations fail.
By contrast, your BANTA might look terrible to you. For example, your best alternative to settlement might be to defend yourself in a lawsuit. But your evidence might be weak. In this case, you might be willing to settle the lawsuit for close to what the plaintiff is demanding.
 If you are involved in a high-stakes lawsuit, you should get a general sense of recent settlements. For example, you might be suing your city for injuring you during an unlawful arrest. In this situation, you will want some sense of how much other plaintiffs have gotten in settlements. This can help you decide what is reasonable.


You can search online. Often large class action settlements are discussed in the news.
You can also find settlement agreements involving government agencies online as well., A lawyer could be very helpful in settlement negotiations, especially if the other side has a lawyer. You will be at a disadvantage if the other side has a lawyer but you don’t.


You could get to the name of a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.Check how much the lawyer charges. Although you might not want to spend any money, you should consider a lawyer a sound investment who can protect your rights.
Also think about hiring the lawyer to coach you during settlement negotiations. You might not want to hire the lawyer to negotiate for you, but he or she could give you tips about how to make a strong presentation.
 People settle all kinds of disputes with settlement agreements. For example, you could settle debt, a personal injury lawsuit, or a boundary dispute involving your property. You can also negotiate severance packages when you leave a company and property division when you get divorced.


To find out what terms are typically negotiated in a settlement, you should research sample settlement agreements. You can often find these online.
For example, if you are settling a personal injury lawsuit, then search “sample settlement agreement personal injury.” Read through several sample settlement agreements to see what issues are negotiated.Some settlements involve negotiating standard terms. For example, if you are negotiating a divorce settlement, then you would want to negotiate the division of property and debts, as well as child custody, alimony, and child support., The settlement discussions will probably be held at a lawyer’s office. You should arrive early so that you can get comfortable with your surroundings. If you are attending negotiations with your lawyer, then it might be a good idea to drive over to the office together.


If you are negotiating with an insurance company, then the negotiations might be done entirely through letters.However, the negotiation principles are still generally the same.
Dress professionally, even if you are negotiating a dispute without a lawyer. You want to look like you are taking the occasion seriously. Ideally, you should dress as you would for attending a court hearing.
 Effective negotiation requires careful listening. You should listen to what the other side says but also to what might be motivating them.You have to understand what is motivating someone before you can persuade them to adopt your point of view.


Don’t think of your listening as a chance to wait until you speak again. Instead, actively listen to what the other side says.
You can actively listen by asking clarifying questions if you don’t understand something. Don’t ask questions to interrupt or challenge the other side—that will put them on the defensive. Instead, clarify anything that is unclear.
Also be alert to non-verbal cues. You can often tell by someone’s tone of voice whether they strongly believe what they are saying.
 Experts disagree about whether you should make the first offer or if the other side should make the first offer. Whoever makes the first offer tends to “anchor” the negotiation.This means that the first offer exerts a kind of gravitational pull: if the first number is low, then the final amount negotiated will probably also be low.


If you do go first, then leave room for negotiation. Few people want to accept your first offer, so don’t start off with your “walkaway” point since the other side will want to negotiate you away from that position. Also don’t make an outrageous offer. If you are the defendant in a personal injury lawsuit, don’t offer $1,000 if the person is suing for $100,000 and has extensive injuries.
 If you don’t go first, then don’t get anchored to a number that is too low or too high. Instead, ask the other side why it opened with that number. For example, the other side might have lacked sufficient information about your injuries.


When you extend your counteroffer, make sure to justify it. Don’t just throw out a number. Instead, explain to the other side why you are entitled to your counteroffer.
If you are negotiating a settlement in a personal injury lawsuit, then you should talk about your pain and suffering when you make your counteroffer. Explain how the injury has affected you emotionally.If you are negotiating a consumer debt, then mention that you have been thinking about filing for bankruptcy. If your debt is unsecured (like credit card debt), then you can completely wipe out the debt. Mentioning bankruptcy is a good way to signal that you are serious about negotiating a fair settlement.
It is common to go back and forth. With each offer and counteroffer, each side should move closer to the other side until you both hit on a number you can mutually live with.
 It is best to come to agreement on all, or nearly all, of the settlement terms. Don’t leave a lot of threads hanging when you leave the bargaining table. Price might be most important to you, but there are other issues you need to reach agreement on. For example, make sure that you resolve the following if you are negotiating a personal injury settlement:Whether the money will be in one lump sum or in installments. If in installments, then the number of installments.
Whether the defendant will pay for the plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs of the lawsuit, or whether each party will be responsible for its own expenses.
When payment should be made and the method (certified check, personal check, etc.)
Whether the settlement is confidential.
 If negotiations are handled in person, then make sure everyone signs something in writing before they leave the room.You don’t want someone to back out of the agreement in the period of time before you draft a final, formal settlement agreement.
 In order to discover what terms you should negotiate, you probably already have found sample settlement agreements. You can now use them as a guide when drafting your own (if you don’t have a lawyer, who should draft the agreement for you).


You can find samples online.
See Write a Divorce Settlement Agreement if you need to draft that kind of agreement.
 You should type up the final settlement agreement, since it will serve as a contract between the two parties. Set the font to a comfortable size and style. Generally, Times New Roman 12 point would work.
 Put the headings in bold and underline them.This makes reading the settlement agreement easy.


Also use simple, clear language. You don’t want any provision of the settlement agreement to be unclear, since it is a contract between you and the other party.
Make sure to edit the agreement when you finish a draft. Focus on clarity.
 If you are the defendant, then you certainly want the settlement agreement to contain a “release.” This provision states that the plaintiff is releasing you of liability for the incident, so you can’t be sued again.A standard release would say something like: “This release and discharge by Plaintiffs shall apply to and inure to the benefit if , its past, present, and future officers, directors, attorneys, agents, servants, representatives, employees, subsidiaries, insurers, affiliates, partners, predecessors and successors in interest, and assigns and all other person and entities involved in the design, manufacture, sale, or repair of the product that forms the subject matter of this Action….”In addition to personal injury lawsuits, releases are also standard in employment discrimination lawsuits. Employers should scan the draft settlement agreement to make sure that it contains a release.
 If you don’t have a lawyer draft your agreement, then at a minimum you should show it to the lawyer to review. The lawyer can point out if anything is missing or if the agreement is unfavorable to you.


After meeting with the lawyer, you might need to go back to negotiations, especially if you forgot to add something, like a release.

