 An adult birthday party can be anything from a few people gathering for drinks to a room full of people rocking out to live music. It all comes down to the preferences of the birthday honoree. Simple and classy or totally outrageous?


Having it at home is easiest, but that means cleaning, cooking, entertaining, and cleaning some more. However, having it at home is cheaper and you have free reign of your territory.
If you do have it at home, consider having everyone bring a dish or a drink. This keeps the burden off you and makes it a more interactive affair.
If you're going out, make a reservation as soon as possible. Some places are hard to get into on a moment's notice.
 Unlike kids, adults have a million and one things going on that they have to attend to. To get all your guests to come, send out invites well in advance, about 2 - 3 weeks. This way they can write down the party in their calendar before the slot fills up.


Send something concrete, like an email. A phone call or text is easy to forget and often doesn't seem official. But don't hesitate to send a reminder text a few days before the party.
 There are a couple of things that can make any party monumental:


Pick a theme, where your guests can dress up, eat special foods, and take part in themed activities. This could be anything – from an 80s theme with neon colors and bad movies, to golf with parfaits and mini-golf set up in the basement, to a cartoon character theme, where you get to relive your childhood.
Plan an event. It could be a photo scavenger hunt throughout the city, a pub crawl, or a macaroni and cheese tasting at your house (where everyone brings a different variation). This adds extra excitement about your party and keeps people from being bored, too.
Consider entertainment like live music or a sports game. With this route, all the planning is done for you.
 If you're having the party at your house, make sure everyone's well taken care of. You'll need hors d'oeuvres for people to munch on all night long, and food to accommodate everyone's allergies and diets. Some gluten-free and vegetarian plates may be a good idea.


What's more, you'll likely want alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks available. For those that don't drink, keep it fun by making a punch or some other concoction that makes them feel like they're a part of it, too.
 Did you choose "Old Hollywood" as your theme? Get some old film reels, some black and white decorations, and roll out the red carpet on your sidewalk. "90s"? Bust out the scrunchies, the high-waisted jeans, the bright colors, and blast some Spice Girls. The limit is only your imagination – and your budget.


Don't have a theme? No problem. For that macaroni and cheese party, set up a large board for everyone to vote on or make them personalized voting cards. Make name tags and decorate the table to make the mac n' cheese look better than it already does.
 Since you're likely the glue that holds this party together, try your best to work in and out of circles, introducing them to one another, and starting games if the atmosphere calls for it.


Keep them safe, too. If drinking is involved, take their keys and put them in a safe place. When they go to leave, make sure they're sober before they drive away. If not, arrange a designated driver to take them home.

