 One way to ensure high-quality referrals is to give excellent referrals back. Whether you are getting referrals from a customer or a similar business, refer them to other businesses that you think might be helpful to them. Even if they have not referred anyone to you, start referring to them with the hope, but not the expectation, that they will eventually return the favor.For example, if your customers are businesses, you can directly ask them what type of customers they would like you to refer to them., This fee could be in the form of a percentage off the referral's bill, a set fee, a gift card, or a discount off future products or services with your business. Offering a reward demonstrates your appreciation and often leads to more referrals, and its value is obviously dependent on what you can afford. Make sure you clearly state the benefits and rules of your referral program on your website and in email communication with customers.You can also consider offering benefits or discounts to both the referring customer and referred customer.
Making the discount offered to the referred customer larger than the benefit offered to the referring customer will make the referring customers feel as though they are doing their friend a favor.
This, in turn, will drive the referred customer to make a purchase, because their deal seems even better.For example, you can give the referring customer 10 percent off their next order, but give the new customer 20 percent off of their first.
Be sure to maintain integrity of your offer program. That is, don't offer same benefit to everyone, whether they are a referral or not.
 Another way to promote referrals pique the interest of new customers is to make referrals more exclusive. You can do this by only offering access to certain items or your shop to those with a referral code provided by an existing customer. Many online shopping websites have done and continue to do this. Obviously, this won't work for all business models, but you can probably think of some other way to promote exclusivity.For example, many restaurants have a secret menu that, in theory, only regular customers know about.
 Once referrals have received the referral offer, make sure that the offer stays on their mind. Email them with reminders, especially if their referral credit or discount is about to expire. Remind them of what your business does and who referred them to jog their memory.Try automating referral or benefit reminders using an emailing service or CRM software. This will relieve you of the responsibility of reminding customers and potential customers about your offers.