 Many dog-walking services offer a free initial meeting and consultation. During this time, you can see how the dog walker interacts with your pet and whether you have a good rapport with them.


This is a good opportunity to assess whether the interviewee shows up on time and behaves in a professional manner. After all, you will be entering into a business relationship with them.
Ask if they will accompany you on a trial walk.
 Among the issues to discuss with your potential dog walker are where the dog will be walked, how long the walks will be, and whether the walker will come at the same time each day. Be sure to use this time to convey your dog’s needs to the interviewee.


Clearly state your preferences, such as “I prefer if you walk the dog alone, rather than with other dogs,” or “It’s better if you don’t drive my dog to a trail, since it gets carsick.”
The following questions are useful: “What type of vehicle do you use to transport the dogs?” “Do you crate the dogs together in your vehicle?” “Do you use my leashes or do you provide your own?”
Use the interview to find out the walker’s approach to the job. Ask questions such as, “Do you walk alone or with a friend?” or “Do you typically turn off your cell phone during walks?”
Ask “How do I know you’ve been here each day?” and “Do you provide a written log with information on where and how long you walked and whether the dog took any potty breaks?” You can also ask the walker for a text after each walk is completed.
 At some point, your dog walker will likely need to take time off for vacation or illness. Your dog walker might know another person who can take care of your dog, or you may have to find another dog walker on your own. If the former, find out how you will be notified of the need for time off and who will walk your dog in their absence.


If your walker has a vacation planned, ask them if they will introduce your dog to their fill-in ahead of time.
 Some dog walkers are independent, while others work with a team or company. If the person you interview is not the one who will be walking your dog on a regular basis, ask to meet with the person who will have that assignment.Independent dog walkers can be beneficial because they will become familiar to your dog and give it a sense of security and routine. A possible drawback may be if they have scheduling conflicts and no one to cover for them.
If you choose to go with a business or team of walkers, you will have more coverage in cases of emergency. Be sure that if you go with a team that your dog will typically see the same walker.
 Ask about whether they work with animals in other capacities besides walking them (such as being a groomer, veterinary technician, etc.). This will tell you whether you are selecting someone who is interested in and knowledgeable about animals or is someone who just wants to make some extra money.Ask questions such as, “How long have you been a dog walker?” and “How many dogs have you worked with in the past?”
Find out why they chose to be a dog walker: “What made you decide to be a dog walker?” and “Do you plan to do this indefinitely?” These questions can give you insight into the dog walker's enthusiasm and training philosophy.
Ask how they have handled past problems, such as an injured or lost dog.
 Verify that the dog walker will use positive reinforcement with your pet, instead of yelling or shoving.Ask what type of discipline will be used with your dog, and be wary if the candidate says they “punish” dogs. An answer that includes words like “redirection” or “following instructions” would be more in line with a positive approach to behavior management.Ask questions such as, “How do you handle fights between dogs you are walking?” or, “What approaches do you use to read body language between dogs?”

, You will need to find out how many dogs will be walked with yours and the sizes and types of those dogs. Thinking about these issues will give you a better idea of whether you and the dog walker agree on the approach to the job.


Some possible questions are, “How do you decide whether dogs are compatible for walking together?” or “Have you had problems in the past with dogs fighting while you were walking them? How did you handle that?”
See if the walker follows the “50 percent” rule when pairing dogs: If your dog weighs 25 pounds, his fellow dogs should be no larger than 50 pounds., Ask your interviewee if they can perform canine first aid. Find out how they handle, or have handled, emergency situations.Ask questions such as, "Which emergency veterinary hospitals have you used?" "Are you familiar with clinics in the area?"
Other questions to consider include, "What types of emergency situations have you encountered and how did you react?" and "What do you do with the other dogs while attending to one that is hurt?"

, You will be entrusting the dog walker with your pet, and you will be allowing them access to your home as well. Check their professional papers for evidence of insurance coverage and licensure during the interviewed.


Liability insurance will cover your dog walker for injuries to your dog and any damages that may be done by the dog while in their care. It will also cover any accidents that may take place at your home while the pet sitter is there.Bonding involves a bond provided by an insurance company that will cover damages while your dog walker is working for you. This may be unnecessary depending on your walker’s insurance coverage.There are no professional licenses for pet sitters, so the license they should have is to operate a business in your community.