 This powder, also called solid water, is available at magic shops and hobby stores. It will allow you to perform the trick.You may want to get more than one “dose” of the powder so that you can practice before trying your trick on another person.
You can substitute the material inside of a baby diaper and a tissue or another cloth to cover the gel and wedge it in. Use extra caution that these materials do not fall out during the trick.
 In addition to the water gel powder, you will also need a small pitcher of water and 3-4 cups that are not see-through. A cup that has a narrower mouth than the bottom works best, but regular colored plastic cups may also work.
 Set your cups side-by-side next to a pitcher of water. Pre-fill one cup with the water gel powder, and be sure to remember which cup it is.


Mark a small dot on the cup with the gel powder in it, but be sure the mark is facing you, not your audience.
Be sure to read the instructions on the gel powder about how much water to use with the powder. If you use too much water, the gel won’t be able to harden all of your liquid.You can color you water with a little food dye if you want it to stand out more while you pour it.
Hide all evidence of the water gel powder: discard of any packaging, and be sure your audience doesn’t look into the cups before you start your trick.
 A magician is nothing without her audience, so gather a few people around. Have them sit in front of you, if possible at eye-level with the cups, not above the cups so that they can see in.
 Let your audience see you pour the water from the pitcher into the four cups. You could even dip your fingers in the water and flick it towards them so that they see that it is not a trick pitcher or fake water.
 Your goal is to pour the water from all of the cups into the cup with the gel powder in it, but you don’t want it to be obvious that this is what you’re doing. You can create a little misdirection by using some cup-switching and distracting your audience with a good story or a few jokes.


Swap the cups back and forth.
Pour water into the regular cups too, but be sure in the end all of the water goes into the special cup.
Try pouring half from the water into one cup and half of the water into another cup, for show.
You can wave your hands over the cups or say some magic words.
Be sure you buy enough time to let the water absorb into the gel powder.
 This is it—your big moment! Make a show of revealing that each cup is empty. You may want to throw a cup or two towards the audience, just knock them over, or hold them over your head and pretend to drink out of them.


When you reveal that your special cup has no water, be sure not to throw it at the audience—try just holding it upside down for a moment or flipping it over on the table.
Be careful that you don’t allow the gel to fall out of the cup in the view of your audience.
 When the trick is over, be sure to carefully discard of the cup with the water gel in it so that your audience does not figure out the secret to your magic. The fun of magic is not knowing how it is done.

