 Leave when you won't be seen and be sure you won't be immediately noticed. For example, you may want to call in to school sick and leave on your way, or you might consider leaving right after everyone is in bed. This will give you a few hours to put distance between you and the place you are running from. Try to make it as far away as possible before stopping to rest. To make yourself more difficult to find, you should try to get out of town, and eventually, your state.The train or a bus can take you a great distance for a small cost. Wear a cap with a brim or a hood so that your face is covered and you do not show up on security footage.
To make yourself less noticeable, dye your hair a common color that's different from your natural shade and/or cut your hair. Be sure your new haircut/dye job doesn't look sloppy; some might question your appearance if you aren't careful.
Take clothes you rarely or never wear. You can always purchase new clothing cheap from a thrift store so you aren't wearing anything that can identify you.
 This is your top priority. You can fill up a bottle of water at nearly any sink, but beware labels that say "Not Potable", as this means the water isn't intended for drinking. Take all food you find and all food offered to you, and be sure to eat it before it goes bad, even if you aren't hungry.
 This is especially important when you start looking for work, but will also keep you from getting picked up by police for vagrancy (homelessness). Stay away from dangerous places where robbers or rapists could be lurking, which includes alleys or secluded areas of parks. Although cleanliness is important, try to look as sexually unappealing as you can to protect yourself from predators.


Dress like you are going to school or an informal church event, not like you are going to a party. Clothing with lots of pockets will provide you with places to keep necessary supplies.
 Don't let anyone pay you for sex. This could result in you getting hurt, robbed, or the person might even refuse to pay you after finishing with you. The person may wait until you are vulnerable before asking you to go farther than you are comfortable. Your money will be necessary to pay for things you need to survive; do not waste any of your limited cash on alcohol, drugs, or cigarettes.


Although other runaways/homeless may abuse drugs or alcohol, and may even offer you some, always refuse the offer. It will be difficult for you to defend yourself when drunk, high, or incapacitated.
 Private/public restrooms, while not the most comfortable, are good places you can groom yourself. Have an answer ready for anyone who questions you. Something like, "I've been traveling with my mom all day to get to my grandparents house and we stopped here to freshen up," might prevent the police from being called on you. Ladies can use Nair to remove hair and maintain appearances. Try not to look suspicious when taking care of your bathroom routine.
 There are many tools you can use to keep safe, like a rape whistle, pepper spray, or a multi-tool, which can be used both for protection and in emergencies. Keep your tool well hidden but within reach at all times. Money should be kept in your underwear, not in socks or bras, which is where many people first look.If someone says, "I saw you with money last night," say that it's all gone, even if you still have some.
Keep a spare, visible bag or purse with a few dollars and coins. This way, if you're robbed, they'll take this instead.If you run out of money for food, be careful when begging. This will draw attention, and in some cases, upset other homeless. It is also illegal to beg for money in some places.
A supermarket that offers free samples is a great place you can find food without drawing attention to yourself. If someone asks, you can always say you're waiting for your mom.
 This is not only illegal and immoral, but it will draw the attention of others, including the police. Stealing can result in even more serious consequences than simply being returned from where you have run.
 People will likely ask questions if they see you around when school is in session or brushing your teeth in a public restroom. Don't respond to these with the first thing that comes to mind. Come up with a story explaining your situation and stick to it; this will prevent inconsistencies that will make people question you. Think ahead of time about what people might say in response to your story so you are prepared with a believable response.
 This can be used to locate you after you've run away, but in an emergency, it can save your life. Keeping your cell phone turned off will prevent you from being tracked, or you can replace your SIM card.