 A mom's worst fear is that you'll get hurt - that's the main reason moms tend to say "no" when you want to do something. But if you want to turn your mom's fear on its head, all you have to do is tell her all about your big plan and convince her she has nothing to worry about. Give her details about how safe it is and show her how you've already worked out all the details. Once she sees it isn't really risky, she'll probably say yes!


Always know what you are talking about. If, for example, it's a movie, then you should know the rating of the movie (M, MA, MA15+/ U, PG, 12, 15, 18 etc). If you're underage and you're seeing a more mature movie, don't mention the movie unless they ask. Just mention the type of movie, like comedy or thriller.;
, Tell her how what you want to do is going to really improve your life. If you want to go to a concert, you'll gain valuable life experience. If you want to be allowed to stay up late, tell her how you'll use that time to do something productive. If you want more time with your friends, tell her that your social life needs a boost. If you want a new pair of shoes, show her how shabby your old ones have gotten.
 It might work the first time around, but when your mom finds out you lied she's going to say "no" next time. You don't always have to tell the whole truth - you can leave out details that no moms need to know - but blatantly lying? Next time you want something, might as well not even bother asking!

, How you will reach home is going to be key.Tell her your plan for getting home and give her an exact time you'll be there. Remind her of other times you came home right on time without any problems.
 Moms love seeing their kids plan ahead. Think through what could happen and tell her you've already got it covered. For example, if your friend leaves without you, have a different plan for getting home.
 If you've already done things to earn your mom's trust, remind her.Talk about how well you've been doing in school, how much you've been helping around the house, how you always reach home on time and don't complain too much about the chores you have to do. If you've broken her trust, work to earn it back by doing what your mom tells you for at least a week before you ask her for something.
 Say "Mom, remember that concert you went to that has changed your life? You were my age that year."Talk up the fact that youth is fleeting and you'll only get so many chances to have fun before you grow up and leave the house. She'll start feeling emotional and nostalgic, which will likely lead to a "yes" before you know it.

