 Candles are perfect for bringing a touch of romance to any space. Red, pink, or white candles, however, would be even better. To step things up a notch, try getting scented candles, especially ones that smell like cookies, cupcakes, roses, and sugar.


For more ideas on how to use candles, click here.
 Nothing says romance and love like flowers, especially roses. Red roses are the most popular, but pink and white roses are also suitable. You can also use carnations and daisies as well. Arrange the flowers in glass vases. Baby's breath and fern leaves make great fillers.


For a fancy dinner, tuck a single rose into each napkin ring, along with a white napkin.
Red roses make perfect gifts for romantic partners. Pink and white roses make great gifts for sons, daughters, mothers, and fathers.
If you don't want to use flowers, get a pack of fake rose petals from an arts and crafts store instead. You can usually find them in the wedding aisle. Scatter the petals across tables or fireplace mantles. You can also place them in a bowl.
 For a fancier twist, place the candy in a fake crystal bowl or on a cupcake tray. Conversation hearts and cinnamon hearts are perfect for Valentine's Day. If you don't like those candies, however, try chocolates, or other red-colored candies.
 Drape table runners over the tabletops before you set things down, such as flowers and candles. You can also use doilies instead. For example, a large, glass vase filled with red roses would look romantic set atop a large, white, lace doily.


If your table runner is plain, you can paint hearts onto it using stencils and red or pink fabric paint.
You can also dress up a plain table runner by gluing down some wide lace down the center.
If the runner is narrow enough, you might be able to place it on your fireplace mantle.
 They usually start appearing in stores around January. Party supply stores and arts and crafts stores often have a lot to choose from. Some department stores may also sell them. Here is a list of store-bought decorations, and how you can use them:


Drape banners across doorways, fireplace mantles, and windows.
Pin or tape cupid and heart cut-outs on doors, above fireplace mantles, and on windows.
Hang wreaths on doors or above fireplace mantles.
Place tissue balls and flower balls in glass bowls. If they come with a ribbon or string loop, you can hang them up instead.
Place figurines, miniature plants, and tiny topiaries on mantles and desks.

