 Putting in a little bit of effort on a regular basis can help you stay connected to God all the time. Set aside some time for your spiritual practice every day. Take this time just as seriously as any of your other important appointments.For instance, you could use your lunch hour to read faith-based texts, or you could set aside half an hour for prayer and reflection before bed. You may even go so far as to writing your spiritual practices into your schedule like any other obligation to make sure you stick to them.
Many people like to make their spiritual practice part of their morning routine. Spending time with God first thing in the morning can give you a positive foundation for the rest of the day.
 Commit your full attention to your spiritual practice. Go somewhere you won’t be distracted to pray, read, and reflect. Take a deep breath and set aside your worries and distractions while you deepen your relationship with God., Connect with God by reading and thinking about your sacred texts. Mark the passages that resonate with you, and spend extra time reflecting on them. Look for ideas and themes in your sacred texts that you can apply to your own life.Reading books by religious leaders and scholars may also help you deepen your faith and your understanding of God.
 Praying daily is one of the most effective things you can do to get closer to God. Prayer is very personal, and you can pray about anything. Try using your prayer time to ask for guidance and inspiration, to affirm your personal faith, or to pray for your loved ones.You can pray anytime and anywhere. However, it’s still a good idea to set aside a specific time for prayer every day, so you won’t feel rushed or distracted.
 As you observe the world every day, let the things you see guide your thoughts towards God. When you feel moved by something, take a moment to ponder what it tells you about the nature of God and your personal relationship with God.As your faith grows, you might find God reflected in many different aspects of life, including art, the natural world, and other people.

