 Find hobbies or things you enjoy and focus on those in your free, non-studying time. Be it reading, singing, dancing, acting, skateboarding, running, playing an instrument, riding a horse, sewing, playing video games, there's something for everyone.


If you have a religion, use that to feel a little better. You can find meet-ups, youth groups, or religious ceremonies. If you're not really religious, you might try learning to meditate to increase your sense of calm and wellbeing.
 Being active or exercising is a great way to positively cope with any negative emotion. Exercise increases positive feelings by releasing endorphins, natural mood-boosting chemicals in your brain.


Aim for about thirty minutes of exercise per day.
It could be walking your dog, running, doing sit-ups, push-ups, or crunches.
Try creative and fun types of exercise such as dancing to a song, hiking, skateboarding, doing yoga, or doing Pilates.
 Being bullied can leave you feeling hurt and wondering if there's anything wrong with you. There isn't.


One way to of boost your confidence is to write reasons you're a good person or why you like yourself on post-it notes, then stick them in places you're likely to see them.
Another option is to look in the mirror and compliment yourself. Pay attention to the positive parts of yourself. This form of positive self-talk can be increase and maintain your confidence.Think about what you have in common with others (even the bullies) in order to reduce your feeling of being rejected or left out in social situations.Avoid negative self-talk, which can make you feel less confident and reduce your self-esteem.An example is, “I am worthless. Nobody likes me.” Instead, turn these thoughts around to something more realistic. Say to yourself, “No, that isn’t true. I am worthy. People do like me. Just because I’m being bullied doesn’t mean I am not a good person that deserves to be liked.”
Smile more (it makes you look friendlier, more confident, and often more attractive).
Hold your head high. If you slouch, you may look more nervous or insecure.
 Setting goals can help you cope and increase your self-confidence.Are you insecure about certain aspects of yourself? While you shouldn't change yourself because you're being bullied, making positive changes in your life may increase your self-esteem.


You don't have to change your fashion sense, hair color, or interests just because a bully teased you for it.
However, some appearance issues can be addressed. For example, is there something like your acne that might be modified? Bad acne can often be removed by skincare products, so it's a good idea to Google some products, or, if you wear makeup, face powder and a foundation that matches your skin tone.
Unfortunately, overweight teens are more likely to be bullied and to bully others.Exercise and a healthy, normal-calorie diet (1,700 – 2000 calories a day for a teen) can usually do a world of good.
If you don’t meet your goals right away, stay motivated. Tell yourself that an obstacle or setback is just another opportunity to learn and grow., Having supportive friendships is crucial to being able to positively cope with difficult situations and to maintain a sense of well-being.Friends are a shoulder to cry on and can stand up for you. Have you tried talking to someone who looks alone? Joining a club? Joining a social-networking site or forum for teens?


Find new people to be friends with - go to clubs or youth events in school, or talk to people who look like they need it. Find people who are similar to you and have similar interests. Bullying can make it difficult to trust people and make new friends. Create distance between yourself and destructive friendships. If you have friends that are bullying you, you can confront them in an assertive way.
 Sometimes people who are bullied develop habits of coping with negative feelings that end up making them feel worse or causing harm to them.


Don't self-injure. When upset, some people use it as a method of calming down. It leaves scars you'll be left with for a while that can provoke feelings of regret and anger. It is also addictive and you may find it hard to stop. Instead, scribble angrily on paper, listen to calming music, hit a pillow, squeeze a stress ball, or draw on your arms or legs in red washable marker. You may feel a lot better in the long run.
Don't turn to bad habits like drugs or smoking.
Don’t bully others.

