 If you feel overwhelmed by the schoolwork in your new grade, it can help to take frequent breaks. You’ll find yourself less stressed out and better able to focus when you return.Research shows that your brain keeps working on problems even when you take breaks, which should make the work easier when you come back to it.
 The best way to cope with a stressful situation is to identify the source of your stress and take steps to deal with it.This might involve completing a project that you’ve avoided, talking with your parents about your workload, asking a teacher for help, or meeting with a guidance counselor about a problem with another student in your class.
If you’re not sure how to deal with a stressful situation, ask a friend or family member to listen and offer advice.
 You might not be able to eliminate every source of stress, but you can change the way you react to or think about stress.While an assignment or test might seem very important, keep in mind that it is only one small part of your school career and not a reflection on you as a person.
Try to identify something positive about the stressful experience. For example, learning about something new can be scary, but also interesting.
 Maintaining a good sense of humor in the face of stressful situations that might occur while skipping a grade will help you feel more in control and less stressed.For example, it can feel really stressful to get an answer wrong in class. Being willing to laugh at your own mistake will help you feel better and make it easier to meet new friends. People like someone who is willing to laugh at themselves.
 Skipping a grade might make you feel like you are under a lot of pressure, but time-management and organization skills will help you feel more in control. They will also save you a lot of time and energy.Consider purchasing a planner or calendar so you can keep track of due dates and make study plans.
Keep a to-do list of daily homework assignments.
 The schoolwork related to skipping a grade can be stressful, but participating in fun activities will give you something to look forward to and keep you going.Try planning an activity with the friends you had before you skipped a grade.
Join a club, sports team, or after-school activity so you can meet new people while you have fun.
 Physical activity, eating right, and getting enough sleep will help you deal with the stress of skipping a grade.Research shows that a healthy lifestyle reduces stress and improves your mood.
You might feel like you need to stay up all night to complete your schoolwork, but this will make it harder to finish the next day’s work and deal with the stresses of skipping a grade. If you're having trouble keeping up in class, talk with your parents and teachers.
 Things might be stressful right now, but they will get better. You will adapt to the workload, meet new friends, and get used to your new schedule.


If it has been awhile, and things don’t seem to be improving, talk with your parents or teacher about your situation.

