 Before you begin approaching people to ask for donations, you should practice your pitch at home. Practicing can help you overcome any nervousness you may experience when approaching strangers, as well as help you to polish the finer points of your donation pitch.Practice in front of a mirror so you can see how you look as you speak. This will help you practice things like making eye contact and smiling.
Ask friends or family if they’ll let you practice your pitch on them.;
, In today’s world, many people that make charitable donations are aware of things that may affect the use of their money like the overhead costs of the foundation you represent. Be prepared to answer a potential donor’s questions about the costs associated with your charity.Ask your manager or coordinator to provide you with the information you will need to respond to questions about how much of each donation goes to the cause.
If you have trouble locating the information, look on websites like CharityNavigator.org or CharityWatch.org. Each of these sites provide you with a breakdown of how much money per dollar goes to the charitable cause and how much goes to managing the charity itself.
 Prepare yourself ahead of time to experience rejection. For some people, rejection may be the part of the process they are the most nervous about. Don’t let yourself worry too much about what may happen if a potential donor rejects you, and instead focus on how to interact with those who don’t.Rejection is a normal part of asking for donations at the street level. Some people may not trust you, others simply may not have any cash on them.
Don’t take rejection personally. People aren’t rejecting you, they are simply declining to donate.
 Approach a potential donor and be direct about your intentions by explaining that you are collecting donations for a specific cause. The potential donor may have a personal connection with the cause, but if they don’t, you may need to look for ways to establish a connection to the donor yourself.You can connect to a potential donor by explaining why the cause is so important to you or bringing up someone you know that each donation could help.
If you and the potential donor seem to have something in common that comes up in conversation, utilize that subject to establish a bond with the donor by asking them questions about their experiences with it and sharing some of your own.
 This is where your practice comes in; being dynamic in your request for donations means that you are active, energetic and interesting. Smile and be personable. The most outgoing donation collectors are often the most successful.Don’t be scared of seeming unusual because you are so eager to speak to new people. Smiling and being friendly can get you far.
Having high positive energy can be contagious and potential donors may feed off of your positivity.
 You may think that addressing a large group of people on the street at once will allot you the highest opportunity to reach someone that’s willing to donate, but in reality that may reduce the number of donors your message really gets to.Approach and address people on an individual basis to make your request for donations personal and harder to ignore.
Addressing a group may cause the entire group to ignore you, as it’s easier to keep walking when you aren’t being identified individually.
 You may be tempted to approach people in an extremely formal manner in order to demonstrate your professional demeanor, but that may dissuade potential donors from speaking to you.Feel free to use words like, “sir” or “ma’am” in order to be polite, but keep things conversational in tone.
Talk to potential donors like they’re friends you haven’t met yet. Don’t try to adopt a method of conversation that is unusual for you or it may turn potential donors off from the cause.
 In order to approach a potential donor individually and establish a connection, identify the person you want to address and begin by providing them with a clear and friendly greeting like, “good afternoon!”After giving a greeting, tell them what you’re stopping them for: “I’m collecting donations today to support breast cancer research.”
Establish a connection by indicating how important the cause is: “Breast cancer will affect one in eight women throughout the course of their lifetime.”

, Once you have sparked a conversation about your charity and established a connection with a potential donor, utilize periods of silence to encourage the donor to volunteer information or even the donation itself.It’s human nature to want to fill awkward silences. An engaged donor may volunteer their donation to close the gap in your conversation.
Try asking a question and then providing a brief response. Ask a question like, “do you know anyone that has been affected by breast cancer?” If the donor responds with a statement like, “yes, my aunt is a breast cancer survivor.” Respond simply by saying, “oh really?”
The silence after your response will encourage the potential donor to elaborate and establish a stronger connection between themselves and your cause.
 Tell potential donors about the charity you are collecting for. If you know how or why the charity started, for instance, it might serve as a great way to demonstrate the charity’s good intentions.If you aren’t as comfortable sharing the story of the charity, try sharing the story of how you became involved with it.
Establishing a narrative creates a story a donor can finish by providing a donation. Leave the conclusion open ended so they can finish it themselves.
 Simply giving a donation can be a fairly impersonal thing, but if you can let a potential donor know the good their money will do, it can help them feel better about giving away some of their hard earned cash.Your manager or coordinator may provide you with statistics to use like, “five dollars can provide a healthy meal to a child in need.”
If you can’t provide specifics, discuss the things that the money will do in general, but in a way that connects it to the donor. Try saying something like, “the money you give me today will help fund more research into a possible cure for this horrible disease.”

, Simply asking for a donation may work with some potential donors, but being specific about what you request can make it easier to make a decision. If you are collecting donations on the street, individual donations will be small. Ask for a donation of a specific sum like one, two or five dollars. Try saying, “Do you have five dollars you could donate to help research a cure?”
If a potential donor replies that they don’t have it, reply by saying, “every little bit counts! If you have some spare change/a dollar or two that will still be a big help!”

, It’s important that you demonstrate your gratitude openly and with enthusiasm when someone chooses to give you a donation. This will help leave the donor with a good feeling about what they’ve done as well as encourage those within earshot to donate as well.Thank each donor individually for their help, and repeat or re-emphasize the good that will come of their donation.
When others hear you thanking someone, it can make you seem credible in the eyes of others, after all, this donor certainly acknowledges the importance of what you’re doing.
When you draw attention to someone doing a good thing, others may be encouraged to follow suit.

