 If you don't want to bother sculpting a full face of makeup, consider just using blush. However, instead of applying it to the apples of your cheeks, dab it on directly under your cheekbones. Also, stick to blushes with warm tones and brown bases. Bright pinks don't work to create shadows and will instead make your face look flushed.


Applying bronzer without blush in the same fashion works equally well., Giving yourself a gentle glow will help to define your cheekbones and make your skin look healthier. Mix a little illuminating serum or skin brightener into your foundation. If you don't generally wear face makeup, these products can also be worn on their own., Hairstyles can dramatically enhance cheekbones. Which style will best define yours will depend on your overall face shape.


Shorter hair paired with longer bangs tends to define cheekbones for faces of all shapes.
If you have a heart-shaped face, style your hair with blunt bangs.Mid-length bobs and deep side parts also work well.
Off-center parts will make round faces look more angular. Uneven, side-swept bangs will also have the same effect. Pixie cuts and hair layering are also good choices.For oval faces, the best way to define cheekbones is through hair volume. You may choose to achieve this through curls, layering, or light teasing.
 Just keep in mind that surgical options are expensive and that surgery always carries some amount of risk. They are much more permanent than a tan or a haircut, and sometimes the results don't look natural. The three major procedures for higher cheekbones are:


A "facelift" to tighten up the skin in your face, potentially making your cheekbones more prominent. If you had more defined cheekbones when you were younger, this is a likely option.
Plumping of the cheeks using injections of "filler" materials.
Facial implants custom made to enhance your cheekbones., While some say face exercises can give you higher cheekbones, evidence of their effectiveness is slim.Additionally, dermatologists have pointed out that such repetitive motion can actually contribute to the appearance of wrinkles.Although facial exercises won't give you higher cheekbones or remove wrinkles, they are effective for certain other issues. Exercises are used to treat facial paralysisand can liven up sallow skin caused by poor circulation.,