 Doing this will show you the ropes, and get you used to completing objectives alone (minus a few marines). You should try to beat it on at least Heroic, or if you are new to Halo, Normal with a few skulls on. Also, the story is quite interesting, if you like cinematics.;
, This is essential to success. Go to Forge and fly around like a redneck on a dirt bike. Learn every tunnel, hill, and vantage point. (Note: there are 2 types of map, Big Team and Regular. Big Team has vehicles, Regular doesn't. Here is a list of the default maps. Big Team: Exile, Ragnarok, Longbow, Meltdown, Vortex. Regular: Adrift, Complex, Solace, Haven, Abandoned.
 Want to spray tons of ammo at enemies? Or would you rather make every shot count? Halo 4 has a variety of weapons to use, such as the Light Rifle or Battle Rifle. You probably have used these in Campaign, and also you can get additions like jet packs and auto-turrets. Make a class for every situation, like sniping or base capturing.
 The best part of Halo is going on a rampage in a Scorpion or a Banshee. Go into Forge and spawn some vehicles, and learn to drive all of them.
 Running through the centre of the map will get your head blown off. Stick to the edges, and only go into the middle if your team is charging, if you're near a powerful vehicles, or if you are closing in for a kill. Never stop moving; still= stiffed.
 Sometimes a guy in a Gauss Warthog will completely destroy everyone. Anti Tank: eliminate the gunner from a range, but be careful the driver doesn't see you. Use the Plasma Pistol to disable the Scorpion by holding down the trigger. Once it is EMP 'd, swamp the tank. Anti Sniper: Keep an eye on which way the sniper's victims fall. If they are hit from the back they will fall forward. Opposite for the front. Find the area he is in, and clear it with an automatic weapon. Anti Mantis: EMP it, and fire at it hard. Anti Banshee: EMP it, and focus fire on the cockpit. Anti Warthog: Stick it with a Plasma Grenade. Anti Wraith: Same tactic as Anti Tank. Anti Mongoose: Shoot the driver who thought driving that piece of junk was smart.
 The tables have turned, and you are pwning! Tank: Stay away from enemy spawning areas, or you are dead. Always have a gunner to deal with hijackers. Sniper: Shoot at cockpits, always. When taking out strong units, shoot once, count to 12, then shoot again. Stay in the shadows, and try to get the "Awareness" ability. Banshee: Never fly downward, unless you are sure it's safe. Always be boosting, or performing tricks. Warthog: Always be moving in a circle around the map. Wraith: Same as anti tank. Mantis: Use your machine guns on troops, rockets on dangerous units. Mongoose: Only use them over short distances, then get off.
 Although it is very fun, school/work, physical activity, and being social are more important.

