 Pop some socks in the dryer for up to 10 minutes before wearing them. They will be toasty warm when they come out!


Don’t put your socks in the microwave or oven – this could start a fire. If you don’t have a dryer, try ironing your socks to warm them up.
 If possible, take a hot shower or soak in a hot bath – this will warm up your whole body including your feet. If that’s not an option, warm your feet in hot water in a big bowl or a foot bath. Soak them for as long as you’d like, just keep adding hot water so it doesn’t cool down.
 You can find an electric blanket at many large-scale retail outlets, and at some drug stores. Purchase one to use on your bed or couch, and wrap your feet up in it. However, be sure to unplug it when it’s not in use.
 Purchase a warmable rice bag, or make your own.When you’re cold, microwave your rice bag for 1 ½ - 2 ½ minutes. Drape it over your feet.


How long you should heat your rice bag varies by microwave, so always carefully test the temperature.
 Put a heated water bottle under or on top of your feet to warm them up quickly. Take it off after a while when it starts to cool down. Make sure the hot water bottle has a cover, and that it is not too hot – if it’s uncomfortable, let it cool for a few minutes and try again.Wear socks; don’t put the water bottle straight onto your skin.
 Purchase a pack of thermal insoles or heating packets (“hand warmers”) from your local pharmacy or drug store. Read the instructions carefully so you know how to use them. When your feet are cold, activate one and stick it inside your sock.If the instructions say not to put it in direct contact with your skin, use it between your sock and shoe or between two layers of socks.
 Fold a bed pillow in half, and pin the corners with safety pins to make a pocket. Add a heat source by filling several sturdy plastic 8 oz. bottles with hot water. Test it with your hand to make sure it’s not too hot, then put the water bottles into your homemade pocket. Slide your feet in and feel the heat.


Screw the caps on the bottles tightly so they don't leak.

