 In order to effectively wash your American Girl doll’s hair, you will need the following supplies, all of which you should be able to locate within your house:


A large, shallow casserole dish.
Non-concentrated fabric softener (unscented, unless you are actively trying to disguise a bad smell in the doll’s hair.) If you are unable to find non-concentrated fabric softener, add water to dilute the concentration.
A book, or something to elevate your doll during the cleaning process.
A towel.
A ladle or measuring cup.
Masking tape.;
, Check to make sure no stray food or grease particles remain in the dish. These could get caught in the doll’s hair and make cleaning their mane even more difficult.
 You will want to fill the dish halfway. Any more than that will be overkill and anything less will be an insufficient amount to get the job done.


If you don't have access to fabric softener, you can also try using your preferred brand of conditioner. If you choose to use conditioner, condition the doll’s hair gently and rinse thoroughly.
 Detangle the hair as much as possible. Keep the clothing away from water, as moisture can permanently damage the fabric. Take the clothing and hair accessories and put them in a safe place, away from the washing site.
 If the masking tape gets wet at any point during the cleaning process, re-tape so the moisture stays out. Continue to re-tape during the process as needed.
 The only exposed parts of the doll should be her face and hair. Be aware that repeated exposure of your doll’s body to moisture may result in mold damage.
 You want the doll angled so she is lying next to the casserole dish, with her hair dangling into the bowl. Use your book or whatever you have chosen to help elevate your doll to position the doll more effectively.
 If any portion of the hair is not covered by the liquid, use your ladle or cup to pour additional fabric softener onto the hair so every strand is thoroughly coated.
 Using your fingers, detangle any stubborn knots. You’ll want to be gentle, as excessive pulling may only make the knots worse. Be patient and work slowly, adding more fabric softener as needed.
 Once all knots have been detangled, soak your doll in the fabric softener for an additional twenty minutes. This will give the softener ample time to condition the hair.
 Take the doll out of the casserole dish and transfer her to a sink. Gently rinse the solution out of the doll’s hair, making sure to keep the doll’s face and body dry.
 Once the doll’s hair has been thoroughly rinsed, dry the hair either by leaving the doll out overnight, or by placing the doll in front of a fan gently blowing cool air. Be careful not to set the doll down directly in front of the fan, as this can cause the hair to tangle.


When drying your American Girl doll’s hair, never apply heat through blow drying, curling or straightening. This will cause the hair fibers to dry, stiffen, frizz or melt. , Refrain from styling your doll’s hair during this time or using hair ties or ribbons directly following a wash. This can cause the doll’s hair to indent, curl or frizz.


While your doll is enjoying her spa day, treat yourself to your own! Take a hot bubble bath, paint your nails, braid your own hair. If you pamper yourself while your doll is being pampered, you'll both emerge refreshed and ready to play.
 Once the doll’s hair has been dry for twenty-four hours, feel free to dress her and play with her as much as you wish! Avoid taking her outside, if possible, as this only increases her chances of getting dirty.

