 For most people, heartburn is an annoying condition, but it does not interfere with daily life. If you experience heartburn that interferes with daily activities or that recurs on a daily basis, you should see a doctor about it., A persistent cough may indicate that you have heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux. If you have a cough that lasts 2 weeks or more, you should see a doctor. You may even want to get checked earlier, especially if you experience things like breathlessness and wheezing., If you have been taking over the counter medications for your heartburn on a daily basis for more than a few weeks, then you should talk to your doctor as soon as possible. You may need a stronger prescription medication and it is a good idea to find out why your situation has not improved., A combination of hormones and pressure on the stomach may cause some women to experience heartburn. Heartburn during pregnancy is most common in the third trimester. If you are pregnant and suffering from severe heartburn, you should talk to your doctor. If you are suffering from occasional mild heartburn, then there are a few simple things that you can do to help prevent heartburn:


Eat 5-6 smaller meals throughout the day instead of 3 large meals.
Wait at least an hour after eating to lie down.
Avoid spicy, fatty, and greasy foods., If you suddenly have trouble swallowing or if it is painful to swallow, it may be a sign that your esophagus has been damaged (most likely by the gastric acid that goes up into the esophagus). If you are having trouble swallowing, see a doctor as soon as possible. Difficulty swallowing puts you at risk of choking., Vomiting may also indicate that you need to see a doctor. If you are vomiting as well as experiencing heartburn symptoms, this may indicate that you have acid reflux. Even if you are only vomiting a small amount or burping up some of what you ate, you should talk to your doctor about it.See a doctor right away or go to an emergency room if the vomiting is severe, if you are vomiting blood, or if you have chest pain after vomiting., Losing weight is fine if you are dieting and exercising, but if you have lost weight unintentionally, there may be a problem. Unexplained weight loss or loss of appetite along with heartburn symptoms may indicate that you have GERD (gastrointestinal esophageal reflux disease). This condition require medical attention. If you have recently lost a drastic amount of weight as well as experiencing heartburn symptoms, you should see a doctor.