 When you get stressed out due to working too much, having family troubles or experiencing some kind of trauma, the body reacts by releasing a hormone called cortisol.In addition to causing a host of health issues, cortisol causes you to gain fat around the middle of your body, leading to love handles. You can probably think of dozens of things that are stressing you out right now. To get rid of the handles, you've got to get rid of the stress! Figure out what's putting strain on your system and take measures to improve your situation.


See if you can reduce the activity in your schedule so you're a little less busy. Having back to back activities from morning until night causes a lot of stress.
If you're experiencing a stress caused by a situation that's out of your control, work on handling the stress in healthy ways through meditation, yoga, running, journaling, or another activity that calms your mind.;
, Staying up too late is hard on your body and mind, and results in cortisol overproduction and weight gain around the middle. Getting better sleep is often an overlooked key to weight loss, but it can make a big difference. Start sleeping 7 - 8 hours per night, every night.


Going to bed at the same time each night and waking up at the same time in the morning puts your body on a consistent schedule and helps eliminate stress. Stop using bright screens thirty minutes before you go to sleep.
If you have trouble sleeping, make sure your sleeping environment is sufficiently dark and quiet. Leave your electronic devices in another room when you go to bed so you won't be tempted to check email during the night.
 Dehydration is another stressor on the body. Many of us are dehydrated without realizing it. Start drinking several liters of water a day, and more on hot days or when you exercise, to make sure your body is sufficiently hydrated.


Drink a big glass of water first thing in the morning, before you have your morning caffeine.
Buy a liter-sized water bottle and plan to drink two bottles' worth every day.
 This helps prevent a blood sugar spike, too many of which can lead to weight gain around the middle. If you want to get ride of your love handles, eat regular, small meals, stopping around 8:00 at night. Giving your body a break from eating from evening til morning, then eating a good breakfast followed by a healthy lunch and dinner, is the best way to lose those love handles.
 Alcohol leads to blood sugar swings, which are hard on the system and lead to the storage of belly fat.Stay away from sugary alcohol drinks altogether. When you do drink, choose a low sugar drink, such as wine, and limit yourself to a drink or two no more than twice a week.


One serving of alcohol is equal to five ounces of wine, twelve ounces of beer, or 1.5 ounces of liquor. Two or fewer servings a day are recommended for men while one or fewer a day is recommended for women.

