 Your stainless steel dishwasher drains into the same pipe your sink does. To keep the drain clear and effectively drain the water from the stainless steel dishwasher, run your garbage disposal before you start cleaning it., Remove the bottom rack on your stainless steel dishwasher. Examine it for clumps of debris that might cause it to drain improperly. Remove anything that might be clogging the drain., Fill a dishwasher-safe cup on the top rack of the stainless steel dishwasher with vinegar. Slide the rack back in the stainless steel dishwasher and close the door. With only the cupful of vinegar inside, turn the stainless steel dishwasher on and run it on the highest water temperature setting.The vinegar will help loosen grease and grime, and remove any odor that the dishwasher might have acquired.
Use distilled white vinegar or specialized cleaning vinegar., When the first wash cycle is done, sprinkle the bottom of the stainless steel dishwasher with baking soda. Run the dishwasher on a short cycle with water at the highest temperature.Baking soda will help you remove stains from your dishwasher.
 Check the area around the dishwasher door for debris and grime. Some dishwashers cannot adequately clean this area, which leads to an accumulation of yucky material. If you see anything, use a damp cloth to wipe the area down.Additionally, use a damp cotton swab to clean along the ridges of the seal.
 The stainless steel dishwasher’s filter collects prevents large debris from entering the drain. You’ll probably have to use a screwdriver to remove the screws that hold the grate in place. Some newer stainless steel dishwashers, however, have filters that simply pop out when turned. Rinse the filter in your sink under warm water. Dip a soft-bristled toothbrush in warm, soapy water. Use the toothbrush to scrub the filter until clean. Replace it after cleaning.Not every stainless steel dishwasher has a filter.
 The utensil rack is a small container attached to the dishwasher rack. You might have just one, or one on each rack. Remove it and rinse it in the sink beneath warm water. Use a sponge dampened with warm, soapy water to clean the inside and outside of the utensil rack. If the utensil rack does not detach, just clean it inside and outside with a damp sponge or dishcloth., Stainless steel is pretty tough, but bleach can cause it to corrode. Instead, use a milder substance like dishwasher-safe detergent.