 Typically you would file an affidavit of support if you are the petitioner of an immigrant petition for a family member.The affidavit is a legally enforceable document in which you promise to be financially responsible for the person immigrating to the U.S. This responsibility typically lasts until the person achieves full citizenship or has been working in the U.S. for ten years.The affidavit is required if the person moving to the U.S. from another country has immediate relatives who already are U.S. citizens. It also may be available for employment-based immigration if the person files an immigrant visa application.If you filed an immigrant visa petition on behalf of an immediate relative, you also must be his or her sponsor. You're eligible to be an immigrant's sponsor if you are 18 years of age or older, are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, and actually live in the U.S.Joint sponsors, unlike sponsors, do not have to be related to the immigrant. They still must be 18 or older and meet the same citizenship and residency requirements., The I-864 form may be sent to you directly from the National Visa Center (NVC), or you may download a copy from the USCIS website.You may need to fill out other forms, such as the I-864P, to complete your affidavit. These forms also may be downloaded from the USCIS website.Paper forms also may be available at the U.S. embassy or consulate office (if you are outside the U.S.) or at a USCIS field office., To fill out the form, you must answer all questions completely and type or print in black ink.The form requires information about you, your relationship to the applicant, your basis for filing the affidavit, information about the immigrant you are sponsoring, and information about your qualifications to be an immigrant sponsor.If you need extra space to write your answer, you can use the "Additional Information" area provided with the form or attach separate sheets of paper. The separate paper should include your name and identify the item from the affidavit to which the answer refers.You must meet certain income requirements to be a sponsor for an immigrant. Generally, you must have a household income that exceeds 125 percent of the U.S. poverty level for your household's size. You can determine if you meet those requirements by filling out Form I-864P.If you do not meet the income requirements to become a sponsor, you may have other options such as including the cash value of your assets or including the income of other household members. Those people must be related to you either by birth, marriage, or adoption, and must fill out Form I-864A., Certain documents or copies of documents are required to provide evidence of statements made in your affidavit.


In some cases, you can submit a photocopy of the requested documents, although some require originals. You should read the instructions carefully to determine which is required.If you submit a photocopy, the USCIS may still request to see the original at any time while the immigrant's application is being processed.You must provide proof that you are a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or lawful permanent resident. Documents that prove citizenship status include a copy of your birth certificate, certificate of naturalization, or U.S. passport.You also must provide an IRS transcript or copy of your tax return for the previous year as proof of income., You must either sign your affidavit in front of a notary public in the U.S., or in front of a U.S. consular or immigration officer.Keep in mind that you are signing your affidavit under oath. If you include information on the affidavit that is false, you may be liable for criminal prosecution in the U.S.You also may be subject to fines if you don't report a change of address if you happen to move at any time between the submission of your affidavit and the final resolution of the immigrant's application., Where you need to send your completed affidavit will depend on whether you are the petitioner-sponsor or a joint sponsor and whether the person for whom you wrote the affidavit is seeking an immigrant visa or an adjustment of status.If you are a joint sponsor, you should give your affidavit directly to the applicant rather than sending it to a government agency. He or she will then send the form to the consular office for review.Typically you must submit your form either after your relative has been scheduled for an immigrant visa interview, or when he or she applies for an adjustment of status with the USCIS from within the U.S.You generally will give your completed form and documents to the person for whom you wrote the affidavit. However, if the form was mailed to you by the NVC with instructions to return it, you should follow those instructions.You also may have to pay a filing fee, depending on whether your documents are being filed with the NVC or with USCIS.For example, if filing your affidavit with the NVC from within the U.S., you must pay a $120 fee.The USCIS or NVC will review your affidavit and make sure it's complete. You may be called for an interview with a USCIS officer to discuss the information included in your affidavit.