 Most magic tricks are very simply. It isn't complicated trickery that excites audiences, but the illusion that the magician has somehow defied physics, even though the audience knows it's impossible. All it takes to shatter the magic is a dropped coin or a misplaced card. That's why magicians really do have to practice until their tricks are perfect.


Practice in front of a mirror. Pay attention to your hands, and make sure you're effectively hiding the coin when it needs to be hidden, obscuring the string when you're sealing the wax, and so on. Practice until you're practically fooling yourself with your own tricks.
Practice in different settings. You should get comfortable enough with the tricks that you're able to do them in different rooms, outdoors, and in a variety of situations.
 Once you've mastered the classics, branch out and incorporate a few more. Challenge yourself to perform tricks that are more complicated or that require greater skill. The more tricks you have up your sleeve, the better, since the magic wears off quickly when you start repeating tricks for the same audience.


Buy books on magic tricks and view online tutorials to learn more tricks.
Learn variations on the classics. For example, if you enjoy making a coin disappear, try a variation that involves making the coin disappear and replacing it with a feather. (To do this, start the trick with the feather already concealed in the palm of your hand.)

, If you start getting serious about doing magic, study the tricks that great magicians perform. Many magicians use pyrotechnics, special equipment, and skilled assistants to help them perform amazing tricks. However, all tricks have the same fundamental purpose: to create pleasure by deceiving the eye.


Attend as many magic shows as you can. Watch carefully to see if you can figure out how the magicians perform their tricks. What can you learn from them?
Try to strike up a relationship with a professional magician. Many magicians won't reveal their tricks, but you may be able to get an apprenticeship if you show you're serious.

