 Try to get a farm-raised egg, if you can. It will have a thicker shell, so it will be less-likely to shatter. You can use a white egg or a brown on, depending on your design., You will be slicing the egg open with a dremel later on. The dust from the egg shell will get into the yolk and make it inedible. If you want to save the yolk, blow the egg out now. You will get an extra hole at the top and bottom of your egg, but you can cover them up later on., Hold the egg over a sink or bowl, then place the tool perpendicular to the side of the egg. Use the tool to slice off a sliver from the side of the egg.Don't cut the hole on the top or bottom of the egg.
If you left the yolk in, watch out for splatters.
 If you chose not to blow out the yolk earlier, you will have to discard it. This is because the previous step would have gotten egg shell dust into the yolk., Be careful so as not to crush the shell. Don't worry if the edges on the hole look jagged. This will be the back of the egg, and you'll get better with more practice., Simple patterns, such as cross-stitch, dashed lines, and zigzags work best. Make dots wherever the lines end, or wherever you'd push the needle through the fabric., The holes need to be large enough for an embroidery needle and floss to fit through. Again, only drill the holes where you'd push the needle through the fabric.Go slowly and carefully; the curved surface of the egg ill make this step tricky.
 This will remove any dust and pencil marks.If you don't have any white vinegar, you can try soap and water or even a piece of bread!, If you blew out your egg earlier, or if you made too many holes, you can cover them up at this point with spackling or paper clay. Smooth the spackling/clay over the hole and let it dry. Buff away any roughness with a damp cloth or fine-grit sandpaper.This only works with white eggs. If you used brown eggs, you could try painting the spackling/clay to match the color.
 Cut a length of embroidery thread. Pull it apart so that you have groups of 2 to 3 strands. Thread one of these groups through your embroidery needle., After you knot the end of the thread, puh the needle through one of the holes, starting from the inside of the egg. Begin sewing on the egg using cross-stitches or simple straight stitches., Finish your first color with the needle inside the egg. Pull the needle off of the embroidery floss, then thread it with a new color. Knot the end, and continue embroidering. Leave the tail end of the first color hanging inside the egg., Once you are done with your design, place a small drop of glue right next to each hole that has thread hanging out of it. Press the thread into the glue. Let the glue dry, then snip off the excess thread with a pair of small, sharp scissors., This will make it look like the entire egg is embroidered and hide the hole from sight.