 This includes food, bills, transportation costs, etc. Write out all of your utilities, credit card and loan bills, and any recurring essential cost you know you need such as groceries or transportation costs. Subtract these from your monthly net income. Determine a monthly budget for these items that is workable with your income. For instance, if you make $2000/month, it may not be wise to spend 50% of your income on groceries, unless this is accounted for by a lower rent (less than 30%) or lower bills, etc. Remember that you’re budget needs to account for retirement and emergencies before determining a budget for “wants.”
If you are left with little for savings or discretionary spending, you may want to re-evaluate the more flexible costs such as groceries.
 While these items don’t fall under the heading of basic needs, they may be essential for your career, etc. These can include a wardrobe for work or interviews, a laptop or tools for your job, a cellphone that can receive emails, etc. While there can be a lot of ways to trim the budget for these items, such as comparison shopping and getting things on clearance, you’ll need to budget for them before setting the budget for your spending for pleasure., Use online shopping comparisons such as Pricegrabber to determine what you should be paying for certain items. Look at the average rental and mortgage data for your neighborhood, and if you move, be sure to take that into consideration., It's easy for something that is not necessary to feel like a need. However, to be frugal, you need to consider your needs in terms of the basic essential needs: food, water, shelter. Then, the needs that lead to procuring the basics: job (and its tools), transportation, etc. You then evaluate in terms of quality. You may need a car, but you don't need a brand new Maserati. A used Honda or Subaru will do the job just as well, assuming it's in good repair., Nearly everyone has a wish list, whether it’s online, written down, or simply in their minds of things they’d like to buy if they had the money. However, these items often can wait, and should not be prioritized over the necessities. This can include video games, décor items, and certain gadgets. Even a “need” can become a “want” if you’re opting for a version of that “need” that is more expensive than you can afford (for example, spending more on a video game system than you make in a month).Make sure you stick to your budget. If you've created a list of needs and wants, and have determined how much you plan to spend on those needs and wants, then don't splurge. If you feel you need the occasional splurge, then put that in your budget. This way you can be frugal and build your savings.