 While you don't have the texting limitations of the days of old, you do still want to keep your interactions short. Long texts can be a turn off, as your guy has to wade through all that text just to figure out what you're saying.In other words, don't write him a novel.
Shortcuts are fine, as long as the person you're texting is a fan of them, such as LOL (Laugh Out Loud) or BRB (Be Right Back).
However, you don't want to overuse shortcuts, especially ones that are more obscure.These shortcuts, along with a emojis, can be a turn off for some people., Sarcasm is hard to portray over a text message, especially if you don't know the other person that well. Try to skip the sarcasm when flirting with a guy, at least until you both get to know each other better and are better at interpreting each other's tone., Sometimes, you may feel like you need to play games with the person that you like by waiting to respond. It's a type of power struggle. However, in the world of texting, not texting him back in at least a day says you don't like him much.So if you do like him, make sure to text him back fairly quickly.
Really, in the texting world, an hour can seem like a long time.
 If you're sending twenty messages a day, that may be too many, especially if he's not responding to every single one. Keep your count lower, in the 3 to 5 range per day. That way, he has a chance to miss you between the times you're texting.Also, skip the "Did you get my text?" messages, as they can come off as being too desperate. If he's not responding, he's likely just busy.
 Texting while drunk means you may text something you regret later. You may flirt a little more than you mean to, or you may turn the guy off because you're saying crazy things. While it may not be easy to stop yourself when you're in the situation, try to avoid it if possible., If you're an overanalyzer, text messages can be your worst nightmare. It gives you just enough text to analyze but not enough so that you can really glean more information from it. If you have this tendency, try not to read too much into what each text is saying. Sometimes, a "Hi." is just a hello, not him saying he's not into you because he didn't use an exclamation point., You know autocorrect is sometimes not your friend. Read your text to make sure it makes sense before you send it. That way, you won't get a "huh?" back from him.Also, while you don't need perfect grammar to send a text, watching your grammar doesn't hurt. Not everyone is offended by imperfect grammar, but few people while hate on you for having good grammar.

