 You might be tempted to bury the bad emotions that this incident brings up. Feelings like betrayal, guilt, sadness, and fear of losing your relationship can be hard to face. Avoid the urge to suppress these feelings. You need to allow yourself to feel each emotion, and express those emotions to the guy who hurt you.


If you are choosing to forgive him, you need to get these emotions out of the way so that you can move forward with the relationship.
If you choose not to forgive him, you need closure from these feelings to move on happily to the next phase of your life.
 Even if you decide to forgive the guy, you may need some space to process how you feel about the situation. Ask for this space and make it clear that you need to sort things out before moving forward. If the guy is serious about being forgiven, he will understand and give you the space you need.Do not use this as a way to keep a guy waiting on you so that you can get even.
Make it clear that you need space to sort out your feelings and thoughts. Say something like, “I am really confused right now, and I need some space to decide what I should do next.”

, Once you have a good grasp on your feelings, you need to discuss them with the guy that hurt you. Tell him that you need to talk, and that you will have questions that need answered. If he is serious about making things right, he will agree to talk to you and answer your questions.For example, if you feel betrayed, you should come out and say something like “I am afraid that if I forgive you, I will not be able to trust you again.”
Make sure to use “I” statements to convey your feelings. Even if he is at fault for what happened, you are discussing your feelings.
Ask all of the questions you need answered in one conversation. Do not bring them up over and over. Also, avoid any inappropriate questions (e.g. “Did she kiss better than me?”).
 It will take time to regain your trust and security, whether you forgive this guy or move on. Holding on to hurt and anger will only slow the healing process and make you more unhappy. Make a conscious effort to identify your emotions and cope with them.


Avoid doing things to “get even” with the guy that hurt you. This kind of behavior is sure to lead to regrets.
If you are struggling to cope with your hurt or anger, you may need to consult a mental health professional.

