 Before you list an item for sale, make sure your refund policy, payment settings, and shipping information are all accurate. You don't want someone to accuse you of scamming them based on inaccurate information--in fact, some scammers will find ways to exploit errors like this to get eBay to side with them in a dispute, leading you to lose both money and your item.
 While PayPal is relatively secure and eBay has a whole host of security benefits to keep your money safe, consider opening a separate account solely for transactions, complete with an accompanying email address.


Several users have reported success in bypassing scams by having a PayPal-related email and an eBay-related email separate of one another; that way, if, for example, a buyer contacts the PayPal email with an inquiry, you automatically know it's a scam.
 First and foremost, buyers are always looking for the best deal, so what you may interpret as a scam might be them simply trying to haggle the price. That said, most scams that are run on sellers tend to revolve around refusing to pay for an item or attempting to get their money back after purchasing said item. The most common scam is called the "bait and switch refund", in which a buyer complains about receiving a broken or faulty device after it ships. Since eBay is obligated to side with the buyer in the event that they provide proof--an easy enough process, since all they have to do is buy a broken version of whatever you sent them for practically nothing--you will be forced to pay them a refund. You can prevent this scam by either implementing a no-returns policy or by including buyer's insurance in the transaction.
Another common scam consists of buyers attempting to settle transactions outside of eBay--over the phone, for example--which leads to eBay having no written record of the transaction if they choose to scam you. To counteract this, never settle for anything less than a written record of your transactions, preferably through email.
 Generally speaking, you'll want to have some kind of return policy in the event that an honest mistake with shipping and handling happens. That said, be sure to state the terms of your return policy in your posting. This is an easy way to close any loopholes that scammers may try to exploit. If you're selling an expensive item--especially if it is rare--consider changing the terms of your listing to "no refunds". This may dissuade some genuine buyers, but it will also keep scammers away. You can always say "more information upon request" in your posting to counteract the harshness of this policy--honesty is on your side.
 If a buyer refuses to pay through eBay-approved methods such as PayPal, they're probably hiding something. Similarly, if they want to settle outside of eBay or they give you an unconfirmed address, consider renegotiating. Chances are fairly high that they'll reconsider if you tell them you're worried about being scammed, but this method should scare off any actual scammers. PayPal doesn't lie, and neither does eBay; email, however, might. To ensure that all of your emails regarding your account are correct, log into the pertaining service and check manually.
As a general rule, you should not accept money orders or checks of any kind--the risks are simply too high, even if your buyer's intentions are good.
 As soon as you and your buyer settle on a price, have them transfer the money to PayPal. Once you see the transaction in progress on PayPal, you can ship your item--not a second before.


You'll have a written record of the time you send your package and the time that PayPal accepted the transfer, so as long as the two corroborate, you should be safe from any attempt at a scam.
 Services such as FedEx and UPS often give you the option of tracking your package along its route; take advantage of this system to ensure the package's arrival. If your buyer tells you it didn't arrive when UPS tells you it did, you'll know not to send them a refund. Once again, eBay and PayPal will usually back you up in this case, so long as you have retained all of your written records.
 In the days following your transaction, keep an eye out for any irregular activity in your bank accounts. If you spot any, contact PayPal, eBay, or your local branch and report the circumstances.

