 Make sure that the baking rack is positioned in the center of the oven.
 Pour 2 cups (250 grams) of ground masa into a large bowl. Add 1 teaspoon of baking powder, ½ teaspoon of salt, and 1 teaspoon of ground cumin. Stir everything together until evenly combined., Stir it in using a spoon. Keep stirring until it is evenly mixed in and the dough is crumbly., Melt the vegetable shortening first, then pour it in. Stir everything together with a spoon until combined, then knead the dough with your hands until everything is smooth., Spray a mini muffin tin with cooking spray. Fill each well with 2 teaspoons of the masa mixture. Make an indent in each well using a pestle or teaspoon. You want the masa dough to coat the bottom and sides of the muffin tin's wells, sort of like a mini pie crust.

If you have any dough left over, fill a second mini muffin tin, or set it aside to make a second batch.
Set the mini muffin tin aside. You are now ready to prepare the filling.
 Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat first. Once it gets hot, add 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of butter, the onions, and the garlic. Sauté for 2 to 4 minutes, stirring occasionally., Stir everything together with a wooden spoon or a rubber spatula. Make sure that the meat you are using is already cooked. You can use beef, chicken, or pork.

Note that you are only using 1 or 2 canned peppers and not 1 to 2 cans. That would be way too much!

, Pour the water into the skillet. Let the water come to a boil. Once it starts to boil, reduce the heat to low. Allow the mixture to simmer until all liquid is gone. This will take about 10 minutes., Make sure that the sour cream is completely mixed in, and there are no streaks or swirls. Add some salt and pepper to your taste., Use a tablespoon to ladle the filling into the shells. Make sure that each filling gets the same amount., Once they are done baking, take the mini muffin tin out of the oven and set it down on a wire cooling rack. Allow the mini tamale pies to cool for 5 to 10 minutes., Use a butter knife or a spoon to pop the tamale bites out of the muffin tin. Arrange them on a serving platter. Sprinkle them with crumbled queso fresco cheese and some thyme.