 It is best to select one of them that feels good to you, or one that you know had been apparent to you at some time or another, even if it seemed coincidental. Some prefer a blue disc over a red one, some prefer the study of light over the study of fire. As it is all relative to each person there is no distinctly right or wrong, there is simply ones that will be effective and ones that won't. All practitioners will vary subtly and in the same way they need to choose the right one for themselves if a qualified instructor cannot recommend one for them. Its recommended to avoid ones which have little appeal as the practitioner will be spending some time observing it. Here's some basic instructions and suggestions to make your own:

For the colours (blue, yellow, red & white) it easiest and cheapest out of a coloured piece of card sourced from a craft store or news agency. It is better to visit a craft store as the range of each colour from darkness to light as well as blended colour tone may seem more preferable to you than another similar tone of the same colour. Use a dinner plate as a template to cut out a round disc. You can also paint a spot on the wall, but a card is simple to obtain and easier to keep tidy.



 


"Earth" is a light coloured clay disc and in modern times, the most easily sourced equivalent would be a light coloured. unused pizza stone, which may be purchased cheaply from homeware stores.






"Water" is a bowl of water, but ensure the colour of the container doesn't become the focus as you need to maintain awareness of water. A plain, pattern-free bowl is recommended. Some practitioners focus on a teacup worth, for some it is more apparent when watching the sea. It is important to note that one is not better than the other, as it is relative.






"Light" is easiest with light shining on the floor, particularly if it is an unpatterned floor such as a white carpet, lino or tile. Another good option is large board with a hole in the centre position very much like a pinhole camera so the light shines through the hole onto the ground or a wall, this image on the ground or wall is the object of focus.






"Fire" is easiest with a candle, or a glass fronted wood stove. Aim to ensure your eyes do not get tired by heat exposure, or its brightness.






"Wind" and "space" needs nothing at all apart from space in the air, or wind in the trees. This one can be practiced anywhere outside.






The size is also variable. A dinner plate size is OK, but you can make it smaller or larger according to what works for you. Too large may be a distraction, too small may be difficult to focus on.





;
