 You have probably heard the famous saying that “breakfast is the most important meal of the day,” and it’s true! That is because when you wake up, you likely haven’t eaten for 8 to 10 hours. Your blood sugar is low, and so are your energy levels. You need to “break” the “fast” within one hour of waking up. A healthy breakfast will jump start your metabolism and your day, but waiting too long to eat can actually slow you down., Typical breakfast choices (such as a bagel with cream cheese or toast with jam) can give you some quick energy, but they will spike your blood sugar and leave you to crash. This can lead to insulin resistance, plus it will leave you feeling hungry again soon. Stay away from white bread and sweets in the morning.You'll want to stay away from donuts, waffles, pancakes, and white toast. Opt for 100% whole wheat toast instead.
Watch out for added sugar in oatmeal or breakfast cereals.
Refrain from adding sugar (or sweetened creamer) to your coffee.
 Instead, you need to eat a balanced breakfast that includes complex carbohydrates, protein, and fat at the same time. This nourishes you, and gets your metabolism rolling.Good sources of protein include eggs, plain Greek yogurt, beans, chicken, or fish.
Your carbohydrates should come from fruits, veggies, and whole grains.
Good sources of healthy fats include avocados, eggs, coconut oil, nuts, and seeds.
A veggie omelet (especially one cooked in coconut oil) is a great example of a balanced breakfast with carbs, protein, and healthy fats.
 Instead of simple carbohydrates, you want to start your day with complex carbs. The best carbohydrates to boost your metabolism should come from whole grains and vegetables. These complex carbohydrates will keep you full longer and give you sustained energy throughout your day.

Try having steel-cut oatmeal or brown rice porridge, with a side of carrots dipped in natural peanut butter.
 You metabolism works the best when it is fueled by protein and complex carbohydrates simultaneously. Be sure to include some lean protein in your breakfast! Include a side of turkey sausage or add some Greek yogurt to your oats. Eggs are an excellent source of protein too!, To really get your metabolism started in the morning, you must also include a serving of healthy fats. This can be as simple as adding a teaspoon of coconut oil to your brown rice porridge, cooking your omelet in clarified butter, or enjoying a spoonful of peanut butter. Add some healthy fat to your meal to rev your metabolism and feel full.

However, keep in mind that there may already be fat in your breakfast from things like yogurt, milk, and breakfast sausage.
 Not only does breakfast help jump start your metabolism and help give you energy all day, but the heartier your breakfast is, the better! A recent study shows that getting 22 to 55% of your total calories at breakfast may help you stay slim, whereas getting 0 to 11% of your calories from breakfast may lead to weight gain. So fill up your plate and get full at breakfast.

