 This might seem obvious, but it is such a vital prerequisite that it is well worth mentioning. You will be able to convince the producers that you are perfect for the show only if you can demonstrate a thorough knowledge of what happens on the show and what it takes to do it.;
, While there are not too many restrictions, there are some basic requirements concerning age, citizenship, and physical condition.


Both you and your teammate must be 21 years of age or older by the start of the next season's filming.
Both you and your teammate must be U.S. citizens with valid U.S. passports and valid U.S. drivers licenses. You must also be living in the United States.
You and your teammate must not be connected to the producers or affiliates of the show. This includes employers, employees, and relatives of employees/employers.
You and your teammate must be physically and mentally fit. You must be willing to have a background check performed, and you must be willing to complete a medical history if chosen as a semi-finalist.
If chosen as a semi-finalist, you must be willing to take physical and psychological examinations.
You or your teammate cannot be a candidate for public office until after the initial airing of any episodes in which they make an appearance.
 There are some character traits and qualities that are not strictly essential, but you should be able to demonstrate them during your audition if you hope to get put on the show.


You should be strong-willed, outgoing, adventurous, physically adept, mentally adept, adaptable to new environments, and have an overall interesting lifestyle, background, and personality.
 You need to apply to the show with a specific teammate. Choose someone you know well so that your interactions are more vivid and the relationship appears stronger.


You should not be shy or hesitant to talk about relationships openly and in public. This is a show heavily focused on relationships, so a willingness to be open about relationships and other people is important.
In general, someone you have a strong bond with and have known for years would be preferable to someone who you are only faintly acquainted with. A sibling, close cousin, parent, child, close friend, spouse, lover, or ex-lover would be a better choice in most cases than a co-worker or a neighbor you happen to greet every so often.
Your relationship does not need to be perfect, but in order to make it through the challenges you will face, you should choose someone you can work together with.
 Online applications are accepted year-round, but if you hope to be on the show during a certain season, you will need to pay attention to when the deadlines are for that season.


Casting calls usually begin 8 to 12 months before the projected airing date for the season, and roughly 4 to 6 months before the race is filmed.
Open casting calls for a given season usually last 1 or 2 months.
 The video should be 3 minutes or less, and it should realistically demonstrate both teammates' personalities as well as the way both of you interact with each other.Do not follow a script. The most impressive video auditions are real and honest. A video that shows your daily life and interactions, especially those with your teammate, is preferred over a skit or a video done in costume.
Tell the producers about your skills and life experiences, as well as who you and your teammate are. You should demonstrate how you two interact and how your personalities can affect others on the show.
The video must show both you and your teammate.
Cite real life examples to describe your qualifications.
Shoot your film during the day. Avoid standing in front of the sun if shooting with strong light directly behind you, as this can cause shadows to mask your face.
Speak in a loud tone and choose a quiet area so that you can be heard clearly.
Shoot the video in landscape (horizontal) style rather than portrait (vertical) style.
The video should be less than 30 MB in size. It should also be in mpg, mpeg, flv, avi, mp4, mov, 3gp, wmv, or mv4 format.
 When you submit your application, you will need to submit digital copies of photographs that show your and your teammate close-up.


You will need a photo of you and your teammate together, a separate photo of just you, and a separate photo of just your teammate.
The images should be less than 2.95 MB each. They should also be in png, jpeg, jpg, gif, bmp, or tiff format.
Save the images to your computer before you begin the application process to make things run more smoothly.
 Applications need to be completed in one sitting and can be found and filled out through the show's official website.


The application can be found here: http://www.theamazingracecasting.com/web/apply

You will need to mark each teammate's first name, last name, email address, cell phone, mailing address, marital status, occupation, number of kids, birth date, height, weight, ethnicity, and any prior shows the teammate has been on.
You will also need to state the nature of your relationship with your teammate and provide a short biographical description of your team.
 Most open casting calls will take place while the producers are actively seeking new contestants for an upcoming season.


You can check the casting call schedule here: http://www.theamazingracecasting.com/opencastingcalls

Casting calls are usually held 4 to 6 months before filming is anticipated to start.
 You will need to download and sign a waiver that permits the producers to film your audition.


The form essentially states that you are permitting the producers to record your audition on film and granting them the right to use and reuse the filmed audition as needed.
Each teammate should sign a separate waiver.
 Auditions can get very crowded, very quickly. In order to ensure that you get through the line and do so as soon as possible, you should show up about 30 to 60 minutes ahead of time.


It might also be a good idea to bring something to drink and snack on as you wait.
Dress neatly, but wear comfortable clothes so that you will be able to stay in line for as long as needed.
 You can either download the application online or fill the form out once you arrive at the open casting call.


You can print the website version of the application if desired: http://www.theamazingracecasting.com/web/apply

Blank application forms will be available at the casting call, but it is generally recommended that you fill it out beforehand. The noise and chaos of audition day can make it hard to concentrate on your application, causing you to fill out less-than-impressive answers without meaning to.
 Once the producers call you and your teammate, the two of you will be interviewed and asked to demonstrate why you should be put on the show.


You can expect an audition to last roughly the same amount of time you would be given for a video audition (3 minutes) but it may last longer or shorter depending on the people doing the interview.
Answer all questions directly but let some of your natural wit, confidence, and general personality show through.
 If you are selected to be a semi-finalist, you will receive an e-mail congratulating you and inviting you to move onto the next step.If you are not chosen as a semi-finalist, you will not be contacted. The show has too many applicants and not enough resources to call each one.
If you have not heard back yet, consider the date and check the show's website to determine if call-backs have started or ended for the season yet.
 If you are chosen as a semi-finalist, you will be invited to a final interview in Los Angeles, California.


If you are chosen as a possible semi-finalist, you will need to complete an “interview agreement package” and “semi-finalist agreement package.”
A semi-finalist will be given roundtrip economy air travel between your local airport and Los Angeles free of cost. Lodging will also be provided free of cost.
 Sometime after your last interview, you will be notified about whether or not you were chosen for the show.


This should take quicker than the previous form of notification. You may receive notification in person, via the phone, or via email.
 If you applied but were not accepted as a semi-finalist, or if you did not make the cut after your final audition, you can still apply for future seasons of The Amazing Race.If you were a finalist, you can apply only if you do so with a new teammate.
If you were not a finalist, you can reapply with your current teammate or a new teammate.
You will need to fill out a new application and submit a new video or attend a new open casting call for each new season you want to be on, even if you have applied in the past.

