 In order to train a dragon, you need to earn its respect, but this can be very difficult with full-grown dragons.


Therefore, the best possible way to train a dragon is to raise it from the moment it hatches, as it will develop a child-like bond with you and be loyal and trusting from the start.
Be warned though -- baby dragons are hard work! They need to be fed and played with constantly and are always getting up to some sort of mischief. Baby dragons haven't learned to control their impulses yet, so you may be bitten, burned or otherwise hurt in the process of raising them. However, if you're able to see it through, you will be rewarded with love and loyalty.
Also keep in mind that you should never, ever steal a dragon egg from its mother. This is cruel and will make the mother very angry. You should only rescue abandoned dragon eggs.
 Dragons are proud, fearsome creatures that demand and deserve your respect. How can you ever expect a dragon to respect and respond to you if you don't show it the same courtesy?


You can show your dragon that you respect it in a number of simple ways. The first is to make eye contact with it -- this shows the dragon that you are willing to treat it as an equal.
The second is to respect the dragon's boundaries. If it is in a bad mood, give it some space. If it is angry, don't try to pet him or ride him, you'll just make things worse.
Thirdly, you should never forget that a dragon is a dangerous creature that can never fully be tamed. It's kind of like having a pet bear or lion -- you may have domesticated them, but they will never lose that dangerous, unpredictable streak.
 The single most important thing you can do when training a dragon is to earn its trust. If your dragon trusts you completely, it will want to do as you ask, just to please you.You can earn a dragon's trust by placing a hand gently on its snout. This calms the dragon down if its angry or frightened and shows it that you are not a threat.
You can also earn a dragon's trust by being polite and kind -- you'll never get a dragon to do what you want by shouting or throwing rocks at it.
Another good way to earn the dragon's trust is to show that you are reliable and that it can count on you. If you say you're going to bring your dragon some food, do it. If you tell it you won't let anyone else hurt him, follow through. Most dragons will repay this loyalty a thousand times over.
 Dragons respond better to training when their good behavior is rewarded, instead of their bad behavior being punished. You can reward your dragon whenever it does something you ask, like sitting still or letting you fly on its back.


A dragon's favorite reward is food, but the type of food will depend on the species of dragon. Meat-eating dragons will enjoy eating fish (bones and all) and hunks of lamb's meat. Herbivorous dragons (like the Basic Brown) like to eat the petals of pretty flowers.
Another reward that dragons enjoy is a tickle beneath the chin or a stroke behind the ears. Be careful though -- when a dragon laughs it can accidentally breathe fire!

, Despite their fearsome reputation, most dragons love to play and have fun when they're feeling happy and safe. Therefore, playing with your dragon is one of the best ways to bond with it.


Every dragon has its own favorite game, so you will need to figure out what works for yours. Some dragons love to play fetch -- which you can do by firing a stick into the air using a sling shot and letting your dragon fly up to grab it and bring it back.
Other dragons like to play with their food. Take a piece of raw meat and throw it high into the air. The dragon will use its fire-breathing abilities to cook the flying food before catching it in its jaws!

