 When you are engaged or married, you are in a partnership. A successful partnership will have two partners that are comfortable in their own skin, confident, and happy. Before you decide to get engaged, think about your own status. If you aren't in a good place, it may not be the time to get engaged.Are you between jobs and feeling somewhat adrift? You might feel like an engagement might help you feel grounded. But it won't solve the problem that you're actually dealing with.
Ask yourself how you feel about yourself. Are you happy? Do you like yourself? Are you comfortable with your life choices? These are good signs that you are mature and stable enough to get engaged.
 Take some time to reflect on what marriage means to you. Do you see it as a religious commitment? Or maybe it is more of a legal contract. Some people view it as a sign of commitment to your partner.Write down what marriage means to you personally. Make notes such as "legally binding," "family," "spiritual," or "emotional companionship."
Will you feel like you are in a committed relationship without being married? Or is it something that you need or want for your relationship to feel complete?

, There can be a lot of societal pressure to get married. Particularly if you're a woman, you may have heard more than once, "Why aren't you married?" These comments can come from anyone from a perfect stranger to your mom.Examine your motives. Make sure you want to get married. Don't get engaged just because Mom is pressuring you.
Women are not alone in feeling the pressure. Men may have frequently heard stereotypical comments such as, "Isn't it time to settle down yet?"
These types of remarks can be irritating and hurtful. Try to firmly shut them down with a clear comment on where you stand. "Thanks for your concern, but those types of decisions are for my partner and I to make."

, When you are considering getting engaged, the future will undoubtedly be on your mind. Of course, you've thought about what life would look like for you and your partner. Now, spend some time thinking about your individual needs.Write down your goals. Is your priority to spend more time traveling the world? Can you make that happen if you get engaged?Maybe owning your own business is your main goal. Will that be compatible with a marriage? Or, are you sure about wanting to have children, but less certain of marrying this particular person?

