 You will be presented with an editable version of your website. As you can see, it has an easy to use drag-and-drop interface. Re-arrange the basic information if you deem it necessary.
 Below the header you will see a small slider which allows you to adjust the width of the columns. To the left, a dropdown allows you to change the number of columns your website has.
 The editor's tray allows you to add a number of features to the website, like adding blog posts or revenue generating services.
 No company website is complete without a blog. Add a blog post from the Editor's Tray. Type in the title, body and don't forget to put it into a category!

, Header images contain your company's logo and a general picture which describes your company's purpose. For example, a construction company will benefit from adding a picture showing workers at work.
 Near the header images you will see an edit button on the top right. Click on it to choose how to display your logo.
 SEO(Search Engine Optimization) are optimizations made to a website to facilitate quick indexing by search engines. These optimizations allows faster categorization and quickly assign relevant search keywords.
Click on Optimize Page(SEO) in the Editor's Tray.






Fill out all the information.







Page Name: Describes the current page, which is your homepage.

Title Tag: The title tag of your website. The Company's name along with it's tagline should suffice.

Meta Description: Describe you company in a few words.

Meta keywords:These keywords help search engines categorize the pages they find. Use keywords which are related to your company and potential customers will search for.


Click the 'i' next to each field for more information.
 On the top right of your screen you will see options which will allow you to change the color scheme of your website, add additional pages and change the site settings.
 The Themes and Colors option allows you to change the theme and the color scheme of your website. At the top of the popup you can change the theme, which changes the overall look and feel of your site while the lower part allows you to change the background color and the overall color scheme of your website.
 Here you can change the title, description, contact email and other settings of the site. You can choose from advertising options to generate revenue and also modify domain name settings (like buying a top level domain). You can also change the blog settings.
 The advanced settings tab in the site settings allows you to obtain the sitemap for your website, which you may need to submit to some search engines or directories. Some search engines may require you to put special codes in your header and footer, which you can accomplish here.


Make sure that you add the company's name address, zip code, and its basic purpose in the footer. It really helps in improving search engine rankings.

