 Apply for jobs in the field in which you have decided to specialize. Use LinkedIn, your university department’s alumni networks, and any contacts you might have to search for your first job. Research the company to which you are applying. Change your resume and cover letter to reflect the experience you have that relates to the job qualifications. Be specific and connect the dots.


For example, if you are applying to a lab position, emphasize your previous lab work. Mention any research projects you completed related to forensics. If you have a prominent advisor from forensics, mention that you were in his or her lab.
Because forensics has become a very competitive field, your C.V. must stand out. Work to prove that you already are a scientist and thus are not a complete rookie.Check Make a Resume for specific tips.
See Get a Job for thorough tips on how to search for jobs, do informational interviews, and land your first job.
 Pretend you are speaking as an expert witness in court. Employers are looking for forensics employees that will stick to the evidence in the face of unscientific testimony. They desire employees with a meticulous appreciation for the facts of a case.


Practice with family or friends.
Ask for informational interviews with employed forensic scientists. Use the interview as an information-gathering session. Also, ask if they would mind asking you typical interview questions and giving you feedback.
 Be sure to clarify what your duties are before signing your contract. Also, if it is appropriate, negotiate your salary and benefits so that you are satisfied. Give 100% to your job and learn as much as you can from your more senior colleagues.


Read Negotiate a Job Offer for tips on mastering negotiation.
 Even though you now have a job, continue to stay current on trends in the field. Forensics has changed innumerably throughout the history of police investigation. Make sure you are on the cutting edge of the field in order to be eligible for promotions or better opportunities.

