 A scammer might call you, send you a letter, or write an email. The scam is always the same: they claim that your warranty is about to expire and they offer to sell you an extension.Don’t be impressed by the details the scammer knows. For example, they might know the make, model, and year of your car. However, scammers can buy this information from websites. You might have provided this information when you shopped for auto insurance online.
Ideally, you shouldn’t do business with someone who contacts you. Instead, research companies thoroughly and then reach out to the ones you find are reputable.;
, Is your warranty about to expire? Check to make sure.Go through your paperwork and find it. If you can’t find the warranty, contact the manufacturer.Check the manufacturer’s number online or in the phone book. Don’t call the number provided on the letter, email, or postcard, since this might be a number created by the scammer.
 If you do talk to a scammer on the phone, they will try to pressure you into buying an extended warranty policy. For example, they might use the following techniques:


They tell you the deal is good for only one day.At the same time they claim you can cancel at any time. This type of technique is a huge red flag. Legitimate businesses do not try to pressure people into purchasing something by creating a sense of urgency.
They call day after day. This type of behavior, which borders on harassment, is a high-pressure sales technique.
They avoid showing you a sample contract.There’s no reason for a reputable company to hide this information.
 Scammers develop a reputation, and you can quickly find customer complaints by searching online. Look at the Better Business Bureau or do a general Google search.Look for complaints that the extended warranty didn’t cover what consumers thought it would.
 You might find it stressful to be hounded by someone employing high-pressure sales techniques. If so, remember that you can hang up on them. You aren’t obligated to do business with anyone, and it isn’t rude to say, “I’m sorry, I’m going to hang up.”


As a reminder, never share personal information with someone who has called you over the phone. For example, avoid sharing your credit card information, driver’s license number, or Social Security Number.If they call back, ask for the number to request that they stop calling you. Legitimate telemarketers are required to give you a number.

