 It is important to ask your doctor about adding flaxseed oil to your diet, especially if you are taking certain medications. Flaxseed oil may interact with some medications including blood thinners, cholesterol-lowering statins, and diabetes medications.Always tell your physician about all medications and supplements that you are taking.;
, The flaxseed oil product that you buy should include instructions about how much and how often to take flaxseed oil. Read and follow the package for specific instructions on how to take the flaxseed oil.1 tablespoon of flaxseed oil taken up to three times per day is a common dosage, but make sure that you check the package of your flaxseed oil to be sure.
Flaxseed oil taken in excess can cause oily skin, breakouts, and even oily stools.
 If you are not a great fan of the taste, mix with water, green tea or fruit juice — since it is an oil, it won’t mix very well, but if taste is a problem, mixing it will help. It can also help to take liquid flaxseed oil along with a meal or at least a snack to get rid of any aftertaste from taking the oil.
 Flaxseed oil is also available in a capsule form. Again, follow the manufacturer’s instructions for how to take the flaxseed oil. Take the flaxseed oil capsules with a full glass of water., Keep your flaxseed oil capsules or flaxseed oil in the refrigerator in a sealed glass container. Oils can react in air and become rancid, but storing your flaxseed in the refrigerator will help to prolong its life.
 Flaxseed oil should not be heated. Heating the oil destroys much of its nutritional benefits.If you are adding flaxseed oil to your meals, make sure that you add it after cooking your food. Drizzle flaxseed oil on top of food rather than using it to cook your food.
 Flaxseed oil may cause some gas, diarrhea, and/or bloating when you first start taking it. For most people, the gas and/or bloating stops after one to two weeks of use. If you notice any side effects from taking flaxseed oil, cut down on your doses for a while.