 Continuing physical activity during uncomplicated pregnancies has been shown to be beneficial and not risky.However, if your back pain develops late in pregnancy, you should be cautious about easing slowly into new routines.


Look for pregnancy-safe ways to strengthen your core, abdominal, and back muscles. Avoid traditional crunches and oblique exercises, which can put pressure on important veins and separate abdominal muscles from each other. Instead, try standing crunches or tucking your tailbone while standing. You may also try getting on your hands and knees and touching alternate elbows with your knees, switching between sides.Walking, swimming, and stationary cycling are particularly safe options for exercise during pregnancy. Ask a doctor or physical therapist for other suggestions.Stand with your back to a wall. Bend your knees and work to straighten your spine.Engaging in high impact exercises prior to pregnancy, such as running and jogging, have been shown to reduce the risk of pelvic girdle pain in pregnancy.;
, As your center of gravity shifts forward during pregnancy, you might start to strain muscles in order to avoid falling over. Practicing good posture can shift your center of gravity back and reduce strain.


When standing, envision an imaginary cord pulling your body up into perfect alignment from above your head. Use a comfortably wide stance, don’t lock your knees, and rest one foot occasionally on a step stool if you have to stand for a long time.When sitting, sit up straight and don’t slouch your shoulders.Instead, keep your shoulders back and relaxed.
 Get on your hands and knees and alternate rounding and then flattening your back. Hold each position for several seconds, but be gentle, gradually working up to ten repetitions.This is sometimes called “cat and cow” stretching.
 In addition to relieving back pain, prenatal yoga can improve sleep, reduce stress, and alleviate other symptoms such as nausea and headaches. It may also strengthen the muscles you will use in childbirth.Always let your yoga instructor know that you are pregnant.
You can also do gentle yoga poses at home. However, be sure to avoid poses that involve lying on your stomach, lying on your back after 16 weeks, inversions (going upside-down), strong twists, back bends, holding your breath, or taking short, forceful breaths. If something feels difficult or like a strain, don’t do it.There are many safe poses during pregnancy. These include hip-opening squats (malasana), chair pose (utkatasana), warrior poses I and II (virbhadrasana), tree pose (vrksasana), and legs up the wall pose (viparita karani). , In addition to being a great workout, water exercise relieves pressure from your back and joints.Since the water supports your weight, even walking or floating in the pool will help relieve the pressure.
 Ask for help if you need it.


When carrying bags, try to distribute the weight evenly. Carry a similar amount of weight in each hand.