 As you search for the right job, consider your work schedule and environment. Ideally, you’ll want to avoid high-octane environments in favor of those that promote concentration.

For example, you might choose a quiet office that emphasizes solo work instead of a noisy environment that runs on boisterous team projects.
Many people with bipolar think jobs that ebb and flow in workloads are ideal. Instead you should seek out a structured job with a consistent schedule. Avoid shift work or unpredictable hours that affect your sleep., People with bipolar disorder tend to thrive in occupations that allow them to use their creativity. You may also simply find a creative position within a more traditional work environment, like designing marketing materials for a non-profit organization.

Also, look for jobs with philosophies that match your own values so that you’re working with people who share similar principles.Creativity-based job options include careers such as writing, photography, and design.
 In addition to choosing the right workplace for you, you should also align other aspects of your schedule to benefit your condition. Observe yourself in different situations and figure out what helps you feel most productive while alleviating stress. Once you map out a schedule that works for you, stick to it.This might involve waking up early to for a yoga sequence before work, skipping public transportation that gets you wound up, and taking regular breaks to fend off stress and frustration.
 Positive lifestyle choices can help you keep your symptoms and mood in check. In addition to keeping a strict sleep schedule, you can minimize symptoms by eating right.

Include whole foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and brain-boosting omega-3s (e.g. salmon, walnuts, flaxseeds). Limit junk food, caffeine, and alcohol that may worsen your mood and stimulate manic or depressive episodes., Staying physically active is important for all people. Those with bipolar might benefit particularly from the natural mood-lifting effects of exercise though. Exercise generates the release of feel-good chemicals called endorphins that provide natural energy and a positive outlook. Both can be an advantage to your work life.

Get at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week. Try a few to see which activities you like best, such as running, swimming, or lifting weights.
Keep in mind, however, that exercise during manic episodes can lead to excessive energy. Therefore, you should reduce physical activity or do only light, relaxing exercises during mania., You may not feel comfortable talking about your condition with your coworkers. If not, it’s important that you regularly spend time with people whom you can talk to and receive support. In addition to a support group, it can also help to seek support from family and friends.

Make regular outings or plans with loved ones to help improve your mood. Ask them for accountability in terms of getting to work on time and sticking to your treatment plan.