 Using too much salt is a common mistake that many people make when making soups. Although you might think that you’re improving the soup, you’re substantially increasing the sodium content and negatively impacting your health. Read the label of any pre-made ingredients, like broth, before you add them to a soup.


Calculate the sodium content of any item you use in your soup into the overall amount of sodium in the soup.
Over consumption of sodium could create high blood pressure. If you have heart disease, it could worsen your condition.
The American Heart Association suggests that adults consume no more than 2,300 milligrams of sodium every day. In addition, some doctors recommend that adults limit their consumption to 1,500 milligrams a day.
To give you an idea, 1 teaspoon of salt has 2,300 milligrams of sodium.
Sodium is present in almost all foods, especially processed foods such as canned soup and pre-made broth. Be aware of this when making your own soups., When people make soup, they often use oil liberally. However, depending on the oil you use and the amount you use, this could turn a healthy soup into an unhealthy soup as cooking oil often contain high levels of fat. Use as little oil as possible.


Some decent cooking oils you can use include: canola, corn, olive, peanut, safflower, soybean, and sunflower.
Avoid oils that have more than 4 grams (0.14 oz) of saturated fat in each tablespoon.
Stay away from oils that have partially hydrogenated oil or trans-fat., While dairy products can enrich a soup and add a creamy quality, you should limit the amount you put into a soup. Ultimately, by limiting the amount of dairy in your soup you’ll also decrease the amount of fat and cholesterol in it. Reduce or cut the amount of dairy in your recipe, if possible.


For instance, if your recipe calls for 4 tablespoons of butter, only use 2 or 3.
For creamy soups, consider substituting dairy products for soymilk, cashew milk, or even pureed cauliflower or other vegetables.
Avoid using recipes that call for a lot of dairy products. Instead, focus on recipes that have minimum amounts of dairy.