 Acids are compounds that donate protons to chemical reactions. Often, acids start with one or more H atoms, though there are some exceptions.The first step to naming an acid is easy: first, quickly see whether there is any oxygen (O) in it.


For example, let's say that we're working with the acid HCl. This obviously does not have any oxygen in it.
 Naming acids without any oxygen is easy. First, write "hydro-," then the name of the non-hydrogen atom, then "-ic." You will usually have to drop a letter or two off the name of the atom to get the word to "flow" properly — this is usually pretty intuitive. Finish with the word "acid."


For example, HCl becomes "hydrochloric acid."

Other examples include HF (hydrofluoric acid) and HI (hydroiodic acid).
 Acids that contain oxygen are a little trickier to name. It's usually easiest to start by naming the oxygen anion (the part of the molecule that has a negative charge with the oxygen in it). Usually, this is the part that's not the hydrogens. Use the steps below to name oxygen anions:, Anions are in the same series when you can add or subtract oxygens and keep the overall charge the same by changing the oxidation state of the cation (the positively-charged part of the anion). A good guide to oxidation states is available here.If there are two anions in the same series, the one with fewer oxygens ends with -ite and the one with more oxygens ends with -ate. For instance, SO32- and SO42- are both possible depending on whether S has an oxidation state of 4+ or 6+. The first is sulfite and the second is sulfate based on their number of oxygens.
If there are more than two anions in the same series, use the prefix "hypo" for the one with least oxygen and the prefix "per-" for the one with the most oxygen. For example, chlorine can form ClO-, ClO2-, ClO3-, and ClO4-. These are named hypochlorite, chlorite, chlorate, and perchlorate respectively.
 Now that you've named the oxygen anion, finding the name of the acid itself isn't difficult. Use the following naming rules:


If the anion ends in -ate, the acid ends with -ric or -ic.



Example: HClO2 is chlorous acid (from "chlorite," the name of the oxygen anion).




If the anion ends in -ite, the acid ends with -ous.



Example: HClO3 is chloric acid (from "chlorate," the name of the oxygen anion).




Add hypo- or per- to the beginning if the anion had these prefixes.



Example: HClO4 is perchlorous acid (from "perchlorate," the name of the oxygen anion).
 As with normal covalent compounds, certain acids get special names that don't conform to the normal naming rules. There's no easy way to learn these, but they're easy to memorize as you start to come across them. Below are a few examples:


HCN is "hydrocyanic acid." Here, there's no oxygen, but you still get the name from the CN anion — not the name of either atom.
CH3COOH is "acetic acid." Technically, this compound is named with naming rules from organic chemistry, but these don't come into play with basic covalent compounds.

