 Toxic people place negativity and doubt in your mind. They make you question your goals and dreams, and your ability to achieve these goals and dreams. Toxic people also tend to take more than they give back in a relationship.Controlling people are also toxic. They try to control who you hang out with, where you hang out, and question your daily activities and decisions.
People who complain incessantly can also be toxic. Remember that there is a difference between someone who shares their struggles and challenges, and someone who constantly complains.
Toxic people often leave you feeling emotionally and physically drained.
Remember that a toxic relationship doesn't mean the other person isn't a nice person or good in other ways, but the fact is that their presence is having a very negative effect on your wellbeing. Don't talk yourself out of distancing yourself from this person.;
, If the problem is something that can be fixed, have a conversation with the person. Let them know how you feel, but know that it is not your responsibility to fix or change them. Also know that you do not owe them a huge explanation — how much or how little you tell them is up to you. However, keep in mind that asking someone to change their behavior is a big move, so be prepared for resistance.In order to prepare for the conversation, write yourself a letter. By writing a letter you will be able to clarify your thoughts and articulate them to the person in a respectful manner.
If you are unsure about a person’s reaction to the conversation, then confront them in a public place. Tell them, “It is really draining for me, both mentally and physically, to be around complaining all the time. I think I am going to take a break from our conversations.”

, If the person’s behavior doesn’t change or if they just don't understand what you mean by "break," then find ways to slowly pull back from them. Only answer their call or messages if it is absolutely necessary, or un-friend them on your social media accounts.Occupy your time with other friends and activities. For example, if you and the person in question go to the café every Saturday, go to the park instead.
It is normal to feel guilty. But remember that detaching yourself from someone who is having a negative influence on your life is an ok and healthy decision.
If the person changes, then you may want to rekindle a friendship in the future. That's up to you — it's okay to completely move on, too.
 It is easy to shape your social media accounts because you can unfollow and follow people with a click of a button. Because people devote more time browsing their social media accounts today, the people you follow can have an affect on your mood and life. Therefore, unfriend or unfollow accounts that post negative comments and pictures.


For example, unfollow people who constantly complain, use negative language, and put others down. Instead, follow people who have a positive outlook on life, for example, people who are uplifting, inspiring, and encouraging.

