 Think about the little things you do and have done for one another that come from a place of love.Those little gestures are romantic. Does your partner make the coffee for both of you in the morning? Does he text you during the day just to say hi or check in? All these little actions are ways of showing love and romance that often get overlooked as the years go on.


Take the time to compliment each other.The compliments you gave each other in the beginning on how you looked, your talents, or your actions, are likely no longer mentioned out loud. Bring complimenting your partner back into practice.
 Remember what attracted you to her in the first place by looking back on your relationship. Think about when you met your partner, what you thought then, and why you fell in love with her.

As you are recalling these things, share them with your partner.

Look over old pictures or love letters to each other.
Sit together over dinner or drinks and recollect together the beginning of your relationship.
Recall what you wanted your life together to be like and what it was like to plan for your future together.
 As relationships continue you become comfortable and caught up in routine. Touch is a romantic part of a relationship, regardless of how long the relationship has gone on.Have physical contact with each other frequently throughout the day. Pretend like your relationship is brand new and make a concerted effort to touch each other.


Put your hand on your partner's shoulder or give him a shoulder massage.
Hold hands while you are walking.
Place your hand on the small of your partner's back.
 In the beginning of relationships everything is new and fascinating. You take note of everything about your partner. Over the years, you both may have grown apart. Get back to knowing her through and through by taking note of the foods, music, movies, and activities your partner enjoys the most. As you try new things, remember to keep track of the things your partner enjoyed. This shows you are taking time to focus just on her. It will also make planning the next romantic evening easier.


Remember that your partner is an individual with likes, dislikes, interests and personality differences.Understanding your spouse's or significant other's individuality will help you appreciate your spouse for the unique person she is.Remember that you are an individual, too, with interests of your own. Engage in your hobbies and interests, and share them with your partner. It will help you connect and will bring more energy into your relationship., You and your partner may be stuck in a routine that has caused some monotony in your relationship. Doing new or novel things increases the dopamine levels, known to affect emotions, in your brain.Try new activities together. Taking a break from your routines will boost your excitement. It can also provide you something new to share with your partner.


Play hooky together and take a day off of work.
Go on a vacation.
Get a babysitter and go out for an evening.

