 Place the gum base, corn syrup, glycerine, citric acid and bubble gum flavoring in the top part of a double boiler. Place the double boiler on the stove and turn the burner to medium high. Stirring occasionally with a spoon, heat the mixture until it becomes warm and gooey.


You can find gum base, glycerine and citric acid at candy supply stores or online retailers. Choose a classic bubble gum flavor or go for something unique, like lemon lime.
You can also add a few drops of food coloring to the mixture to color your gum.
Make a double boiler if you don't already have one by finding two pots, one small and one large. Fill the larger pot with a few inches of water and place it on the stove. Put the smaller pot inside the larger pot so that it's floating on the water. Place all of the ingredients except the powdered sugar in the smaller pot and turn on the burner. Bring the mixture up to temperature, stirring well.;
, Set aside about a tablespoon of powdered sugar and pour the rest into a pile on a cutting board or another clean work surface. Use your fingers to create an indention in the powdered sugar pile., Carefully pour the melted gum base directly from the double boiler into the powdered sugar well. Be careful not to get any water in the mixture.
 Dust your fingers with some powdered sugar and start kneading the gum base mixture and the powdered sugar together. Work the powdered sugar into the gum base until the base gets sticky, then add more powdered sugar and keep kneading. Knead for at least 15 minutes, until the dough is soft and pliable and no longer sticky.


If you don't knead the dough enough, the gum will tend to fall apart, so don't skip this step.
The dough should be smooth and stiff when you're finished.
 Place the dough in front of you, and place your hands palm-down on top of it. Roll the dough using your hands so that it becomes a long, thin rope. Try to roll it so that it's the same width down the length of the rope. Use a knife to cut the rope into bite-sized pieces.


You can roll the dough flat using a rolling pin and cut it into neat squares if you'd like.
Roll the pieces of dough into balls as an alternative.
 Dust the gum pieces with powdered sugar to keep them from sticking to each other. Make small gum wrappers by cutting out squares of parchment paper, then wrap the gum pieces.

