 If the piece of furniture you will be painting has drawers, doors, or other components that can be removed, you will generally get the best results if you disassemble the pieces before painting. This will make it easier to prevent drips and to get into the corners where the pieces fit together.









Take your time with this step. A lot of laminate furniture is not build with disassembly in mind, and particle board can be damaged fairly easily. Don't force anything. If two pieces refuse to come apart, paint them carefully in place.;
, Paint sticks best to slightly rough surfaces. To improve the adhesion of the primer and paint, you'll need to sand the entire surface of the piece with fine-grit sandpaper. Be careful not to sand so vigorously that you tear through the laminate into the particleboard beneath.









You can also use a random-orbit sander, which you can attach sandpaper to. Because you're sanding a laminate surface, it's important to not over sand, so just go over it lightly. It might be helpful if you sand the bulk of the surface with a sander and go over the corners and the sides by hand.
Make sure you sand all areas evenly. You want to get a good, sanded surface to work with, or the paint that you apply to the laminate will start to bubble. This is a clear sign that you haven't sanded enough.
 Go over the laminate surface with a vacuum. Next, use a tack cloth to thoroughly clean the piece of furniture of any dust left over by the vacuum.









Sanding dust can easily mix into your primer or paint and mar the finish of the furniture.
 After sanding, you can prime the furniture with any type of interior primer. The primer is best applied with a high-quality polyester-bristled brush, but can also be applied using a disposable foam brush. Apply the primer in long, smooth strokes, overlapping the previous stroke slightly, and aim for as thin and smooth a coat as possible.









A primer will help the color of your paint stand out, as well as give the paint a better surface to latch onto. Even so, be prepared to color with several coats of paint before you achieve the consistency and color desired.
 The primer will likely be dry to the touch within an hour or so, but it is best to wait a full day for the primer to set before painting. Waiting this long will help increase the durability and scratch resistance of the finished piece of furniture.








