 Over-the-counter pain medication such as Tylenol (acetaminophen) can be taken during the dialysis treatment to alleviate headaches. One tablet can be taken immediately, then another can be taken several hours later if the headache returns. No more than three tablets should be taken in a 24 hour period.
 Pepto-Bismol is an over-the-counter medication used to alleviate nausea. It contains the active ingredient bismuth subsalicylate. It is available in liquid and chewable tablet form and should taken according to the instructions on the packaging.
 The amount of fluid that is removed from the body during dialysis is determined by your body weight. The heavier the weight, the more fluids that are taken.


If your weight is measured incorrectly, the dialysis machine may be set to remove too much fluid from your system, which leads to low blood pressure, vomiting and headaches.
Make sure your weight is measured accurately be removing any heavy clothes or shoes before the weigh-in. Also ask the medical professional to ensure that the dialysis machine is set to the correct weight.
 In order to avoid nausea and vomiting, it is essential that your blood pressure remains fairly stable during the dialysis treatment.


If your blood pressure drops too low, you may be injected with a saline solution to raise your blood pressure and keep it stable.
You may be injected with up to half a liter of saline over a 4 to 6 hour period throughout the treatment.
 One simple measure you can take to avoid headaches and vomiting is to lie down with your feet elevated above your head during the dialysis treatment.


This position increases blood flow to the brain and increases your blood pressure in general, helping to keep you stable.
 Disequilibrium syndrome is a condition where the brain becomes swollen during dialysis due to increased fluid. This is one of the most common causes of headaches during dialysis.


Medical staff can prevent disequilibrium syndrome from occurring by carefully monitoring the amount urea being removed from the body and by slowing the rate of blood flow if it appears to be moving too quickly.
If disequilibrium syndrome occurs, the dialysis treatment may need to be terminated earlier than anticipates, however this depends on the condition of the patient and the amount of fluid that has already been removed.
 If the nausea and vomiting persist, you may be able to ask your doctor for an injection of a stronger medication that will stop the vomiting. The most common medications used in these circumstances include.


Meclizine hydrochloride
Dimenhydrinate
Emetrol

