 The purpose of a personal profile is to grab the reader’s attention as soon as they start reading your resume. Along with your cover letter, its your chance to hold their attention, express your key skills and achievements, and entice the employer or judging committee to want to know more about you.Your personal profile is a short introduction to the skills and experience listed on your resume or CV. It should not restate or repeat all the details in your resume or cover letter.
It should be between 50-200 words, or no longer than four-six lines.It should be placed at the beginning of your CV.
If you aren’t sure what your career aims and goals are, it’s better to avoid including a personal profile at the start of your CV. No personal profile is better than a vague or dull profile.
 If you are struggling to condense your career experiences and goals into a few sentences, focus first on your resume and your cover letter. Then, based on the information in your resume and your cover letter, tackle the personal profile. You’ll have a much better idea of what your key skills, experiences, and goals are and your value as an applicant., Though the third person is always an option in a personal profile, using the first person will create a stronger and more direct profile. Your personal profile should be about you and your specific skill set, so using “I” instead of “he” or “she” will create a clear, assertive profile. But this doesn’t mean you have to begin every sentence with “I”. A good personal profile will combine your skills and goals, but not rely on the overuse of “I”.For example: “As a highly-motivated copy editor at renowned publishing house ABC Press, I have a proven track record of providing expert editing services in a wide range of subjects and writing styles, including technical documents and educational texts.”
The use of “As a…” as the first clause in the sentence avoids to overuse of “I” in the personal profile. It also allows you to highlight what your current professional role is and the skills you have developed in your current job.
If you don’t have a current job or role, you can adjust the opening sentence so it is in the past tense.
Avoid mixing the first person and the third person in the same personal profile. Choose one tense and stick to it.
 Think about any past experiences, such as a work experience, a school related experience, an award, an internship, etc. that you want to highlight. Don’t be afraid to brag about your achievement, as this will entice your reader to pay attention to your application.For example, if you want to highlight a recent internship you completed or are currently doing, you may state: “During my recent internship at the non profit Literary Arts organization, I worked with the head of the Writers in Schools program to contribute content to several projects, such as their award winning reading series and their educational outreach program, and managed my own research by interviewing guest writers, creating online copy for their readership, and editing education material for their outreach program. Drawing on my excellent communication skills, I developed and maintained successful working relationships with the staff and the participants at Literary Arts.”

, It’s important to be clear about what you are working towards in your career and what you hope to gain from the possible position. Make sure your career aim or goal relates back to the possible position. This shows you understand what the position is and how it will help you achieve your career goal.For example: “I am looking to secure a position at a top tier publishing house, where I can bring immediate and strategic value and develop my current skill set further.”

, Refer to the LinkedIn list of buzzwords to avoid.Replace any buzzwords, like “dynamic”, “extensive experience”, and “team player” with terms that are more specific to your resume and your career aim or goal.For example, a bland, buzzword filled personal profile might be: “I am an energetic and dynamic person who enjoys a challenge and achieving personal goals. My present career aim is to work in publishing because I like reading and writing.”
A more specific, interesting, and successful personal profile might be: “I am a motivated and detail oriented professional editor looking to secure a position at a top tier publishing house, where I can bring immediate and strategic value and develop my current skill set further. During my recent internship at the Literary Arts organization, I worked with the head of the Writers in Schools program to contribute content to several projects, such as their award winning reading series and their educational outreach program, and managed my own research by interviewing visiting writers, creating online copy for their readership, and editing education material for their outreach program. Drawing on my excellent communication skills, I developed and maintained successful working relationships with the staff and the participants at Literary Arts. I am a reliable, hardworking editor and am eager to expand my skills at ABC Press.”

, Read over your completed personal profile to make sure it matches the skills and experiences discussed in your resume and cover letter. Rather than repeat any points in your resume, your personal profile should act as a summary of your career goals and your skills.Read it out loud for flow and tone, and check that it is under 200 words.
Attach it to the top of your resume and send it out with your cover letter.

