 In other words, don't get your hopes up. Don't expect someone who is always late to suddenly be on time. If you have a friend or family member who has been running late for 27 years, chances are they aren't going to change. Even if they promise they will. Someone who is chronically late will probably be chronically late forever. Unless there is some seriously drastic intervention -- that they will also probably be late to!;
, It's probably not because they're selfish or on a power trip. Odds are they're not good at foreseeing how long things will take, they have a chaotic life, or they're just naturally fickle. When you see the cause behind the symptom, it's easier to not get angry.


And consider their background. Certain cultures say 6 pm and they mean 6 pm. Others say 6 pm and really, they're saying, "Show up between 7 and 11 if you, you know, feel like it."

, Okay, so it really is their problem, but in what ways could you change? Maybe you could cut your friend some slack. Make a pact with yourself that you will only get angry if they are more than 20 minutes late. Anything less than that and they are off the hook. It sucks, but it save you mental anguish.


When you know they're going to be late, you sort of have to take some of the responsibility on yourself. Why get angry over a sure thing?

, If you don't expect them to be on time, you won't be as disappointed when they aren't. And if you don't expect them to be on time, you can be late, too!


And if for some reason the universe stops and they're on time the one time you're late, tell 'em it's a taste of their own medicine. Do they like their time being wasted? Probably not.
 The party starts at 9:00 pm, but for the chronic latecomer, just say it starts at 8:30. Once again, you're probably doing them a favor. You're not the only one who's irritated!


This only works until they catch onto your game. When they do catch on, it may be time for a discussion!

, You will be more angry with your friend when they arrive late if all you had to do was wait around for them. Bring a book or a pen and paper with you so you can stay busy. Time will fly by and you might not even notice they were late.


Think of this as a reward if at all possible. You get an extra fifteen minutes to finish that book you've been slacking on. Awesome! Some unaccounted for downtime!

