 Colds can be caused by more than 100 viruses, so there is no way to determine the exact cause. Signs of a cold can appear 1 to 3 days after exposure to a cold-causing virus. Note that a cold does not usually cause a high fever or extreme fatigue. Instead, common symptoms of a cold may include:Runny or stuffy nose
Itchy, sore throat
Cough
Nasal congestion
Mild headache or muscle aches
Sneezing
Watery eyes
Mild to moderate fever
Fatigue

, If your doctor suspects chronic nasal infection, also called sinusitis, you may need imaging tests. These tests can include an x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A cough and sore throat can also be symptoms of nasal infection. Other common symptoms of nasal infection are:Fever and headache. If you have a high fever or severe headache, you should seek medical care immediately.
Pressure in the forehead, temples, cheeks, nose, jaw, teeth, behind the eyes or at the top of the head.
Nasal stuffiness, loss of smell, nasal discharge (usually yellowish green), or post-nasal drip (the sensation of fluid dripping down the back of the throat), particularly at night or when lying down.

Rare complications associated with chronic sinusitis can include: blood clots, abscesses, meningitis, orbital cellulitis which causes inflammation around the eyes, and osteomyelitis, an infection that spreads to the bones in the face.
 If you have severe symptoms of a cold or flu or have been previously diagnosed with any respiratory disease, you should seek professional care immediately. Symptoms that should be checked out by a doctor or in the emergency room include:Cough with green to yellowish phlegm or blood
High fever (104ºF or more)
Ear or nasal infection and nasal discharge
Skin rashes
Breathlessness due to asthma or another respiratory problem.
 Babies are especially susceptible to the common cold since they haven't developed immunity to common infections and are often around other children who may not always wash their hands. Early symptoms of a cold in babies are congested or runny nose, nasal discharge, decreased appetite, irritability, difficulty sleeping or feeding, cough and a low-grade fever. If your baby is younger than 2 to 3 months of age, you should see a doctor early in the illness.See your doctor immediately if your baby has a temperature higher than 100ºF, has red eyes or eye discharge, has trouble breathing and is bluish around the lips and mouth, coughs up blood or coughs hard enough to cause vomiting, and refuses to nurse or accept fluids.
 If your symptoms do not go away after 8 weeks or interfere with your daily activities, your doctor may refer you to an ENT specialist, also known as an otolaryngologist, who can check your ears, nose and throat. The ENT specialist will look to see if your symptoms are from an underlying cause, such as a viral or bacterial infection. You should tell your doctor about any other respiratory conditions you may have.An ENT specialist can also perform a nasal endoscopy using a fiber optic scope. The scope can look at your sinuses for nasal polyps or other structural problems if you have nasal infection. The specialist may suggest an endoscopic sinus surgery.

