 This is so the airbag can deactivate. If you have a radio with a theftlock system, you might want to unlock it first or you will be taking it to the dealer to fix it.
, Some are held on with 7mm screws, push fasteners., These usually pull off and are held in place with clips. Look for screws and be careful as this is plastic., These are usually held on by several bolts., Loop the seatbelt through the steering wheel instead., This is what holds the column to the steering gear. You may have to move the steering wheel to access the bolt. Sometimes this is outside, or inside the vehicle. On many front wheel drive cars with rack and pinion steering, this means dropping the engine cradle 4 inches (10.2 cm) to access it. You may have to peel back a rubber boot to access this as well. Make a note as to how far you had to turn the wheel and return it to the original position after removing the bolt. For example, if you had to turn the wheel 1/2 turn to the right, turn it back 1/2 turn to the left. Use a piece of masking tape or use some other means to keep the wheel from turning after this is disconnected. Turning the wheel too far or losing center can destroy expensive parts., Cars with shifters on the column usually have a cable that runs to the transmission and that could be inside or outside the firewall. Unhook this too., If your ride has a shifter on the column and the shift indicator is mechanical, you will need to make sure you don't break the cable as you lower the column. If you have one of these, make a mark where the clip goes and remove it before you lower the column. Many of these are parts are NLA (no longer available) from the dealer as these were only made through the late 1990s.,, The wheel on the new column needs to be pointed straight ahead. If yours had the mechanical shift indicator, install this on the new part before raising it all the way and cinching it up., Reinstall the boot over the coupler.,,,,, You are responsible for make sure your vehicle is safe to drive.