 It’s common practice to include testimonials from customers in press kits. Since a press kit in this day and age usually means a section of a website, the testimonials are typically general, representing many types of customers. Though it makes sense in that context, if you’re putting together a press kit for a specific event, you’ll be better served by using testimonials from people who are similar to those at the event.If you’re putting together a press kit for an architect’s conference, include testimonials from architects. For example, "Widgetech's widgets have completely changed the way I draw up plans for houses. I'm ten times as productive as I was before Widgetech rolled out the original widget. Now they're at it again, making my success possible. I wouldn't be where I am today without Widgetech."

, It’s becoming more and more common for press kits to include DVDs, CDs, slideshows and (of course) photographs. Adding these components works. Members of the media are far more likely to read press kits containing audio and video elements. Customizing your multimedia for the event you’re boosting maximizes the effectiveness of the strategy.Think of your press kit as a long letter to reporters explaining why and how you and your product should be covered. A non-customized press kit is like a form letter. Just as you probably attach little importance to form letters, reporters will attach less importance to a press kit that isn’t tailored to your event.
So if the new drafting software your firm developed is going to revolutionize the profession of architecture, the video you include in your press kit should talk about that specifically.
Remember to include files of your logo (use a flash drive for a physical packet) with your press kit.
 About a week before your event, send a press release to the publications you expect to cover your event (or hope will cover it). That way, you can avoid getting lost in the crowd of competing press releases on the first day of the event and you give enough lead time to benefit from the pre-event publicity.Conventional wisdom states that you should avoid sending out your press release on Mondays, Fridays, and weekends. The plurality of press releases are sent on Monday or Friday morning, so sending yours on a Thursday afternoon will make it stand out.Don’t try and compete with a big news story. An impending hurricane will always be a bigger story than your product launch.
 Before the event, compile your physical press kits. Since your press kit is available on your website, the physical packet is a little redundant. But most people prefer reading paper to screens, and you want to make it as easy as possible on the people covering your event.


You don’t need to send your packet to a graphic designer, but you should do your best to make your press kit look stylish and notable. It might be competing for attention with several others, and you should use any advantage you can get.

