 To help decrease your hunger, studies have shown that filling up on low or no calorie fluids can help you tame your hunger and eat less.If you are very hungry before a meal, drink a glass of water or have a bowl of broth or vegetable soup. Your stomach will feel physically full and the flavor can trick your brain into thinking it had more to eat.Other beverages to try include: unsweetened coffee or tea, flavored water or a glass of skim milk.
Also be sure to drink enough clear fluids throughout the day. If you don't replace all the fluids that you lose, you could get seriously ill., Eating the right types of foods can also help you manage your hunger throughout the day.


Include lean protein at each meal. Lean protein is great for managing hunger. It takes your body a longer time to digest it and sends signals to your brain that you are satisfied.Be sure to include 1 – 2 servings of lean protein at each meal and snack.
Focus on fiber-rich fruits, vegetables and whole grains. In addition to protein, fiber helps keep your body feeling fuller. It provides bulk and "roughage" to your meals and makes you feel satisfied with less and helps you stay satisfied longer.Examples of meals that are high protein and high fiber include: a grilled salmon salad, chicken or tofu stir-fry with brown rice, or a greek yogurt with fruit and nuts.
 Many studies have shown that having a minty flavor in your mouth can help decrease hunger throughout the day.Brush your teeth after meals! When your mouth feels clean, you will not want to eat and ruin that minty clean feeling. Try bringing a toothbrush with you at work to help prevent snacking during the afternoon.

Chew a stick of gum! A lot of people just want to have something to chew on. Chewing gum can help keep your mind off of eating and help trick your brain that you're eating.
Also try sipping on peppermint tea or sucking on sugar-free peppermint candies. Again, the minty flavor may help decrease your overall hunger.
 Many times feelings of hunger or food cravings hit us all of a sudden. In that moment it can feel like an intense craving that needs to be satisfied instantly.Distracting yourself can help you manage these feelings.


Whether it's your sweet tooth or you're feeling a little bored in the afternoon, use some distraction techniques to get your mind off of food.
Many times cravings only last for 10 minutes or so. Give yourself at least 10 – 20 minutes of a distracting activity before addressing your craving (if you even need to).
Try: cleaning out a junk drawer, folding laundry, going for a short walk, taking a shower, reading a book, answering a few emails or surfing the internet.

