 Always do your homework every day and try not to miss any assignments. Turn in your homework on time no matter what activities come to you. If you don't do your homework, you will have consequences with your teacher. Your teacher doesn't give you homework for no reason, they give you homework so that they can see if you really understood the lesson they taught you. Remember to do your homework neatly, and understandable, not when you are in a rush.;
, When you participate, you will give the teacher a feeling that you study at home and do your homework correctly.
 Get a planner you can bring to school in your backpack and write your homework. Write down when your tests are to remind you to study for it and when some of your assignments are due. You can get a calender and write what you need to do before the due date, as well as what is in the horizon for the next few days.
 You have a calendar, but you also need a weekly schedule, too. Map out your week and see what time your studying can get done. With this schedule, you will know just how much time you can devote to each class and see when you can study for each subject.
 For some classes in middle school, high school, and some junior/community colleges, most of the notes you write will be on tests and in homework. Everything your teacher writes down, make sure you copy it and read it over so you can understand what the teacher is discussing about. Write good and legible notes, you may also use a highlighter when something is really important, so that your eyes can see it easily flipping through your notes.
 Nobody wants to stay all night studying for an upcoming test. Well there's something else you can try: make a study guide and review it over. Look in any of your subject textbooks and grab any important information you need and add it to your study guide. Read the information in the study guide as many times as you need to. Memorize it or at least remember it. Make someone test you in the study guide you made. Talking about the information, and reading it aloud helps too, and makes it easier to remember it. When you explain it to someone, you will not only memorize it, but understand it. Create different ways to study such as making flash cards, joining an after school club, or making a board game to make studying easy and fun. You could also type your notes so it can be easier to read. Do whatever you can to understand what you are studying about.
 If your not sure what is required from a teacher or to get good grades, just go at the end of the day or during class and ask the teacher that you don't understand what was going on in class.The teacher will appreciate your efforts and he/she will start to like you because you tried to ask him/her something that you didn't understand. That's why teachers are teachers, their job is to teach you what you don't understand. A teacher that likes you can be very handy sometimes.

