 Type I and II individuals rarely or never tan and almost always burn in the sun. This makes you very susceptible to skin cancer like carcinoma and melanoma. Follow these guidelines to best protect yourself:Use sunscreen that is SPF 30 or higher on exposed skin every day.
Wear clothing with a UPF rating of 30 or higher.
Stay in the shade whenever possible.
Check your skin every month for changes and growths.
See your healthcare provider yearly for a professional skin checkup.
 Type III individuals sometimes burn in the sun, and sometimes tan. Type IV people tan easily and are less likely to burn, but are still susceptible to skin cancers. Follow these precautions to stay safe in the sun:Wear sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher every day on exposed areas.
Seek the shade between 10am and 4pm when the sun is strongest.
Check your skin every month for changes or growths.
Have an annual skin checkup from your healthcare professional.
 Type V and VI individuals rarely burn, but can still get skin cancer. Follow precautions for Types III and IV – wear sunscreen of SPF 15+ and seek shade between 10am and 4pm. Additionally, you are more likely to get a dangerous type of skin cancer called lentiginous melanoma. This usually occurs on parts of the body that are not exposed to the sun. Follow these precautions to keep yourself safe:Check your skin every month for changes or growths, and get a professional screening yearly.
Pay special attention to suspicious changes on the palms of your hands, soles of your feet, and mucous membranes like your lips.
 Skin Types IV, V, and VI have a higher risk for hyperpigmentation (patches of skin getting darker) and hypopigmentation (patches of skin getting lighter). This can be caused by the sun or by inflammation from some illnesses or medical procedures. If you’re one of these skin types, consult a dermatologist about your risk for pigment changes before doing any of the following:Getting a chemical peel
Using tretinoin (retinoic acid); retinol may be a safer alternative
Using a lightening treatment with hydroquinone
Getting laser or IPL (intense pulsed light) treatment

, You also have an increased risk of scarring and developing keloids or raised scars if you’re Type IV, V, or VI.Keep any healing wound moist while it heals – drying out increases the risk of scarring. Use antibiotic ointment like neosporin or petroleum jelly over the area.


Type III individuals also have a slightly increased risk for pigment changes and scarring, though not as much as Types IV-VI.

