 Wipe away the excess discharge when you go to the bathroom. Try not to get the wipe too far into your vagina; you should only be cleaning the outside (vulva). Use wipes which are unscented and contain as few chemicals as possible.
 Changing your underwear 2-3 times a day can help the problem. This will help keep bacteria away from your vagina and will also reduce your discomfort and the smell.


Make sure you're wearing the right kind of underwear, since wearing the wrong kind can even be causing the problem! Wear cotton underwear with good ventilation (meaning those skinny jeans you wear can also be causing the problem).
 Try to get as much air exposure as possible. Sleep naked or walk around your house without pants or underwear if you can. The air will help keep your skin from becoming irritated and decreasing opportunities for infection. It can also help treat the problem itself, if your body simply has an imbalance of bacteria, since it will give your body the opportunity to restore itself to normal.
 Generally you want to avoid these, as usually your body creates the discharge to get rid of something and keeping that something close to your body is not the best idea. However, if you are in a situation where you really need to keep the discharge in check or the discharge is so bad it cannot be controlled, you can use a pad or pantyliner. Try to change it as often as possible.


Don't use douches. Many douches that are bought at the store contain "scents" or soaps, these may make you feel cleaner in the short term, but in the long run will actually make the problem worse. They will disrupt the natural pH of your vagina and cause it to work overtime to get back to its normal state.
 Many herbal remedies are effective in eradicating the infection of vaginal mucosa. Many of them also have astringent action to reduce the flow of abnormal discharge.


Herbs like Pippali are believed to cleanse your body by eliminating infection causing organisms from your body.
Herbs like Saraca ashoka, Symplocos racemosa, Cyperus rotundus, Ficus benghalensis, vetiveria zizanioides, Andropogon muricatus and Acacia confusa reduce the vaginal discharge due to their astringent properties.
Herbs such as Cimicifuga Racemosa assist in eradication of fungal infection and for reducing inflammation, which is associated with leucorrhoea.

