 Liquid lipsticks are matte and very drying to the lips. For a successful application, it’s important to start off with freshly scrubbed and well-moisturized lips. You can whip up a homemade lip scrub or use an extra toothbrush with soft bristles to gently exfoliate your lips. Finish up by applying a moisturizing lip balm.Before scrubbing with the toothbrush, rub on a little Vaseline first to protect your lips. Be sure to rinse it off completely.
Aside from being long lasting and highly pigmented, matte lipsticks have zero shimmer. When you add the metallic stripe with liquid eyeliner, it will really pop next to the flat matte color.;
, Creating your faux lip ring will be the finishing touch on your look, so go ahead and apply all of your face makeup as usual. Don’t apply lip gloss or lipstick yet. If you want to tie the look together, add metallic accents to your eye makeup that match the color of your faux lip ring., Right before you start working on your lips, add one last layer of moisturizing balm to them. Remember, liquid lipsticks are very drying, so your lips are going to need the moisture to carry the look.Once you have the lipstick on, however, it should last for 6 to 8 hours. The additional prep time will be worth it!, Put the lipstick on your top lip, as usual. When you get to the bottom lip, fill most of it in with the lipstick, but leave a tiny vertical stripe right down the middle bare. Work carefully and make the little line as even as possible to get the most authentic-looking result. This negative space is where the metallic “ring” will be placed.Allow the liquid lipstick to dry and set before adding the metallic stripe.
Kat Von D’s latest Everlasting Liquid Lipstick is one of the most popular products used for this look. However, there are other options. Whatever brand you choose, aim for a highly pigmented matte formula lip color.
 You can create the ring with a variety of makeup products, but the most vibrant and long lasting choice is a waterproof liquid eyeliner in a metallic shade like silver, gold or copper. Start the line at the top center of your bottom lip. Carefully draw the line down toward the bottom of your lip.Try to follow the contour of your lip rather than drawing a straight, one-dimensional line in the negative space.
 Press your lips together lightly. Make sure the line starts between where your lips meet, so that the illusion of a ring is created. Likewise, ensure the line extends down past your lower lip line slightly. It needs to appear as though it connects there, on the skin under your lip, where a real piercing would be.
 This look is typically rocked with a highly pigmented lip color, like bright red or pink. However, if bright lipstick isn’t your style, try drawing the metallic stripe onto bare lips. The faux ring won’t pop visually in the same way it does next to a bright lip color, but it will look more natural and create a similar effect., Don’t limit yourself to typical red and pink lipstick shades. Liquid lipstick formulas come in many experimental hues, such as deep royal blue, orange, purple, gray, sky blue and a lot more. Apply them just as you would a regular lipstick color, leaving the vertical line open for the metallic “ring.”, Try a blue or purple metallic shade instead. Choose a lipstick in a complementary color to create an interesting contrast. To tie it all together, apply that same blue or purple metallic shade on your eyelids.