 The two most popular red dye brands are Schwarzkopf and L'oreal, but a trip to your local drugstore beauty aisle will reveal dozens of reliable and affordable dyes. This step can be overwhelming since there are so many options. Read the descriptions on boxes that grab your attention.


Decide if you want semi-permanent dye or permanent dye. Semi-permanent dye lasts about 4 weeks, and permanent dye lasts about 6.
If you have trouble deciding, try looking up different brands on Google. Who has the best reviews?
Watch out for allergies. Some people may be allergic at-home dye, so if you’ve never dyed your hair before, place a small drop of dye on your skin before dyeing your hair. If there is no reaction, you’re good to go.;
, The most important part of being a redhead is getting that perfect shade of red. Many sources caution against changing your hair two shades lighter or darker at home. If you want a very drastic change, consider going to a salon.Take your time in the store aisle picking a color.Think about how drastic you want your color to be and what different shades of red look like with your skin.


The rule of thumb is the darker your skin, the darker your shade of red should be, but it is really up to your personal style.If you’re already a redhead, choose a color that is different from your natural color. This way, the difference is noticeable. If you’re strawberry blonde, go more ginger. If you’re deep red, try auburn.
Brunettes will have a hard time going lighter than their natural hair color.If you have brunette hair and do not want to bleach it, choose a shade of red just as dark or darker than your natural color.
If you have lots of white hair, consider going to a salon instead of using an at-home dye.Each red pigment attaches differently to each white hair, and only a professional can make this into an even color.
At-home dyes look especially natural on those with blonde hair., Follow the instructions on the box. The steps for dyeing your hair will vary from brand to brand, so read and follow the instructions carefully.At-home dyes often come with all the materials you need, such as gloves. They should also include anything you need to mix with the dye itself. Gather a few old sheets or towels to cover your clothes and floor just in case dye drips anywhere.


Dyeing your hair should take about 45 minutes, but it depends on how quickly you can get the dye in your hair. Asking a friend for help speeds up this process. They can also reach parts of your scalp that you cannot.
Don’t rush through the dyeing process—this might cause you to miss parts of your hair!
Immediately wipe any drops of dye that fall on your skin, as these drops will stain your skin.
Longer hair may require two boxes of dye.

