 If you already have customers who are engaged in your business and buying your products, you may want to offer other products or services that complement your existing products. If you have a clothing line, for example, you may diversify by selling accessories like shoes and bags to complement your clothing line. This will allow you to have multiple revenue streams and increase the inventory of your business.You may also focus on providing additional services at your business. If you own a car garage, for example, you may offer car detailing and custom cleaning services for cars to complement your main revenue source.
 Expand your business, and your profits, by offering tours of your business location or classes that relate to your business production. Focus on giving customers access to your business in new and interactive ways, as this will improve your customer base and expand your business model.This option is especially beneficial for speciality businesses, such as a high end bakery or a custom pottery shop. You could offer night classes on making certain baked goods or hold tours of the custom pottery shop that shows off the artistic process of the shop’s artisans.
Farms, wineries, and other agricultural businesses can also benefit from tours. Customers may be interested in the production methods of crops or welfare of animals.
 Exporting means selling your products overseas to vendors. This is a popular option for businesses who make products with a wide appeal or that can be manufactured cheaply and quickly. Exporting can greatly increase your customer base and act as a steady form of expansion.The United States and the UK have guidelines around exporting products overseas, as well as tactics to doing exports right for your business. Contact your local small business bureau to find out more about exporting your products overseas.
 If your current market is working well for your business, consider other markets that you can tap into. Start by identifying the demographic that buys most of your products and then think about other ways that you can engage with this demographic through other markets.If you make a product that appeals to teenagers and college students, for example, consider where these age groups spend the most time. You may then market your products to school clubs and school associations, as well as other local spots in your area where young people tend to hand out.
You should also focus on appealing to the online market, if your business does not already do this. Make sure your business has a strong online presence and that your products are accessible for online users. If you have an online site, for example, consider creating an online store where you can sell and ship your products directly to customers in a matter of seconds.
 Social media is huge for businesses, especially businesses that appeal to a younger demographic. Generate traffic to your business’ website and social media pages by posting updates on products and events regularly. Crowdsource for funding for your business, if needed, by using a crowdsourcing website. Keep in constant touch with your customer base through social media, as these customers can be a powerful force and help your business expand online.