 This breed has a thick double coat that requires regular grooming to maintain a good look and your pet's health. You will need to brush your Miniature Schnauzer at least once per week to keep his fur free of tangles and to remove dead hair.


Use a slicker brush to brush your mini Schnauzer’s body and use a stainless steel greyhound comb for his eyebrows and beard., Grooming a miniature Schnauzer is a lot of work. If you plan to maintain your Miniature Schnauzer’s fur on your own, then you may want to ask for a demonstration by a groomer or by your dog’s breeder. Otherwise, you will need to take your Miniature Schnauzer to a groomer for regular trims., Miniature Schnauzers require regular baths to keep their wiry coats soft and smooth. You may need to bathe your dog as often as once per week or just once per month.Make sure that you pay close attention to your Miniature Schnauzer’s beard. Comb the beard daily and keep it clean by wiping away any food or dirt that gets into your miniature schnauzer’s beard.
 Keeping your Miniature Schnauzer’s ears clean will help to prevent infections and wax buildup. Check your dog’s ears a few times per week and clean the outer ear with a damp (not wet) soft cloth.


If you notice any debris or wax buildup in your his ears, make an appointment for him to see your veterinarian.
 Miniature Schnauzers have strong, fast-growing nails that require regular trims.Plan to trim your nails about once every couple of weeks.


You can use a special guillotine style nail trimmer or a nail grinder.
Do not cut the quick when you trim your Miniature Schnauzer’s nails. The quick is a sensitive blood vessel within your dog’s nails and it will be painful for him if you hit it.
Trim only a little of the nail at a time to avoid hitting the quick. Check the trimmed area after each trim to see if you can detect a circle just beneath the surface. If you can see a circle, then the quick is near. Stop trimming if you notice the quick.Your dog’s veterinarian or groomer can trim your dog’s nails if you are worried about hurting him. Try asking for a demonstration the next time you visit your dog’s veterinarian or groomer to learn how to give your dog a safe nail trim.
 Miniature Schnauzers may end up with dental problems from poor oral hygiene. That is why it is important to brush your dog’s teeth. Make sure that you use a special toothpaste that is meant for dogs. Do not use human toothpaste because it can make your dog sick. 