 For mild cases of hives, the most common and effective way to treat the hives is to soak the hives in lukewarm water or with a cool compress. For any case of hives, avoid any rubbing or itching because it makes hives worse.Soak a cloth in lukewarm water and press it to the affected area. If you have hives all over your body, soak in a tub of lukewarm water. Soak the area for ten to twenty minutes.
Soak a cloth in cold water or place a wet cloth in the refrigerator. Place the compress soaked in cool water against the affected and itchy area.
 For a case of hives that is moderate, antihistamines are often used. Antihistamines are designed to block histamine, which leads to the hives.These may be over-the-counter medications your purchased at the drugstore or prescription antihistamines you got from your doctor. Antihistamines you can use include:Sedating antihistamines like Brompheniramine (Dimetane), Chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton), and Diphenhydramine (Benadryl)
Non-sedating antihistamines like Cetirizine (Zyrtec, Zyrtec-D), Clemastine (Tavist), Fexofenadine (Allegra, Allegra D), and Loratadine (Claritin, Claritin D, Alavert)
OTC corticosteroids in nasal sprays, like Triamcinolone acetonide (Nasacort), and prescription corticosteroids including Prednisone, Prednisolone, Cortisol, and Methylprednisolone
Mast-cell stabilizers, such as Cromolyn sodium (Nasalcrom)
Leukotriene inhibitors like Montelukast (Singulair)
Topical immune-modulating substances like Tacrolimus (Protopic) and Pimecrolimus (Elidel)

, A number of herbs and supplements have natural anti-inflammatory activity. You may be able to prevent hives by taking these natural supplements daily. Follow manufacturer’s instructions on the dosage. Do not use these remedies for children under the age of five unless under the care of a physician.


Rutin is a natural bioflavonoid found in citrus fruits and buckwheat. It can function to reduce inflammation and swelling by limiting the leakage from blood vessels.Follow manufacturer’s instructions for dosages.
Quercetin, which is produced in the body from rutin, can also be effective in reducing inflammation and swelling. In addition, quercetin has been found to be more effective than the prescription drug cromolyn in blocking histamine release.Follow manufacturer’s instructions for dosages.
Bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapples. Bromelain can help reduce the swelling of hives.You can take bromelain as a supplement as instructed by the manufacturer’s directions.
Coleus forskohlii is used in Ayurvedic medicine and has been found to reduce histamine and leukotriene release from mast cells.Follow manufacturer’s instructions for dosages as a supplement.
Nettles have been traditionally used to treat hives.The scientific name of nettles is Urtica dioica, and the term urticaria is derived from that name. Make a cup of nettles tea using one teaspoon of the dried herb in a cup of water, and allow it to cool. Use as often as needed, usually about three to four cups a day.
 Anaphylaxis is a severe, sometimes life-threatening, allergic reaction that may sometimes occur with the appearance of hives. In rare cases, hives can cause swelling in the throat and can cause an emergency situation that requires epinephrine. Epinephrine can also be used as an EpiPen in those who are severely allergic to a particular substance and require epinephrine to avoid anaphylaxis.The symptoms of an anaphylactic reaction include:

Skin rashes which may include hives. There may be itching and flushed or pale skin.
A sense of warmth
The sensation or feeling of a lump in the throat
Wheezing or other difficulty in breathing
A swollen tongue or throat
A rapid pulse and heartbeat
Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea
Dizziness or fainting


If you or anyone you know experience any of these symptoms, get immediate medical care.
If your child or another loved one has a prescription for an EpiPen, make sure you know where it is and how to use it. Talk to your physician and pharmacist to get instructions on when and how to use these.
 If hives become a chronic or long-term problem, you should ask your physician for a referral to a specialist. An allergist can test you in order to determine, if possible, the cause of your allergic reaction.These allergy tests will cover foods, plants, chemicals, insects, and insect bites.

