 This is rarely the problem, but it only takes a second to check. Twist the light bulb gently to tighten it in position. If the bulb moved noticeably, plug in the lights and see if a loose connection was causing the issue. Assuming the bulb is still out, continue to the next step.


If you have many lights, buy a string of bulbs of the same brand and type. Keep it in storage and twist off the bulbs to use as replacements when you need them.
 If you don't have any replacements, take along the burnt-out bulbs to a hardware store, pharmacy, or home improvement store. Look for bulbs that match as closely as possible. Ideally, check the packaging your lights came in to see what type of bulb is needed.


Some bulbs are flashers, and when installed, will cause lights to flash on and off. There is no need to have two flashers on the same circuit, as they may cause unusual on / off timings.
 Use your thumb and index finger to delicately put pressure on each of the broken light's plastic base, to remove the fragile bulbs. If you have a Christmas light repair tool, it may come with a small grip for this purpose.


In order to remove a broken Christmas bulb from its socket, find the two copper wires that sit on the base of the old bulb, noting their position on the base.
Push both of the copper wires down, so that they are pointing towards your floor, and the bulb is pointing towards the ceiling.
Pull upward on the bulb, and it should now be separated from the light's base.
 Make sure the two copper wires are completely aligned with the holes in the bulb's base. Once the bulb is fully seated in the base, fold the copper wires against the base in the same position as noted above. Plug in your lights and watch them glow.


If you used a continuity/voltage detector tool, and your lights still won't turn on, use the tool again. There may be a second burned-out bulb. These tools can only detect one burned out bulb at a time.
 If a new bulb still won't light up, your socket may be corroded or the wire may be damaged nearby. Removing this is not as difficult as it sounds, although each bulb you remove will cause the remaining bulbs to burn more brightly and therefore burn out sooner though removing one or two bulbs should be fine. (Note that a damaged wire or a repair using this method, unless done well, may present an electric shock or fire hazard.) Follow this method:


Unplug the lights.
Using wire cutters, cut the wire on either side of the broken socket. (Do not cut the other two wires.)
With a wire stripper, strip about ½ inch (1.25cm) of insulation from each cut end.
Twist the two strands of wire together.
Get a twist connector from an electronics store (a small conical cap). Twist this over the wire, holding it in place.

