 Although everyone experiences grief in different ways, everyone feels some form of depression, sadness, anger, disbelief, and loneliness. When the death is because of suicide you may experience some of the expected feelings of grief as well as other feelings like guilt. Allowing yourself to have these feelings will help you accept the suicide of your own child.It is normal to go through the stages of grief (for example, denial, shock, and anger). You may also feel guilt, shame, or confusion because your child died from suicide.
Don’t try to stop yourself from feeling these things. It is a part of the grieving process that you have to go through.
You may have some physical signs of grief like headaches, nausea, or nightmares.;
, There will be times that you feel your emotions are overwhelming you. Using mindfulness techniques can help you accept the suicide of your own child by helping you cope with the stress and anxiety of the situation.Start by taking some few deep breaths. This help you to calm down.
Close your eyes if you need to, then slowly inhale and exhale a few times.
Don’t try to stop how you are feeling. Just experience each emotion as it comes., Write in your journal daily to express your emotions and accept the suicide of your child. Use the journal as a place to express everything you are going through and feel.


Write about your regrets and fears as well as moments of peace and acceptance.
Write about memories you have of your child that make you laugh, smile, or even cry.
 Your friends and family can do a great deal to help you accept the suicide of your child, so let them. Turn to them for help with everyday things, but also for help handling your feelings.Don’t be afraid to ask someone to come and just sit with you. You can say, “I just need someone to be present with me right now.”
Tell someone close to you when things are going very bad for you. Talk to them about your feelings.
For example, you might say, “I’m really having a hard time accepting this right now. Can I talk to you about how I’m feeling?”
Talk to your spiritual or religious leader. They can offer you guidance and support during this time.
 Being around and talking to people that have also experienced the suicide of their child can help you cope with your own feelings. Their experiences, stories, and wisdom can help you accept the suicide of your own child.


Visit Bereaved Parents of the USA to find a support group in your area.
Turn to your support group when you are having an especially hard time coping.
If you can’t handle going out right now, join an online forum. My Grief Angels offer a directory of support groups on their website., Because the suicide of a child can be truly devastating, talking to a therapist, spiritual leader, or psychologist will help you accept the suicide of your own child.Professionals can give you the support you need and provide other ways to help you accept the suicide.
If you witnessed the suicide or found your child’s body you are likely experiencing additional trauma. Talking to a professional is definitely advised in this situation.