 To find a breeder with a solid reputation contact your local Border Collie association or the AKC. The AKC, in particular, will put you in touch with a specialist who will help you reach out to breeders. You can also ask your vet for recommendations or attend a local dog show.Of course, if you know someone who owns a great Collie one of the best options is just to ask them where they got their dog. This is a great way to get a personal reference and inside information about a breeder.
If you are purchasing a Collie as a work dog it is a good idea to attend an agricultural meeting or trial in your area. You can find information on these gathering through the United States Border Collie Handlers Association website.Be aware that if you are purchasing from a breeder you will not likely get to choose an adult dog. Most breeders only sell puppies and these are only released after they reach a minimum of eight weeks of age.
 Plan to ask breeders a number of questions regarding their level of personal experience and the way that they take care of the dogs. A good breeder should be able to tell you almost anything about the pros and cons of Collies. They should also give you specific information regarding the litter in question. You can also ask about their caretaking philosophy.You might ask, “How many litters do you raise per year?” A good breeder will tell you 1-2 litters per year. You could inquire about their professional certifications. Many breeders will belong to local canine organizations or branches of the AKC.
Your breeder should also provide you with a list of personal and professional references. These should include a vet who can verify any pertinent medical records. Satisfied customers are also good references. And, it is even better if your breeder has other breeders who are willing to provide references.
 It is best if you can visit the breeding facility at least once, if not more, before finalizing the purchase of your puppy. It is also important to bring your family members, including children, with you if you can. When you are at the facility take a tour of the grounds paying attention to cleanliness and the animal’s housing.A good kennel facility should be orderly and spacious, allowing the dog’s plenty of room for exercise. The food and water bowls should be clean. A particular bathroom area should be established with evidence that the feces are picked up and disposed of regularly. The facility should smell clean.
Observe how the dogs react to the breeder as well. This will give you an idea regarding how well they are socialized. The dogs should be happy to greet the breeder and should display no aggressive behaviors. Watch to see if any dogs hang back or act frightened as this can be the sign of a poor breeding environment.
 Make sure to meet at least the mother dog (dam) when you visit the facility. Observe her behavior to see if she is a pleasant companion animal. This, after all, is an adult version of what your puppy will become. Look to see if she is well taken care of and if she is in good health.
 You should always try to get a choice between a number of puppies. When you visit try to interact with your puppy options to see how they are socialized and how they behave amongst their littermates. You want to select a puppy that is neither dominant nor shy. Go for the middle-of-the-road in terms of personality for the safest bet., The breeder should provide health documents from an independent agency showing that your puppy’s relatives have been tested and shown to be clear of genetic abnormalities. For Border Collies, in particular, you want to see a clearance from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA). This will lessen the possibility of purchasing a collie with a potential for hip dysplasia., After all the details are ironed out the breeder will provide you with a written contract. Spend some time looking over this document and ask any questions that you have. The contract will likely include the purchase price and pick-up details as well as return information if the puppy just doesn’t work out.

