 Sometimes, when you hit a wall, the best way to address it is by going in a different direction. Experts suggest learning something new to overcome mental blocks, so take advantage of this advice and force your brain to look at the problem in a novel way.Try to walk a friend through what you’re doing. Encourage them to ask questions. Having to step back and view your problem from a different perspective may help you derive at a creative solution.
 You can experience a mental block due to feeling overwhelmed by the size and scope of a project. If this is happening to you, stop looking at the project as a whole and focus on one part at a time. Doing this relieves stress and boosts productivity.For example, if you are tasked with building a website, you might start by getting a sheet of paper and drawing up a rough draft of what you want it to look like. Then, go in and build the basic structure, add security and software, and then add content and finishing details.
 It may seem counterintuitive, but one way to get some perspective on your problem is by reconnecting with the desired outcome. You may have hit a wall because you are getting caught up on details. If this is the case, it can help to visualize your end goal and disregard the details for the time being.Close your eyes and take a few deep breaths. Now, use your senses to envision yourself accomplishing your desired goal. For instance, if your goal is to write a book, see yourself sending a final manuscript to a publisher. Imagine all the energy that you feel around you and inside you—the sounds, sensations, and sights.
Once that image is firm in your mind, envision the process of getting there. See yourself completing every single action from outlining and researching to revising and designing a cover jacket.
 Another method for changing the way you’re looking at your problem is by seeking out advice. This may seem like an obvious solution, but many people overlook the resources at their fingertips. Activate your social network and reach out to a few friends or colleagues who may be able to help.You might say, “I’m working on a project and seem to have a hit a wall. Can you offer any advice?”

