 Essential oil can be replaced with fragrance oil for a cheaper quality and price perfume. Fragrance oils however are not natural and do not make a natural perfume. Essential oil can easily be found in a craft store or health food store. Craft store 'essential oils' are most often not natural either, but are fine if being all natural does not matter to you. Store your perfume in a small glass or plastic container. You can buy a container with a sprayer at almost any local craft store. You might also be able to find vintage perfume bottles at thrift stores or flea markets.;
, To start, try mixing ¼ cup of straight vodka with 5 drops of an essential fragrance or oil of your choice. Depending on how strong you want the perfume, you can let the mixture stand for as little as 48 hours all the way to a month. The longer it stands, the stronger it will be. After your perfume has sat for your preferred time, add 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of the diluted water. If the perfume is too strong for you, you can add more water to get your desired scent strength. To make your scent last longer, add a tablespoon of glycerin to your perfume mixture. Glycerin is a neutral, colorless, thick liquid. It can be found anywhere soap making supplies are found. When added to water and alcohol, glycerin remains liquid and helps the other ingredients dissolve faster and better.
 The first is base notes, which will stay longest on your skin. Base notes include oils such as vanilla, cinnamon, and sandalwood. The second of the notes are middle notes, which add to the scent for a while, but not as long as the base notes. These oils include lemon-grass, geranium, neroli, and ylang-ylang. The last of the notes are the top notes which do what they say, they top off the scent. The top notes do not last as long as the other two notes, but add to the scent significantly. The top notes include oils such as rose, lavender, jasmine, bergamot, and orchard. When making a perfume of more than one scent, add the base note oil first. Follow the base note with the middle note oil, and finish with the top note oil.
 There are many recipes for perfume online. While playing with scents can be fun, it can also be frustrating if you cannot get the desired scent you want. The website, PioneerThinking, contains some great recipes for beginners. The names are even better than what the designers name their perfumes. Now that you know the basics of perfume making, feel free to give them as birthday or Christmas gifts. Who wouldn't love their own signature perfume, especially if it is named after them? Spritz away!

,