 Many soups and stews include beans and other legumes as staple ingredients. You can substitute legumes for meat, or even just minimize the meat content by including more legumes. Cooked legumes – like kidney beans, black beans, and fava beans – are great additions for most soups and stews.

Chili is a great source of legumes too. Most recipes include at least one kind of bean – usually kidney beans or pinto beans.Try whipping up a mouth-watering minestrone soup full of a variety of legumes and vegetables., Many common side dishes and dips are made from cooked or ground up legumes, especially in Mediterranean cuisine. Hummus is made out of ground up chickpeas. Eating hummus is a great way to add more legumes to your diet. And it goes well with other healthy foods like pita chips, carrot sticks, or celery.Refried beans are also often made into a chip dip and are an excellent source of legumes.
You could also try spicy edamame dip paired with pita chips or regular chips.
 Many traditional Mexican foods include cooked black beans or other lentils as main ingredients. In addition to refried bean dip, you can include cooked black beans in burritos, enchiladas, tacos, nachos, and even quesadillas.Mexican cuisine even uses these cooked lentils as a meat substitute, making the meal even more healthy.
 Instead of eating meat for every meal, try choosing a soy-based product like tofu that is actually much healthier. Soy is a type of legume, so this is a great way to add legumes to your diet.

You can typically find other soy-based meat-imitation products like soy and vegetable patties, soy nuggets, etc.
 Most veggie burger patties are made with some kind of legume mixed with some vegetables. Ground up chickpeas or lentils are typically used as a base for a veggie patty. You can even try to make them at home! Just grind up some chickpeas in a food processor, thrown in some diced veggies, squish them into a patty shape, and lightly fry them on the stove.This is also a great meat alternative, and a healthier option than a regular burger.

