 Paying attention to the traffic around you, frequently surveying your mirrors, and anticipating what other drivers are going to do is the most important step to becoming a courteous and safe driver.;
, This is no 1950s drag race. Proving your need for speed leads to dangerous circumstances between your car and other cars. You should almost always be in the right-most lane, except when passing others. The exceptions would be if you are anticipating a left turn, or a left-sided exit on the expressway. Staying in the right-most lane will allow others traveling faster than you to get around you safely and avoid them having to pass you on the right side, which is discouraged as it is not as safe a maneuver.
 Notify other drivers of your intent to turn or to change lanes early enough that they are able to take appropriate action. Sitting at a red light is NOT the right time to turn on your blinker; if you had done so earlier, the person behind you would have been able to change lanes and avoid sitting behind you when the light turns green.
 Also, time your entry into an intersection so that you don't get caught blocking it once the light turns red (i.e. "don't block the box").
 If the light turns yellow and you have enough space to stop safely, then stop. Cyclists, pedestrians, and even other drivers expect you to be completely stopped by the time the light turns red. You endanger yourself and others by running yellow lights, only to save a minute or two, it simply isn't worth it.
 Do not, however, suddenly slam the brakes in moving traffic in order to let a driver enter. This will most likely lead to a fender bender or worse, a collision from the unsuspecting driver behind you. This occurred at least once, killing the driver who drove behind the car that had suddenly braked in constantly moving traffic. Drivers in moving traffic never expect a sudden brake. Be extremely careful.
 You should keep at least 2 to 4 seconds distance between you and the person in front of you. You can use the signs or the paint dashes to judge this distance. Perhaps if the vehicle in front suddenly stalls or stops, you as a driver have enough room to stop safely, or turn into the next lane without causing a backup in traffic. Other weather-related conditions, such as snow and rain, also make it wise to prevent collisions by keeping a safe distance behind for slippery, sliding and swerving cars.
 Their minds focus on retrieving their ball in the street or catching up to friends by suddenly crossing roads on bikes, for instance. When driving through residential streets, be wary of unpredictable objects and people in the streets.
 When passing a semi-truck, keep in mind that the truck driver has more difficulty braking. It is best to wait until you can see the truck in your rear-view mirror before completing a pass. Also avoid remaining beside a truck when in multi-lane traffic, if you cannot see the truck driver through his/her mirror, then he/she cannot see you.
 Senior citizens need to drive just like everyone else. This is especially the case when they have no other means to obtain essentials. Most senior citizens, however, tend to prefer driving during early afternoons when there is less traffic and more daylight. When driving behind a senior citizen, always keep a safe distance and watch for unexpected moves, such as lane changes. Some seniors may change lanes without prior signaling.
 Odds are there's an accident, stalled car, or on the shoulder someone is pulled over, broken down car etc. By doing so you make yourself less prone to be in a secondary accident and it helps people who are in a dangerous or bad situation.
 Accidents happen, but you can take a few steps to prevent many of them from occurring, either to yourself or others. By understanding the way various drivers react, you will have a better grasp of how to be a better driver. The best drivers learn to anticipate possible changes in traffic, and prepare for them in advance by adjusting their speed, their lane/direction, or where their attention is directed.
 It will depend on what you did and the traffic conditions as to the offense. Not all officers are out to write tickets.
 You will get nailed no matter how many cars you pass.

