 They might flirt a little, blush, and act differently (shy, awkward, gregarious, or however they respond to crushes). They may find themselves grinning or blushing because of something the other character did.;
, Maybe she feels a twinge of sadness when she hears that he won't be at the party, and she isn't quite sure why. Or he's walking in the woods and his thoughts keep drifting to her.


A little goes a long way. Even a brief mention or two can catch readers' attentions. Don't feel like you need to write five pages of reflection on how smitten he is with her.
 When they have scenes together, readers will be able to see what makes their relationship work. Show how they interact with each other—being silly, facing crises, working out problems, et cetera. This will build their relationship and make it clearer why a kiss is a good idea.
 In a positive relationship (budding or otherwise), two characters will support each other and treat each other with compassion. Show that they will help each other through the bad times and cheer them on when things go well. Let them be there for each other.


Ryan skips basketball practice to watch Maria in the school spelling bee. He is ecstatic when she wins and Maria realizes how much she matters to him.
Jessica never met LaBron's mother. But when LaBron calls in tears, saying his mom is at the hospital, Jessica drops everything she's doing and drives over as quickly as she can.
When Amy goes missing, Keesha helps search for her. Keesha finds her at her thinking place, listens compassionately to her frustrations, and encourages her to come back home because her parents are worried.
 In a solid relationship, both partners care about the other's feelings, like the other person for who they are, and always get clear consent before kissing. The partners should be equals.


If someone consents to a kiss, they may talk about kissing ("So are you going to kiss me?"), lean in close, smile, bite their lip, and use other nonverbal signals to show they want a kiss. Someone has not consented if they were completely passive (e.g. looking uncertain, not realizing the other person wanted a kiss) or if they were crying or actively resisting.
If this isn't a good relationship, then maybe they don't respect each other. Maybe he acts possessive and controlling, she doesn't respect who he is and wants to change him, or he kisses her without getting clear consent first.

