 Insurance brokerage is a growing industry.You can search for jobs using job search websites or by applying directly to local brokerage firms. Research what firms operate in your area and what lines of authority they specialize in.


Occasionally, brokerage firms hire people who have not yet been licensed, and they train them. You may want to search for an Illinois company that offers a training program before applying for a license on your own.
If you know of a local firm, you can contact them to see if they have any job openings.
You may find it helpful to attend an event or tradeshow held by the Independent Insurance Agents of Illinois. These events can help you network and meet important employers in the industry., If you are not contracted as an agent, you may be required to hold a bond of $2,500 or 5 percent of the last year's brokered premiums--whichever is higher. This is required to insure your work as a broker, and it must be held in the place of business. You can get this bond through an authorized surety company.To get a bond, contact an authorized surety company. The type of bond you need is called an insurance producer's bond. While premiums vary, you can find ones that go for under $100 for the basic $2,500 bond.
 You are required to submit proof of 24 hours of CE to the Department of Insurance before you renew your license. Of these, three credit hours must be an ethics course taught in a classroom (not online).It takes two weeks for CE credits to appear on your license. Plan your CE courses accordingly so that you can still renew your license on time without any delays.
The Independent Insurance Agents of Illinois offer continuing education courses for members., You will need to renew your license every one to two years, based on the type of license that you have. Your license will state the expiration date. You can renew through either an online or paper application. Before you renew, you will have to have completed all of your required CE courses for the year. Your renewal period begins 90 days before the expiration of your license.The State of Illinois strongly recommends that you apply online as the paper application can take up to ten weeks to process.

