 The first step in improving your posture is learning what good posture feels like. Many people have formed bad posture habits over years or decades, so what feels comfortable may not be good posture.


Stand in front of a mirror facing sideways for the first portion of the test. Put on a belt if you do not already have 1 on already, as it will help you diagnose problems. Stand up as you normally would, so you can accurately assess your posture. Look at your belt to see if it is level all the way around your body. If the back of your belt is higher, then your pelvis is likely tilted forward from sitting regularly. This creates a swayback position that hyper extends your knees and over arches your lower back. To correct this, tilt your pelvis backwards. This is called "tucking your pelvis" and requires you to flex your lower abdominal muscles as you tip your pelvis until your belt is even. Then, bend your knees very slightly.
Test your shoulder posture. Stand with your back to a flat wall. When your back touches the wall, if only your lower shoulder blades touch the wall, you have slumped shoulders, a condition with computer workers that often results in breathing problems and chronic back and neck pain. To fix this, squeeze your shoulder blades together and drop them down away from your ears. Check that your pelvis and knees are still in the correct position.
Check your head and neck posture. If the back of your head does not automatically touch the wall as you stand against it, you probably suffer from forward head posture from leaning toward your computer. To correct this, tuck your chin and touch the back of your head to the wall. Pay attention that you do not arch your neck. Tucking your chin should lengthen the back of your neck and force your eyes to automatically look straight across from you.
Repeat this test 3 to 4 times per day, correcting your posture. Once you know what good posture feels like, you can create a better work environment that will foster better posture.;
