 The symptoms and appearance of hives can be very short-lived, lasting only minutes, to very long term. The symptoms and appearance of hives can last for months and years. Hives can also appear on any area of the body, though the most common are the raised, itchy bumps that appear in the same area that was exposed to the allergen.


They are usually round, though hives can appear to “merge” into what looks like a large, irregularly shaped welt., The diagnosis of hives is generally straightforward and requires only a visual examination. If you were unable to find the allergen causing your hives on your own, your doctor can run tests when you are diagnosed to determine what causes your hives. He or she does this by performing an allergy test that test for skin reactions to a variety of substances.


If this method does not work, you may also need blood tests and a skin biopsy to examine the skin under a microscope., For a case of hives that is mild to moderate, antihistamines are often used. These may be over the counter medications or prescription antihistamines. These include:


Sedating antihistamines like Brompheniramine (Dimetane), Chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton) and Diphenhydramine (Benadryl).
Non-sedating antihistamines like Cetirizine (Zyrtec, Zyrtec-D), Clemastine (Tavist), Fexofenadine (Allegra, Allegra D) and Loratadine (Claritin, Claritin D, Alavert).
Over the counter corticosteroids in nasal sprays (Nasacort) and prescription corticosteroids including Prednisone, Prednisolone, Cortisol, and Methylprednisolone.
Mast-cell stabilizers such as Cromolyn sodium (Nasalcrom).
Leukotriene inhibitors like Montelukast (Singulair).
Topical immune-modulating substances (Protopic) and Pimecrolimus (Elidel)., In rare cases, hives can cause swelling in the throat and can cause an emergency situation that requires epinephrine. Epinephrine can also be used as an EpiPen in those who are severely allergic to a particular substance and require epinephrine to avoid anaphylaxis, which is a severe allergic reaction that may occur with or without the appearance of hives. The symptoms of an anaphylactic reaction include:


Skin rashes which may include hives, itching, and flushed or pale skin.
A sense of warmth.
The sensation or feeling a lump in the throat.
Wheezing or other difficulty in breathing.
A swollen tongue or throat.
A rapid pulse and heartbeat.
Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.
Dizziness or fainting.