 This is the single most important step. Even before you get to characteristics, remember: you can laugh as much as you want over a joke by yourself in a quiet place, in your own mind, or at home, but when a person tells you a joke, or something funny or joyful, don't smile or laugh. (Although, an evil smile can make you look mysterious) Be nice; express your emotions by your words and not by your facial expression.;
, Ciel is an English noble, who must succumb to a higher standards of manners. Just keep it classy. "Please" and "thank you" are always a must.
 Honestly, Ciel could be cast as a boy or a girl. Nothing makes him distinctly one gender (and in one episode he wore a dress to sneak into a party). The haircut also plays a factor in his androgynous appearance.
 Ciel is very smart for a twelve/thirteen year old. He has to be in order to take over "Funtom" and solve crimes for the queen. First of all, read attentively. Nonfiction is even better. Second, pay attention in school and try to expand your education whenever possible. You never know when you will need your knowledge to apply to the current situation.
 This means that you need to shower daily. Wear deodorant and wash your face daily. When picking out your clothing for the day, know what looks good on you.
 Keep most colors dull and neutral. Save anything brighter for special occasions. Black is not necessary. Ciel normally wears a green blazer with matching shorts. On special occasions he wears a dark blue shorts-suit with a ruffled shirt and a matching top hat.
, You must be courteous, but never bend over backwards to please others. Limit your time and availability and draw boundaries with others so that they are aware of your limits. Ciel is very aware of his limits but never lets anyone else remind him.
 He is into more subtle colors; black, blue, green, and grey-red are normally associated with goth. His style is mostly 'classy goth' or 'kodona/boy lolita', so those are ones to look up.
 Not ever, even if something happens to be funny to others; just watch them laugh and insult them under your breath. When something is surprising, pretend that you already knew about it.
 As an earl in the 19th century, Ciel has to be aware of current events.
