 After printing out your template onto paper, you’re ready to cut out the template. There is no need to individually cut out a slot for each gear on paper. Simply cut out the full circumference of the circle with the gear’s teeth intact. Do this for both gears.
 Once the paper templates are cut out, you’ll need to attach them to the plywood. Use wood glue for the best hold. You shouldn’t use standard glue because it won’t stick as well to the wood.









It is important that the schematic stays intact while you make your cuts.Allow around an hour for the glue to dry and settle to ensure nothing will mess up.
 Once your schematic is glued onto the plywood, you’re ready to cut out the plywood’s circumference. Use a band saw or a jigsaw to cut out the full circle. Be sure not to puncture any of the gears. To be safe, it is better to cut out a larger circumference than your design calls for.








If you are inexperienced working these types of power tools, ask for assistance from an experienced woodworker. Typically work studios have technicians that are there to assist. Utilize the resources around you.
 You’ll need to use an awl which is a tool with a pointed spike. Use an awl to puncture small holes (or divots) in between each tooth. Position the awl above the line between the teeth. Once the awl is in place simply bang on its butt to create a divot into the wood.









This will act as your guide for when you use your drill., Now that you have outlined where each hole will be, it’s time to create the initial holes to guide your future cuts. Use a 5/16 brad point drill for each hole. Go along the gear's rotation and create a hole using the divot created earlier as a guide. Align the drill onto the divot and commence drilling.









It’s okay if the drill holes vary from the template’s design.Again, seek out someone with experience if you’re unsure how to use the tool.
 You’ll need to make the teeth cuts at an angle for the best rotation. Tilt the table holding the wood slightly when making the cuts for the teeth of the gears. Tilt the table to the right when cutting the left lines. Then tilt the table to the left when cutting out the right lines.









If your band saw table doesn’t let you tilt to the left, you can prepare it to work. Insert a piece of plywood underneath the spacer to create a left angle., You can either use a bandsaw or a jigsaw to make the final cuts for the teeth. Take time to do one side at a time to create the proper angles that will produce a smooth gear rotation. Start with right line of each tooth and cut the lines at an angle to the left. Then adjust your angle to the right and cut out all the left lines.









Assure that the outer lines match the lines on the template. Cut out parts of the wood that extend beyond the template's line when finished. Do this if you were cautious and cut out a circumference larger than your template.
Use your drill to cut out the center hole where the gear will rotate around., Use a belt sander to remove the template from the gears. You can also chip it off using a flathead screwdriver or even use sandpaper. The belt sander can be a messy process and shouldn’t be handled by someone inexperienced.
 Apply a coat of wood varnish around the teeth and on the base to ensure the wood doesn’t decay. Start with one coat and add another coat after testing the gears and ensuring everything works.