 Before you are able to bottle feed you will need to purchase bottles, nipples, a bottle brush, and a sterilizer. A sterilizer is optional if you have a dishwasher that has a steam setting. There are many types of bottles and nipples you can choose from. Some babies take to only one type of nipple and may you go through many nipples trying to figure out which one they like and latch on too. It is very important to watch the flow on the nipples. There are different step nipples that allow either a slow flow or a quick flow. A newborn baby should have the lowest flow. You increase the flow with the baby’s age and how quickly they are drinking their bottle.;
, If you are formula feeding your baby it is important to stick to one type of formula unless it causes complications for your baby. There are many types of formulas on the market. Most hospitals will start your baby off on one kind of formula and if your baby is taking this formula without any gas, constipation, fussiness, or spit up you can continue to use this type of formula. If you are not sure which type of formula to start your baby on talk to your pediatrician and they will help you choose a formula that will work for your baby.
 To prepare formula you need to follow the directions on the side of the can. It is not necessary to heat up formula as long as it is at room temperature. Some babies prefer their formula a little warmer and it is up to you whether or not you want to heat it up for them. If you choose to heat it up you can stick the bottle in boiling water for a short time or use a bottle warmer. Make sure to shake the bottle up after heating it to make sure that there aren't any hot spots. It is not recommended to use a microwave because they can cause serious hot spots in the milk that will burn the baby’s mouth. You can test how warm the formula is by putting some on the inside of your wrist. If it’s too hot cool the bottle off by running it under cold water.
 Cuddling and comforting your baby are one of the many joys of feeding your baby. This is a time when you can bond. Cradling your baby is one of the easiest ways to hold your baby while feeding them. It is not recommended to lay your baby flat down while feeding them because milk can go up the tubes and cause ear infections. Putting a bib on the baby will protect you from getting his/her clothes dirty if he/she spits up. It is very important to burp a young baby 2 to 3 times per feeding to prevent him/her from getting gas. You can do this by patting your baby on the back until he/she burps.
 Use the bottle brush to clean the inside of the bottle. Some bottle brushes have nipple cleaners on the other end. Make sure to clean the nipple out well. After the bottles are clean make sure to sterilize them for future use. New babies are more susceptible to germs and don't have as good immune systems to prevent sickness. Sterilizing the bottles helps kill of germs and keep your baby healthy.

