 You may be damaging your hair and causing it to thin. Hair dryers, curling irons, hair relaxers, extensions, and getting a perm may cause a type of alopecia. Using gels, oils, and other products may also cause this form of alopecia.Use fewer styling products and use less product in your hair. Limit the amount of heat that you put on your hair. It can damage your hair and cause it to break. Let your hair air dry whenever possible. Reduce how often you dye your hair since that can damage your hair and cause breakage.
If you think this may be the cause of your hair loss, visit your dermatologist. He can recommend medication to help treat this form of alopecia.
 Conditioning your hair regularly helps to repair damage hair, making it fuller. Consider using a deep conditioner every week that contain humectants like panthenol. By massaging the scalp and using the conditioner, you help stimulate circulation, which can help your hair grow.
 There are a few ways the way you wear your hair can make your hair look thicker. Switch your hair's part. If your hair gets used to your normal part, it may start falling flatter on your head. Switch the direction of it to help give your hair some volume.Wear your hair shorter. Shorter hair gives more volume than longer cuts. Longer styles may also separate and reveal bald patches on your scalp.
Get interior layers. If you want longer hair, these layers can help add fullness and disguise bald patches.
Stop wearing your hair in tight ponytails or buns. Instead, let your hair fall loose. Keeping it in tight styles using hair ties, rubber bands, or clips can pull hair from the roots., Since there are limited medical options for hair loss, one way to deal with hair loss is to use fake hair.Hair extensions are generally light and can be a good solution if you have a good amount of hair to attach them to.Many beauty supply stores or online retailers carry hair extensions. You can find high-quality extensions that match your hair and looks natural. You can get a beautician or salon stylist to help you put them in.
Make sure if you use extensions that you don't pull too much on your own hair. Pulling out your hair while putting in extensions will cause more damage.
 If your hair loss gets severe enough that it is making you uncomfortable, invest in a high-quality wig. There are many wig shops and online retailers that sell wigs made from high-quality synthetic hair. You can also buy wigs made from real human hair., Several hair thickening sprays are available to purchase. These sprays temporarily increase the texture and density of your hair, making it appear thicker.This may be effective for small to medium bald spots.

