 Your bra is one of the most important items you wear each day. It can make the rest of your outfit look stunning, or ill-fitting. The reason a bra is called a "foundation garment" is that it creates the base for your outfit. Make sure you choose the bra that is right for you. Try several different styles, and pay attention to cup size and rib cage measurement. Wearing a properly fitting bra can make your chest look fantastic--and larger!Consult an expert. The best way to find your best fit is to have a proper bra fitting. You can go to any large department store or specialty lingerie boutique to have this done. The fitter will take your measurements and make recommendations. Don't be afraid to ask to try several different styles!
Maintain your undergarments. Take care of your bras, and they will take care of you. When the straps lose their elasticity or the hooks start bending, it is time to replace that bra.;
, Buying swimwear is a dreaded activity for many women. Even though it's not fun, it is important. The right swimsuit can mean the difference between your breasts looking flat or fantastic. Swimsuit shopping is usually best done in person, and you should try many different styles. To make sure your breasts are enhanced, choose a suit that offers support and even some padding.Choose a halter top for an extra lift. These versatile swimsuits are usually adjustable, so you can tighten to your liking. This can give you the flattering boost you are looking for.
Another option is to look for a swimsuit that has ruffles on the top. This can help to make your breasts look larger.
 This is a tried and true method for a lot of women. It can be effective for everyone from pre-teens to adults. An easy method is to wear a double-bra. It works just like it sounds--layer one strapless bra over a strapped one. It's easy, and the results are very effective. You can also choose to just wear one bra, and stuff it to create the illusion of fullness. Your best bet? Socks. They are versatile, and every woman already owns some.


You can experiment with materials other than socks. Just make sure to use common sense. For instance, you'll want to stay away from tissue or toilet paper. When you sweat, that material could become very messy very quickly.You can also wear a padded pushup bra. There are bras available that will make your breasts appear a full cup size larger.
 Understanding your body type can help you choose clothes that will flatter your body, including your chest. Many women looking to make their breasts appear larger are known as "rectangles". This means that you are pretty straight up and down, and don't have as many curves (top and bottom) as women with other body types. If you fit into this category, you will want to adhere to certain style guidelines.Make sure to stick to items that are structured at the top, which will provide added definition to your chest.
Feminine tops are also a great idea. Embellishments like ruffles can give the illusion of more curves.
 Cosmetics are an excellent way to create the illusion of larger cleavage. Try applying a bronzing powder between your breasts and a lighter powder on the tops. Check the mirror to see if you like the results. Adjust as necessary, experimenting with blending and more or less make-up.