 Potatoes grow underground, so they’re often dirty even if you purchase them from the grocery store. Use a vegetable brush to clean the outside of the potatoes and then rinse them under cold water to thoroughly wash them.








To keep the potatoes from getting soggy, it’s a good idea to rinse them in a colander under running water from the sink.;
, Depending on what dish you are using the cubed potatoes in, you may prefer to remove the skin from them before cutting. Use a vegetable peeler to carefully take off of the outer layer of skin from the potatoes and discard.








If you don’t plan to cut the potatoes right after peeling them, place them in a bowl or pot of cold water to keep them from browning.
When you’re peeling the potatoes, remove any sprouts or green spots in the flesh with the end of your vegetable peeler.
 To begin cubing the potatoes, use a sharp knife to cut the potato in half vertically. Turn the potatoes over on your cutting board so the flat side is facing down.








A chef’s knife works well for cutting potatoes.
 Once the potatoes have been cut in half, use your knife to chop each half into sections lengthwise. You can make the cuts as thick or as thin as you’d like, depending on how large you’d like your cubes to be.








After you’ve cut the halves into sections lengthwise, flatten each section on your cutting board to make them easier to slice in the next step.
 When all of the potato pieces are laying flat on your cutting board, slice each into lengthwise pieces with your knife again. The finished pieces will resemble French fries.
 After you’ve cut all of the potato pieces, create several equal-sized stacks with them. Turn each stack 90 degrees so they’re facing you horizontally.








If you prefer, you can cut each potato piece individually. However, you should keep in mind that it will take longer to dice them one at a time.
 When your potato pieces are stacked in front of your, use your knife to cut through them horizontally to create cubes. You can make the cubes as large or as small as you’d like, but keep the size uniform so they’ll cook evenly no matter how you prepare them.








Cubing your potatoes works well if you want to make mashed, sauteed, or roasted potatoes. You may also want to cube the potatoes if you’re making home fries.

