 You can get these very cheap at such places as Walmart or in your local grocery store. Check it out in the frozen foods isle. For a rainbow experience of flavours, get several different kinds. Perhaps some cherry, lime, and grape mixes? De-lish!;
, Although not much room is needed for this task, still, when working in the kitchen and getting a bit messy, it's always easier for you to tidy up in the beginning, than for you to clean up what looks like tornado wreckage after words. After setting aside a few things, let the fun commence!

, There are two ways. The easier first way is for those who want a single flavour per glass. Just rip open your package, and begin to pour the grainy contents into a large glass (or glasses). Now, how much you put in, is another question. But you really don't need too much. Start with a little, and if it's not sweet enough, add some more.
 Filtered is usually best, although it really doesn't matter. Some folks even boil their water first, but this only firms the jello when you add ice, so if that's what you're going for, be my guest!

, The little bitty contents of the jello will linger around for a bit, so it's best to mix em' for a minute or two.
 Garnish however you please. Maybe take some whipped cream on top, put some sprinkles on that bad boy. Or, for a refreshing serenade, add some ice and lemon. Throw a fruity umbrella in there and you're set for the beach!

, This is for all you rainbow/science lovers out there. This is also fun to do with kids. Read on.
 Put in the exact same amount of water in each one. Around four centimetres or around there should do it. Now, take a small tablespoon and take a large amount of a chosen flavour. For white/clear, use sugar for this part. This is the bottom layer. Put in the most jello powder in one container and mix until it disappears.
 This is decreasing the fluid's density. The lightest on the top, heaviest on the bottom. (It is best not to put dark colours with each other.)

, Carefully, along the edge of the glass and close to the bottom, allow it to slowly drip until the baster is empty.
 You might want to save up most of the jello, as this is extremely frustrating. But the end result is indeed worth the wait.
 At least until you drink it. If your last two colours are dark ones, such as blue and purple, maybe add a white sugared layer in between to show of the vibrant layers. And don't fuss over it, really, in the end it's just a drink. And a cool/yummy science experiment!

, Whipped cream and lemon slices look good, great for summers. Don't add ice to this variation though, your hard work would mix together!

,