 Bullfrogs can be caught bare-handed. However, you may want to consider other tools, such as a frog gig. A frog gig is especially good for catching larger bullfrogs. If you don’t have a frog gig, a fishing net is also a good option. You’ll also need a flashlight and something to hold the bullfrogs, like a bucket.If you are catching frogs to keep in an aquarium, you may want to use a net or your hands.
A fishing net with a longer pole works best!
The brighter the flashlight, the better!
If you use a fishing pole, a fly fishing lure without a barb is a good choice.
If you're transporting the frog, consider bringing a large plastic bucket with a lid.;
, Bullfrogs dwell in freshwater lakes, ponds, rivers, and streams. They tend to live where there is a tree canopy, cattails, and little to no current. Make sure you are hunting on public land during bullfrog season.Never hunt for bullfrogs in a conservation area.
Don’t hunt on private property, unless it is your own.
 Bullfrogs make a distinctive low-toned bass-like call, which sounds like a low "Ru-u-umm - Ru-u-umm." From early spring until summer, the male bullfrogs will sing together in a deep, roaring tone. Follow this sound to catch them., Wait until the moon comes out to go frogging. Since it is easier to see the bullfrogs at night, you’ll want to wait till it is really dark outside., Use your LED flashlight to light up the shoreline of the pond or stream. Move the beam of light slowly until you see a pair of bullfrog eyes.If the eyes are set wide apart, it is a big bullfrog., If you are walking, take gentle steps. If you are in a canoe, don’t let your paddle hit the side of the canoe. Stop and pause occasionally, since you are likely to spot frogs more easily if you search for movement on the banks or in the river or bog., As soon as you get to around 10 or 15 yards away, direct the LED light right into their eyes. This method is called “Jacking.” The bullfrog will go into a trance, like a deer in your car headlights. Use this opportunity to catch the bullfrog with your hands, frog gig or other instrument.“Jacking" a bullfrog means using a strong flashlight directed at the frog's eyes at night.
 Since bullfrogs are quick to respond to movement, you’ll need to pounce quickly and use a firm grip. They can easily slip out of your hands, so grab them firmly around the upper thighs. You will probably only get one chance.Hold the bullfrog by grasping around the upper thighs with its legs together. This position minimizes chance of injury, while making it difficult for the critter to get away.
 Take the bullfrog off the gig, if you used one, and put it in the sack or container. Close the lid. If it is a burlap sack, pull the drawstring to close the bag. Unless you close the container or bag, the bullfrog will hop away!, If you are catching bullfrogs to eat, you should let the little frogs go! Use your hands to catch the the little ones and then put them back in the water., If you see a larger size bullfrog with eyes set wide apart, you’ll need a bigger tool! Don’t bother with the regular sized, 2-inch frog gig. Rather, pick the five-pronged frog gig to ensnare the larger bullfrogs.