 A regular cup of coffee uses 2 tablespoons (7-9 g, or 2 scoops of a coffee measurer) of grounds per cup, which uses about 6 oz (178 ml) of water.To make the coffee stronger, add another 1-2 tablespoons of grounds. For a pot equivalent to 8 cups of coffee, use 48 oz (1.5 L) of water and 18-20 tablespoons (80g) of grounds.


Note that the stronger the coffee, the darker the brew. Soaking your hair with coffee will darken your color, which can be great for brunettes or people with gray hair, as it can add depth and darken your hair color.If you are blonde or have light red hair, or have dyed your hair a light color, you may may want to try a different method of treating your hair. Otherwise, you may end up with dingy or dirty looking hair.If you don't have coffee, you can use a ground espresso instead.;
, Make sure you have completely rinsed out the shampoo. Use your hands to gently squeeze out any excess water from your hair--it doesn't need to dry completely, but it shouldn't be dripping wet., For a thorough treatment, use a bucket or large bowl to catch the coffee drippings as you pour it through your hair. Then pour the drippings back through your hair a second time.If you want more control over the application, transfer the cooled coffee into a spray bottle and spray it into your hair.If you are worried about the coffee staining your bathtub or shower floor, pour the coffee through your hair while leaning over a bucket, so it catches the drippings.
Rinse any coffee out of your bathtub immediately to prevent staining.
 Remember that coffee will stain fabrics and some porous surfaces, so don't let your hair drip onto carpeting or furniture, and don't wear any nice or light-colored clothing.If any coffee got on your face or ran down your neck, clean it off with soap and water so it doesn't stain your skin.The longer you leave the coffee in, the darker your hair may become.
 Repeating this treatment will make your hair darker, shinier, and will increase hair growth while minimizing shedding.If you want to make the most of the coloring properties of coffee, rinse your hair with apple cider vinegar, as this will help the color to set.