 To become more literate and in touch with the world, read the paper.Subscribe to a quality newspaper and make a daily practice of reading the news. Learn about national and international news, and track current events. Consider subscribing to multiple papers for a less biased approach—no single news source can ever tell the whole story.


If you're interested in reading long investigations or analysis, or increasing your knowledge of a specific topic (like the economy, or contemporary art), consider subscribing to a relevant journal.
Subscribing isn't enough—if you're really interested in learning through periodicals, make a regular habit of reading. You might read the paper every morning, or read your magazines every weekend.
Purchase or borrow books on the subjects that interest you. Ask a librarian or small bookstore owner for help, or get recommendations from online book reviews.
 To learn as you relax, make your screen time informative. Watch documentary series on PBS or the BBC. Check out documentaries on questions of historical interest. Take notes as you go, or just do some follow up reading the next day.


Even if you're trying to learn a skill, you can use documentaries to get informed about the history and practice of that skill. If you're learning the banjo, you might want to watch documentaries on bluegrass, old time music, and African instruments., Learn more about the world by going into it. Take trips to other countries, or just visit the nearby towns you've never seen. Travel to environments you haven't experienced, and learn what it's like to live there. Read and watch movies about the places you're going before you go, and read more while you're there: you'll come up with questions you didn't know you had once you're in a new place.


When you visit a new place, try visiting museums devoted to local arts, crafts, and history.
Take tours of interesting neighborhoods and buildings.
Visit gardens and wildlife sanctuaries, and learn about the local biome.

