 Dogs can understand over a thousand words when trained to interpret them properly.Dogs will often rub their faces or cover their faces with one or both of their paws. When you see this behavior, draw the dog’s attention to it by saying “Play shy!” in a friendly, happy tone.


Instead of “Play shy!” you can use a similar cue such as “Cover!” or “Hide!” Whatever verbal cue you use to teach your dog to place its paws over its face, be consistent with it. Do not use two commands to teach the same trick.;
, After about one week of acknowledging and drawing attention to the dog’s natural covering behavior by calling out “Play shy!” whenever you see the dog’s paws over its face, begin testing your pooch to see if he or she has internalized the command yet. Command your dog to play shy and issue a treat if it obeys. If it doesn’t, help your doggie remember how to play shy. Exclaim “Play shy!” Then place one or both of its paws over its face.


If you choose to place both paws over the dog’s face, you will first need to get the dog to lie down.
Whether you choose to place one or both of the dog’s paws over its face, make sure you do it the same way each time. If choosing to utilize only one paw in the trick, always use the same paw. For instance, if you exclaim “Play shy!” and cover your dog’s eyes with its right paw, do not cover its eyes with its left paw the next time you want it to perform the trick.
 Place a post-it note, a piece of tape, sticker, or a band-aid on the center of the dog’s forehead, just above the point right between its eyes. Painter’s tape peels off easily and is also a good choice. Whatever you choose, apply it lightly enough to be noticed by the dog, but not so firmly that removal will be difficult.


Do not use anything too sticky, or anything that gets tangled in the dog’s fur. If you do, your dog may get hurt and learn that playing shy is a painful, scary experience. This will hurt your chances of getting the dog to learn the trick.
 If you do not want to stick something sticky, loop a kerchief over the dog’s eyes and tie it beneath the dog’s jaw. Do not tie the kerchief too tight. Ensure you do not cover the dog’s nostrils. You should be able to fit your pinkie finger between the kerchief and the dog’s body.


Instead of a kerchief, you could also use a loose elastic headband.
 With the sticky object stuck to its forehead or the kerchief over its eyes, your dog will be a bit irritated and try to remove the object. Before giving it a chance to do so, hold its paws out in front of it for a few seconds, then cue your dog to action with your phrase of choice (“Play shy!” or some alternative). Release its paws and allow it to remove the foreign object. When the dog learns to associate your command with its action and subsequent reward, you have properly conditioned it.


Once conditioned, you can take away the kerchief, sticker, or other training object you employed to encourage the dog to place its paws over its eyes. If the dog cannot perform the trick without the object which inspires it to reach across its face with its paw (the lure), you will need to continue practicing until the dog understands the trick. Continue to reward the dog with either a treat or verbal praise.
If your dog is particularly laid back, it may not remove the lure of its own accord, and you may need to move the dog’s paws to its forehead for it. Take one of its paws in your hand and intone your cue phrase (“Play shy!” or some alternative) before gently bringing its paw up to a point on or just below its eyes. Hold it there for a few seconds, then release, administering a treat or verbal praise.
Your dog might react in a wiping motion rather than covering its face and holding the position. If this happens, take each of your dog’s paws in your hands gently and fold them.

