 This method involves a few cheap items you should be able to find in any drugstore or department store. You will need the following:


A box of fake white fingernails. Make sure the box has several different sizes of nails, so when you make your fangs you can find a good fit for your teeth.
Denture adhesive. This should be available at any drugstore in the oral care aisle. Common denture glues are Polygrip and Fixodent. Make sure the denture glue is clear or white. A colored glue will show through the fangs when they are on your teeth, and you could end up with green or red vampire fangs.Nail clippers or a pair of scissors. You'll need these to cut the nails, so either will work. Whichever you use, make sure it is sharp, otherwise you won't be able to get a clean cut through the nails.
Nail file. You will need this after cutting the nails to take care of any jagged edges left behind, so you don't cut your mouth.;
, The nail should be roughly the size of your canine teeth, which are the most common place for vampire fangs. To find the canines, look for the two pointy teeth, third from the front. Don't worry if you can't find a nail that perfectly fits. You can cut it to size later when you make the fangs.
 The particular style here is up to you. Some prefer long, slender fangs, while others prefer a more curved fang. If you're stumped, it helps for you to model your fangs on a particular character you like.


This is also where you can cut the nails down to size if they were too big for your teeth.
 After you cut, inspect the fangs for jagged edges left behind. Smooth them out with the nail file so you don't cut your mouth while wearing your fangs., Just a drop should do- if you use too much the glue will spill out from behind the fang when you press it onto your tooth.
 Hold your finger there for about a minute to give the glue a chance to stick. Then repeat this for your other fang.
 Try talking and moving your lips around. The fangs may wiggle a bit but shouldn't fall off. If they come lose, don't worry. Just try again with a little more glue.