 If you're looking to clear up acne fast, the most widely used and effective over-the-counter skin cream available is benzoyl peroxide. It can be purchased at most drug stores. This should be the first option you try for mild acne.


Benzoyl peroxide works by killing bacteria that causes acne. It comes in cream form in a variety of strengths, from 2.5 to 10 percent. Start with a lower dose kind as stronger is not always better. Your skin might respond better to a 2.5 percent cream than a 10 percent one.It also reduces inflammation and helps keep your pores clean.
Side effects can include red skin, dry skin, scaling, and burning. Severe side effects are rare, however, but you should be careful if you have sensitive skin.Be careful when using benzoyl peroxide. It can bleach clothing and skin.;
, If benzoyl peroxide on its own does not work, add salicylic acid to the mix. Salicylic acid can also be purchased at most drug stores and often works great in conjunction with benzoyl peroxide.


Salicylic acid mainly works by preventing pores from being clogged which stops acne breakouts from starting. If your breakouts usually start small and build from there, you might want to use salicylic acid right away to prevent the breakout spreading.Side effects can include mild stinging and skin irritation. As with benzoyl peroxide, it's best to start with a weaker prescription-strength product., Alpha hydroxy acids come in several types, most commonly glycolic acid and lactic acid, and can be purchased at most drug stores without a prescription. These are synthetic versions of acids normally drawn from fruits and work by removing dead skin cells and preventing inflammation of the skin.Alpha hydroxy acids can lessen the appearance of acne scars by stimulating the growth of new skin. If you popped or picked off a pimple, applying alpha hydroxy acids might lessen the appearance of the scar.Alpha hydroxy acids can also make pores look smaller, improving the overall appearance of the skin in addition to eliminating acne., Scrubs and over-the-counter acne products that contain sulfur help remove dead skin cells that clog pores and lead to acne. Sulfur also helps reduce the bacteria in the skin that cause acne. You can combine sulfur-based products with salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide. However, be careful as sulfur can cause dry skin and might produce an unpleasant odor.