 Deep treatments are like conditioners on steroids: They help provide a ton of moisture, vibrancy, and body to dry hair. Eggs are high in protein, which is what hair is made out of, so it's only natural that eggs would be an excellent source for deep treatments.


In a bowl, mix two eggs yolks, two teaspoons olive oil, and 1/8 cup of water. Mix until the solution is fully balanced. Depending on how much hair you have, you may want to use more or less.
Apply mixture to hair after shampooing, while hair is still damp, not wet. Let stand for 15 minutes.
Rinse with warm water. (Hot water may give you scrambled eggs!);
, Mayonnaise is made essentially out of eggs and oil, so it's a riff on the deep treatment featured in Step 1. What sets mayonnaise apart is that it contains vinegar. Vinegar will help disinfect any fungus or bacteria that might be using your scalp as a temporary home, causing itching and dryness.


Apply 1/2 cup of mayonnaise to already dry hair. Massage into roots and scalp area and cover with a shower cap or other plastic cover.
Let stand for 15 minutes.
Rinse thoroughly in warm water before shampooing as usual.
 Many people get hot oil treatments at salons and swear by their effectiveness. For this deep treatment, try to seek out virgin coconut oil, although olive oil will also work well.


In a saucepan, warm up oil until it is warm but not too hot to touch. You are going to be applying the oil to your scalp, so keep that in mind.
Take oil off the heat and let cool for 30 seconds just to be sure. Apply to hair in sections, using hair clips if necessary. If you're worried about excessive oiliness, don't rub the oil too much into your scalp.
Wrap your hair in a shower cap or other plastic cover and let stand for at least 30 minutes.
Rinse with warm water briefly and shampoo until oil is no longer pervasive, but not stripped from hair.
 With eggs and oil, beer is a great natural conditioner. It may sound weird, but if you think about it, it's not any weirder than slathering mayonnaise in your hair. Use nicer, full-bodied beer for a better deep treatment. Stay away from conditioning with Coors Light.


Rinse out with shampoo with warm water and condition with beer. Substitute your conditioner for beer and use exactly as you would after shampooing.
Mix two cups beer with two tablespoons apple cider vinegar and apply it to hair after shampooing. Again, use in the same way you would a conditioner.
Mix an eight-ounce bottle of nice, dark beer with a few drops of jojoba oil. Apply to dry hair, let stand for at least 15 minutes, and rinse in warm water, followed by shampoo.
 Avocados are rich in vitamins, minerals, and natural oils, so they round out the last of the deep treatments. People who use avocado as a deep treatment can expect to find their hair soft, glossy, and moisturized after conditioning.


In a blender, food processor, or by hand, mix one ripe avocado, 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and one teaspoon of honey.
Apply to dry hair, mixing into the scalp, and cover with a shower cap for approximately 30 minutes.
Wash in warm water thoroughly. (Avocado is naturally fibrous, so it might take longer than simple oil, egg, or beer deep treatments). Shampoo lightly afterward.

