 The character of Genie from Aladdin is relatively simple. To imitate Genie's classic blue skin tone, you're going to use blue cloth. If you want exposed parts of the body blue as well, use a blue body paint. You'll need:


Dot stickers (gold colored)
Jumper (blue)
Long sleeved shirt (blue)
Paper (optional; gold colored, durable kind, like card stock, preferred)
Scarf (red; sheer cloth preferred)
Scissors
Tape (gold colored), Take your blue shirt and use your scissors to cut off its bottom half. Then use your scissors to cut a straight slit at the middle-front of the shirt collar that extends to the bottom hem. This should allow the shirt to open at the middle, like a vest.


By leaving the long sleeves of the shirt attached, it will look as though you have blue arms, just like Genie., Outline the vest portion of your long sleeved vest with a line of golden dot stickers. These will attached just to to the inside of the shirt collar, bottom hem, center slit, and shirt sides. This will add contrast to your costume, and make imitate Genie's blue and gold theme.


You can add unique designs of your own to the long sleeved vest. For example, you might add yellow up-and-down stripes to the vest using your golden tape.
 The jumper will cover most of your body in blue fabric, making it look like your skin is blue. Add left and right lines to the jumper just below the waist and at the cuff of each pant leg. These will imitate the golden bands that Genie wears.


You can also add golden dot stickers to your jumper to make it more flashy and rich in appearance. For example, you might do an up-and-down line of stickers up each pant leg between your golden taped portions.
Using a jumper is especially recommended for small children. Playing in a costume without a shirt could make children more susceptible to sickness.If you plan on using body paint to color your upper body, you may want to forgo the jumper and instead buy billowy blue pants, like harem pants.
You could also make golden wrist cuffs by cutting a strip of durable gold colored paper into a strip and taping this around your wrists.