 Holding grudges against your parent(s) or yourself is not a healthy way to repair a relationship. Therefore, it is helpful to forgive your parent(s) for any mistakes they made. You may also want to forgive yourself for how you reacted to those mistakes.


Keep in mind that forgiveness is not about the other person. It is important for your own emotional well-being.By forgiving your parent, you are choosing to let go of the anger you feel towards him or her, but you are not saying that what your parent has said or done to you is okay.To forgive someone, you will need to make a conscious choice to let go of the anger that you feel. One way to do this is by writing a letter to your parent that you do not send. In the letter, express your feelings honestly about what happened, why it angered you, and why you think that your parent did these things.Then, close your letter by writing something to the effect of, “I am not okay with what happened, but I am choosing to release my anger about it. I forgive you.” You can also say this out loud to yourself.
 You need to tell your parent(s) how you feel and why you became distant in the first place. There is no way for them to work on a problem that they are unaware exists. Do not be accusatory or disrespectful. Tell them how you feel, not what they’ve done.


Rather than saying “You took away my rights as a person,” a more constructive thing to say might be “I felt as though I had no right to be my own person.”

, Once you begin to repair the relationship, you want to avoid backsliding into old habits. Decide ahead of time which decisions your parent(s) can weigh in on, and which ones they cannot. Also, boundaries should be set for which decisions you can weigh in on for your parent(s), or what things you can ask of them.For example, you might decide that you might consult your parents about major career decisions, such as what college to attend or whether or not to take a job offer. However, you might leave them out of more personal decisions, such as who to date and whether or not to marry someone.
You could also refuse to weigh in on certain issues that your parents bring up to you, such as love life issues. However, you might decide to offer your support if a parent is dealing with a major medical issue, such as cancer or heart problems.

