 As a patient, it can be hard to have an illness that's causing uncomfortable symptoms and lots of distress; however, many respiratory and intestinal infections clear up within a few weeks and are not life threatening. As such, take the time to assess your symptoms before visiting the doctor. This can help avoid unnecessary antibiotic use.The rule of thumb is to allow symptoms like mild fever, congestion, running nose and/or cough to run their course, usually about seven to 10 days. These symptoms are generally indicative of viral infection and can be treated with rest, hydration, and bland diet.
Be on look out for key symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, high fever, uncontrolled nausea/vomiting and/or diarrhea without being able to keep liquids down, which predisposes one to dehydration. These symptoms indicate you need to be seen by a heath care professional.
Postponing a doctor's visit for a few weeks in order to see how your symptoms progress is generally safe, as long as you're able to see your doctor quickly if the symptoms suddenly get worse.
Most unnecessary antibiotics are prescribed for viral respiratory infections — the common cold, viral sore throats, bronchitis, sinus and ear infections.The millions of excess prescriptions each year in the U.S. put patients at needless risk for allergic reactions, serious diarrhea and other intestinal problems, along with the most important risk — antibiotic resistance due to unnecessary exposure.;
, Be proactive and ask your doctor to make a diagnosis supported by laboratory results before recommending antibiotics or other medications to you.Doctors are experienced in dealing with infections, but the clinical presentations of bacterial and non-bacterial infections are nearly identical in many instances. They need to offer you justification for their recommendations.


It takes less time to prescribe antibiotics than to determine the cause of an infection, so be cautious with doctors who are in a big rush. Your health is more important than their schedules.
Ask your doctor about when antibiotics are needed and when they're not. Your conversation should include information on risk for infections by antibiotic-resistant bacteria., If you get the sense your doctor is pushing antibiotics on you without substantiated evidence (lab support) that you have a bacterial infection, then consider getting a second opinion from a doctor who is more diligent in getting an accurate diagnosis.Two professional opinions is almost always better than one for significant health issues.


Further testing may reveal a viral/fungal/parasitic infection and lead to the correct diagnosis and treatment, as well as reduced risks associated with antibiotic usage.
Politely ask your doctor for a referral or ask family and friends if their primary healthcare physicians are taking new patients.
 If you're concerned about the risks and ineffectiveness of antibiotics, there are natural alternatives to consider. There are many plant-based compounds that can kill bacteria (and other microorganisms) which are good and safer alternatives to antibiotics. Healthy and affordable choices include coconut oil, olive leaf extract, andrographis, Pau D’Arco and garlic.Talk to a naturopath or a practitioner of Chinese herbal medicine before taking any plant-based medicines, and check with a pharmacist to make sure they don't interact with any medications (even over-the-counter meds like aspirin) you may be taking.


Coconut oil contains lauric acid which can kill C. difficile — a strain of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and a leading cause of diarrhea in hospitals.
Andrographis is used in Indian folk medicine and can fight influenza and upper-respiratory bacterial infections.
Pau D’Arco is the bark of a South American tree that has both antiviral and antibacterial properties.
Garlic contains allicin, which can kill various "superbugs" such as VRE and MRSA.

