 Whether your relationship is just starting out or you’ve been together a while, it’s always important to talk to each other. Get to know one another through conversation. Ask about their day, or what’s on their mind. Tell them about what’s bothering you and confide in them. The most basic communication is necessary and effective in strengthening your bond with your partner.If you feel like there’s distance between you and your partner, let them know. Talking to them about how you’re feeling can help bridge the gap. Say something like, “I feel like we aren’t as close as we used to be. What can we do to fix this?”;
, Even if you feel like you already know everything about your partner, there is always more to learn. Ask them about their dreams, goals, and ideas. Listen intently and respond thoughtfully. Ask them how they feel about your relationship, and if they think there is any area that could use some work. By asking them meaningful, important questions, you will not only show them you care enough to learn more about them and their thoughts, but you will also be working on strengthening your relationship.Some other questions you might consider are: what traits do you value most in a partner? When was the last time you felt really disappointed? Where do you see yourself in five or ten years? What’s something that always makes you happy?

, It’s important to talk about your everyday lives with one another, but it’s also important to go deeper than that in your conversations. Try to set aside time each day to have a real, meaningful conversation with your partner. Maybe there is something on your mind that you need to discuss, or maybe your partner has been under some stress at work and might want to unload. Keep that space open for real conversation, and make it a point to engage with one another on that level as often as possible.Try talking about your feelings, either for one another or in general. Having emotional discussions can lead to a sense of vulnerability and trust, which can bring you closer together.
 Use text messages or sticky notes to leave one another little love notes now and then. Randomly letting your partner know you care can make them feel special and important. Love notes are a simple, sweet way to remind your partner of your feelings for them.No matter how much time goes by in a relationship, it’s important not to let one another forget how you feel for each other. Losing sight of the feelings that made you fall for each other in the first place can sometimes make you feel distant.
 Despite myths that couples’ therapy is ineffective, it can actually be a great tool for strengthening your relationship. Find a provider in your area, or through your insurance network if you’re covered. However, make sure you have a serious discussion about seeking therapy beforehand, and that both of you are on board.Take some time to discuss what you would both like in a therapist as well. For example, do you feel more comfortable with a man or a woman? Do you want to do sessions together or separately? Make a list of what you both want.
 As partners, you probably have at least a few things that you both worry about or get joy from. Whether it’s parenting, work, extended families, or finances, there are probably things you could spend time discussing together. Having someone to share in those emotions with you is a great way to feel closer by sharing a common ground.You don’t need to worry, or even be happy, alone. Your partner is there to go through those things with you. Try your best not to distance yourself from them. Instead, work to include them.

