 Understand what your child feels and knows about Santa before complicating the truth about the myth. Keep up the story they know until they introduce some skepticism or desire to know more of the truth.


Ask your child what other children have said about Santa, or what your child thinks about him. You will be able to tell if he or she believes wholeheartedly that he is real, in which case saying anything different will be met with severe disappointment or plain disbelief.
It may be that you have chosen from the beginning to opt out of telling the magical story of Santa delivering presents to children in one night. But even so, it is easy for children to foster a belief that Santa is real anyhow from friends, movies, and other media portrayals of the jolly man. Be careful not to assume that your child understands completely.;
, Wait to talk to your child about the truth of Santa until he or she brings it up themselves. This way you know you are not springing new information on them too soon.


Allow your child to wait to hear rumors, put together clues, and otherwise use his or her reasoning skills to question what they know on their own. This can become a positive exercise in critical thinking rather than a disappointing revelation.
Turn your child's question around. If he or she asks, “Mom/Dad, is Santa real?” you ask, “Well, what do you think?” and wait for the answer before giving anything away., Let your child guess who the real Santa Claus could be. Offer clues or options to choose from to make it an enjoyable experience.


Try listening to a Christmas song that your child likes and sing along to any lyrics that might hint at who Santa could be. “He knows when you’ve been bad or good” for example, can be a nudge in the right direction.
You can hint at subtle logic to start your child guessing on their own at who could be “playing” Santa. For example: “Hmm, who would be able to get into our house at night?” or “Who likes those cookies we leave out?

, Let your child know that Santa was a real person or based on a real person if you want to. Explain Saint Nicholas or another origin of your choice.


Tell the story of St. Nicholas, who was well known as a gift-giver, a protector of children, and a man of great faith who spent his whole life and life savings to help those less fortunate than himself. Some people believe the red robes that St. Nicholas wore as a bishop inspired the famous red Santa suit.If you want to keep up some level of myth, you can say that Santa was a real person who is no longer around and that today, there need to be lots of Santas, in the form of moms and dads, to do all the work of giving kids presents on Christmas.

