 Emphasize the problems you and your coworkers have had with the union, and the reasons employees are worse off under the union than they were before unionization.For example, if the union is interfering with employee-supervisor communication, or decreasing employee satisfaction with management, you might remind your coworkers that these problems didn't exist before the labor union was certified.
You also might want to note the decrease in flexibility and individuality created by union representation.
If any of your coworkers share stories about how the union has cost them money or had a negative impact on their lives or workplace satisfaction, get permission to type these stories up and share them as part of your decertification campaign.
 Once a union wins a certification election, it becomes your representative for the purposes of collective bargaining. However, with signatures of 30 percent of your coworkers, you can hold an election to decertify that union, effectively de-unionizing your workplace.Once a union is certified, you must wait one year before requesting a decertification election.
If the union and your employer reach a collective-bargaining agreement, you generally must wait three years before you can request a decertification election.
During that first three years, however, there is a 30-day "window period" during which you can request a decertification election. This period begins 90 days before the collective-bargaining agreement is set to expire.
If you believe support for the union has diminished, you can circulate a decertification petition among coworkers within the group the union represents.
 Once you have the signatures of at least 30 percent of the workers in the group represented by the union who are interested in having a decertification election, you must submit your decertification petition to your nearest NLRB regional office.The NLRB has 26 regional offices. If you're unsure which office to use, you can use the regional office map, located on the NLRB's website at https://www.nlrb.gov/who-we-are/regional-offices.
The petition requires you to provide basic information about your employer, the union, and the individual or organization filing the petition.
The petition form must be accompanied by proof that at least 30 percent of the workers currently represented by the union want to have a decertification election.
A competing union also can file a petition seeking to represent the group. This petition must be supported by at least 30 percent of the employees in the group indicating they are interested in being represented by that union.
 Many national organizations, as well as individuals such as politicians and attorneys, can provide expert advice on decertifying your union and fighting against unionization.For example, the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation provides free legal advice and assistance to people who feel their rights have been violated by unionization. You can request advice or information by filling out the form at http://www.nrtw.org/en/legal.htm.
A labor attorney also can evaluate the union's actions in your workplace. If the union is violating labor laws, this can be a tremendous argument in favor of decertifying the union.
If you know of a local politician or government representative who is anti-union, you might consider asking him or her to speak at your workplace.
 Provided your petition was properly filed and accepted by the NLRB, it will conduct a decertification election through which the workers in your group will have the option of voting to decertify the union.The election typically is held at the earliest possible date after your petition is accepted and the regional director orders an election.
If there is a competing union seeking to represent the same group of employees, the election would be a three-way race between the two unions and no union representation at all.
 When the decertification election is held, vote "no representation" if you want unionization in your workplace to end.The union will be decertified if a simple majority of the employees in the group vote for no representation. For example, if there are 200 workers in the group represented by the union, 101 of them must vote for "no representation" for the union to be decertified.
If the election is a three-way race between two competing unions and no representation, and none of them receive a majority of the vote in the first election, the NLRB will hold a second run-off election between the top two vote-getters.

