 A study by Jakob Nielsen, publicized as the guru of web page usability by the New York Times, revealed that only 16 percent of his test users actually read the copy they found online; 79 percent of them simply scanned it. Your impatient web readers will want important information to jump out at them. Some practical ways to make your text scannable:


Headings.






Sub-headings.






Bulleted lists






Numbered lists.






Easy steps.






Typeface variation.





;
, Are you drawn to the author's article as "How to Write Web Articles" or "5 Tips to Write Winning Web Articles?" However, overuse of any or all of these elements may bring the quality down.
 Get and keep the attention of web readers by delivering short messages. You put effort into gaining your web reader's attention; now make their click worthwhile with brief compelling copy in bite sizes. Start with the conclusion. Your readers may not make it to the end of your piece to get it. Web readers don't want to get bogged down in long blocks of text. So get to the point early and use the rest of your article to support that main point.
 Dull titles will not capture your readers' interest. It will make your article fade into the sea of other boring articles listed in article banks these days. You have to create a title that will reach out and grab your reader by the collar. Make it short. Create interest. Include the main benefit or solution in your title.
 Your information is not for everyone. Avoid generalities. Choose a friend or family member that's interested in your topic. Write your article to them. Writing to a friend will make your copy personable and friendly. You won't come across as a fussy hen, do this, do this, don't do that. You will connect with your readers as a friend giving advice. Your article will do a better job of building credibility for you.
 Resist fluffing your articles. Include practical, valuable information in your copy. Everyone loses when you don't take the time to impart substance. It increases the reputation of the web being an unreliable source of knowledge. Additionally, lack of substance will block your road to profitable referrals. Do the research and/or draw from your knowledge and experience to illustrate. Your stories and real life examples will meet your reader's need for practical information and connect with their emotion. It's a known fact emotions will move people to action. Whether you desire them to act by signing up or making a purchase, add substance and improve your reader responses.
 Create a more web professional look by using short sentences, then format your page to approximately 65 characters per line. Long stringed sentences that stream from side to side of the web page look visually unprofessional. Select a layout for your article from several short article formats that include the how-to, tips list, question-answer, problem-solutions and interview. Make your introduction and summary short but do add one. Your web readers don't want just a list of boring facts and information. They want to connect with you by reading your personable introduction and practical tips with a definite ending or summary. Remember, excited readers become enthusiastic buyers and enthusiastic buyers will refer your product or service to all their friends.
 Usually, the search engines will follow the links of real readers, who actually liked your content.
 "I went for a walk" or "I went for a walk in the summer sun". Which walk would you prefer?

, It should tell the visitor where they are going next. Avoid using Click here.
 Take the time to read everything through before you send it live. Typos and spelling errors will undermine your credibility and send readers away from your pages. Proofread everything before you post it to the web.

