 When spending time with your cat, look for a red tinge to the surface of its eyes. This signals that there is something wrong with them and that they should be looked at by a veterinarian.


If your cat's eye glands don't produce enough fluid, the surface of it's eyes are likely to get red and irritated. This is due to the friction caused by the eyelid moving across a dry eye.
Red eyes can signal a variety of health problems. The color may be caused by dry eyes, but it could also be caused by something more serious, such as glaucoma.;
, If your cat is squinting a lot and excessively blinking, it's a sign that your cat may be in pain due to dry eyes. Your cat may also hold its eyes shut for excessive amounts of time if it is having eye pain.As with other symptoms of dry eyes, pain in the cat's eyes can signal other health problems, such as corneal ulcers., If your cat has KCS, it is likely to have yellowish, thick discharge around its eyes. This is caused by the lack of eye fluid being produced for the eyes.This discharge usually builds up at the corners of the eyes.
Even if you don’t see discharge, your cat may still have a problem. Some cats are excellent groomers and can remove discharge themselves.
 There are some illnesses that commonly cause dry eyes. If your cat has one of these diseases, you need to be more vigilant in looking for the signs of dry eye. For example, if you know your cat has feline herpes virus, you should be on a constant look out for the symptoms of dry eyes, as it is a common side effect of that condition.You should also look for dry eyes is your cat has had its third eyelid or third eyelid gland removed.This surgery has been used as a treatment for cherry eye and it can cause dry eyes to develop. Cherry eye is a condition in which the gland of the third eyelid moves out of place and becomes visible on the side of the eye., If your cat is suffering from painful dry eyes, you should take it to a veterinary office to have it looked at by a veterinarian. Call your veterinary office, explain your cat's problem, and make an appointment for your cat to be seen.


In most cases of mild to moderate dry eyes, you do not need to make a same day appointment. Making this type of last minute appointment is usually reserved for life-threatening emergencies.
 When you take your cat in for its appointment, you may need to assist with keeping your cat calm during the appointment and giving information about the cat's condition. For example, it is very likely that your veterinarian will want to discuss when the cat's symptoms began and whether they have increased over time.


During the exam your veterinarian will likely do a general assessment of your cat's overall health, in addition to looking at its eyes. This will help them assess the underlying cause of the eye irritation.
 In order to understand the cause of your cat's eye irritation, your veterinarian may run a test to assess your cat's tear production. The most common test used is the Schirmer tear test (STT).The Schirmer tear test entails placing a special piece of paper inside the lower eyelid for a specified amount of time and then gauging how much moisture has collected on it.
 There are a variety of medical conditions that could be causing your cat to have dry eyes. In order to treat the dry eyes, these underlying conditions must be identified and treated. Some conditions that your veterinarian will look for that could be causing your cat's dry eyes include:Damage to the tear-producing glands
Systemic diseases, such as feline herpes virus
Medication side effects (usually caused by sulfa drugs)
Inner ear infection

, It can be very soothing to cats with dry eyes to clean around their eyes with a warm, damp cloth. It is also good practice to clean the eyes before applying medication, so that no bacteria is pulled into the eyes with the medication. Using a cloth dampened with warm water, simply wipe gently around the eyes, removing any discharge that may have accumulated.Be sure to use a clean cloth every time to wipe the cat's eyes so that you don't introduce any debris or bacteria into the eyes.
 There are a variety of eye drops that your veterinarian may prescribe to treat dry eyes. How often you need to apply them varies, however it is usually between 3 to 4 times a day. The different types of eye drops your veterinarian may prescribe include:Artificial tears
Antibiotic eye drops (used to clear any existing infection)
Mucolytic eye drops (helps to dissolve mucus on the eyes)

, If your cat has dry eyes due to an underlying condition, such as feline herpes virus, then that condition needs to be treated as well. Treating the cause of the dry eyes may not always clear up the dry eyes completely but it will make it easier to keep the symptoms under control.For example, in the case of feline herpes virus, treatment usually includes immune support medications.
 When treating dry eyes, you should keep an close watch on your cat's eyes to make sure they are improving. Any increase in redness, irritation, or pain should be brought to your veterinarian's attention.An increase in symptoms may mean your cat has a corneal ulcer, which can cause permanent damage if not treated right away.If the underlying condition that caused your cat's dry eyes is treated effectively and the dry eyes themselves are treated, your cat should be able to avoid further redness and discomfort. However, in most cases treatment needs to be continued indefinitely to keep symptoms at bay.

