 Have the content already written, proofread and edited before buying your domain name and hosting. This will allow you to write up your website quickly and focus on the design of the site, rather than rush around trying to create “quality” content at the last minute.;
, This is a critical mistake that far too many people commit as a new webmaster. They explore how their site indexed quickly as they promote their site, and how to get visitors to their site, but they forget to actually develop their website. The quality of your website must always be of paramount importance.
 For example, you might have these pages from the beginning: “Home”, “blog”, “article,” “misc,” “contact” and “about”. It is advantageous if you already have the basic food information (Contact, About, etc.), so you just throw in the information once you have prepared to publish your website.
 Make sure that every page links to at least one other page in your site and that each page has at least one link pointing to it. This is crucial for supporting these spiders crawl and index the majority of the pages in your site.


Make it easy for the spiders by thorough link on your web pages. Make sure that your link structure flows logically – aka, not randomly add links to your Web pages.
Make sure that each member of a related fit, and that any link will do for your visitors (and spiders) easier browsing.
, Use the Google Keyword Tool to analyze what people are searching for in your niche. Once you have found a few phrases that you think fit your website’s content, start optimizing your pages by strategically placing those keywords throughout your content.
 However, make sure you use those phrases (and variations of those phrases) enough to attract attention from the search engines. If it flows well, also make your anchor text (the text that appears for a hyperlink) mimic the keyword(s) highlight the keyword phrases you have chosen. This will help those search engine spiders understand what your content is all about and tell them how to rank it in the respective search engines.
 Registering an account on social media sites with the same username as your blog’s URL is very effective in getting your blog indexed by search engines, especially for those targeted keywords.


For example, if your blog’s name is Tuto9, it’s a good practice to register the same username at twitter as @Tuto9, and to create a page in Facebook. Having a consistent keyword-username on all major social media sites will help get your blog indexed faster, and at a later stage it will also help build a “brand” for your blog.
Get an account on major social sites, namely: Twitter, Facebook (create a page for your blog), Digg, StumbleUpon, Delicious etc. By the way, it’s a good practice to create a separate social site's account for each of your projects. This way you can stay focused and post messages that are related to your project. In the long run, this will help build a community that are like-minded around your project.
 This is the point at which you will benefit from some attention from the Web Spider. Start by submitting your site to the big three search engines: Google, Yahoo and Bing. To link to make things easier for you, each of these concepts is the page that you access in order to submit your site to search engines. Send your main URL for each of these search engines to get started.
 Once again it is highlighted for your convenience (you need to create a Google Account before you can use their tools). Also Sign up for Bing Webmaster Tools (you need to create a Hotmail account), while you’re at it. Bing takes longer than Google’s index pages, but it is prudent to go ahead and sign up for their tools anyway. Have Yahoo! use their own type of webmaster tools for you.
 This allows the search engines to see and to understand the link structure of your site and, more importantly allows the spiders to your site with more ease and freedom to crawl. You can easily click your own map by clicking here and filling out the necessary information.
 You now have all the work (done phew!). Is it time to start submitting your site to some web directories. I’ll go ahead and warn you that there are myriad directories on the web, but not all of them necessarily good. Do some online research first.

