 If your ring is stained with dirt, dead skin, blood, lotion, food, or other grime, try rinsing it with water before you use more abrasive cleaning agents. Fill a bowl with clean, filtered water, and rub the ring gently between your fingers as you hold it in the water. Let your ring dry in the sun.


Don't use any towels or napkins to try to clean your ring, since it could scratch the surface or ruin any stones present. Don't pat it dry with a 100% cotton cloth.
It's important to use thoroughly filtered water in this process. Try putting a magnet in a flour sifter, then running your tap water through that before using it to clean your ring. This will eliminate any metals containing magnetic properties—these metals are the ones that could ruin silver, gold, or other precious metals.
 If your ring isn't too dirty, you can swab off the grime with a cotton bud or Q-Tip. Dip the ring in lukewarm water and wipe the dirty spots. Let your ring air-dry. Do not try to scrub your ring, as this may cause damage.
 Buy a cleaning product from the store that has the specified precious metals in your ring on the label—it should be easy to find. Look for a cleaner that comes with a cloth for application. Never use any regular house cleaner in order to clean rings, especially if your ring is made with any precious metals. Use a cleaner, not a polishing element, which serves a different purpose altogether.
 To loosen dirt and grime, let the ring sit for 20 minutes in a solution of one cup warm water and 1/4 cup ammonia.


Rinse the ring in soapy water.
Scrub the ring.
Rinse in warm water and leave to dry.

Mix one cup warm water and one tablespoon baking soda in the foil.
Place your ring in the water-soda mix, making sure it touches the foil.
Leave your ring in the mixture for 10-30 minutes, or until it is free of tarnish.
 Brush a coat of clear nail polish onto the ring so that the coat of gold or silver doesn't wear off, and so that rust doesn't grow on it. If your ring leaves green or colored marks on your finger, coat the inside with a light layer of nail polish to prevent staining.
 If the ring is very important to you (e.g. a wedding ring or a class ring), consider taking it to a jeweler to be professionally polished. Most stores will provide a free cleaning or give you a solution and polishing cloth to use.


A jeweler can test for the presence of precious metals, as well as the quality of those metals. This information will help the jeweler decide which cleaning agents are safe to use.
This is especially important for engraved rings. Cleaning a ring with engravings on it could potentially wipe off the inscription or design. If your ring has important engravings on it, take it to a jeweler.
 Make sure not to scrub too hard. If the grime doesn't come off when you wipe it, you may need to try a heavier-duty solution.
 Ultrasonic cleaning machines can clean jewelry in a matter of minutes using high-frequency sound. You can find these machines in a variety of models and prices. They can be a convenient way to quickly clean your jewelry at home. However, ultrasonic cleaners can damage some jewelry.Your local jeweler can tell you if an ultrasonic cleaning machine is right for your jewelry and recommend an appropriate model.

