 Dalia is the Hindi word for broken cereals. This is dish in particular is made with broken wheat. Dalia is low in cholesterol and fat, and is a good source of carbs, iron and fiber. This dish has a porridge-like texture.;
, When the oil gets hot, add one teaspoon of cumin seeds. Let the cumin splutter in the oil. Listen for the cumin seeds to start crackling before you continue—the cracking signifies that they are releasing their flavor.


If you do not have a pressure cooker, you can try cooking dalia in a large pan. Follow the same steps as you would with a pressure cooker, adding the oil and then the cumin seeds.


If you are making dalia with vegetables, now is the time to rinse and prepare your veggies. Standard (and tasty) additions to dalia include onions, tomatoes, carrots, potatoes, and peas. Make sure you rinse your veggies before you use them.Chop one medium sized tomato and one medium sized onion.
Peel and chop a half cup of carrots. Wash and chop a half cup of potatoes.
Shell a half cup of peas (or you can buy pre-shelled frozen peas).
 Sauté the onion until it becomes clear. To add flavor, you can sauté the onion with one pinch of chopped ginger and one or two chopped green chilies.
 When the onion has become clear, sauté the vegetables for roughly two minutes, stirring constantly.
 Like rice, dalia is best if it is rinsed before cooking. Add one cup of rinsed dalia to the pressure cooker and sauté with the vegetables for three or four minutes. Make sure that you are stirring constantly so that the dalia does not stick to the inside of the pressure cooker.


You can also dry roast the dalia in a separate pan before you add it to the pressure cooker.
 Stir all of the ingredients together and add as much salt as you like (this is based on personal preference).
 Cook the dalia for 10 to 12 whistles or until it has developed a porridge-like consistency. If you open the lid and notice that your dalia does not look fully cooked, add a bit more water and continue to pressure cook for several more whistles.If your dalia is looking undercooked, you can also add water and continue to cook it with the top of the pressure cooker off until the dalia becomes soft.
 It should be served hot. Garnish your dish with a couple coriander leaves. Enjoy!

,