 The secret to becoming all you want to be lies in remembering that you already are! You already are the very best version of yourself. You just need to know how to be this person. Everything you desire is already inside of you, and all of the resources you need to create it are inside of you, too.What you are looking for is not out there in the world. If your level of self-love, confidence or abundance is dependent on circumstances that are external to you, then you will live in constant fear of them being taken away. True inner power comes from believing that the source of all that you desire to become is within you.;
, There's a quote that says "the only thing holding you back is you." This is true. However, you must take stock of any attributes or habits you have that do not reflect the person you want to be. This may even require speaking to a few loved ones and asking them if they notice any unhelpful attributes that may be holding you back. Two common attributes that may be holding you back are:


Self-doubt. This is one attribute that can leave you immobile, never changing and never reaching your true potential. If you are afflicted by a fear of failure or insecurities, you need to combat them now. A great way to combat self-doubt is to look for evidence of your successes. Identify all the wonderful achievements you have already obtained. Then, reach out to a few close friends and have them tell you a few things they admire about you.Procrastination. This undesirable trait generally comes down to your self-talk. You tell yourself you work well under pressure, or that the task won't take that long so you don't have to do it right now. Putting it off for an hour becomes days, and the next thing you know you're pulling an all-nighter to finish. Overcome procrastination by attempting to figure out why you put off tasks in the first place. Then, change the way you look at large tasks. Instead of trying to cram a lot of work into one sitting, tell yourself if you complete a small chunk, you can have a break. Also, go to an environment that is conducive to working - and not filled with possible distractions.
If you are struggling with deeply buried and painful memories, fears, depression, or substance abuse, you may not be able to tackle these issues on your own. Reach out to a trained mental health professional who can guide you through the process of healing old wounds so that you can claim the healthy, vibrant future you desire.
 Every person has something they were born to do. You have a unique purpose for being here, and you have to find it. As Pablo Picasso declare, "The meaning of life is to find your gift. The purpose of life is to give it away." Do a self-assessment to get closer to your truth, and closer to becoming the person you were meant to be. Ask yourself these questions:


What do you wake up for every morning? What makes you feel truly alive?
What classes did you enjoy while in school? What do you like to learn more about?
What jobs have you held that made you feel purposeful?
What activities do you participate in that make you lose track of time because you love doing them so much?
What do people frequently tell you you're good at?
What ideas are you most passionate about?
What can you simply not go without in this life?

, Any time you think a negative, critical, fearful or harmful thought about yourself, you are disconnecting from your truth. Any time you tell yourself you cannot do something or have something, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy - you cannot reach your goals this way. Your truth is that you have the ability to become anything you wish to become. All you have to do is believe it, and you can achieve it.


To stop unhelpful thoughts, strive to first identify them, then challenge them.If you find yourself saying "I can't do that" when trying a new thing, demand evidence that shows you can't. Many people have negative self-talk that does not serve them. Aim to become aware of these thoughts and replace them with positive statements, such as "I am afraid of trying this. But, I won't know if I'm good at it unless I try."
Sometimes, believing in yourself can be difficult, especially when you have negative self-talk. As you learn to challenge negative self-talk, also began to envision yourself achieving your goals. Visualization can be a powerful motivator and help you to feel more confident in your abilities.To practice visualization, go into a quiet room and sit comfortably. Close your eyes. Take a deep breath. See yourself accomplishing a goal. Try this with smaller goals, such as losing 10 lbs or finishing the semester with a 4.0 GPA. Imagine yourself at the finish line, but also go back and envision every small step you will have to take to get there (i.e. eating right and working out, or studying daily and getting tutoring).

