 Plant all types of begonias outside in a partly or lightly shaded location after all danger of frost has passed. Use Tuberous begonias for planters or hanging baskets. Use fibrous rooted begonia for creating beautiful flower beds.








Place begonias where they get early morning or late afternoon sun to ensure that you get the best bloom. You can also place them in a location where they get dappled sunlight all day.
Avoid sitting begonias in containers on hot surfaces such as asphalt or concrete.
Start tuberous begonias inside 3 months before your last frost in the spring for best blooming results. See notes on how to start them.
 Begonias like fertile that is rich in nutrients. You can create this sort of soil by adding peat moss to the area, as well as thoroughly rotted compost. You also have to make sure that your plants’ roots have good drainage or else they could rot.









Try to avoid planting begonias in areas with strong wind, as they have weak stems that can be damaged by large gusts of wind.
 You want to make sure that you water begonias so that their soil is moist by not soggy. This means letting the top inch of soil dry out before water the plants again. Soggy soil can lead to a rotting or dead begonia.








Water begonias planted in containers until the water runs from the drainage holes.Dump the drained water out of any trays or saucers immediately after watering.
Check hanging baskets of begonias frequently as they can dry out in one day. If you find that the soil is dry to the touch, water the plant.
 Begonias prefer a balanced fertilizer, meaning that the fertilizer is neutral rather than acidic or basic. Work a slow release granular fertilizer into the ground where you plan to plant your begonias.








Read and follow the label’s directions for the amount to use.
Repeat the fertilizer application in three months by gently working it in the soil around the plants.
Use a water-soluble fertilizer for blooming plants once a week if you do not use a granular fertilizer.
 Doing this will ensure that the healthy parts of the plant are free to keep growing.
 Cut back bedding or fibrous begonias to 3”(7.6 cm) every 4 months in mild climates where there is no frost to renew the plants. This will ensure that they continue to grow and remain healthy.









Bring in bedding begonias that were growing outside to grow inside for the winter. Dig them before the first frost and pot them. Cut the plants back to about 3” to start new growth. See indoor care above.
