 Diet, exercise, and lifestyle all play factors in whether or not a horse will develop an ulcer. A horse’s stomach is split into two parts--the the non-glandular part which immediately follows the esophagus, and the glandular part, which secretes enzymes like pepsin and hydrochloric acid. The glandular part is coated with mucus and bicarbonates, which protect it from the effects of hydrochloric acid or in common terms Muriatic acid! (Imagine drinking Muriatic acid). The ulceration of the non-glandular part of the stomach is the most common type of ulcer because it does not have the same protective lining as the glandular part. Causes of ulcers include:Prolonged feeding of concentrates.
Prolonged starvation and low frequency of feeding (feeding only 3x/day).
Stress like prolonged and high intensity exercise, prolonged or frequent transport, prolonged confinement, depression, and no socialization with other horses.
Prolonged use of NSAIDS (Non Steroidal Anti Inflammatory Drugs). These drugs block the production of chemicals in the stomach that inhibit acid production.
Starvation in foals caused by poor mothering mares that lead delayed or infrequent milk suckling.;
, Foals may exhibit different symptoms than those of adult horses. Stomach ulcers are very prevalent in foals who have not suckled milk properly and they can actually lead to death. If you notice any of these symptoms, bring your foal to a horse veterinarian immediately. In particular, look for:Colic or extreme abdominal pain
Teeth grinding or bruxism
Excess salivation
Diarrhea
Poor appetite
Emaciation or poor body condition
Attempting to lie on his back

, Some of the symptoms that foals exhibit may also become apparent in adult horses. Whenever you observe these clinical signs you should suspect stomach ulcer, and immediately consult or bring your horse to a horse veterinarian. They can diagnose it definitively using an endoscope (a device that can see the inside of the horse stomach) and give proper treatment and advice. Look for:Poor appetite
Poor body condition
Weight loss
Mild colic
Mental dullness
Attitude changes
Poor performance
Lying down on back more than usual

