 One of the quickest ways to capture a person's attention is to smile. It shows that you are approachable and friendly, as well as positive.Always have a genuine smile if possible, allowing it to come as naturally as you can. However, even a fake smile can induce positive feelings.A smile can be a friendly greeting. If you see someone you recognize, but don't have time to stop and talk, don't hesitate to flash a smile to at least show that you acknowledge his presence.;
, Standing against a wall at an event with your arms crossed and a pout on your face will only cause others to carefully maneuver around you. They will automatically think you are unlikable based on your body language. Welcoming others and helping them to open up around you means changing your body language to send off positive signals.In addition to a friendly smile, approachable body language involves sitting with an erect posture, holding your head high with arms uncrossed and open at your sides. You should also maintain steady eye contact with the other person - but, make sure to blink and look away on occasion, so as not to intimidate the other person with a constant stare., Although it may be difficult to treat everyone with a pleasant attitude, understand that doing so will help build a good reputation. Research shows that the same areas of the brain are activated when we receive a gift as when we donate to a charity.Not only does being kind feel good, it’s also good for your health.



Be polite whenever you can. Even if you normally have trouble with kindness, there are simple ways to be nice to everyone you meet. Examples may include holding doors, offering to help others, or saying "please" and "thank you". Plus, you'll win favor with people if you don't hesitate to apologize when you're in the wrong, even if it was an accident.
 From business contacts to people you see regularly, such as the clerk at your local post office or the security guard at your building, learning the names of even casual acquaintances is important. Knowing someone’s name tells them that you deem this person to be important, and the relationship meaningful.You just might light up the postal clerk’s face by calling her by name, and she might just gather your mail with less hassle next time. Use these tactics to remember names. Repeat the person’s name as often as possible: immediately after you are introduced, in conversation, and as the interaction concludes.
Use association and imagination. Try to think of someone else you might know with that name or a similar name. If the name is unusual or foreign, ask about its origin which might help you remember it for future interactions. Also, try to think of connections relating to the person’s name. For example, a woman named Wendy with red hair might remind you of the hamburger restaurant, thereby helping you think of her name the next time you meet.
 In order to be a likable person, it is important to show people that you value their opinions and thoughts. Rather than dominating the conversation, occasionally remain silent and allow the other person to speak. Conversations involve give and take. Contribute to the conversation with your own thoughts, but be sure to make room for the other person to contribute, too.


To demonstrate active listening, make eye contact, nod, and ask questions when appropriate. You can also restate what you think the other person said for clarification, and to show you were paying attention.Sometimes good listeners are typecast as aloof or standoffish. You may enjoy listening to others, but remember that communication is a two-way street - others want to hear from you, too. One easy way to listen without appearing standoffish is to use positive facial expressions and gestures while others are speaking. Smile, nod, compliment others, and laugh at their jokes when it's appropriate.
 If you want to get someone talking, the best route to doing that is asking a question that requires more than a "yes" or "no" answer. Open-ended questions don't limit the other person to a short answer. People like talking about themselves. Therefore, if you pose an open-ended question that invites them to tell you more about themselves, they will view you more favorably.


For example, asking a close-ended question like "How was your weekend?" only leaves room for a short answer. On the other hand, asking "What did you do this weekend?" opens the floor up for the other person to share as much as he would like., While you should not view your beliefs superior to others', do not hesitate to voice your thoughts. Of course, it’s important to treat people kindly, but that doesn't mean you are not allowed to have your own opinion. You can disagree with people, but do so in a polite manner that shows them that you still value their opinion.


When someone’s opinion differs from yours, rather than beginning an argument, simply ask the person to explain why they think that way. This will show that you are interested learning new lessons and seeing things from others’ perspectives.