 You can use essential oils to prevent illness. To use essential oils as prevention, you can apply them to your skin on a daily basis, or at least 3 or 4 times a week. In fact, some say the best way is to dilute them in a carrier oil and rub them on the bottoms of the feet at bedtime to generally boost the immune system.A carrier oil is a basic oil like olive oil or coconut oil, and you mix one or two drops of essential with it before rubbing it into your skin. Essential oils are very powerful, and diluting them in other oil prevents them from irritating your skin.
Oils that are good to rub on your feet at night to boost the immune system include lavender, lemon, pine needle, and tea tree. Use one at a time or a combination of two or three, but do not exceed four drops on each foot with the carrier oil.
Use half this amount on children, and make sure it is safe to use each oil on a child. Most oils are safe after age 6, but certain oils like eucalyptus and peppermint should not be used on young children.
Don’t bathe for 7 hours after applying the oil so that you get the full benefits.
Essential oils can be found in many locations, such as vitamin stores, drug stores, health food stores, or from individuals who sell them from home.
 Herbs can be a very effective way to prevent illness. When you consume herbs on a regular basis, you are able to boost your immune system. In fact, herbs have been used for hundreds of years as preventive measures for illness.Many herbs have been shown to prevent cancer: turmeric may prevent colon cancer, rosemary may stop tumors from growing, and holy basil may prevent breast cancer.
Herbs also have a reputation for improving heart health: cinnamon lowers cholesterol, ginger lowers blood pressure, and garlic improves the cardiovascular system as a whole.
 Food and weight have always played a major role in our overall health. Having a healthy weight prevents many of the health problems that come with obesity, such as increased cholesterol and risk of heart disease. Eating the right foods can also help you prevent cancer and other diseases.For example, eating foods rich in antioxidants like berries, spinach, and beans can prevent free radicals from overwhelming your system and growing tumors.
Eat lean meats and whole grains to prevent iron deficiency., If you are eating a balanced diet, you don’t need a lot of vitamin supplements. But many of us don’t eat a perfectly balanced diet. A diet severely deficient in vitamins can allow your body to break down faster so that you end up with things like joint pain and skin discoloration. Taking vitamins can prevent a breakdown of health.For example, vitamin B12 deficiency can cause numbness, weakness, fatigue, and difficulty walking.
 Holistic medicine, such as at a chiropractor, acupuncturist, massage therapist, or other practitioner, can prevent your body from experiencing pain. For example, most chiropractors like to treat patients on a monthly basis to prevent pain from returning.

