 The first steps involved in spit shining shoes are the same as above. First, you will need to clean the shoes with a damp cloth or horsehair brush to remove any dirt and debris. Then you will apply the first layer of polish using a cloth or polishing brush, using small circular motions to really work the polish into the leather.









Allow the polish to dry for about 15 minutes before moving on to the next step.
 Spit shining involves using a damp cloth or cotton ball to apply successive layers of polish. If using a cloth, make sure to wrap it tightly around your hand, with the index and middle fingers covered by the material. Dip your cloth-covered fingers or a cotton ball into a dish of of water until wet but not dripping.









The water is used to prevent the polish from sticking to the cloth and encourage it to stay on the shoes instead.
Some people prefer to use rubbing alcohol instead of water.
 Pick up a shoe and begin buffing the first layer of dried polish using the damp cloth or cotton ball. Work slowly, using small circular motions to really work the polish into the shoe. Spit shining is all about finesse, not speed.









Work from the toe to the heel, doing one side of the shoe at a time.
Move onto the second shoe once the first has developed a nice even shine.
 When you have finished buffing and the shoes are completely dry, dip the cloth or cotton ball into the water again and wring out until just damp. Use this dampened material to apply a second light layer of polish to the surface of the shoes, using the same thorough technique as before.









After this second polish, you should begin to see a hazy shine developing on the surface of the shoe., The surface of the shoes should be perfectly smooth and even, with a glass-like shine.









It is very important that you apply multiple light layers as opposed to just one or two thick layers -- this allows each successive layer to build on the previous one, giving spit shined shoes their mirror-like finish.If you like, you can use a chamois or an old t-shirt to give the shoes one final buff before wearing, though this may be unnecessary.

