 Headaches can be caused by a number of factors such as stress, colds, allergies, or dehydration. Before using remedies or seeking help from a doctor, it is important to identify the type of headache you have so you can to find an effective treatment.


Tension headaches are the most common form of headaches. They are caused by muscle tightening in the back of the neck or scalp, often triggered by emotional stress, fatigue, or depression. Tension headaches usually cause a tightening band-like sensation around the neck or head, or pain that primarily occurs in the forehead, temples, or back of the head. Chronic tension headaches may also be accompanied by changes in sleep patterns, insomnia, anxiety, weight loss, dizziness, poor concentration, ongoing fatigue, and nausea.
Cluster headaches are characterized by severe, stabbing pain that develops behind one eye. They appear to be based on hypothalamic dysfunction and tend to be familial. They bring about burning, sharp, steady pain. Ptosis, a drooping eyelid, can be an important sign of a cluster headache.
A sinus headache occurs when the sinuses become inflamed due to allergies, a cold, or the flu. Sinus headaches may also be caused by digestive problems such as gastric reflux, diarrhea or constipation. A recurring or prolonged cold may cause sinusitis. Acute sinusitis is a common nasal condition that can occur from changes in atmospheric pressure, dental problems, allergies, or an infection caused by bacteria or viruses.
Migraine headaches can cause severe pain on one side of the head, pulsating pain through the head or on one side, sensitivity to light and sound, nausea, vomiting and increased pain with exertion such as climbing stairs or exercise. Some migraine sufferers also experience “auras”, or strange smell, sight, and touch sensations approximately 30–60 minutes before the onset of headaches.
Post-traumatic headaches can result from head injury and may persist for months or years following even mild head trauma. Common symptoms are head pain, dizziness, insomnia, poor concentration, and mood swings.;
, Medications or lifestyle changes may often be the cause of headaches. Keep a diary to track recent changes to diet, lifestyle, or medications as well as triggers. When you have a headache, note it along with any recent changes.Note the date, time of day, and duration of when the headache occurs. Note down the severity of the headache as well - such as mild, moderate, or severe. For example, you might discover that you get severe headaches when you drink more than 3 cups of coffee in a day, combined with reduced sleep. Note foods, beverages, medications, and allergens that you may have come in contact with before the onset of a headache.
 Try to identify common factors. Did you consume the same food right before a headache started? Did you take any medications or dietary supplements. If so, contact your doctor and consider discontinuing those medications - if possible - to see if it changes the frequency and severity of your headaches. Were you exposed to allergens such as pollen or dust? Did you changes your sleeping patterns? Make connections and experiment on your own. If you think that one factor causes headaches, cut it out. Do this over and over. Eventually, you'll figure out what your trigger is.
 Most headaches may be caused by certain environmental or dietary changes. Common triggers that have been reported to cause or increase the severity of headaches are:Seasonal changes or changes in atmospheric pressure. Certain activities such as flying, hiking, swimming or scuba diving may cause changes in air pressure and trigger headaches.
Lack of sleep or oversleeping. Try to get plenty of rest regularly.
Exposure to smoke, perfume vapors or hazardous fumes. Allergens such as pollen or dust may also cause contribute to headaches.
Eye strain. If you wear glasses or contacts, make sure your prescription is current. Do not use lenses that cause irritation.
Bright or flashing lights
Stress or strong emotions. Try to use relaxation techniques to manage stress.
Alcoholic beverages such as red wine, champagne and beer.
Excessive intake of caffeinated beverages such as coffee, soda or tea.Artificially sweetened foods and beverages, especially with aspartame.
Snacks containing monosodium glutamate (MSG), a type of salt.
Foods such as processed meats, sardines, anchovies, pickled herring, freshly baked yeast products, nuts, peanut butter, sweetened chocolate, sour cream or yogurt.