 People who are extremely sensitive often lead really hard lives. They pick up on nuances where others see merely discussions; they hear, see and smell things in greater volume or intensity than others, which can make activities or experiences overwhelming for them on many occasions; and they can observe the deeper patterns that move human society and can be easily frustrated at the injustices they perceive in many places. This can lead such persons to leave the party early, to decline to attend events, to cry at the drop of a word and to close down on anyone they perceive as attacking anything they deeply care about. Sensitive people can experience headaches, dizziness, weakness and nausea when over-exposed to noise, busyness, brightness or crowds and this can make life hard for them, especially in urban environments. As such, have a heart and at least understand that the daily tasks that you find regular and bearable may, at times, feel like draining torture to a sensitive person.


Be accepting that the sensitive person is made that way. They are not manipulative, they are not trying to make anyone else's life more difficult and they are not broken.;
, It is important to take care not to be dismissive of sensitive persons. Where cultural norms favor competitive, opinionated and outspoken approaches to work and social life, such promoted values can cause the "normal" to be interpreted as being these ways, while anything that is quiet, cooperative and sensitive by nature can be viewed as "not normal". For the sensitive person, it can result in hearing some of the most dreaded comments, such as:


"Why are you so sensitive?" – the presumption here is that there is a level of "toughness" to meet. In actual fact, this is often stated when the speaker is comparing the sensitive person's behavior to his or her own sense of what's a normal way to do something/be and it excludes the sensitive person's perspective entirely.
"You're too sensitive" – this comment is often made as a dismissive retort when the speaker isn't getting his or her own way and is annoyed by or angry with the sensitive person's reluctance to conform to their wants or is overwhelmed and needs to withdraw to recover. It's a stinging rebuke that can be remembered for long after the occasion. It is also often said when the speaker is about to do or say something that he or she doesn't wish to be held responsible for.
"Get over yourself" – this may be said when the speaker has reached the end of their willingness to understand the sensitive person, and it makes the assumption that the sensitive person is "putting it on". This failure to understand that the sensitive person is likely feeling deep pain, confusion or disturbance of one kind or another and is simply doing their best to cope can make the interaction even more disturbing for them, made all the worse by the implication that the sensitive person is trying to be manipulative, when that is not at all the case.
"You need therapy to fix this problem" – the presumption here is that sensitivity is a disease in need of a cure. The speaker fails to realize that sensitivity is innate, it comes with the person in the same way as green eyes, blond hair and flat feet come with a person. While it may be reasonable to help the sensitive person learn how to better cope with relating to others, it is wrong to presume that there is something broken about them.


Upon hearing such comments, a barb enters the soul and wounds the sensitive person because they're being told that they're somehow not normal. Stop yourself before ever uttering these dismissive and unkind phrases. After all, the reason behind saying these statements is manipulative or dismissive, and both those motivations are not genuine ways to relate to others.
 Do not say anything that you feel will offend this person from what you know about them. This isn't about curtailing your "rights" to speak as you think; it's about showing respect for another person's dignity and about getting along harmoniously in your relationships.


Avoid any discussion about needing to "fix" the sensitivity. This is about as realistic as trying to fix someone's naturally outgoing personality or their natural sporting ability. Sensitivity is a personality trait of equal value and is not a sign of being broken!

, A sensitive person responds to being spoken to in a calm, gentle and persuasive tone of voice. Acting tough and being impatient or aggressive will scare a sensitive person and cause them to react defensively immediately. If you want to encourage a sensitive person to do something, be somewhere or achieve something, be calmly encouraging and supportive. You can be absolutely certain that every single word you say to a sensitive person has been heard and is being digested for its meaning, both the obvious and the unsaid, so there is no need to shout it out or hammer it home. Speak gently and show that you have faith in this person to acquiesce to your request and your message is understood.
 Keep yourself nice and cool when you're with them. This will help them relax when you're around and know that they can rely on you when they have problems. As an added bonus, you'll like how you feel when you're calm and relating to someone at that level too––it's a pleasure to know that every word you say has import, is being taken seriously and that you don't have to huff and puff to be heard.
 What is it that they're sensitive about, and why? Knowing your sensitive person will help you to understand why they feel like they do. Perhaps they are passionate about "saving" something––sensitive people are often idealistic and in love with a cause. This can be extremely helpful if it's a cause you happen to be involved in too, as you've a firm ally for life there. Even if you're not able to see eye-to-eye with the cause or mission the sensitive person is pursuing in life, it is important to admire their passion and commitment to it, and to acknowledge that what they value is important too.
 Let them know that you don't mind that they are the way they are. Make it clear that you think the way they are is just as normal as any other person's way of being. In fact, don't even make a big deal about it; be supportive, especially when others don't understand. Equally, don't inflate it to some weird sort of condition that needs mollycoddling. It's enough to have the sensitivity respected and valued.


Appreciate the sensitive person as a sounding board for theories or as help to ignite creativity in your workplace. If you are truly prepared to listen to a sensitive person, you'll learn much from their ability to read between the lines and perceive the imperceptible. Just be sure to not crowd them or put them on the spot.
Note that sensitive persons are often found to be the best performers in the modern technologically driven and automated workplace.This is due to the fact they bring forth higher sensory perception, empathy and intuitive approaches into workplaces in which many are held sway to the technological solutions. Their input can be vital in helping a workplace thrive and even survive amid the emotionless competitiveness.If your workplace is sensitive-phobic, consider leading the charge to change this around. Reward the sensitive people for their compassion, deeper thinking and empathy. Help to root out bullying that thrives on ousting the persons who are non-confrontational and therefore make easy targets.Most of all, make it clear that sensitivity is to be valued as a contributor to the whole of what makes the organization successful.
 There will be times when you think "Why do I have to tiptoe around their feelings?" Realize that this is a form of wanting to enforce your "normal" onto them, and lacks an understanding that every single day, sensitive persons are doing everything they can to "fit in" amid a loud, rushing and critical world that buffets them about, drains them and often hurts them. If they have the courage to be able to cope with this despite the toll it takes on their well-being, then you can find the courage too to overcome any sense of petty annoyance. After all, it's simply yet another part of showing respect for people from all walks of life and for every person, highly sensitive or not, this is our daily obligation.