 In a small bowl, add the celery, lemon juice, garlic, olive oil, pepper and salt. Whisk the dressing until it looks adequately mixed. In another bowl, add the kale, lettuce, spinach, alfalfa sprouts, yellow and orange bell pepper, prunes, spirulina, sunflower seeds, chlorella, and maca powder. Mix all of the greens together. Finally, pour the dressing over the salad and serve.When you mix the salad dressing with the salad and spirulina powder, the powder will get mixed into the dressing and add a bit of a green color to the salad.
 In a blender or food processor, add the chickpeas, olive oil, lemon juice, tahini, spirulina, garlic, chipotle chile powder and salt. Blend the ingredients together until you get a smooth consistency. If the mixture looks too thick, you can add some more lemon juice or a bit of water until it has the desired consistency.Serve the hummus with small strips of pita bread, carrots, broccoli or other fresh vegetables.
 Cut up the nori into rectangles that will fit into your bowl. Add the water to a saucepan and bring it to a simmer. Add the nori and simmer it for five minutes. In a small bowl, add the miso and a couple tablespoons of hot water. Mix the nori and the hot water, then add it to the saucepan. Add the rest of the ingredients and cook for five minutes. Serve the soup warm., In a rice cooker or on the stovetop, make the rice. Mix the rice vinegar, salt and sugar in a small bowl and then add it to the cooked rice. Place the sheets of nori on a baking sheet. Preheat the oven to 300ʡF (150ʡC). Bake the nori for one or two minutes to warm it up., Place one sheet of nori on a bamboo sushi mat. Spread a thin layer of rice on top of the sushi. Then, add one quarter of all of the vegetables and the crab meat. The ingredients should be on the center of the rice. Lifting one end of the mat, roll the nori up to create a sushi roll. Repeat the process with the other sheets of nori. Cut the rolls into bite-size pieces and then serve.Serve sushi with miso soup.

