 Individuals with paruresis tend to have shy personalities and are sensitive and fearful of being judged and criticized by others. Those with severe cases of paruresis may have one or more of the following symptoms:Needing to have complete privacy when going to the bathroom.
Being fearful that other people may hear the sound of urine hitting the water in the toilet.
Being fearful that other people may be able to smell the urine.
Having negative thoughts while attempting to pee (e.g. I’m such a moron, I’m never going to be able to go pee here.).
Not being able to pee in public washrooms, washrooms at other people’s homes or washrooms at work.
Not being able to pee at home if someone else is visiting or waiting outside the bathroom.
Being anxious at the thought of having to go to the bathroom.
Not wanting to drink too much liquid for fear they’ll have to use the bathroom.
Avoiding travel and events outside the home in case they have to use the bathroom.
 The inability to pee in front of other people or when other people are around, is not a physical problem. There is nothing wrong with your kidneys, bladder or urinary tract. Unfortunately paruresis is caused by anxiety which tenses the muscles of the body, including the ‘urinary sphincter’ which prevents urine from being able to exit the body.The problem can enter a vicious circle as the fact that you are not able to pee then makes you more anxious, which makes it harder to pee, and so on.
It is possible that one specific event in your past caused the problem.
 While paruresis is not a physical problem, you may have physical problems that are making it worse. In order to ensure you don’t have any of these other physical problems, it’s best to talk to your doctor and have those other problems investigated.An example of a physical problem that may make your paruresis is prostatitis, which can affect men.
 While paruresis is not a physical problem, there are some medical options your doctor may suggest. Your doctor may prescribe anti-anxiety medications, anti-depressants or tranquilizers to help eliminate or reduce the anxiety you feel when trying to pee when others are around.Note that these drugs are not a cure for paruresis, so it is still helpful to obtain other types of help to eliminate the problem completely so you can eventually stop taking these medications.
In very severe cases your doctor may suggest self-catheterization. This is where a catheter (a very slender tube) is inserted into the urethra and into the bladder. Urine can then drain from the bladder without the need to relax the urinary sphincter.

