 Newborns need to get lots of rest to continue growing healthy and strong -- some can rest up to 16 hours a day. Though once your baby is three months or so old, he may be able to sleep for 6-8 hours at a time, in the beginning, your baby may only sleep for 2-3 hours at a time and should be woken up if he or she hasn't been fed for 4 hours.


Some babies have their days and nights confused when they are born. If your baby is more alert at night, try to limit nighttime stimulation by keeping the lights dim and your talking low, and be patient until your baby begins a normal sleeping cycle.
Make sure you place your baby on his back to lower the risk of SIDS.
You should alternate the position of your baby's head -- whether it's leaning to the left or the right -- to eliminate the "soft spot" that can appear on a baby's face if he spends too much time sleeping with his head in one position.;
, If you want to breastfeed your baby, then feeding your baby the first time you hold her after she is delivered is a great place to start. You should turn your baby's body toward you, so you are holding her chest toward yours. Touch her upper lip with your nipple and pull her to your breast when she opens her mouth wide. Once she does this, her mouth should cover your nipple and as much of the areola as possible. Here are some things you should know about breastfeeding your baby:If the baby is getting enough food, it will produce 6-8 wet diapers a day, along with steady bowel movements, be alert when it's awake, and will steadily gain weight.
Don't stress if your baby has a hard time feeding at first; it takes patience and practice. You can get help from a nurse or even a lactation consultant (who can be helpful before birth).
Know that nursing shouldn't hurt. If the latch-on hurts, break the suction by placing your pinkie finger between your baby's gums and your breast and repeat the process.
You should nurse about 8-12 times during the first 24 hours of baby's birth. You don't have to stick to a strict schedule, but should nurse whenever your baby shows signs of hunger, from increased mouthing and activity to looking for your nipple. You should nurse at least every four hours, even gently waking your baby to feed her if necessary.
Make sure to get comfortable. Feedings can take up to 40 minutes, so pick a cozy spot that can give you back support when you're nursing.
Eat a healthy and well-balanced diet. Stay hydrated and be prepared to feel more hunger than normal and follow it. Limit your use of alcohol or caffeine because it will enter your breast milk.
 Choosing whether to formula feed or breastfeed your baby is a personal decision. While some studies show that breastfeeding may be healthier for your baby, you also have to consider your own health and convenience and a variety of other factors before making this decision. Formula feeding can make it easier to know how much you've fed your baby, to limit the amount of feedings, and to not have to restrict your own diet. If you do choose to formula feed your baby, here are some things you need to know:Make sure to follow the directions on the label of the formula when you prepare it.
Sterilize new bottles.
Feed your baby every two or three hours, or whenever he seems hungry.
Discard any formula left out of the fridge for over an hour or any left unfinished by the baby.
Store formula in the fridge no longer than 24 hours. You can carefully warm it because many babies prefer it that way, but it's not necessary.
Hold your baby at a 45-degree angle to help him take in less air. Cradle him in a semi-upright position, offering plenty of head support. Tilt the bottle so the nipple and neck are filled with formula. Never prop it, which can cause the baby to choke.
 Whether you're using cloth or disposable diapers, if you plan on taking care of your newborn, you'll have to be a diaper-changing expert, and fast. Whatever method you use -- and you should decide before you bring home your baby -- you should be prepared to change your baby's diaper around 10 times a day. Here what you have to do:


Get your supplies ready. You'll need a clean diaper, fasteners (if you use cloth diapers), diaper ointment (for rashes), a container of warm water, a clean washcloth, and some cotton balls or diaper wipes.
Remove your baby's dirty diaper. If it's wet, place your baby on his back and remove the diaper and use the water and washcloth to wipe your baby's genital area. Wipe girls from front to back to avoid UTIs. If you see a rash, place some ointment on it.
Open the new diaper and slide it under your baby, gently lifting your baby's legs and feet. Move the front of the diaper up between your baby's legs, over the belly. Then, bring the adhesive strips around and snugly fasten them so the diaper is nice and secure.
To avoid diaper rash, change your baby's diaper as soon as possible after a bowel movement, using soap and water to wipe your baby. Let your baby go undiapered for a few hours each day to let your baby's bottom air out a bit.
 During the first week, you should carefully give your baby a sponge bath. Once the umbilical cord falls off, you can start bathing your baby regularly, around two to three times a week. To do this the right way, you should gather your supplies, such as towels, soap, a clean diaper, etc, in advance, so that your baby isn't fussing around. Fill the tub or baby tub with about three inches of warm water before you begin the bath. Here's what you should do next:


See if you can get help. You may feel a little scared or uncertain when you bathe your baby for the first time. If so, see if you can get your partner or a family member involved. That way, one person can hold the baby in the water while the other person bathes the baby.
Undress your baby carefully. Then, slip your baby into the tub feet first, while using one of your hands to support the baby's neck and hands. Continue to pour warm cupfuls of water into the bath so your baby doesn't get cold.
Use mild soap and use it sparingly so you don't get it into your baby's eyes. Wash your baby with your hand or with a washcloth, making sure to gently wash your baby from top to bottom and from front to back. Clean your baby's body, genitals, scalp, hair, and any dried mucus that has collected on your baby's face.
Rinse your baby with cupfuls of warm water. Wipe your baby clean with a washcloth. Lift the baby out of the tub, continuing to use one hand to support her neck and head. Be careful -- babies are slippery when wet.
Wrap your baby in a hooded towel and pat your baby dry. After that, put a diaper and dress on your baby and kiss him so he has positive associations with being bathed.
 You may be intimidated by how tiny and fragile your newborn seems, but with a few basic techniques, you should feel more confident about handling your baby in no time. Here are some things you should do:


Wash or sanitize your hands before you handle your baby. Newborn babies are susceptible to infection because their immune systems aren't quite so strong yet. Make sure that your hands -- and the hands of anyone else who handles the baby -- are clean before you make contact.
Support your baby's head and neck. To hold your baby, cradle his head whenever you carry him and support it when you're holding the baby upright or putting him down. Babies can't hold up their own heads yet, so don't ever let a baby's head flop around.
Avoid shaking your baby, whether you're playing or angry. This can cause bleeding in the brain, which can lead to death. Don't try to wake up your baby by shaking it, either -- instead, tickle its feet or give it another gentle touch.
Learn to swaddle your baby. This is a great way to keep your baby feeling secure before he reaches the two month mark.
 You have to make sure to give your baby as much head and neck support as possible when you hold it. You should let the baby's head rest inside your inner elbow, with the length of his body resting on your forearm. His outer hip and upper legs should rest with your hand, with its inside arm resting over his chest and abdomen. Hold the baby snugly and give your baby all of your attention.You can also hold the baby by pacing his tummy on your upper chest, while using the same side hand to hold his body, while using the opposite hang to support the baby's head from the back.
If your baby has older siblings or cousins or is around people unfamiliar with holding babies, carefully instruct them on how to hold the baby and make sure they are sitting down with a knowing adult nearby to keep the baby safe.
 Since your baby spends so much of its time on its back, it's important to also give your baby time to stay on his tummy so that he develops both mentally and physically and strengthens his arms, head, and neck. Some doctors say babies should get 15-20 minutes of tummy time a day, while others say that you should just place your baby on his tummy for 5 minutes during different parts of the day as he develops.


You can start with tummy time as soon as a week after the baby is born, once the umbilical chord falls off.
To make tummy time fun, get level with your baby. Make eye contact, tickle your baby, and play around.
Tummy time is hard work, and some babies will be resistant to it. Don't be surprised -- or give in -- if this happens.
 Your baby's umbilical cord stump should fall off within the first two weeks of its life. It will change in color from a yellowish green to brown and black as it dries and falls off on its own. It's important to care for it properly before it falls off to avoid infection. Here's what you should do:Keep it clean. Clean it with plain water and dry it with a clean and absorbent cloth. Make sure to wash your hands before you handle it. Stick to giving your baby sponge baths until it falls off.
Keep it dry. Expose it to air so the base dries out, keeping the front of your baby's diaper folded down so it is uncovered.
Resist the urge to pull it off. Let the stump fall off at its own pace.
Keep an eye out for signs of infection. It's natural to see a bit of dried blood or a little bit of crust near the stump; however, you should see a doctor immediately if the stump produces a smelly discharge or yellowish pus, continues to bleed, or is swollen and red.
 If your baby is upset, it's not always easy to find the reason right away, through there are a few tricks you can try. Check for a wet diaper. Try feeding them. If that doesn't work, try adding a layer of clothing if it's cold out or removing a layer if it's hot. Sometimes, your baby just wants to be held, or is experiencing too much stimulation. As you get to know your newborn, you'll become better at finding what's wrong.Your baby also may just need to be burped.

Rocking them gently and singing or humming a lullaby to them will help. Give them a pacifier if that doesn't work. They might just be tired so lay them down. Sometimes, babies just cry and you have to let them until they fall asleep.
 You can't play with the child just yet, but they do get bored like we do. Try taking them for a walk to the park once a day, talking to them, putting pictures in the room where they spend most of their time, listening to music, or taking them in the car. Remember that your baby is just a baby and is not ready for rough play; do not roughhouse or shake your baby and be as gentle as possible instead.


In the beginning, the most important thing you can do is to bond with your baby. This means you should stroke your baby, cradle your baby, give the baby some skin-to-skin contact, or even consider giving your baby an infant massage.
Babies love vocal sounds, and it's never too early to start talking, babbling, singing, or cooing with your baby. Play some music for the baby while you're bonding, or play with toys that make noise, such as rattles or mobiles.
Some babies are more sensitive to touch and light than others, so if your baby doesn't seem to be responding well to your attempts at bonding, then you can take it easier with the noise and lights until your baby gets used to it.
 Your baby will pay frequent visits to the doctor during its first year, for scheduled check-ups and shots. Many first newborn visits occur just 1-3 days after you and your baby are discharged from the hospital. After that, each doctor's program will vary slightly, but you should generally take your newborn to the doctor at least two weeks to a month after birth, after the second month, and then every other month or so. It's important to schedule regular visits with your baby to make sure that your baby is growing normally and receiving the necessary care.It's also important to pay a visit to your doctor in case you notice anything abnormal; even if you're not sure that what is happening is abnormal, you should always call the doctor's office to check.
Some symptoms you should look out for include:

Dehydration: less than three wet diapers per day, excessive sleepiness, dry mouth
Bowel movement problems: no movement during the first two days, white mucus in stool, flecks or streaks of red in the stool, overly high or low temperature
Respiratory problems: grunting, flaring of nostrils, fast or noisy breathing, chest retractions
Umbilical cord stump problems: pus, odor, or bleeding from stump
Jaundice: yellow color in the chest, body, or eyes
Prolonged crying: crying for over thirty minutes
Other illness: persistent coughing, diarrhea, paleness, forceful vomiting for more than two consecutive feedings, fewer feedings than 6 per day



, You'll need to be prepared to take your baby on car rides before the baby is born since you'll need a way to get the baby home from the hospital. You'll need to get a car seat that is appropriate for newborns and to make sure that it is secure and safe for your baby. Though you may not need to spend a lot of time in the car with your newborn, some mothers find that taking the baby for a ride can actually help put him or her to sleep.


You should also get an infant seat for your baby. These seats are there to help your young baby sit up, not to help your baby be secured in a car. In this kind of seat, the base should have nonskid surfacing and should be wider than the seat, and it should have a secure locking mechanism, along with washable fabric. Never place your baby in the seat on an elevated surface that the baby can fall from.
As for child safety seats, make sure the seat meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety standard 213 and that it actually fits your child. Infants and toddles should sit in a rear-facing seat until they are at least 2 years old.
 If you're raising a baby solo, then you will need as much mental and emotional strength as possible. If you're lucky enough to have a spouse or a caring parent or parent-in-law, then it's important to arrange for some extra help to be there when your baby is born. If you can hire a nurse, great, but if not, just see if you can get some extra help, preferably from people who know what they're doing.


Even if your baby spends most of his time sleeping, you will be feeling a bit overwhelmed, and the more help you have, the more confident you'll feel about handling your baby.
 You need a good support system for your family and you. It may be a husband, boyfriend, or your own mom and dad. You need someone always there for you and your child throughout their childhood. If you're trying to raise your baby completely alone, you will be likely to run into trouble or to feel exhausted.


That being said, you should also establish visiting hours and rules. Having too many friends and family members show up for unexpected visits to see the baby can actually lead to more stress.
 Though it's important that you be there to take care of your baby, this does not mean that you should neglect caring for yourself. Make sure to bathe regularly, maintain a healthy diet, and to get as much sleep as you can. You and your spouse can work out a system where both of you have at least some time to take care of yourself. While this probably won't be the time for you to take up a new hobby or to start writing a memoir, you should make sure to get some exercise, see your friends at least a little bit, and just to have some "me time" when you can get it.
Don't think that you're being selfish by wanting a bit of time to yourself after your baby has just been born. If you take even a little bit of time to take care of yourself, you'll be a better caretaker for your baby.
Be easy on yourself. This is not the time to clean the whole house or lose 10 pounds.
 Anything can happen, especially during the first month of your baby's life. Make sure you haven't made too many plans and that you're prepared to give your baby the time it needs. Eliminate your stress in advance by letting people know that you'll be very busy with your baby, and don't force yourself to socialize too much or to make appearances with your baby unless that's something you really want.


Though you should give your baby the time it needs, that doesn't mean you should be holed up in your house with your baby. Get out of the house as much as you can -- it'll be better for you and your baby. , Even if you feel that one day with your newborn baby is 100 hours long, you'll soon see that your baby will be over the newborn stage before you know it (people debate whether babies stop being newborns after 28 days or up to 3 months). So, be prepared for all of the emotions you will feel: intense joy at seeing your baby, a fear that you may not be doing everything right, a panic that you have lost your independence, an isolation from your childless friends. All of these feelings are perfectly natural, and any hesitations or fears you have will fade to the background as you embark on a new life with your baby.

