 Wine is a program that acts like a bridge between Windows and Linux, often described as a compatibility layer between the two.Using Wine, you can run an older version of your OS compatible with the game you want to play alongside your current OS. Your normal computer processes will continue as usual while you install your game with Wine.


Many users recommend using the Ubuntu package, which is built including a stable version of Wine.Check to make sure this suits your purposes before downloading; other packs might work better for your situation.
 You can find many outdated applications from your childhood online by means of a broad online search, or you can visit the Wine application database at appdb.winehq.org.


Always exercise caution when you download third party software online. Some may be harmful to your computer, or in some cases these files might be other than what is claimed., Depending on your goals and the OS you are using, you will need to find the appropriate packages needed to run a 32-bit/64-bit system.You can find a list of recommended packs on the FAQ page of wiki.winehq.org. Each pack is different; you will need to follow accompanying directions to compile your chosen package.


If you have chosen Ubuntu as your package, you will not need to compile Wine to run older Windows applications.
 Depending on the package, this process will vary. Follow the directions included with your download, or if you have downloaded the Ubuntu pack, access the applications menu and navigate through: Software & Updates → Other Software → Add. This should prompt a dialogue box, into which you should enter: "ppa:ubuntu-wine/pp". Now you can click "Add Source", enter a makeshift password (any will do), click "Authenticate" and then close the window., Now that you've authenticated and added your source, you should be prompted with a dialogue box asking you to reload. Click "Reload", open the Software Center, search for Wine, click the entry labeled "Wine" and choose "Install". Once the installer finishing running, Wine will be ready for you to install and run apps., It is recommended, for ease of access, that you nest a new folder under your hard drive (usually prefixed by "C:" or "D:" ), giving it an easily recognizable name like "Drive C".
 Now that you have your folder, you can configure wine by opening your terminal (also known as your command prompt, accessible by searching your computer for "Command Prompt") and typing "winecfg" followed by ↵ Enter. You should now see the Wine configuration window, under which you can find the "Drives" tab. Click it and select "C:". Using the browse feature, you will be able to find your "Drive C" folder and press "OK" once to accept and a second time to close the dialogue box., In your terminal, you will now be able to access and use the installer file for your application. Go to System → Preference → "WineFile". In the prompted window, navigate to the folder containing your application, where you will find your installer file., You can run the installer by double clicking, which should prompt a series of dialogue boxes that direct you through the installation process. The process should be similar to the way you install a new program in your current version of Windows. Once the application finishes installing, in the application folder you should find an executable file (a file that ends in ".exe"), which you will now be able to double click to run the application.