 Reach out to one or more Christian pastors or leaders in your community. You can find one by entering “Christian church” and your city into a search engine. Then, sit down individually with each of them and discuss your thoughts regarding conversion. Ask them for advice. See if you can sit in on a sermon or congregation meeting. Be prepared to meet with religious leaders multiple times before coming to a final decision.Don’t be shy about approaching these religious officials. Many of them will be more than happy to guide you through the conversion process. For example, Methodists consider meeting with a pastor to be a critical first step towards conversion.;
, If you live in an area with missionaries, you might attend one of their gatherings or ask a missionary to visit you at home. You can discuss their particular Christian beliefs, such as their understanding of salvation and sin. Or, you could ask about how their denomination treats new converts. Missionaries come from a variety of Christian denominations, so you may need to talk with multiple people before moving forward with a conversion.For example, you might ask, "How did you become a Christian?" Or, "How did you know that this particular denomination of Christianity was the right one for you?"
You can expect a missionary to be excited about the opportunity to speak with you. They are usually individuals who sometimes have moved far away from their home and are trying to spread the word about their faith and potentially convert others.
Be aware that once you reach out to a missionary they may expect continued contact with you, even if you decide to convert to another Christian group.
 Ask them about their beliefs and what draws them to Christ. Discuss their memories of the conversion process, if they went through it. You can also go online and find communities of Christians who can discuss conversion with you. Find a group that piques your interest by entering “Christian conversion support” into a search engine.Online groups are also a great place to ask any questions that came up as you read through the Bible or other Christian texts. For example, you might be curious as to whether or not you will need to attend church every Sunday or not.
 Purchase a physical or digital edition of the Bible and begin to read through it. Highlight any passages that you are particularly interested in. Write down any questions that you have and make sure to bring these up with your Christian religious leader. You may also find it interesting to read through Christian hymns.Be aware that there are many different printed versions of the Bible. For example, you can buy a copy that has all of the passages directly pertaining to women highlighted in red. Talk with your Christian spiritual adviser to determine which text will work the best for you.
Sometimes it also helps to buy an annotated edition with explanations in the margins. A Bible editor might use these annotations as a way to provide historical context, for example. Annotated Bibles often come with additional space in the margins for your notes as well.
 After you’ve talked with a number of Christian ministers and friends, sit down at your computer to do some additional research. Visit a variety of websites affiliated with the denominations that catch your interest. For example, if you enter “Baptist” into a search engine, you will pull up a number of websites. Pay particular attention to any statements of faith that you see.


You can expect some variations between various congregations. Try to focus on the similarities that you see across each denomination.
 The conversion process can sometimes takes years to complete. It is very much based on the individual and how they choose to proceed. It will likely involve a great deal of thought and conversation with other people regarding your choices. Don’t rush the process and instead look at it as an opportunity to make sure that you are making the right choice for you.Some converts have said that reading about the religious struggles experienced by those people found in the Bible helped them to cope with their own conversion process.
Many Christians believe that the conversion process never truly ends. It is an effort that you must make day after day.