 While making good grades isn't everything, it's a part of standing out from the crowd. However, your professor will also likely notice if you work hard in the class to do your best, even if your best isn't an A+. The key is to push yourself to constantly learn more, and if you don't understand something, be willing to work with the professor to figure it out., Professors notice people who speak up in class and who actively participate and ask questions. Of course, you can't just spout off anything. Your professors expect you to know the material and then be able to discuss it in an intelligent, engaging manner.The more you stand out, the more your professor will notice you. Plus, they'll have something to say about you in your letter.
 You may not think your professor notices when you do little things like copy someone's homework or skip the reading. However, most professors have been in the business a long time, and they can usually tell when someone is a little dishonest, even if they're getting a good grade. Make sure that your integrity matches the grades you're trying to make., One way to help your professor remember you is to apply for something directly after having a class with them, even if it's early on in your college education. For instance, you could apply for an internship or a scholarship. That way, the professor has a reason to write you a letter, and then they can use that letter as a template when you need them to write others for you later., One way to get to know the professor is to seek them out during office hours. Of course, you don't just want to show up. You need to have a reason. You could ask a question you didn't quite get answered in class, for instance. You could also ask for a bit of extra reading on something you find fascinating. Try to engage your professors so that they remember you., Professors like to talk about what they're researching, too, so bringing that up can be a good conversation starter. Plus, you might find common interests, or you may even be able to assist the professor with their research, earning you even more brownie points.You could say something such as, "So what do you work on outside of class? I always find a professor's research interests really interesting."

, Another simple way to get to know the professor better is to take a second or even third class with the professor. The more the professor sees you, the more you'll stick in their mind. Of course, you really only want to take classes with professors you learn well from, as your education should come first., One way to get to know professors is to show up at events they are likely to be at, such as department events. Departments will have lectures, parties, and other events where you can spend time talking to professors in a less formal setting. Just make sure you actually go and talk to your professor while there.
 When getting recommendations for things like graduate school or an internship, you're going to be entering into the field you studied. That means that recommendations should come from professors in those programs. You don't want a kinesiology professor writing a recommendation letter when you're trying to get into a literature program, for instance. Stick to professors in your major.Skip teaching assistants. Even though you may get to know them better, their letters don't hold as much weight as professors.
 When you're asking for a recommendation, you're asking the professor to put their name on the line for your future. If you don't really know why you want to go to grad school, for instance, the professor is not likely to give you a recommendation at all. Be ready to answer questions about the path you've chosen, especially since the professor can use that information in your letter.For instance, your professor may want to know your end goal for going to graduate school. They may also want to know if you have the experience to choose the right program and the skills to complete it.
 When you go to ask, make sure to have everything ready. Your professor will need to know what organization the letter is for, as well as what program or position you would like. It's also helpful to provide them with a CV or resume so they have more information about you. Having your personal statement can also help. Plus, they need to know where to send it.Make a list of all the letters you'd like the person to write and include details for each one. Give them addressed and stamped envelopes to use to make it easier.
 If you ask for a letter a week before it's due, you're putting undue pressure on your professor that they won't appreciate. Many will still do it, but they will not be happy about it. Do you really want an unhappy professor writing your recommendation letter? Make sure to ask at least a month in advance of when you need it, though longer is even better.Also, don't wait until the end of the semester, as your professor will be getting far more requests then. Get your request in early.
 If you know the professor very well, an email may suffice, but it's usually better to approach the professor in person. It makes a better impression, and having you there may help remind the professor of why they liked you.You could say, "Hi professor, I am here to ask if you'd be willing to write me a letter of recommendation for a graduate school program."
After discussing any concerns the professor has, you could say, "So, would you be willing to write me a strong letter of support?" If they hesitate or seem lukewarm, you can politely withdraw your request and ask another professor.
 Most professors appreciate a reminder a month or two weeks before the letter is due. You can simply ask if your professor would like one. If they do, set it on your calendar, and be sure to send an email when it pops up.For example, you could say, "Some professors like reminders close to the due date. Would you like me to send you a reminder two weeks before it's due?"

, Once the letter is written, be sure to thank the professor. An email is nice, but a handwritten card is even better. Most professors will appreciate the gesture. Later, it's a good idea to give the professor an update if you do get into the program or achieve the position you want.