 Use your hands to collect and lift your dry hair, and evenly apply a heat protectant spray.This will help reduce heat damage from the straightener.









Be sure that you don’t dampen your hair too much with the heat protectant spray. If you do, wait for your hair to naturally dry, or quickly blow dry your hair so you are working with dry hair.;
, Use your fingers to separate your hair into 2-6 different sections. Try using the part down the middle of your head to section your hair into a right and left portion, and then section up each side into smaller sections.Do your best to make all the sections of hair the same thickness.









Keep in mind that the fewer braids you make (meaning more hair in each braid), the bigger your waves will be.The more braids you make (meaning less hair in each braid), the smaller and more crimped the waves will look.
 Braid the sections of your hair using the normal three strand braiding technique. Once your braid comes within an inch or half inch from the bottom of your hair, use a thin hair tie to secure the bottom of the braid.









Where you start your braids depends on where you want the waves to start. If you want waves starting at the top of your head, make your braids as close to your scalp as possible. If you want the waves be start midway down your hair, start your braids down more, near your ears.
Depending on the tightness of your braids, the end result will either be loose waves made with looser braids or tighter waves, made with tighter braids.
Pull the braids apart to make them less cylindrical, and more flat. The flatness will help when moving the hair straightener along the braids., Clamp the flat iron onto one braid at a time. Start at the beginning of the braid, and hold the straightener in place for about three seconds.Open the clamped straightener, and move down the braid a little bit. Again, apply heat for about three seconds. Open and close the straightener as you move down, applying heat to the entire braid. You want to be sure that you can feel warmth on both sides of the braid. Apply heat to all of the braids.









Allow the braids to cool for about ten minutes after you have run the hair straightener over all of them. When the braids are cool, you can quickly run over the braids once more with the hair straightener, or finish up, and lightly mist the braids with a hairspray., Remove the hair ties at the bottom of each braid, and use your fingers to gently loosen and undo the braids. Don’t pull too hard, because you don’t want to mess up any of the waves. Rub the top of your head with your fingers to give your waves a more natural look and add volume your roots.








At this point, you can add a texturizing spray or hairspray to help the waves stay in place.

