 Since the disease becomes progressively more severe, take precautions in advance to lower the risk of falls:


Free up floors from clutter and remove loose rugs. If your loved one finds it difficult to walk smoothly on thick floor rugs, replace them with thin carpet or solid flooring.
Install safety rails, raised toilet seats, and tub chairs. Grab bars are especially important next to the toilet and in the shower. Install a non-skid mat in the shower.
Stabilize furniture so it won't tip over when grabbed for support.Remove tall lamps, floor vases, side tables, and other unstable furniture.
 As long as your loved one allows, attend doctor's visits with them. It is hard for someone with Parkinson's to notice all the changes they are going through, or to remember everything they are instructed to do at the appointment. Go along, and take notes., Parkinson medication can be complex, and what works for one person may not work for another. Options include levodopa, dopamine agonists, COMT inhibitors, and MAO-B inhibitors. Talk to your loved one and to the doctor regularly about how the treatment is going. Don't hesitate to ask the doctor about alternatives or to bring up concerns you have with the current treatment.

If these treatments are not effective enough or if the disease progresses to the late stages, there are several surgical treatments available as well., When someone is going through Parkinson's, there's a lot to fit in: medications, doctor's visits, exercise routines…and the ordinary social events and chores that make up normal life. Keep extra time in your schedule whenever you are planning activities that involve your loved one, as they will experience fluctuations in mood and energy which can make it hard to schedule some activities in advance., It's important to let Parkinson's sufferers do what they are capable of doing. Taking over all tasks for fear they might slip up can make it worse for them. Keep an eye on how they are doing, but do let them self-direct as normal until it becomes too dangerous.Before you offer help, ask. Especially in the early stages, ask for permission before touching or otherwise guiding someone with Parkinson's.
 Exercise, physical therapy, and activity is helpful for those with Parkinson's, and the earlier it starts, the better. Cardiopulmonary fitness is crucial: exercises like treadmills walking at varying inclines, hiking with walking sticks, and swimming (with a variety of strokes) are excellent choices.Exercise that includes changes of tempo or action is beneficial for the cognitive maintenance of those with Parkinson's. Suggest that your loved one try walking in public places, doing yoga or Tai Chi, and taking classes where an instructor leads them through a series of exercises.
 There is not yet evidence of a specific "Parkinson's diet" that will help all patients, but a healthier diet may improve overall well-being and make it easier to cope.With medical advice, you can also explore possible dietary changes to treat certain problems. For example:

If medication causes constipation, increase fiber and fluid intake.
Levodopa or L-dopa, a common Parkinson's drug, may not be absorbed properly if taken with protein. If the patient is prescribed L-dopa, talk to their doctor about eating protein at certain times of day, or in smaller amounts. Do not change the diet without checking with the doctor.There have been many studies suggesting a link between diet and Parkinson's, but few clear results. Talk to the patient's doctor about the latest medical research.
 Mid- to late-stage Parkinson's can cause a sudden drop in blood pressure when the patient stands up.This condition, called orthostatic hypotension, can cause dizziness or even fainting, potentially leading to a bad fall. Wearing compression stockings or abdominal binders while sitting or lying down can help by preventing blood from pooling into the patient's legs.The patient's doctor can suggest additional treatments if this is still a problem.
 The person with Parkinson's will experience new challenges and find new ways to cope with them. In addition to continuing exercise, social interaction, and medical treatments, it may help to seek counseling support, or alternative therapies such as acupuncture or meditation.

Do not take herbal remedies without consulting a doctor first. Some herbal remedies may interfere with medication.

