 If you are sneaking up on someone in your family, or a person you live with, it is likely that you know their bedtime routine. Most people learn a bedtime routine at a very young age. It may change slightly over time, but most people have certain things they do before they go to sleep.A bedtime routine can involve things like brushing teeth, grabbing a glass of water, taking a bath or reading a book.
Pay close attention for a few nights to learn the routine of the person you want to sneak up on.;
, Beyond their routine, the person’s body can give them away. Watch for cues that they are getting sleepy. If they are yawning, rubbing their eyes, or beginning to nod off, you know that they will be sleeping soon.


They may even doze off right in front of you, making sneaking up on them really easy.
 If they have gone to bed and closed the door, listen closely for clues that they are sleeping. Beyond that, you also want to listen for warnings that they may still be awake. Stay close and listen carefully to figure out what they are doing.


You may hear them turn the television off, switch off the light, or start snoring.
You could hear the bed springs squeak if they are rolling around, they may cough or get up to go to the bathroom

, Don’t act too early. In fact, just when you think the person is asleep, wait a little while longer. You are more likely to wake someone who is in the first or second stage of sleep, than when they reach a deeper sleep. Give yourself and the other person a few extra minutes to fall deeper into sleep before you pounce., Some items of clothing can make noise when you walk. Avoid wearing something that is going to give you away. A good choice of clothing would be some flannel sleeping pants, a cotton t-shirt and some socks to keep your steps quiet.


Steer clear of things like wind pants that swish at the thighs, tennis shoes which could squeak on wood floors, and even jeans may pop in the crotch area.
 Don’t let a cough or a sneeze sneak up on you when you are trying to sneak up on someone else. Do everything you can to avoid coughing or sneezing, and suppress these urges if you feel them coming on.


Wet your throat by drinking a glass of water before you begin your mission. Try sucking on a cough drop while you sneak around.Blow your nose before you start to keep anything in there from making you sneezy. If you do feel a sneeze coming, plug your nostrils, then pull to stretch your nose., You may feel compelled to hold you breath, but the volume of air in your lungs will cause your body to react. You are required to exhale and if you need air, your lungs will eventually gasp for it. Instead, take slow, controlled breaths.


Breathe in slowly through your mouth for eight counts, then exhale through your mouth for eight counts to keep your breathing slow, even and quiet.
 Avoid creaks and squeaks. Creaky floors and squeaky doors could wake the person up and give you away. Walk around the house in advance and learn what parts of the floor creak and which doors squeak when you open them, then avoid those areas or fix the noise.


Stairs tend to be especially creaky because they have so many pieces of wood put together to make the staircase.If there is a staircase between you and the person you are sneaking up on, make sure you cross the stairs before they fall asleep.
Walk through open doors, or put some petroleum jelly on the hinges before you have to open them sneakily., You don’t want to have to turn on any lights. It is important to adjust your eyes to the darkness, so you can navigate your path to the sleeping person. Give your eyes time to adjust to the darkness so you don’t bump into anything on your way.Wait in the dark for ten minutes to allow cones of your eyes to adjust to the darkness.
 A flat foot makes more noise. To get really close to someone without waking them, step forward and set down your heel first. Roll along the outside of your foot from your heel to your pinky toe.Put your foot firmly down before you put weight on it.
Stay balanced. Don’t pick up your other foot until your weight is firmly balanced on your planted foot.
Keep it slow. It should take a full 20 seconds to complete three steps.
 They may hear you or detect that there is someone else in the room. If the are already facing you or you hear them rolling around, stop moving and try to blend into the dark.You may have to stay frozen for several minutes while you wait for them to settle back into sleep.
 No matter how dark the room is, there is probably still a little ambient light coming from the moon or street lights. The thing that will really give you away is your silhouette. People may look around if they suspect your presence, but they will look around at eye level.


Stay low to the ground and hide behind objects to avoid being visible.

