 Knowing whether your team specializes in defensive or offensive plays is one of the basic information you need to know before playing the game.


If defense is your team’s strength, focus on interceptive plays and tackles.
If your game is mainly offensive, take advantage of the skills and stats of your quarterback, switching between passing and running plays.
All the details of your team can be seen on the team stats section accessible from the main menu.;
, Remember what they said about great defense being the best offense? Well, this applies to football too. Check the stats of a player to know their ratings and assign strong players on the defensive line. A great defense will stop the opposite team from scoring a touchdown, which in turn gives you a better chance on scoring one yourself.
 While playing the game, don’t just randomly choose a play. Choosing the right strategy, especially during crucial events like when there’s not enough time left, is very important and can be the deciding factor whether you’ll win the game or not.


You can select the appropriate strategy to use from the Playbook section of the game.
 Turbo lets your runner speed up for a short amount of time. But don’t just press the turbo! Use it in a timely manner to get past tight defenses, avoid tacklers, and leave behind other running backs or players chasing you.


Remember also that constantly using turbo drains the energy of your player.
 As per the American Football rule, each team only gets three timeouts per half of the game. Use your timeouts conservatively, or if possible, save it until the later part of the game when your players’ energies are already drained out.
 Drills let newbie players understand the basics, not only of the game, but also the rules of the American Football. Playing drills allows you to formulate your strategies before playing a real game.


Achievement and trophies can also be unlocked when you play drill games.
You can easily access Madden 25’s drill section from the main menu.
 A stiff arm is a technique where the player holding the ball extends his arm to parry opposing team’s defending players. It’s a great way to ward off tacklers.


Press the X or A button on your controller (depending on the console you’re playing) to use a stiff arm.
 Sometimes, you don’t have to force your way against defenders. When a huge wave of line defenders are standing in your way, ramming your player against this wall is not the best idea. Instead, you can try to use spin moves or jukes to trick or evade opponents crossing your path.
 Timing is everything. Executing your moves at the right moment, whether it’s offensive or defensive, can do wonders.


Running across the playing field can be just a walk in the park using perfectly timed spin moves and jumps.
Anticipating the running or passing path of the opponent carrying the ball can lead to a great tackle or steal.
 Even the most skilled Madden 25 gamer didn’t instantly become good at the game. Pro-football players may even find it hard to master the game. Keep on practicing and you’ll eventually be good at Madden 25.

