


Choose a diamond abrasive stone first. This is the hardest material and will take the least amount of work to sharpen a stone.
Next, choose ceramic. This material will take more effort than a diamond abrasive but less effort than other materials.
Lastly, choose hard stone. This is a popular idea, but takes far longer, because it is only slightly tougher than steel.;
, You can choose fine, medium and rough coarse stones.


If you do not let your knives get too dull before you sharpen them, you can make do with a medium or fine grit sharpening stone. If you barely let them lose the edge, a fine grit stone will work best.
If your knives are dull, you must use a rough stone and follow it up with a fine stone. You cannot do it with 1 or the other and achieve a sharp edge.



Most manufacturers suggest a 20 degree angle to your sharpening stone.
Use a shallower angle on a coarse stone than you would on a fine or medium grit stone. The coarse stone will shave more off, so you do not want it to reduce the knife width by very far. Fine and medium grit stones will shave less so you can use a 20 degree angle.
Take the size and durability of the knife into account. Thick knives, such as those used for wilderness survival or butchering will need a larger sharpening angle than a small paring knife.
 Keep in mind that the consistency of the stroke is what makes the best knife edge.


If you are having trouble visualizing the angle at which you should hold the knife when sharpening, place the knife at a 45 degree angle, or half of 90 degrees. Then, lower it 1 half of the way to the stone, this is just about 20 degrees. Adjust as needed.
 They will indicate whether oil or water must be placed on the stone before starting.


Sharpening stones use oil to remove the swarf from the stone. These are the small metal filings that are produced during the process. Do not assume that your stone requires oil or water, since many modern stones do not.
Diamond stones and water stones often use water for lubrication. Spray a light coat of water on the stone with a spray bottle.
India and Arkansas stones usually use oil for lubrication. Spray a light coat of oil on the stone.
 It should be a higher counter, so that you can easily move your arm against the stone.
 Adjust the angle at which it touches the stone according to the description above.


Make sure the stone is set up parallel to your body. Your stroke should be parallel rather than towards your body.
 Make sure the entire knife edge will hit the stone.
 This should allow you to grind every part of the blade against the stone.
 You may need 6 to 12 strokes before it starts to develop.


You can notice the burr by carefully feeling for it along the opposite side of your knife's edge. Be very cautious when touching any knife edge against your skin.
, Use a slightly bigger angle. This will remove the burr and sharpen the stone.
 They are more prominent with a rough grit stone. Do the same number of strokes on each side.
 Repeat the process if it is not sharp enough.
 This will remove the swarf before the next use.

