 There are three good ways to soften up ice cream for use in a shake. You can transfer the tub of ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator for 20 to 30 minutes. Another option would be to take the ice cream out and let it sit at room temperature for 10 to 15 minutes. If your ice cream is very hard, put it in the microwave for about 30 seconds, setting the power to 30%.You want the ice cream to be softened but not runny.
As you’re softening the ice cream, place your shake glass into the freezer to get it cold and frosty.
Low-fat ice cream and frozen yogurt can be substituted for the ice cream.;
, This doesn’t have to be exact – three heaping scoops works perfectly. Then add 2 ounces of milk and your choice of flavorings to the blender. Popular choices for flavorings are crushed cookies, chocolate syrup, shredded coconut and crushed candy pieces. You can use as much or as little of your chosen add-ins that you want.

Refrain from adding ice to thin out your shake.
If you want it to be thinner, add a little more milk until you reach the desired consistency.
 If you like your milkshakes to be thick, blend the ingredients on a low speed. The low speed mixes the ingredients into the ice cream effectively without changing the consistency too much, keeping it nice and thick. For a lighter, fluffy shake, blend the ingredients on high speed until mixed well.When using a low speed, you may need to stop once or twice to push your flavorings to the bottom of the blender with a spatula.
If you don’t have a regular blender, you can also use a stick-blender (also known as an immersion hand blender).
 Carefully pour your blended shake into the frosty glass. If you’d like, top off the shake with whipped cream, chocolate syrup, and/or your chosen add-ins. Serve immediately.

If you opted to make a very thick shake, you may need to serve the shake with a spoon.
If you’d like to make an adult milkshake – one with alcohol – skip the milk and use a splash of the liquor of your choice instead.

