 With drip irrigation, trees need watering each day during the summer. Water your trees for an hour. Keeping mini-sprinklers, which wet the ground down at least two feet, can also help trees stayed watered. Look for sprinklers that .1 to .2 inches of water per hour and install these between the trunks of your trees.How often you water your tree may be dictated by whether you want to cultivate fruit or oil. If cultivating fruit, water your trees more often — anywhere from every week to every two or three weeks. If cultivating oil, water your trees less often. This will help concentrate the flavor of the oil.
 Do not prune young trees often. During the first four years, only remove side branches growing below three feet. As the trees mature, they will become to take on their full form and you can remove weak or unwanted branches. Early pruning, however, should be as minimal as possible to avoid stunting a tree's growth., Like most plants, the olive tree is sometimes susceptible to attack, particularly from black scale, or Saissetia oleae. As a farmer, you want to strike a fine balance between letting your trees grow organically and protecting them from infestation and disease. In some cases, an insecticide is required to treat pest issues. Talk this over with a professional for the best results.


Black scales are small black scales on the surface of the bark which can get out of hand fast as they produce eggs quickly.Although black scales primarily infest already diseased olive trees, healthy trees are not immune from attack. If discovered, treat black scale with the appropriate insecticide.
Verticillium wilt may also affect olive trees, causing leaves and branches to unexpectedly wilt. Although certain cultivars of olives come equipped with resistance, there is yet no treatment for this fungal disease.If afflicted branches aren't cut off, wilt can affect the whole tree. In this case, you may have to prune branches even from very young trees. If you've had a problem with wilt in your soil before, avoid planting in that area.
 Olive trees will thrive well enough with correct planting and watering. A mild amount of fertilizer, however, can help trees grow. Choose a mild fertilizer and apply light layers during growing season. The fertilizer's package should indicate appropriate amounts and where/how to apply the fertilizer, which is often sprinkles over the top soil. Err towards the lowest amounts possible.Fertilizer containers have ratios written on them, indicating the amount of things like nitrogen. Olive trees thrive with fertilizers with a 10-10-10 ratio or 13-13-13 ratio.
 Well-watered trees will start bearing fruit two or three times faster than dry-farmed trees. While some cultivars begin bearing fruit as soon as two or three years if properly maintained, many trees won't start bearing until 10 years old. When growing olives, remember this is a long term project. Start watching for fruit after the first two years, but keep in mind it may take much longer for an olive tree to yield fruit., Olives start out green and eventually all turn black as they ripen. Olives that are harvested when they are still green have a peppery, grassy, or more herbaceous flavor, while olives that are harvested when they turn taker have a milder, buttery flavor. Many oils are a mix between green and ripe olives, harvested right when they are turning color. Decide on the type of olive you want and wait until your olives turn that color to harvest.Keep in mind, you cannot eat olives directly off a tree. Most have to be brined, meaning they are soaked in salt water, before they can be consumed.

