 Ask questions to find out why exactly they might give up the pet. You'll need to understand the issues before you can offer solutions. Choose the steps below that best match the issues the owner brings up.


Do not accuse the owner of exaggerating, especially if you don't live in the same house as the dog. Take their complaints seriously.
Take a moment to consider the facts. If the owner is really unable to give the dog the attention and care it deserves, your priority should be finding a way to get the dog that care, even if it means moving the dog to another home.;
, If the owner lacks the time, energy, or money to take care of the dog, offer to look after it part of the time. If you are able to host the dog for a couple days at a time, or visit the dog to walk it every day, you can make dog ownership more manageable.


Look into nearby friends of the owner who might be willing to drop by and spend time with the dog now and then when the owner has a rough day.
 If the owner doesn't have the money to hire someone, look for charity organizations that connect dogs with animal-loving volunteers.

The Cinnamon Trust is one example, a UK organization that provides free pet assistance for elderly owners.
 Put in your own time training the dog, or offer to hire a professional dog trainer.


If the dog has severe behavior issues that cannot be address with regular training, it is the dog owner's responsibility to take it to a specialist trainer, even if the eventual plan is to give the dog away. A dog with behavioral issues is unlikely to be adopted, and could even injure an unsuspecting new family.
 Some people treat dogs as interchangeable, or do not think it's a big deal for the dog to go to a shelter. Make sure the dog owner understands that abandonment and shelter life causes the dog stress and anxiety. Bringing a dog into the household is a long term responsibility, and if nothing major changed to make the situation more difficult, that's a responsibility the owner still has.


Use this tactic only if the owner fails to understand the situation, not if there are serious unsolved issues. Even if you guilt the owner into keeping, the dog will still be in an unhealthy situation.

