, See how many agree that this is needed or is a good idea.
 Form an informal discussion, but be careful not to include more than one church board member, or this may be considered a "meeting of the board excluding the pastor." That will present immediate problems, if the pastor is a strong minded supervisor of that church.


Also regarding the pastor: he/she should not decide pro or con about such new programs without meeting with the board and having their support, at least informally discussing it with key members and volunteers, etc.
, If he likes your idea and the research that you have done, then ask for a board meeting to discuss it and to schedule a church business meeting.


The rules of business of the church should be listed in the church "constitution and by-laws" or similar document. Who is eligible to vote on business should be explained there also.



The members will be allowed to discuss the idea whether you need to move or build at present location or to find an area in which to buy land.
The members will decide when to make a motion when the discussion is finished and vote on the motion to build or to buy land or both.
If the idea is agreed upon, then elect or appoint a Finance Committee and a Building Plan Committee to learn about how to proceed and to present their findings later.;
,


Ask for and take pledges of amounts that members will promise to donate monthly or in a lump sum to help pay off bonds.
Have a presentation by an approved/recommended" church bond company that can handle issuing church bonds.

Get volunteers to agree to sell bonds for free (with no commission or pay).



Ask about their design and engineering plans, etc., and request to buy or borrow a copy of those building plans for a relatively small donation to their church.
, The interest rate is considerably better for the buyer than one can get at a bank. The church has to pay these off with interest.


The bonds are for various numbers of years so that the investor can tie up their money for about as long as they like.
,,,,