 White pants are a summertime classic, but if you choose the wrong underwear, they can be a disaster. Choose your nude underwear in a color that closely mimics your skin tone.If you don’t have nude underwear, a light gray pair will also work.
Avoid wearing white or black underwear underneath white pants – both colors are equally noticeable.
 Choosing lingerie for a wedding is tricky; you want your underwear to be beautiful for your wedding night, but invisible during the ceremony and reception.Choose your underwear in a color that matches your skin tone.
Avoid pretty details, like bows. Those details might show through your dress, even if the rest of the underwear doesn’t.
Choose your underwear in a size bigger than normal so bulges won’t be visible through the dress.
If you have your heart set on wearing a certain piece of lingerie on your wedding night, change into your fancy underwear after you remove your dress.
 Depending on who you are and your underwear preferences, this advice may sound like heresy. But there are times when going sans underwear can be effective – for instance, when you’re working out.If you are going to go bare during a workout, make sure to wear bottoms with built in underwear or moisture wicking capabilities.
Avoid thongs when working out. The friction caused by your thong sliding around as you work out may cause UTIs or other bacterial infections.
If you are going to wear underwear when working out, look for fabrics that are non-abrasive and that have flat seams.
Men should wear boxer briefs for sports with medium intensity and jockstraps for high intensity sports., Most of the time you want to cover your underwear up, but when it comes to date night, you want to make sure your underwear is ready to be seen. Follow these tips to pick out a lingerie that works for your body type.If you're petite, try ruffles to suggest an hourglass figure and a push up bra to give your curves a boost.
If you're curvy, try an underwire lace bra with a high waisted panty.
If your body type is athletic, wear a baby doll nightie with a garter.

