 Once you select a college, program, and classes, your class schedule will loom large in your daily and weekly life. Figure out how much time you need for any reading, writing, homework, etc... on a regular basis and set that time aside from your other daily duties.


If you have family and work tasks, you might let your family members and co-workers/employer know of your educational needs and arrange changes in transportation, completion of chores, shift assignments, etc... In your 50s, this will likely be among your most difficult challenges upon going back to school. Using scheduling tools, electronic or written, may be a good idea.
Be prepared to adjust this task balance semester to semester as class schedules change.
If it's ever a challenge to meet your scholastic requirements, then talk to your professor(s) to see if you can reach some alternate arrangement about your workload or schedule. Don't wait, do this as early in a semester as possible.
 Whether it's physical or online, there's no substitute for attending class. Taking notes, participating in discussion, and getting feedback are unique experiences each and every class. You should come prepared to most classes for a mix of lecture and discussion, though every professor's style will vary.
 If the class turns into a discussion or professor is asking a question you know enough content about to answer--raise your hand or submit to the forum (for online classes).


Taking part in a class full of 20-somethings can be intimidating in your 50s. But remember, you're there to learn just as much as they are. And they may benefit from your life and work experiences out of the classroom.
 Don't be afraid to ask your professor/instructor for assistance if you're struggling with a concept or any other aspect of your classwork.


See them during office hours and as early in the semester as possible to avoid problems. If you cannot make their office hours, you can usually contact them for appointments at other times.
If you need additional tutoring, many colleges have tutoring centers for each subject field. If you can't physically make it to the tutoring center, the college may be able to give you contact information of reliable ones you can hire for help.
Take advantage of study groups formed by others in your classes, even if they are younger than you.
 Whether you're in your 50s or 20s, keeping up your health is essential for a successful academic term.


Eat healthy. Keeping up a sensible daily eating regimen is a good idea for energy and alertness during classes, and during studying. It's easy to forget to eat when in the middle of an assignment or juggling class times. This issue is no less important in your 50s.
Exercise. Some regular physical activity will help with energy, alertness, and maintaining focus for assignments and classwork--half an hour of jogging or similar activity each day.
Take breaks. Take 15-20 minute breaks for every hour or two of work you're doing on studying. This will help rest your eyes from being strained, avoid headaches, and give your mind a chance to refocus on the material you're handling.

