 One of the most critical aspects to being indie is not adopting other people’s views without evaluating the situation yourself. Going with the crowd is never something that an indie person would do, so make sure that you are making independent decisions when it comes to music, clothing, and your opinions.Do your research on different topics to help inform your opinions.


If you like a band or musician, but everyone else thinks they are bad or weird, then you should stand up for your views.
Don’t watch reality TV or get involved with celebrity gossip. Concentrate on other things like finding new music or watching movies from independent filmmakers.;
, Contrary to popular belief, being indie does not mean being a member of an exclusive club. The entire purpose of being indie is to be yourself, regardless of what is popular in society. Being around other indie people will most likely mean that you will interact with people who are vastly different than you. Instead of judging them, take the time to get to know them and base your opinion off their character and intentions.


Posers will often ridicule other people who don’t conform to their belief systems. This is not being indie.
You don’t have to like everyone, but you need to give everyone a chance. Allow people time to show you that they are good people.
 Being indie does not mean maintaining a static personality for your entire life. A great aspect of being indie is the exposure you get to different cultures and opinions. Always be open to new things, and if you find yourself liking something different, don’t be afraid to change. This can include your taste in music, the style of clothes you wear, or even how you treat other people.


Indie bands like Modest Mouse have changed the sound of their music over the past two decades., There are many smaller independent labels like Kill Rock Stars and Sub Pop Records that have been around for decades.Artists like Elliott Smith, Nirvana, Xiu Xiu, and Beach House have been featured on these labels. Do your research and find music labels that have bands that you enjoy listening to. If there’s one band you like, chances are they have other artists that you will enjoy.


Other indie labels include Father/Daughter Records, Orchid Tapes, and Double Double Whammy.There are indie bands and musicians in every genre of music, including hip-hop, rock, folk, and even classical.
Don’t listen to top 10 lists or watch MTV, as these are the most popular artists in the world.
 Independent films is a somewhat vague term that could have multiple definitions. Some people consider any film that's not made by a big movie studio like 20th Century Fox, Columbia Pictures, Paramount Pictures, or Universal Pictures an independent film.Others argue that the term "indie film" relates more to the substance and conventions that the writers, director, editors, and producers take when creating it.Look at the subject matter of the film and read reviews to see if it's different or innovative. If it fits this criterion and a major studio didn't produce it, there's a chance it could be an indie film.


Some popular indie films include Pulp Fiction, American Beauty, and Thirteen., Much like indie music and indie movies, indie artists and designers are those that don't follow mainstream trends or traditional fashion. Some of this includes installation art or art that uses unique, non-traditional materials. Try to find local indie artists and designers by visiting art galleries in your area. Find artists that you can appreciate and follow their work.


Indie artists and designers are also not likely to paid by a large corporation, and make their money by selling their art directly to a collector or gallery.