 To do this tiger face painting design, you will need a variety of different face paint colors as well as some special tools. Before you get started, you will need:








face paints in the following shades: light blue, medium blue, violet, light green, neon pink, neon orange, neon yellow, pink, and black
makeup sponges
small paint brushes
splotch stencils;
, Use a makeup sponge to dab some of your light blue face paint onto your forehead, cheeks, and nose. Do not worry if this layer looks uneven or splotchy because you will cover it up with other face paint colors.








If your face paint is too thick, then you can also dip the sponge in a little water before dipping it into your face paint., Your medium blue face paint should be about one shade darker than your base color (the light blue). Use the medium blue to highlight the edges of your forehead, cheekbones, and the tip of your nose.








Dab the face paint onto these areas until the base color is covered up.
 Next, get some of your violet face paint on a new makeup sponge. Use this color to highlight the outer areas of the medium blue highlights that you just applied.








Dab on enough of the violet color so that you cannot see the base color or any medium blue under the violet.
 Take a new sponge and dip it in the light blue color. Then, take the sponge and use it to go over the areas of your face that you already painted light blue and that have not been highlighted with medium blue or violet.








In other words, just add another layer of light blue to the areas where you already applied a layer of light blue.
 Next, get another new makeup sponge and dip it in your light green color. Dab the light green onto the middle of your forehead near your hairline. Then, dab a little of the light green face paint over your cheekbones as well.
 Take a new makeup sponge and dip it into your purple face paint. Then, dab the purple paint along your hairline and blend it into the other face paints you have already applied.








Wait for the layers of face paint to dry before adding any details over them. You can speed up this process by sitting in front of a fan for a few minutes.
 Hold the splotch stencil over the center of your forehead. Then take a makeup sponge and use it to apply neon pink face paint over the stencil. Then, lift away the stencil and move it to a different part of your face and apply some more neon pink.








Repeat this process with the neon orange neon yellow face paints as well.
Make sure that the other neon face paints have dried before you apply a new color over top. You may need to wait a few minutes between each application to avoid smearing., Take a new makeup sponge and use it to apply white face paint over your eyelids and upper lip. Make sure that you have fully covered these areas in white face paint.








Give your eyelids and upper lip a few minutes to dry before you start adding details.
If you are painting a child’s face, then you may want to skip the eye area details. Young children tend to rub their eyes, so they are likely to smudge the design and get paint into their eyes. Face paints are not meant to get into your eyes and they can cause irritation if they do., The black squiggles will start to give your face a tiger-like appearance. Start by dipping your paint brush into some black paint and use it to create squiggly lines all over your face.








Start by outlining the eyes in an exaggerated cat eye.
Draw smaller squiggles in other areas around your face.
Change the pressure of the brush as you create the squiggles and wiggle the brush to achieve a wavy effect.
Make sure that all of the lines end in a point and that the points are directed in towards the center of your face.
 Next, take your paintbrush and dip it into your pink face paint. Then, take the paint brush and use it to cover your entire lower lip and the tip of your nose with the pink face paint.








You can also add a bit of purple paint to the edges of your lower lip to add a little more detail.
 Next, take you paint brush and paint a thin line of black along the lower part of your upper lip. Then, use the brush to draw a line from the tip of your nose to the center of your upper lip.








The black face paint should create a triangle where the line connects with your lip.
Add some black dots on the outer edges of your upper lip as well. These can be in different sizes and placed in a somewhat random order.
 Dab a bit of black face paint onto your paint brush and then dab it onto the edges of the pink area of your nose. Then, smudge the black paint around the edges of the pink area of your nose. These black, smudgy areas should look like nostrils when you are finished.







