 Instead of aiming for a quick, fast-paced hike, you should strive to hike for a longer period of time at a more moderate pace. Hiking at a slower pace means you will be able to stay out longer, and in turn get a longer workout. You should be able to comfortably speak in sentences while hiking. If you can’t carry on a conversation with a friend, your pace might be a little too fast and you should slow down a bit., This is especially important when you are hiking up hill. If you lean forward when you are on an incline, you can add unnecessary stress to your spine. This, in turn, can cause you to tire more quickly. Instead opt to keep your head facing forward and in line with a straight neck and spine., You can keep a slight bend at your elbows while you hike. You should also feel free to swing your arms slightly. Beware, however, of swinging them excessively across your midline as this can lead to wasting energy., A great way to turn your hike into a workout is to challenge yourself to beat your old records. For example, if you hiked your favorite trail in 60 minutes last week, try challenging yourself to complete the hike in 55 minutes. However, you should always pay attention to your body and not overdo it if you start feeling pain or fatigue.
 Hiking poles, also called trekking poles, can help you make the most of your hike. The poles help distribute your weight evenly and give your arms an added workout. They also add the benefit of taking some of the pressure off your knees and hips., It’s easy to want to race down a hill after a steep, laborious climb to the top of a mountain or vista. You should, however, resist this temptation. If you give into the momentum, you could end up crashing down the hill. Instead, try to keep a pace similar to the one you rocked moving up the incline., When you’re working out in nature, it is easy to get swept away by the beauty of it all. If you’re trying to turn your workout into a hike, this could deter you from reaching your fitness goals. While it’s okay to stop and soak in the scenery occasionally during your workout, try to limit these detours and stay focused on your pace and end goal.

