 You need to consider:


The location of the university. Is it easy for you to travel home should you feel homesick? Do you want to be in a city or in the country (the nursing experiences you have will be affected by this)? How are the public transport links to the nearest hospitals and health clinics?
The size of the university.
Accommodation available. Do you want to live with just nursing students? Will you rent privately after the first year? Do you want to live in flats or halls of residence? How many people would you be willing to share a bathroom/kitchen with? Is the accommodation in a safe location?
Structure of the course. Whilst all nursing courses are required to have a 50/50 split between placement and theory, some universities have fewer, longer placement blocks, and others have more short placements.
Assignments. How often will you be assessed by the university? How many essays and exams should you expect? Will you have to revise or complete assignments while on placements?;
, One way of doing this is by attending a UCAS Convention. These are held annually across the UK. Most universities will have prospectuses and a representative there, so you can ask any questions you have about the course. There are also seminars held during these events which give advice about completing your UCAS application. Another useful resource is the use of a HEAP guide. Most school and college libraries will contain one of these as they are very expensive to buy. These list all of the universities which run nursing courses in the order of grade requirements. This will aid you in looking at realistic options considering your predicted grades. Don't be afraid to apply to universities somewhat above or below your predictions - it's good to push yourself and also to have a safety net.
 Many universities require booking in advance. This is particularly useful as it allows you to ask specific questions to the lecturers and tutors. You can also assess the learning environments - be sure to see the clinical skills areas and lecture theatres. You should also be sure to spend some time looking at the accommodation on offer, and also have a wander around the town or city. Remember that you will have to live there for most of the year, and you need to be happy with the location and quality of the shops, nightclubs, culture etc.

