 This means dividing the books into what you see as distinct topics, such as placing all the romance books in one pile, all the science books in another, philosophy, biographies, how-to manuals, etc. into another pile.


Consider dividing fiction and non-fiction. You might like to make a distinction between fiction and non-fiction books––this method tends to encourage this division naturally. Such a division can be done on the same bookshelf, for example by placing all fiction novels on the top shelf and all woodworking manuals on the bottom shelf. Or it can be done by using different bookshelves across the house, for example, keeping cookbooks in the kitchen and romance novels in the bedroom.
 It's always wise to assume you need more space rather than less, since it's likely you'll add to your collection over time and somehow, stray books will always turn up in need of shelving!

, In some cases, as shown in this image, you might like to add some relevant items to the shelf as well, such as figurines, photos or collectibles.
 This method is optional if it's already easy for you to remember where you've placed the books by topic. But if you need to further clarify the topics, some easy methods to adopt include:


Colored Stickers: Choose stickers with permanent adhesive from a library supply company, or be prepared to cover the sticker in permanent tape. Avoid packing tape and scotch tape as they yellow, crack and peel, while duct tape becomes gooey over time.
Colored Cloth Tape: Permanently adhesive colored tapes work very well for this task.
Written symbols: Use a permanent marker to write a letter(s) or identifying mark for each subject or genre. For example: "R" for Romance, "M" for Mystery, "R" for Religion, "B" for Biographies, etc. Unfortunately, not all books are the same color, so what shows up well on one cover may not show up at all on a different color; as an exception for books that use the same color as your label, consider opting for a white label and use marker in the chosen color.
These are great to use if you move frequently and need your book collection to stay relatively intact when packed.

