 Example:


Coloring
Crafts
Play-dough
Toys
Food
etc.;
, Example:


Help in the daily chores. It could be dusting, tidying up, making the bed.
Stacking all the toys properly in the toy box. Such tasks give a sense of responsibility and boost the child’s confidence.
Role Play: Pick up any story character that your child likes the best and with few pretend characters perform the act with your child. Example: Rabbit and tortoise had a coloring competition and one of them wins the prize (a fruit, nut or anything).
Craft or play-dough: Pick up any used corn-flakes boxes, clear water bottles or any kitchen tissue paper roll. Kids have lots of fun doing such activities. You can make loads of things with these home used things.
A doll bed with the cornflakes box: Just have to cover the box with any coloured paper or even color can be used and just cut one portion from top for the doll’s head.
A clear bottle can be real fun: Put some glitter, any pieces of petals, flowers, strings, coloured yarn, and some water. Pop the cap on it and stick the sticky tape nicely to close it tight.
Play-dough: Your child knows more than enough things that you could help him/her in making with it.
, You could be longing for a short nap or a talk on the phone with some dear friend, so could be your child. Try to involve your child in most of the activities. Saying ‘Hello’ to one of his/her friend on the phone could be a wonderful idea if you have to speak to your friend as well. Remember: Don’t ignore your child’s need. His self-respect is hurt when you turn down his need.
 So, remember to smile and pat or hug every time your child expects one. A game with a doll, toys, or even hide-n-seek could bring joy to your child.
 In spite of the bed-time story, a story –session or a rhyme-session with your child would refresh both of you for the evening.
 Make sure you are spending a quality time and also making your child enjoy every moment when you are there. Though, at times it’s inevitable to say ‘No’ to your child for some wrong thing or behaviour. Be firm in what you say and mean it. Example: While in kitchen your child wants a knife. You have to give a reasonable answer that its sharp and he could hurt himself. Say ‘No’ firmly and mean it.
, So, why not to do that.

