 Telling someone you love her doesn't happen every day, and very few people will ever become such an important object of your affection. To genuinely express your love from the heart, think about the things that make this woman special. They can be little memories you share, a quirk she has you can't get enough of, or skills and a personality that still amazes you.


You may bring these things up when you talk, you may not. What is important is that you understand why you feel in love. It is much easier to express something, after all, if you understand it.;
, You simply want somewhere you can comfortably express your feelings and listen to her response. After a date, on a walk, or simply a quiet moment alone are all good places to talk, but don't stress too much over the location. The words, not the place, are far more important and exciting. That said, there are some not-so-great times to say "I love you" the first time:After sex
While drunk or intoxicated
Online or over the phone (unless you cannot see each other in person)
During or after a fight or argument

, While movies may tell you you have to be special or original with your message, you don't. Spending all your time planning or waiting for a perfect moment grossly misses the point of your relationship. You are in love — so just keep it simple and let her know. It will be more than enough, guaranteed.


This isn't to say there is no time for romance and spectacle in your relationship. But expressing your love for someone is a big emotional development — you don't need bells and whistles.
How happy she makes you, good memories you've shared, your hopes and feelings — this is more than enough "material" to work with without feeling like you must write a poem or plan an event., Take a deep breath and count to three. When you finish, tell yourself you're just going to blurt out "I love you." This is all it takes — three seconds of courage for a potential lifetime of happiness. Don't get caught up in an intro, perfect wording, or anything fancy. Just tell her, "I love you."


"I'm in love with you."
"These last months have been some of the best in my life, and I've been so lucky to meet you. I love you."
"I've had something on my chest for a while, and it feels good to let it out. I love you."
Pull her in close for a hug or kiss and, before breaking the embrace, whisper, "I love you."

, Think of it this way — you are telling someone you feel one of the most powerful emotions you've ever felt, and you've been dealing with this feeling for a few days or weeks. She is hearing this for the first time, and she may need some time to process her feelings. You can't control how she is going to respond, nor should you try. Instead, listen to her response and let her lead the conversation.It takes an immense amount of courage to tell someone you love them. Be proud of yourself.
 Don't feel like you must wait to be reunited with someone to express your love — if you feel it, let it out. That said, it's hard to understand from a short letter or text message what a quick "I love you" means (is it a joke, serious, semi-serious?!) so don't leave any doubt. Take the time to express your feelings in a way that leaves no doubt in your beloved's mind.


Let her know that you'd rather talk to her in person, but couldn't keep your feelings secret any longer.
Elaborate on why you've suddenly started feeling this way, and can't keep it in any more. Give her the feeling and backstory.
Say that you don't need a response or answer immediately, just that you needed to get this off your chest.