;
, Make sure that the graham crackers are finely ground first; they should be the same texture as the ground pecans. Stir everything together with a rubber spatula until the mixture is damp and evenly combined.

You can easily grind the graham crackers in a blender or food processor. You can also put them into a plastic bag and smash them with a rolling pin.
 Pack the crust down using your fingers. When you are done, place the pan into the fridge so that it can set while you prepare the filling.
 You can do this by hand in a mixing bowl, but a food processor or electric mixer will speed up the process.
 Keep mixing until everything is blended together. There should be no streaks or swirls of egg yolk.
 Use a large spoon to scoop the filling into the crust. Gently smooth the top down with a spoon or spatula when you are done.
 Once the cake is set, take it out of the oven and place it on a cooling rack. Let it cool in the pan for 15 minutes; do not open the pan yet.


You can save time by starting to prepare the cheesecake topping while the cake cools.
Don't turn off the oven yet! You will need to bake the cake for another 5 minutes.
 In a large mixing bowl, briskly whisk together the sugar, sour cream, and vanilla until everything is evenly combined. This will create a creamy topping for your cheese cake., Use a rubber spatula to help spread it across the top of the cake evenly, if necessary., Once the cake has finished baking, take it out of the even and let it cool for 10 minutes. Run a knife around the inside edge of the pan to loosen the cake, but don't open the pan yet. Let the cake cool for about 1 hour, then chill it in the fridge for 24 hours.
 Place a saucepan on the stove, and stir together the water and cornstarch. Add the jelly, and cook it over medium-high heat, stirring constantly, until the mixture has thickened.


Start preparing the glaze just before you are ready to serve the cheesecake.
 You should notice the glaze thickening even more as it cools. If you'd like to add a hint of color to your glaze, you can add in a few drops of red food coloring as well., Cut the stems off of the strawberries, and arrange them neatly on top of the cheesecake, with the pointed ends facing upward., Let some of it drip down the sides for the cake for an added touch. Refrigerate any leftovers.

