 This will bring you to the Amazon home page.;
, This is located below and to the right of the search bar at the top of the screen. It will open a drop down menu.
 When the drop down menu opens, the first option is "Sign in" and "Start here" is located just below it. This will send you to the account creation page.


If you already have an account, click "Sign in" instead and enter your email and password then skip down to Step 6.
 You will be asked to enter your name, email, and password, then asked to confirm your password in various text boxes.
 You'll fine it under the password confirmation text box. This will officially create your account and send you back to the Amazon homepage.
 Look for it below and to the right of the search bar at the top of the screen. It will open a drop down menu.
 Found in the drop down menu between "Your Service Requests" and "Your Garage." Clicking this will send you to the Amazon Prime account management page.
 The Important Message box is located in the center of the page near the top. It reads "Your are currently not a member of Amazon Prime. Click here to sign up." Clicking "here" will send you to the Amazon Prime information page.
 Located in a yellow box near the top center of the page, clicking it will send you to a payment page. This will sign you up for a 30 day free trial that will then charge you $99.00/year for Amazon Prime. You can also select "See more plans" below "Start your 30-day Prime free trial."


This will allow you to select from three plans, Prime Video which only allows video streaming and is 8.99/month.
Prime (monthly) at $10.99/month which has all the benefits of Prime(annual) with the exception of a 25% prepayment discount.
Prime (annual) at $99.00/year which gives you all the benefits of Amazon Prime.
 In the text boxes provided, enter your card number, the name on your card, and expiration date.
 This will send you to the billing address page.
 In the text boxes provided enter your address.
 Located under the text boxes, this will send you to the confirmation page.
 Located in a yellow box below your billing address, this will start your 30 day free trial. Your will be billed at the end of your trial based on the subscription plan you selected.


If you did not select a subscription plan, you will be billed $99.00/year at the end of the 30 day trial.

