 Many websites and other companies offer chances to win a free iTunes gift card if you either sign up for a newsletter, take a survey, write a review, become a "follower," and so on.


Beware that some of these offers may be scams, and that the likelihood of winning may be very slim. Only use well-known and trustworthy websites for this kind of offer.
Be careful when sharing your personal information online. To protect your identity, avoid sharing your birthdate, credit card information, home address, or social security number online.;
, Have a birthday or graduation coming up? Then you might want to hint to your loved ones that you're craving the gift of music--it's totally free, totally legal, and you'll be saving yourself the possibility of receiving another pointless gift that you'll never use.


To purchase an iTunes gift card, open up the iTunes store and select the Buy iTunes Gifts button from the Quick Links section on your screen.Many people actually prefer being told what to buy somebody, so don't be shy!

, An iTunes allowance allows one person (the buyer) to set up a monthly allowance for another person (the recipient) to spend on iTunes. Both the buyer and the recipient must have an Apple ID and valid email address.If your parents are willing to help you pay for music, then ask them to set up a monthly allowance for you--this way, you can control your spending and avoid using up all your credits at once.


To set up an allowance, open up the iTunes store and click on the Buy iTunes Gifts from the Quick Links section on the right of your screen. You will need to enter your name, the recipient's name, and the recipient's Apple ID.You must have an account set up with iTunes with your credit card information in order to create an iTunes allowance.Be sure that you have the latest version of iTunes before setting up an allowance., If all else fails, then scope out the free songs, television shows, films, and podcasts that iTunes has to offer. To access them, open up the iTunes store and select the Free on iTunes button under the Quick Links menu.

