 In most cases, people don’t just hand each other business cards--they trade them. Facilitate a business card swap by keeping your own cards with you in professional settings like meetings and trade shows, but also in your everyday life. You never know when you’re going to meet a new contact.


If you’re having trouble keeping your cards neat, try designating a special pocket or folder for them. A rubber band also works, in a pinch.
Never just hand over your card without asking--this can be seen as pushy.Instead, say something like “I’d really like to talk to you more about what you do. Would you like to exchange cards?”

, Examining the business card for a second or two is a good way to make note of important information about a new contact. If you struggle with remembering names, use cards as a tool to connect names to faces. The person's title is usually printed on a business card, too. This is another clue about who they are and what they do.
 If you carry a notebook or bag with you to meetings, designate a place in it for the business cards of new contacts. Or, use the second pocket on your own business card carrier to collect cards you receive.


Don't stick cards in your notes, or stuff them in a pocket. They might easily go missing, or even go through the wash.
If you’re traveling and expect to receive a lot of business cards, you can stash them in a Ziploc bag in your hotel or briefcase to keep them neat and dry.Make sure the place you put new business cards is not the place you keep your own cards. You don’t want to mix them up.
Wherever you put the cards right now is not a permanent place--remember that you’ll be removing and organizing them later.
 Whenever you get a new business card, write down the name of the place where you met within a few days of meeting. This way, you won’t forget. Also, jot a brief note about what you talked about. Then when you contact the person later, you can remind them of the details of your conversation.


If the card is glossy and you can’t write on it with a normal pen, try sticking a post-it to the card instead.

