 If they're threadbare, simply cut off any holes or scraggly bits.


Other good fabric includes polar fleece the inner side of windcheaters, sheets and jumpers.
A pillowcase lined with something soft and warm such as a jumper is ideal.
Consider sewing up the bottom of a jumper if using one. This allows the joey to pop her head out of the head hole, as she'd do from a pouch.;
, Select a pouch size that will allow the joey to move around a little but still feel snug inside. To recreate the sense of suspension that a joey would feel in her own mother's pouch, place the pouch inside a larger bag or breathable sack and suspend it from something while still keeping it close to the ground to allow for ease of exit and entry by the joey. However, do not have the bag touch the ground (you may need to make an adjustment once the joey's weight is taken into account).


When the joey is not yet actively leaving the pouch, it can be suspended higher but be sure to monitor growing changes and the desire to leave the pouch.
 Make a pouch from suitable material. Line with a small blanket piece (or small blanket), then place the whole pouch inside a wooden box. The box should have a lid, especially as the wombat gets older.


You could place an electric pet blanket under the wooden box for extra warmth but be careful not to overheat the wombat. Wombat joeys have better temperature control than kangaroo joeys. Do not use a human electric blanket, as these are completely unsuitable and risk burning the animal or starting a fire if urinated on or chewed. Talk to your vet about options.
 Use a sock or a small woollen hat. Once the possum becomes active and tries to emerge from the pouch, you can keep her in the pouch by pinning the top together with a safety pin. That way she won't get lost or cold when you're not about to supervise.


Use Ugg boots for little possums.
Once the possum grows older and can come and go from the pouch with greater ease, keep the sock or hat opening open using wire. The pouch should be kept inside a cat cage or similar size cage now though, to prevent her from wandering too far away.
Hanging baskets can work well for possums. Simply arrange them so as to create a closed nest.

