 Understand that even if you were an outstanding undergraduate (as most graduate students were), you will face an entirely different set of challenges in graduate school. The specific nature of your coursework, research, teaching, and laboratory obligations will vary tremendously depending on your field, your school, and your department, and so will your potential paychecks and funding packages, so do some research and figure out what, exactly, you’re signing up for.


Many department websites will answer your basic questions about particular programs, so start there to get a sense of what your obligations as a graduate student might be.
Consider contacting current students as well. Most programs have a Director of Graduate Studies who can put you in touch with students in your program. You can then send an email or two to ask more specific questions. Current students may have insights about the standard workload and funding packages, and – unlike the website – they may be forthcoming about the potential downsides of pursuing a degree in their department.;
, Graduate school is not something to do just because you can’t think of anything else to do with your life. No one should sink years of time, money, and energy into a graduate degree without being crystal clear about his or her goals and what is required to achieve them. This goes double for people with families. Know your reasons for pursuing a graduate degree, and do some extra research about what your opportunities will look like after graduate school – don’t just assume that your M.A. or Ph.D. will get you a wonderful job.


Many people in the academic world are reluctant to admit this, but the job market for academics is abysmal right now, especially in the humanities and social sciences. If you are pursuing a graduate degree in one of these fields, think twice: even if you go to a top program and do well, you may find yourself, five to ten years down the road, with an impressive Ph.D., considerable debt, and no job. For graduate students with a family, this might be especially troubling. Do your research, and go in with your eyes open (if at all).
 If you are married or in a committed relationship, it is imperative to discuss the upcoming challenges with your spouse or partner. For most people with families, beginning a graduate program will entail some combination of relocating, quitting jobs, creating a new budget, making new child-care arrangements, and re-evaluating the division of household labor. These are major, life-changing developments, so work to discuss them openly and honestly.


If your partner is not an academic, he or she may not fully understand what your new commitments will look like. Once you’ve done the research yourself, make sure you pass along your knowledge and clear up potential misunderstandings – let your partner know, for example, if you think you’ll need to work on weekends or travel for research.
 If your children are old enough to understand, you’ll need to discuss your plans openly with them as well. Remember that your decision to attend graduate school will change their lives, too: they will likely need to adjust to new schools or child-care facilities, changes in their schedules, and less time with you. Be up front with them, in a way that’s appropriate to their ages and maturity levels, and explain why you’re taking this path.
 Whatever your financial circumstances, graduate school is an expense to be considered carefully. Ideally, you should avoid going to graduate school, especially in the humanities and social sciences, unless you are fully funded by your program of choice – “fully funded” generally meaning that you receive a tuition waiver and a modest monthly stipend, often in exchange for teaching or laboratory duties. But people with families should be extra cautious, especially since “full funding” will probably not include money for expenses like child care.


Research child-care costs ahead of time.If you’ve been a stay-at-home parent and plan to pay for child care for the first time, you may have no idea how expensive these services can be. If you’re quitting a “real world” job to attend graduate school, you may not realize how insufficient your stipend will be once you subtract the costs of child care from it. Either way, you need to know what you’re getting into.
Be sure you look into any tax credits or deductions associated with child care costs.Factor in changes to your partner’s income, too. If you’re married or in a committed relationship, your partner’s income also needs to be assessed. Are you moving to attend graduate school? If so, your partner will probably have to find a new job – how will you pay the bills in the meantime? Will your decision to attend graduate school affect your partner’s work schedule or potential for overtime hours? If so, you need to consider that as well.
 You may be tempted to get as much financial aid as possible from the government, but though this decision might be appealing right now, it’s probably unwise in the long term. Ph.D. programs, especially, take a very long time; the debt will add up, and then, in the end, you’ll face the horrible academic job market. How will you pay it back?

, As you begin graduate school, pay attention to what’s going on around you. Are there other parents in your program? Do faculty members seem supportive of graduate students with outside responsibilities? How much time do successful graduate students seem to spend at the office? Are they studying at night and on the weekends? The answers to these questions will help you identify potential problems and adjust to the demands of your program as quickly as possible.
 Many universities have a family resource center or other services available to graduate students or young faculty.Tapping into these resources prior to committing to an institution is a good idea. The resource center can give you a sense of whether the university is family-friendly.
Some institutions even offer employment opportunities or collect job postings for spouses of graduate students., Most graduate students are assigned an advisor or mentor when they enter a program. Let this person know that you are a parent. He or she may have specific advice for you about balancing your family commitments with your academic responsibilities.If your assigned advisor is not sympathetic to your having a family, try to find another personal mentor who is more in-line with your perspective.
As with most interactions in graduate school, your tone and attitude matter here. Do not whine or complain to your advisor about how hard it is to balance school and family, and do not demand special treatment because you are a parent. You are learning to be a professional, so act like one. Strive for a confident “I can do this!” attitude, but be receptive to any advice or constructive criticism your advisor offers.
 The first skill that a graduate student with a family needs to develop isn’t an academic or intellectual one – it’s simple time management. Estimate how many hours a week you’ll need to spend on coursework, reading, and research; if applicable, estimate how many hours a week you’ll need to spend on teaching or laboratory obligations. Note important family obligations, and create a schedule that will allow you to get everything done. Then figure out how to stick to that schedule and maximize your productivity.


You may find, in the beginning, that you are not correctly estimating how long coursework, reading, or teaching preparation will take you. Consider asking a senior graduate student or two for help, at least until you have a better handle on what your responsibilities are. Senior graduate students may also be able to point out “hidden” work hours that you’re not aware of – academic work that’s “unofficial” but necessary, conferences and department events, and the like.
Time yourself. If you’ve allotted three hours of time for a particular task, set a timer and, unless the situation is truly desperate, make yourself stop at the appointed time. If you find again and again that you’re not completing your tasks within the allotted time, then you need to revise your schedule.
Consider actively limiting the unnecessary activities that are taking up too much of your time – Facebook and other social media, for example. Getting rid of Facebook (or setting firm limits on your Facebook time) may boost your productivity significantly.Be flexible. Know that the demands of graduate school will shift over time: you’ll have different courses and different teaching or laboratory duties, and different projects will begin and end. Your family obligations will shift, too, as your children grow up. What works this month may not work next month, so realize that you’ll have to continually revise your schedule.
 Learning to balance graduate school and family life is a challenge, and the first months of graduate school will likely be the most difficult. Ask for help. If you have a partner, see if he or she can take on some of the tasks that you have usually done, including meal preparation and laundry and other domestic tasks, at least temporarily. If you are fortunate enough to have nearby friends and relatives who want to help, accept their offers! They could babysit for you, bring occasional meals, or cover for you at a child’s activity.
 Don’t get so caught up in your new responsibilities that you neglect your older ones. Let your partner and children know that you care about how they are adjusting. If your adjustment process has left you moody, distant, or neglectful, apologize and let them know you will try to do better.
 The first months of graduate school can be overwhelming and difficult, even for people without children! Give yourself some time to adjust, and don’t feel like a failure if you are struggling. There’s a process involved here, and eventually, if you work hard and adapt where necessary, you will get to the place you need to be.
 Your spouse or partner might want you to go to the movies on a Saturday afternoon, but if you have a paper due the next week, you may have to turn down the offer. These situations can fuel resentment, though, so proceed with caution and make sure you’re discussing these tensions openly.
You’ll have to say no to your children regularly. If you are going to succeed at graduate school, you won’t be able to let your children participate in every activity that appeals to them or accept every party invitation they receive. Explain this to them as clearly as you can.
You’ll have to limit the extra obligations you take on for your children’s schools and child-care centers. If you are already serving on a PTA committee, for example, say “no” when someone calls to ask you to join another. Resist the urge to take on unnecessary fundraising or volunteer work.
You’ll have to learn to say “no” to certain academic opportunities. This can be a minefield: you don’t want to sabotage your success as a graduate student, alienate your advisor or professors, or miss crucial opportunities. Still, you cannot do everything. Realize that it’s okay to miss an occasional department event, turn down an opportunity to speak at a conference, or pass up an active role in a department organization.
 Some commitments are basically non-negotiable. The particulars will again vary according to your personal circumstances, but in general:


You’ll need to differentiate between your family’s “wants” and “needs.”If you say “no” to your partner too often, he or she will feel neglected, unloved, angry, and resentful, and that’s not fair. Know when you need to spend more time with your partner or relieve him or her of some household chores. The same goes for your children: don’t neglect their needs in the name of your academic career. Be sure you are spending enough time with them and letting them do some fun activities.
You’ll need to recognize what’s necessary for success in graduate school. Know that doing the bare minimum to get over each hurdle and earn your degree may not be enough to get you to your goals; in some situations – but not all! – you’ll also need to excel and impress people. Say yes to enough academic commitments, departmental events, conferences in your field, and travel for research to ensure the level of success you want.
 In general, it’s a good strategy to have your academic work done in advance, so if a major seminar paper is due on a given Friday, aim to have yours done the Friday before that. Making these early deadlines for yourself gives you a cushion so that you’re not turning in things late whenever unforeseen issues come up. When you have a family, unforeseen issues come up all the time! Your child will get sick; you’ll be called to a parent-teacher conference; your partner will have a problem at work. You don’t want to realize at the very last minute that you won’t have the time to get something accomplished.
 Many graduate students are perfectionists; they work hard and want everything they do to be A+ quality. Ultimately, though, this perfectionism will stand in your way – at school and at home – preventing you from getting things accomplished and enjoying your life.You don’t want to be a slacker or be known for mediocre work, but you don’t have to exhaust yourself trying to be the best at everything.


Realize that most academic tasks are hurdles to be jumped over, not monumental efforts that demand genius or perfection. Don’t be so hard on yourself.
It is better to turn in a paper on time, assuming the quality is reasonable for your program, than to ask for extensions. Get it done and over with, even if you think you can do it better; don’t dig yourself into academic “debt” by letting tasks hang around on your calendar too long.
Let go of your desire to keep a perfectly clean house and to be the perfect parent. It won’t happen, and spending unnecessary hours trying to make it happen will only result in frustration and exhaustion.
 But it’s better to carve out some time. Attending a party or having drinks or dinner with friends now and then will revitalize you and remind you that you are a person outside of parenthood and academia.


Try to socialize sometimes with people in your program and other times with people who are not in your program. Both kinds of friends are valuable. Your academic friends can commiserate with you about graduate school, and your non-academic friends can remind you of your life outside of it.
 If possible, reserve Saturday or Sunday as a non-working day. This practice will give you scheduled time for your family, and believe it or not, the rest may make you a better student when you return to your work.
 When you are feeling sad about not having more time with your family, remember that you are setting an example for your children. It can be such a good thing, having them see you as someone who is working long and hard to achieve a long-term goal. When they are grown, they will remember that you did that, and it may inspire them to work hard for their own goals.
 Graduate school can be a long haul. Don’t wait until you get the degree to celebrate your accomplishments – take pride in the smaller steps along the way! When you finish a paper, present at a conference, pass exams, publish an article, or teach a great class, enjoy the moment, and make sure your family gets to celebrate with you.

