 For problems revolving around stressful, complex situations like getting fired, losing your apartment, or having your car break down, the best place to start is by staying calm. Don't panic or let yourself feel like the whole world is ending. So far, you've managed to get past every other problem in your life and the sun keeps rising; we are 100% sure you can make it through this one too.


When you're struggling to stay calm, a good technique is to focus on your breathing. Breathe in and out slowly until you feel more calm and ready to do what you need to do.
 The more you know about the situation you're in and the options you have available to you, the better able you will be to deal with whatever the problem is. Do a little Googling, talk to people who have dealt with problems like this before, and really think about what Plan C is instead of getting locked into Plans A and B.


For example, let's say you've lost your job. Instead of panicking about what you're going to do now, go to your local unemployment office. They'll have counselors who will help you file for unemployment and help you find resources for getting a new job quickly (like a resume makeover).
 Everyone has resources available to them in times of crisis. Sometimes these resources come in the form of money or time. Sometimes they come in the form of friends or family who really know what they're talking about. Sometimes the resources you have available to you are harder to see however. Even your personal qualities (such as intelligence or determination) can be hugely helpful in getting you through this.


For example, if you know you have strong interpersonal skills, then you know you can use those skills to help solve your problem. Just because there might not be an obvious way to use them right now doesn’t mean that the opportunity won’t arise.
 Once you've gotten as much information as you can and know what resources are available to you to make it happen, make your battle plan. There's a reason the military has generals: going in with a plan, even if it's only very basic, is better than just running in and hoping for the best. Make a list of what needs to happen and when. You'll quickly see that it's more doable than you thought.


Break the solution down into a series of goals, then break the goals down into a series of tasks. Decide when you'll do each task and where you can get a little extra help and before you know it you'll have a great plan.
Even just having a plan and working towards meeting your goals can often make things even easier because it makes your "gatekeepers" more willing to give you extra room and time to solve your problems. These people, like teachers, bosses, and creditors, will feel more comfortable being forgiving if you have a plan that shows you're serious.
 Now that you know what you need to do, do it! There's no time like the present, as they say. The sooner you start working to fix the problem, the easier it will be to fix it. It's scary to deal with problems because it's so hard to know how things will turn out, but you have to be confident that everything will work out in the end.


Think of your life like a movie. It's not going to stop just because the villain starts causing trouble. The story might not go how you want it to go but there will be a resolution in the end. And your life is hardly The Day After Tomorrow, so you'll be okay.
 A final piece of advice is that there are few problems which cannot be solved or at least helped by communicating more. People are made to help each other and when you talk about your problems, you'll find that suddenly they become much easier to deal with. Talk with the people attached to the problem that you're having. Talk to people who are experts. Talk to your friends and family. Ask for help. Even just saying what you're struggling with can spur someone to point out a good solution for you.Poor communication can also be the source of your problem, meaning that simply talking more may be what's needed to fix the problem.
If nothing else, communicate the need for patience. Tell people that you're working on the problem but that you have a plan and you're focusing all of your energy on making things right.

