 One way to have "good credit" is to have a high credit score. Your credit score is a number used to tell lenders, potential employers, landlords and others what kind of financial risk factor you have. Many lenders rely on FICO credit scores for this number. FICO stands for the Fair Issac Corporation, which is the company most relied upon to calculate credit scores.Credit scores can range from 300-850. The higher the number, the better. There is no set number for what defines "good" credit. Some lenders consider 650 good, while others go a bit higher or lower.
There are three credit bureaus that keep files on your finances and release credit scores: Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian. You can get your credit score from these companies through their websites for a small fee.
Your credit card, bank, or websites like Credit Karma or Credit Sesame may be able to provide you with your credit score for free.
Your credit score will fluctuate over time, based on five factors: amount owed, new credit, length of credit history, credit mix, and payment history.
 A monthly budget can help you prevent spending money that you may not have on items that you do not need. To create a budget, track how much money you make each month, and then tally up your expenses. Separate necessary expenses—such as rent, utilities, and insurance—from non-necessary items—such as eating out, going to the movies, or shopping.

Set aside part of your paycheck each money to put into savings.
If you are in debt, allot part of your paycheck each month to paying it off.
Write down everything you buy and how much it costs. This can help you determine where your money is going. You can then eliminate or reduce places where you are spending too much., Be aware of your spending habits, and look for patterns or habits that cause you to spend more than you can afford each money. You should not be putting more money on your credit card than you can afford.

If you rely on a credit card to get you through the money, you may want to develop a budget to see if there are any places where you can cut down on your spending.
Avoid using a home equity line of credit for other types of purchases, as not paying it off could result in foreclosure.Co-signing someone else’s loan is generally a bad idea, as it puts you at risk if they do not pay back the loan. This can damage your credit just as much as taking out a loan yourself., Sometimes a loan can help your credit. Examples of "good" loans are mortgage or car loans from a reputable lender, such as your bank. However, there are many types of loans that can be detrimental to your credit.Payday loans should be avoided at all costs. These loans, which are granted to anyone with proof of income, can have exorbitant interest rates.
Auto-tile loans are usually not a good idea, because the rates on these are usually high. You are also putting yourself in a situation where you might have to forfeit your car.
Certain car loans can also be very bad deals. If the interest is in double digits, or it will take you more than 5 years to pay back the loan, it is not a good loan.
 Lenders look for several factors when deciding what type of loan they will grant you. One thing lenders look for is that you have a history of reliable income. You will often get a better loan rate if you can show that you have worked at the same job for a number of years.A solid job history can help you get loans and higher credit amounts on your cards.

