;
, Fill a spray bottle with cold water, and spray down the carpeted area. Using a towel, start blotting and dabbing the vomit until the chunks and moisture are mostly gone.With each blot and dab, be sure to use a clean section of the towel; you may need more than one towel if the carpeted area is large.
 Warm up about 2 cups of water in a large microwave-safe bowl or cup. Stir in 1 tbsp of salt, and continue stirring until the salt is dissolved.
 Add these ingredients to the water and salt mixture. Mix all of these ingredients together in the bowl or cup.
 Dip a clean sponge repeatedly in the cleaning solution to saturate it with the cleaning substance. You will use this to continue cleaning the carpeted area. Again, if the area is large, you may need more than one sponge.
 Using small strokes, remove the rest of the vomit and any stains with the damp kitchen sponge. Just like before, with every stroke and dab, use a clean area of the sponge.


Each time you stroke the area with the sponge, you will be removing vomit.
Rinse the sponge in the sink with warm water if it becomes completely dirty.
You will likely want to throw the sponge you use away.
 This will rid the carpet of any smells and will help the carpet dry.
 It may take several hours for the baking soda on the carpet to dry, and it will likely become clumpy.Keep your pets away from the carpeted area during this time. Once the area is completely dry, use a vacuum cleaner to completely suck up the baking soda.
 Using a spoon or knife may help.
 With each blot and dab, be sure to use a clean section of the towel; you may need more than one towel if the carpeted area is large.
 This will absorb the rest of the moisture that remains below the surface of the carpet. Cover the entire carpeted area with baking soda or corn starch.
 The baking soda or corn starch will likely dry within 2 hours, and they may become clumpy. Once the baking soda or corn starch is dry, use a vacuum to completely suck up the remaining particles.
 Check the container before buying the cleaner to make sure it is enzyme based; this means the cleaner will break down the odor-causing proteins so they can be removed. They are effective in removing stains, too. Spray the area with the cleaner until it is very damp.
 The cleaner container may say that the cleaner needs to sit for a longer or shorter period of time. Read the back of the container for specific instructions. Generally, 1-2 hours will allow the product to remove stains and odor.
 Once the cleaner completely dries, it can be walked on again.
 Using a professional carpet cleaner will remove the toughest of stains. You can simply hire carpet cleaners, or rent the carpet cleaner and clean the stained areas yourself. Carpet cleaners are available at grocery stores or rental centers.Rentals can be as cheap as $24.99 for 24 hours.If you do not feel comfortable operating a carpet cleaner, hire professionals.
Ask a friend for help, since you will have to move furniture and operate a somewhat heavy carpet cleaning machine.
 Purchase the recommended cleaner when you rent the machine. If you are unsure what to fill the machine with, ask the salesperson you rented it from.
 Once you take the machine home, clear the area you will be cleaning of any furniture. Remember, you will need to let the carpet dry for around 24 hours, so the furniture will need to remain off the carpet during this entire time.
 They work by injecting a solution into the carpet, then extracting dirty solution back into the machine. You will need to fill a tank on the machine with solution.


There may even be a second tank that holds clean water.
Every carpet cleaner machine will be slightly different, so be sure to read all instructions before operating the cleaning machine.
You may need to replace the dirty solution if you are cleaning a large area.
 Now, turn the machine off, and make sure the carpet does not change color. Wait a few minutes; if the carpet does not change color, the cleaner is safe to use.
 Plug in the machine in the room you will be cleaning, and turn it on. In a pattern of straight lines, move up and down the room.Move at a pace of about two feet per second.Usually, only one pass over the carpet is necessary to remove stains, and moving over the carpeted area more than once is not recommended.
 Refill the tank with clean solution, and continue cleaning. You may not need to do this if the room you are cleaning is small.
 Once you’ve gone over every stained area once, turn off and the unplug the machine. Then, empty any water or solution tanks.
 It usually takes 24 hours for carpets to dry.
 Since you are done with the cleaning machine, you can now return it to the store or rental place.

