 The night before your event, be sure to get a good night's sleep. This will make sure that you're fully rested for the next night. If you're a kid, try to get 6-8 hours of sleep. If you're an adult, you might be able to get away with 5-7 hours sleep, but more is always recommended. If you've been working hard at school or work, feel free to give yourself the extra hour or two sleeping. Don't be lazy all day though. If you don't get a full night's sleep the night before, taking a nap halfway through the day is better than nothing.;
, While everyone has different opinions on what a good film actually is, choose one that won't bore you to sleep, literally. Films with fast paced action and music generally keep you awake better than slow, love-based films. James Bond is a great film to watch because it has a lot of action in it and will make you want to stay awake and watch more. War films, like Saving Private Ryan are also very good but might make you fall asleep at the dull parts. Try to choose a film that's interesting from start to finish.
 Resist the urge to snuggle up in bed with three blankets, even if it's winter. This will only make you very warm, and heat will make you feel more tired. Instead, lay or sit on the top of your bed. This might may make you a little bit uncomfortable, but at least you'll stay awake. Also, remove your socks and don't get your nightwear on. Stay in your jeans. Open your window and your door to let in more cold air, keeping the room colder. When you do this, make sure the heaters are turned off so you don't waste your money and electricity.
 When you feel yourself dozing off, take a sip of some ice cold water. This should help to shock your body into staying awake. Water is a better drink than something with caffeine in it because caffeine gives you a temporary buzz, and then a huge crash meaning that it will drain you of all energy. Also, water is healthier and will make you need to go to the toilet more often. Taking the trip to the toilet can help to keep you awake in itself. Staying up all night isn't healthy so you don't want to add bad chemicals to your body. That will make it even more unhealthy.
 The sound going directly into your brain will naturally make you want to focus on the film because there isn't anything else to focus on. This should make you want to stay awake to see where the noises are coming from rather than falling asleep. Explosions, car chases and sudden gunshots will shock your brain and hopefully make you feel more awake again. If, unfortunately, you do fall asleep during the film, the sound in the earphones might wake you up again so you wouldn't have missed much. It will also allow everybody else in the house to fall asleep because they won't be disturbed by the sound of your film.
 Foods that contain lots of Vitamin B12 such as cheese, milk and other dairy products will give your energy a slight boost. Fish is a good choice too. You can also eat fruits (apples, oranges) which contain Vitamin C and Protein. These foods are also very healthy and will reduce the unhealthy factor of staying awake. If you get bored of eating apple after apple, mix it up a little. Make a fruit salad containing apples, oranges, grapes, bananas and kiwis. Pour in some fruit juice if you want it even more juicy. Squirt some lemon juice on the top of it all. This will give the fruit salad an extra kick. The fruit and Vitamins will keep your energy up while the sourness of the lemon juice shocks your taste buds. If you really don't like the taste, wash it down with water.
 Films are usually around two hours long. To sit in the same spot for two hours drinking ice water and eating sour fruit salads really is a lot to ask. Don't force yourself if you're finding it difficult. Pause the film and take a slight break. These can be anywhere from five minutes to fifteen minutes. Don't spend too long on your break though because the longer you stay up, the more tired you will become. On your break you should wash your face or take a shower. This will shock your body into feeling more awake and alert. Because you've been drinking water and eating juicy foods, you will probably need to go toilet too. Do some last minute stretches and start again.

