 The season when the shower will be held will dictate some of what is available to you.This could effect the colors you would want to use as well as flowers which are in season.
 Consult with the parents to learn what colors they may already have in mind for decorating the baby’s room. Combine this with the season and the flowers which are available to you.For a winter shower consider using light colors like mint green, light blue, powder pink, or even all white. Winter flower choices include carnations and pansies.
Summer can call for brighter versions of these colors, like a bright pink, teal blue, or aqua. Summer flowers could be bird of paradise, dahlia, calla lily or stargazer lily
Spring calls for the bright warm colors like oranges and yellows. Flower options could include amaryllis, peony and cherry blossom.
Fall has muted versions of these warm colors like an olive green or mustard. Some fall flowers are mums and gerber daisies.
 You can choose to use a cute vase, or opt to combine a vase with something creative which will match your theme.


Consider placing a vase inside a much larger jar and filling the surrounding space with small objects in line with your theme. Some examples could be toy dinosaurs, peas, plastic letters, and colorful cereal.
You could also place a vase inside a bird cage which is slightly larger than the vase. You can spray paint the vase to match your color palette, then thread the flowers through the holes of the cage and into the vase inside.
Wrap a plain vase in the pages of picture books.
 You may choose to arrange the flowers yourself or have a professional do this for you. If you choose to have a florist make the arrangement for you, take your color palette and vase or base combination to the flower shop, so that you can explain exactly what your vision is for the centerpiece.


To arrange the flowers yourself, work in layers. Create a base, support layer with leafy green stems or dense flowers like baby’s breath. Trim these stems about half an inch from where they create a “v”, then criss cross them from the corners or edges of your base to create a good support base for the rest of the arrangement. Remove the bottom leaves to avoid molding the leaves and rotting the water.Trim the flowers as you go to fit the your height preference.
Start with your largest blooms, then add different types of flowers with progressively smaller blooms.
Add odd numbers of each type of flower until your arrangement looks complete.

