 Most celebrities have accounts on all kinds of different social media platforms. If you don’t have any social media accounts yourself, you may want to sign up just to follow the celebrities you want to be friends with. Platforms like Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram are good places to start, but other platforms like Snapchat are becoming popular among celebrities, as well.


If the celebrity you like has a personal website, they might list their social media accounts on their website. Check there for their usernames or links to their different accounts, or do a quick Google search to find them.;
, Until you are on conversational or friendly terms with the celebrity, don’t try to add their personal or private accounts. They will likely ignore or deny your request because they don’t know you, and you might mess up your chances of getting to know them. Stick to following their public accounts.


If you want to be friends with someone famous, you don’t want to come off as pushy by trying to be a part of their personal lives before you’ve been invited in.
 If you want the celebrity to notice you, you’ll need to leave them comments on their posts! If they post a photo on Instagram, leave a comment and let them know what you think. If they post something on Facebook, comment or like their post. Just make sure you don’t comment too much, or say anything that will make you come off looking desperate or obsessive.


Instead of commenting with something like “Wow I love you so much!” you might comment with something like “Looks awesome! You should check out…” and bring up something related to the post. This way, you’re connecting with them and showing them you have common interests, and not just looking like a fan.
 Sending a message directly to their inbox is a good way to make contact. For example, if you know the celebrity will be in your town, or if you’ll be visiting theirs, send them a message to tell them something fun they should check out in your city, or ask something fun you could try in theirs. This will let them know you’ll be nearby, and that you’re interested in something fun to do.


Keep in mind that if you are trying to make contact with an “A List” celebrity, or someone who is extremely popular, you might have trouble making contact at all. These kinds of celebrities rarely check their own direct messages on public accounts, and even more rarely answer those messages.
 Make posts on your own accounts that are related to the celebrity’s interests. For example, if you want to make friends with someone who is famous online and known for her makeup skills or fashion sense, you might make a post related to these things and include hashtags that the celebrity also uses on her posts. The celeb might follow these tags, and notice your posts.


Don’t go overboard and tag the celebrity’s name. You want to come off as someone who has similar interests and could possibly be their friend, not a crazy fan.
 Do a search to find out if the celebrity has an official fan club that already exists, and join it. Attend meetups and events planned and put on by the club, as these official events might involve meeting the celebrity. If there isn’t an official fan club, see if you can get in touch with the celebrity’s management and start the process of starting one.Don’t start an “official” fan club without the involvement of the celeb and/or their management. You don’t want to unintentionally infringe on copyright or end up in legal trouble.

