 Also known as the canalith repositioning procedure, the Epley maneuver helps to reset the balance mechanisms in the inner ear by repositioning the particles in the vestibular organs (the balance organs). These particles can get trapped in the inner ear, which causes dizziness. You can do this at home, although it should be demonstrated by your healthcare professional before you undertake it yourself as it does require some quick movements. Note that the Epley maneuver is effective in 90% of cases, it can cause an intensification of vertigo initially. Consider asking a friend or family member to act as your assistant so that your head lands in the right spot each time. Here's how to do it:Sit on a bed. Place a pillow behind you so that when you lie on your back (later in the maneuver), it will be located under your shoulders.
Turn your head 45° by looking to the right.
Lie back quickly and place your shoulders on the pillow. Your head will be lower than your shoulders and you will still be looking 45° to the right. Remain in this position for 30 seconds.
After the 30 seconds, turn your head 90° to the left. Do not raise your head during this movement. Remain in this position for 30 seconds.
Turn your entire body and your head another 90° to the left and wait for 30 seconds. At this point, you should be lying on your left side. Your head should still be lower than your shoulders.
Repeat this exercise three times daily for best results.
 Also known as the Foster maneuver, this is another good exercise and, unlike the Epley maneuver, does not require an assistant. One study found that patients who did both exercises experienced symptomatic relief but reported less dizziness and fewer complications when doing just the Half Somersault. You will likely need to do this exercise multiple times before you experience some relief. Follow this procedure:Get down on your knees and look up at the ceiling for a few seconds.
Touch the floor with your head. Tuck your chin slightly towards your chest so your head moves toward your knees. Wait for the vertigo to subside (about 30 seconds).
Turn your head in the direction of your affected ear (i.e., if you feel dizzy on your left side, turn your head so that it faces your left elbow). Keep your head in this position for 30 seconds.
Then, raise your head so it is level with your back while you're on all fours; your spine should look like a straight line. Keep your head at that 45° angle. Stay 30 seconds in this position.
Raise your head and back so that you are upright again, but keep your head tilted to the shoulder of the side you're working on. Take your time to stand up.
Rest 15 minutes before repeating a second time or doing the other side.
 These exercises involve the head and the muscles of the neck and can be performed at home without a physician's supervision. The repeated head movements of this regimen help you habituate to the experience of vertigo by dispersing the particles in the vestibular organs in the inner ear.Begin in an upright, seated position. Quickly lie down on on one side with your nose pointed up at about a 45° angle. Stay in this position for about 30 seconds (or until the vertigo is gone). Then, get back in your seated position. Do this exercise on the other side.
This exercise is most effective if you do multiple repetitions at least twice daily.
 It is the relationship between our eye muscles and our inner ears that help us stay balanced most of the time while the head is moving. However, the dislodged particles in the inner ear make you think you're moving when you're not and causes the eyes to mistakenly move, making it look the room is spinning. This is why it's important to strengthen your eye muscles. Over time, this will reduce the sensitivity of the inner ear canal which in turn will lead to reduced frequency and intensity of vertigo. As soon as you wake up, keep one hand on any one eye and close it for 20 seconds while using the other eye to look out into the distance and focus on a point far away. Then switch the hand to the other eye and let the previous eye repeat the same effort.Do this about 10 times every day upon waking.
 Staring at one point can help you overcome dizziness. It helps improve your vision and maintain focus while your head is moving. Dancers, when doing turns, are told to "spot." This is where they keep their eyes focused on one spot for as long as they can as their body rotates. This lets them spin without becoming dizzy and is the same principle that can be applied here. Focus on a spot straight ahead during your dizziness spell and the dizziness will likely subside. Here's how to practice stabilizing your gaze:Look straight ahead and focus on something (a small coloured square or button) held at eye level in front of you.
Move your head from side to side, all the while maintaining your gaze on the target. Slowly increase the speed of your head movement. Make sure your target is still in focus and is not just a blur. If you start to feel too dizzy, slow down.
Continue moving your head for up to one minute because the brain needs this time to adapt to the adjustment.
Keep working on it until you can do this exercise three to five times everyday. Build up gradually to repeat three to five times a day.
You can also try this exercise with an up-and-down, or nodding, movement.
 While sitting upright on a chair, bring your head down such that your chin touches your chest and then start rotating your head clockwise, slowly but firmly, three times. This may release the spasm in your muscles and reduce vertigo.Repeat it three times going the opposite way, counter-clockwise. Pause for a break of 45 seconds between each direction of rotation. Then turn your head towards either side while using the palm of your hand of that side to resist that movement and stretch the neck muscles.

