 The easiest issue with starting your vehicle to diagnose is often a dead battery. When you turn the key in the ignition, listen to the sound the motor makes as it attempts to start. If it doesn’t make any sound at all, it may simply be a dead battery.If you can hear clicking, it may be because the starter is attempting to work but does not have enough power.
If the engine is turning over but won’t start, it likely isn’t an issue with the battery.;
, Open the hood of the vehicle and look over the connections from the battery to the engine. There are two terminals (positive and negative) and both must have clean metal on metal connections in order to transmit electricity sufficiently. Check to ensure both cables are connected and that the terminals aren’t covered in debris or oxidization.Use a steel tooth brush to clean corroded battery terminals.
Ensure the cables are tight on the terminals and cannot be wiggled or pulled off the battery.
 Once you’ve checked the battery cables, use a voltmeter to test the voltage in the battery. Turn on the voltmeter and touch the positive (red) lead to the positive terminal on the battery, then touch the negative lead to the negative terminal. If the battery is fully charged, it should read between 12.4 and 12.7 volts.If the battery is dead, try jump starting it.
If the battery won’t hold a charge, replace it and try starting the vehicle again.
 If the cables on the battery are secure, use another vehicle to jump start the engine. Connect the two batteries using jumper cables, making sure to use the red cable on the positive terminals and the black cable on the negative terminals.Be sure to connect the positive to the positive and negative to the negative terminals, otherwise you may do serious damage to the vehicle.
Some engines have a main fuse just after the battery that will pop if you accidentally switch the cables. You will need to purchase a replacement fuse if you break it.
 If jump starting the car didn’t work, there may be an issue with the starter or solenoid. Start by testing the starter solenoid using a test light. Touch the test light to the bottom terminal on the solenoid and ground the negative cable on the body of the vehicle. Have a friend attempt to start the vehicle to see if the solenoid engages.If the solenoid does not engage, it has gone bad and will need to be replaced.

