 These pumpkins are also called sugar pumpkins because they have a little more sweetness and a little more flavor than larger pumpkins. Pumpkins with a deep orange color and hard rind tend to be the most flavorful and the most ripe. Avoid using pumpkins that are moldy or rotted.
 It is important for the outside of the pumpkin to be clean in order to prevent bacteria from contaminating the inner flesh. Scrub the exterior in warm water, but do not use soap. Pat it dry with a clean dish towel or paper towels.
 Use a large serrated knife and carefully saw the pumpkin in half. Set the pumpkin down with the stem up on a smooth counter top. Hold it steady with one hand and use your other hand to saw the knife back and forth through the pumpkin until the two halves are separated.


Do not use a smooth knife. A smooth knife does not have enough of a "grip" for pumpkins and is more like the slip and hurt you as you cut.
 A heavy ice cream scoop accomplishes the task well, but any large metal spoon will work. Continue scraping the inner sides of the pumpkin until all the strings and seeds have been gutted out.
 The cooking process will be much easier if the pumpkin is cut into smaller pieces. Each half can be cut into about four pieces. Be sure to cut away the stem and discard it, as well.
, Position the wedges so that the flesh faces downward. Make sure that the lid of the steamer or pot will fit securely over the pumpkins, since you will need the steam to cook the pumpkin and a loose lid will allow the steam to escape.
 Bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat. Steam the pumpkins for 20 to 30 minutes or until soft.
 If you do not have a double steamer, you can cook the pumpkins by placing them into a large microwavable glass bowl and adding 2 inches (5 cm) of water. Microwave on high in 10 minute increments until soft. Usually, this takes 20 to 30 minutes.
 Before attempting to peel or cut the pumpkin, you should give it a little time to cool down. Otherwise, you may end up burning yourself. Wait until the pumpkin rind is cool to the touch before handling further.
 Hold the pumpkin still with one hand, using an oven mitt if it is still somewhat hot. With the other hand, carefully slide a blunt knife in between the skin and the flesh. When the skin starts coming up, finish peeling the rest away with your fingers.
 The cubes should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) all around. Do not mash the pumpkin.

