 Learning to live in the present can take a lifetime, but it will be worth it. Embracing every moment and opportunity that comes your way will help you stay grounded in the present instead of worrying over something in the past or in the future that can cause you harm. Take the time to "wake up and smell the roses" by slowing down, enjoying your relationship, taking a daily walk, and unplugging from your computer and phone for several hours every day.Meditate. Meditating for 10-20 minutes every day can help you focus on your body and your mind and on what's happening around you.
Use all of your senses. Take the time to appreciate the sights, smells, and feelings around you.
Don't take a day of your life for granted. Write down all of the things you're thankful for and embrace them as much as you can.
 Though preventing anxiety should come from within, there are some steps you can take to prevent anxiety in your daily life. Try to avoid situations that cause you a lot of anxiety or extra stress and make your life easier and more manageable. For example, if you're always anxious about getting to work late, leave the house fifteen minutes earlier. If you're anxious about how your best friend really feels about you, have an honest conversation with her.


If going to loud concerts, crowded restaurants, or big parties where you don't know many people makes you deeply anxious, avoid these situations unless you can find a way to manage them.
 If you want to prevent your anxiety, then you should spend as much time as you can with friends that make you feel more calm, at ease, and at peace with yourself. Seek out the people in your life who make you feel grounded, and avoid the people who cause worry, make you more stressed, and make you feel like your problems are bigger than they really are. And if there's an acquaintance in your circle who always calms you down, seek him out.


Plug time with calming friends into your schedule. They'll make you feel even better about your struggles.
 Keeping a journal can help you trace your most anxiety-inducing thoughts and will make you see a pattern to your thinking. If you take the time to write in your journal for at least fifteen minutes a day, you'll feel better for having time to reflect and will get a better sense of the big picture. Writing in a journal is inherently a calming activity, and making time to do it every day can help you wind down, make sense of your day, and get ready to move forward.


Writing in your journal at the beginning of your day with a cup of herbal tea can help prevent anxiety.
 A big part of anxiety stems from not knowing what's going to happen next. Unfortunately, there's no way you can predict the future, no matter how hard you work on preventing anxiety. You have to learn to be okay with not knowing what's going to happen next, controlling only what you can control, and learning to take your life one day at a time.


Learning to accept uncertainty, like learning to live in the present, is a process that can take a lifetime.
 If you feel that your daily life is filled with overwhelming worry and that nothing you've done has improved the situation, then it may be time to see a doctor to see if getting some prescription medications or alternate treatments is the best route for you. If you're feeling completely overwhelmed with worry in your daily life, then you should see a doctor immediately. You may find that you have Generalized Anxiety Disorder, or another anxiety-related disorder.Don't be embarrassed about it -- it'll be the first big step to preventing anxiety and getting the help you need.
 Even if you don't want or need medication, talking to a therapist can still help you deal with your problems. Just discussing your every day concerns as well as your larger worries with a professional can make you feel more at ease and less alone. Talking to a therapist about your worries instead of discussing them with a close friend can also help you gain a new perspective on your worries, and can also make you more comfortable about talking about them.

