 There are a lot of products on the market for creating fake smoke on stage, one of which is called "Pure Smoke." This product is similar to an e-cigarette, but instead of inhaling the smoke, you can squeeze the trigger and it will generate vapor. This device takes AA batteries for its battery pack, which is connected to a long wire that reaches the squeezable trigger mechanism. The mechanism is made to be attached to your chest, but can be placed anywhere. A hose then runs from the mechanism to the dispenser tip, which you can place near your mouth so it would appear as if you are smoking.
Pure Smoke creates similar vapor to that of fog machines used on stage, but in lesser quantities.
When purchasing this product, you will receive 11 cartridges, which is about 850 puffs of smokes. It may be a little pricy to some, but it's effective!
Make sure when buying Pure Smoke that you are buying the kind specifically to create fog or fake smoke on stage. There are other types of pure smoke used for Hookah and electronic cigarettes, so you'll want to avoid those.
 These can be very useful if you are trying to trick someone and make them believe you are smoking a real cigarette. They can be purchased online, or you can create your own. The trick to these cigarettes is to blow out -- don't inhale.To make toy cigarettes, take a white piece of paper, roll it up, and tape it closed. Place cotton at one end and then pour a white powder into the other end. Now, blow from either end and it will look like you are smoking a cigarette!
Be aware that these cigarettes don't last very long. They allow you to make a few puffs of smoke, but because you are just making smoke with the powder inside the cigarette, you won't be able to use it for hours on end.
 A really unique way to create smoke is by using the powder that ground up Smarties create. You can do this by grinding up the candy and rolling it into a piece of paper like a toy cigarette, or you can use the wrapper.When using the wrapper, smash the Smarties inside the wrapper, keeping both sides wrapped and then open up one end and gently inhale the Smartie dust and breathe out.
Unlike the toy cigarettes, you will inhale the smoke from the Smarties, but make sure you don't take too deep of a breath. Try to keep the air in your mouth, not letting it go to the back of your throat and into your diaphragm.

