 Heat tools like straightening irons or blowdryers damage your natural hair, so it’s best to limit your use or stop all together, especially if you are transitioning to natural hair. Your hair will be especially fragile if you have not cut off the relaxed ends, and you want to give your newly growing natural hair a healthy start.If you need to use heat, try to reduce it to only two to three times a month. Spray your hair with heat protective spray beforehand, and use the lowest heat settings possible that is still effective. Try to use a ceramic or tourmaline-ceramic flat iron, which does less damage to your hair., If you notice knots in your hair, don’t wait until after a shower to untangle them. Instead, dampen the section of hair in the sink or using a spray bottle of water, apply conditioner and oil directly to the knot, and ease it apart with your fingers. Then use a wide-toothed comb to fully undo the knot.You don’t want to wash heavily-knotted hair because the process of washing will wind even more hair around the knot and make it harder to get out.
 Combing dry natural hair causes excessive breakage, so comb your hair directly after showering while the hair is drying. Apply a small amount of leave-in conditioner or moisturizer and use a wide-toothed comb to gently comb your hair, starting at the tips and working your way up to the roots., Protective styles get their name because they keep your hair in place, minimize friction that can damage your hair, and require minimum handling so that the chances of breakage are less. Examples of protective styles include braids, cornrows, bantu knots and twists. You can keep these styles in for a few weeks up to two months before they need to be taken down.
 When you are putting your hair up in a bun or ponytail, or getting it styled in protective styles, make sure not to pull too hard on the “edges” of your hair, or the hair around your temples and at the nape of your neck. The hair in these areas is finer and more delicate and can easily get broken or ripped out., While it may be tempting to wear your hair in a bun or ponytail every day, or keep in protective styles longer than two months, doing so is bad for your hair. Be sure to take out your protective styles or weaved-in hair after a month or two, and vary up your hairstyles so that you are not doing a style that tugs at the same part of your hair. Doing so will minimize breakage and give your hair a rest.