 If you find yourself texting one person constantly, tell them you'd rather save it for an actual conversation. Then make plans to get together for coffee or just to talk on the phone.
 Take care of your own life for a while, and take “text breaks.” Text your friends – or your crush – every other day. You might find they start thinking about you and get in touch with you first.
 Texting while drinking can lead to sending messages you'll regret later. You might be tempted to text your ex, for example, or explain to your roommate exactly why their sloppy housekeeping annoys you so much. But don't worry – there are apps that can help you avoid this.Try Drunk Lock. Simply activate the app when you leave the house for the evening. If you try to text someone on your blocked list, you'll have to solve a series of simple math problems to unblock their number.
 If you get a text while doing something, ignore it. Finish what you're doing before checking your phone.


If you have difficulty resisting the lure of your phone, turn it off during certain activities.
Vow not to use it while you are working on a certain project, when you're at the gym, or while you watch a movie with your family.
 If you are going out with friends or family, consider leaving your phone at home. As long as one person in the group has a phone for emergency use, you really don't need to bring yours. #*You may find that not having your phone with you feels liberating.


Your friends and family will appreciate the novel sensation of having your undivided attention.
 If you are sharing a meal with someone, either in a restaurant or at their home (or yours), turn off your phone. It's extremely rude to interrupt your time with someone to read a text from someone else.Turn your phone off, not just the ringer. Otherwise, you'll be tempted to check it anyway.
 If you are at a party or spending time with friends, everyone should have their ringers off so you can enjoy each other's company. Schedule a specific time that everyone can check their phones and answer texts at once, so it doesn't interrupt the fun.