 Many banks now offer account holders the ability to send money via an online transfer using just the email address or mobile phone number of the recipient.This is one of the advantages of 21st century banking!


Enter the amount to transfer and the recipient will receive a text or email with instructions on how to receive it.
Check to see if your bank charges a fee. Many standard banks, like Bank of America, do not charge their account holders who make transfers.
The online transfer method is especially helpful both if you pay one person often, like a babysitter, or need to make a one-off transfer, like to a student away at school.
You can also use online or mobile transfers (using your bank's mobile app) to split a bill at a restaurant, since the money can be moved around instantly. This way, you won't have to wait for anyone to pay you back!

, This lets you send money to someone else's account, or between your account at different financial institutions.


For this transfer, you need to know the account number and transit routing number of the recipient.
A transit routing number—also commonly known as a check routing number, ABA number or routing transit number (RTN) —is a 9-digit code that identifies the bank, its branch and location. You can usually find this information through your online account.Alternatively, if you have checks, you can find the 9-digit routing number on the bottom-left of your check. Your account number is the second code on the bottom-center of the check.
This type of transfer can take a little longer (between 2-4) days than a standard online transfer.



Checks sent through the mail are a straightforward alternative if you want to send money to someone who can't receive a transfer through online banking. Simply write out the check and mail in an envelop to your recipient.Domestic mail in the U.S. typically takes 1-3 days. The recipient will then have to deposit the check. It may take several days before the recipient can access the funds.
Though rare, sometimes checks get lost in the mail. Check with your bank about what procedure you should follow if you think this has happened to you.
 A wire transfer is an electronic payment service for transferring funds by wire. Wire transfers are good to use if you're sending money overseas because you can send largely amounts safely and securely.The best-known wire transfer service is SWIFT, the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication.Wire transfers have high levels of security and are quick. However, they almost always incur fees.The average fee of outgoing domestic and international wire transfers charged by the 10 largest U.S. banks is $27.40 and $47.50, respectively.Some banks allow you to make domestic or international wire transfers online. However, for international wire transfers, which can be more complicated, you can also visit a local bank branch.
Wire transfers usually require extra information. What you need may vary depending on your bank. However, the SWIFT Code, IBAN number (International Bank Account number) as well as the addresses of the recipient and his/her bank are often needed.Usually your account will be debited the same day to make the transfer and the bank will send out the payment immediately. The recipient's bank should receive the funds within a day or two and then credit the transfer to the recipient thereafter.
There can be delays in wire transfers due to a number of factors, including holidays, delays by an intermediary bank, or other local conditions. Some countries have also been labelled "slow-to-pay" countries, meaning that transfers made to and from them can take extra time.