 Look for the people in your life who build you up and leave you feeling better than you did before. Make an effort to spend more time with them. Ask if they'd like to get lunch with you, or if you could get together this weekend.


If you usually feel bad about yourself after spending time with someone, that's an important pattern to be aware of. Figure out why you feel that way, and whether the relationship is worth maintaining.
 This can be done by contacting a friendly support group, or through a search online. Learn what autistic people have to say about themselves, their symptoms, and the way they interact with the world. Autistic people, in general, are very welcoming to newly-diagnosed or self-diagnosed people.


Autistic people can offer advice and tips to those in need (and often do so, especially online)
The general positivity of the autistic community can help you feel better when you are feeling sad or have low self-esteem.
 You are not broken or lesser. People like you do not deserve to be abused, coerced, silenced, or eugenically aborted.


It is okay to cut toxic people out of your life. You don't need their negativity, and you're much better off without them. You are not required to argue that your existence is worthwhile, and it's okay to decide not to waste your time and energy on them.
If you're stuck with these people, you have two main choices: to educate them, or to avoid them. Educating them can be done by showing them an article, and making an appeal to their desire to be a good person. If you try this and fail, or if you know that they won't respond to reason, it's better to avoid spending time with them and avoid autism-related conversations. You don't deserve to listen to toxic ideas about your existence.
 They will help you understand yourself better and make a positive contribution to the world.


Many autism self-advocacy groups have a large online presence. You do not need to physically go somewhere to get involved.
If you can't find in-person autism organizations that are any good, try general disability groups. It can be tremendously relieving to spend time with a group where being disabled is normal.
 Along with the usual benefits of friendship, you can share coping strategies, discuss autism together, and be yourselves without any fear.


Look for autistic people in autism acceptance advocacy groups, Special Ed (if you go there), or disability/autism clubs.

