 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Grease a loaf pan, an 8x8 square baking dish, or a muffin tin, depending on how you want to bake your bread.






;
, Use a vegetable peeler to peel the green skin from the zucchini. Set a cheese grater upright in a bowl and run the zucchini up and down the grater, rotating the zucchini when it gets worn down on a particular side. Continue grating the zucchini until it is completely used up, then move on to the next one. When you have a sizable pile of grated zucchini, place it in a paper towel and squeeze it over the sink to remove the excess juices. Measure the grated zucchini to make sure you have 2 1/2 cups, and grate more if necessary.









Try to remove as much of the juice as you can, so the bread doesn't turn out too watery.
You can use a piece of cheesecloth to squeeze out the juices rather than using a paper towel.
 Place the flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg in a bowl. Use a whisk to stir the ingredients together until they are well incorporated.








You can replace one cup of the flour with whole wheat flour. This gives the bread a slightly more dense, nutty texture.
Cake flour may also be substituted for all-purpose flour if you'd like a lighter bread.
Add more or less cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Freshly grated nutmeg tastes best if you have it available.
 Place the sugar, eggs, oil, yogurt, buttermilk, and vanilla in a separate large bowl. Use a wooden spoon to stir the ingredients until they are completely incorporated. Stir in the grated zucchini last.









You can substitute more yogurt for the buttermilk, or more buttermilk for the yogurt, if you're running low on either ingredient.
Add an extra teaspoon of vanilla for a stronger vanilla taste.
Stir in a cup of chocolate chips to add another layer of flavor., Pour 1/3 of the dry ingredients into the wet mixture. Use a spoon to gently stir until the flour is incorporated. Continue adding the remaining mixture in thirds, stirring until the ingredients are just incorporated.
 Transfer the batter into your prepared loaf pan, baking dish, or muffin tin. Place the dish in the oven and bake the bread for about 45 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the bread comes out clean.









If you're baking muffins, the baking time will be reduced. Check the muffins after 30 minutes.
Use a fork to test the center of the bread if you don't have a toothpick.
 Let the finished bread cool for about 10 minutes before cutting it into slices. Serve warm with a pat of butter or enjoy it plain. Cover the bread with aluminum foil to store it.








