 This is the essential step that many people ignore when they decide to eat better and exercise. Increasing the overall amount of activity you get throughout the day is likely to burn fat and keep it off in the long term.


At work, get a sit/stand desk so that you can change your body position.
Walk for three to ten minutes after each meal to kick-start your metabolism.
Incorporate at least 30 minutes of extra walking per day.
Get a pedometer and ensure you are in the 10,000 to 12,000 daily step range—the recommended amount of activity to maintain body weight. Don’t count your exercise in this tally.
Get an exercise bike or treadmill and use it while you watch TV.
Don’t sit for more than three hours on weekends. Scientists estimate that this is the point at which daily sitting starts to increase your chances for obesity and other serious illnesses.;
, If you don’t work out at all now, the main goal with exercise is to start at lower intensities and work your way up. Aim for 20 to 30 minutes of consecutive cardio per day at a rate that makes you slightly out of breath, but able to still carry on a conversation.


Slowly increasing intensity and length of exercise will also help you to avoid injury. After one to two months of adding cardio to your day, you will be ready to tackle more fat-burning exercise.
 Although more specific exercise will be targeted in the later methods, strength training increases your metabolic rate and burns more fat than cardio alone. Try a short core class at your gym, or add in light weights, squats, ab exercises and planks to get started.
 There are several recommended methods for enhancing fat burning and weight loss. Most of these focus on the types of carbohydrates, fats and sugars that you eat, cutting out the types with fewer vitamins and minerals.


Eat more meals and snacks, while reducing the amount you eat for lunch and dinner. Plan to eat a healthy snack an hour and a half before you work out and a half an hour after.
Reduce saturated fats and increase the amount of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. These are those found in olive oil, egg yolks and fish oil and nuts, respectively.Replace processed foods with whole foods. The vitamins and minerals, as well as fats and sugars are more beneficial in whole fruits and vegetables.
Don’t cut out carbohydrates. Replace them with brown or ancient varieties that are digested more slowly and contain more nutrients.Try a low-carb diet every other day. Studies have found that the same weight loss benefits can be found in cutting calories and carbs every other day as are found in more strict dietary regimen.
 Eat regularly to ensure that your body doesn’t try to store up fat. This especially applies to breakfast, which actually boosts your metabolism and fat burning potential.
 Incorporating fat burning and muscle building strategies at the same time will allow you to see results more quickly.
 You must learn proper form to avoid injury. Learn to protect your back and other joints whenever you train.
 Having “arm days,” “leg days,” “chest days” and “ab days” will help you to break down and rebuild the muscle fibers in these areas faster.
 A 30 to 45-minute workout should give you enough of a chance to rebuild muscles in a certain area. This works out to about 15 sets that last three minutes apiece, including resting.
 A set with six reps with larger weights will be more beneficial than a 12 reps with smaller weights if you are trying to pack on muscle mass. Always do a set to fatigue—where you’re incapable of doing another repetition., Hydrated muscle fibers repair themselves more quickly. Protein is the building blocks of muscle and your post-gym snacks should be focused on this important part of your nutrition.
 You will continue to build muscle as you work into higher weights.