 It's fine to go alone; you don't have to take someone, especially if you don't like them. But if you have wanted to hang out with a friend recently then you could go with them. Maybe you could plan a group trip there. Remember to make sure that your friends (if you're at school) don't talk about the trip to prevent unwanted guests showing up unexpectedly or people you haven't invited getting jealous. Remember to pick people that you want to go with, and people who will get along with each other. If they start arguing, it could turn the trip into a nightmare, or get you kicked out of the cinema for being too loud.
 Pick a movie you like; It's no fun sitting through an hour and a half long film and being bored to death, or worse, scared to death. Have a look at the choices and pre-plan the film you want to see, especially if it hasn't come out yet. If you're going in a group, maybe get together beforehand to see what everyone thinks because you don't want them not enjoying themselves., You don't have to eat, but it's sometimes fun to break out the popcorn or pick 'n' mix. Only choose one of the options, because it can be uncomfortable being full and trying to focus on a film at the same time. You could go for a meal before, but that means that you probably shouldn't eat everything at the cinema. Make sure that what you are eating is what you want to eat because if the food is absolutely horrific then no one will be very pleased. If you're an indecisive person and are travelling with a group you should make the decision a few hours before to stop the rest of the group from getting bored, agitated or angry from waiting too long., Although cost can be a factor, time at which the movie is planned to be shown is yet another factor. True, a cinema is a cinema, but some cinemas are better quality or more local to your area. Look at the cinemas in your area and see which one is the best. If you're taking a group out then you should see which one is the most local to all of you- travelling long distances can cause various problems., Although some 2D movies have been made for 3D now, 3D will generally be more expensive, can make some people feel sick, not to mention the glasses making your nose feel funny and being just not the right size. With a group, see who doesn't like 3D. If even one person says they don't like 3D then go and see 2D instead. You don't want them vomiting in the middle of all the seats. If you have decided to see 3D, then remind everyone to take their own glasses., A lot of times during the day aren't suitable to go to the cinema in. Don't go before 11:30, and don't go after 6:00 unless it's a date. If you or a friend you're going with can't make it between these times then it's fine. You can either go at a different time or schedule for the holidays or a weekend., Even though the first part of every film is always trailers, you should get there 15 minutes before the film starts if you're going with a group so you can get any sweets or popcorn, tickets and other things before the film starts. Besides, missing the start of the film can cause confusion later on and is annoying to the people already in the cinema., If you're with a group, make sure they (and you) all turn off their phones. And seriously, not just because the cinema tells you to. Bright lights from the phone distract people from the film and sounds can make people miss a dramatic statement or a witty comment. This also why you should refrain from whispering.

Try to ignore any distractions around you and eliminate distractions so you can have a proper experience.
 If you are, the chances are that people around you are too. This just means that you're having a great experience of the film. If you're with a group tell them so they can feel it too., The story is the basis of the actions you'll see, and which should drive the point "home" of whether or not a repeat performance should be attained.

If you start crying, it's ok. Just try not to make a big noise.
 Let the movie on the cinema screen drive what you want to do with the movie till the end, if planned just right.