 If you have thick, dense back hair growth, this can clog the razor. Trim it down first to ensure the best results with shaving.


There are several ways to do this. For example, you can have your assistant cut it with a pair of scissors and a comb or use a heavy-duty set of electric clippers.;
, Have your assistant scrub your back with warm water and a mild abrasive. You can use a shower brush, a mild body scrub, or a pumice stone — whatever you're comfortable with. This will exfoliate your skin, getting rid of dead skin cells before you shave.


The main benefit of this is that it reduces the chance of ingrown hairs.However, it's not strictly necessary, so you can skip this step if you're in a hurry.
 Electric clippers aren't as good as razors for getting a close, smooth shave, but they are good at getting through a lot of hair fast. If you have a set, have your assistant go over your entire back once, giving it a rough shave.


You don't need to shave all the way down to the skin — just cut down on most of the "bulk." When you shave with a razor in a few steps, your work will go quicker and there will be less hair to clog the razor.
 Have your assistant apply your preferred shaving lubricant all over your back in a single layer. Whatever you normally use for your face should be fine.


Keep in mind that this will use a lot more lubricant than your typical face-shaving session. Make sure you have plenty before you start or you may need to make a trip to the store mid-shave.
 Tell your assistant to start shaving. You'll probably want to be near a sink for this so your assistant can rinse the razor. Have your assistant apply more gel or cream as needed until your entire back is shaved.


To get a smooth shave without discomfort, shave your entire back once with the grain, then shave again against the grain.Shaving against the grain first can cause minor pain and irritation.
 You don't need to, but this is a great way to rinse off stray hairs that can become uncomfortable when you put on your shirt. Plus, it feels great — especially if you haven't had a smooth back in a long time.
 Pat the skin dry lightly with a clean towel. Be sure to use a patting motion, not a rubbing one. Rubbing can irritate the newly-exposed, delicate skin.To keep the skin smooth and supple, you may want to apply unscented lotion all over the back. Avoid scented lotions — the chemicals in these can irritate post-shave skin (especially if your assistant accidentally gave you tiny cuts or nicks).

