 Starting with small-talk is great, but deeper conversations can be even more satisfying. Once you and your conversation partner have grown comfortable with the simple questions, begin to ask more probing questions to see if he is receptive to a more substantive discussion.For example, if you've been discussing what you both do for a living, you might ask deeper questions such as:


What is the most rewarding part of your career?
Have you encountered any difficulties in your job?
Where do you hope to be in a few years?
Is this the career you expected, or did you take a nontraditional path?

, Even introverts are usually made happier by engaging in conversations.In general, small talk makes people happy and substantive conversations make people even happier., Don't spring intimate conversations on somebody: introduce the topics slowly to see your conversation partner's reaction. If they seem happy to engage, you can continue. If they seem uncomfortable, you can change the topic before any damage has been done.A few examples of ways to test out potentially hazardous conversation topics include:


"I saw the political debate last night. What did you think?"
"I'm pretty involved in my local church group. Is that something you're involved in?"
"I'm passionate about bilingual education, though I realize that's a controversial topic sometimes . . ."

, Convincing others of your point of view leads to negative emotions in your listener, whereas showing curiosity and respect for others leads to positive emotions.Don't use topics of conversation as a soapbox: use them as a way to engage others. Listen respectfully to their opinions, even if they disagree with yours.
 Sharing small, specific details from your own life and experiences is a great way to figure out whether someone else wants to engage with you. If you get positive responses, you can continue on that topic of conversation. Otherwise, steer the conversation in a new direction., If someone asks you a general question, answer it with a specific, brief anecdote about your experiences.This can help keep the conversation moving and inspire others to share their own personal experiences.


For example, if someone asks you what you do for a living, you can tell a story about a weird thing that happened to you during your commute.
If someone asks you what your hobbies are, you can talk about a time when you competed in an event instead of simply listing off all your hobbies.
If someone asks you what movies you've seen lately, you can talk about a funny encounter you had at the movie theater.
 Studies show that disclosing information about yourself can cause you to be liked more.While you shouldn't overshare, being honest with others about your life, thoughts, and opinions will make people feel more comfortable sharing details about themselves. Don't be too reserved or play your cards too close to your chest.
 Questions about moral dilemmas, personal experiences, and vulnerabilities can lead to bonding, especially among people who have gotten to know each other a bit already. If, after testing the waters, your conversation partner seems open to deeper discussion, consider asking some more personal questions. Be sure to gauge your partner's comfort level at all times, however, and steer the conversation to more casual topics if things begin to get awkward. Some questions could include:


What were you like as a kid?
Who was your biggest role model when you were growing up?
Do you remember your first day of kindergarten? What was it like?
What’s the hardest you’ve ever tried not to laugh?
What’s the most embarrassing thing you’ve ever seen?
You’re in a sinking boat with an old man, a dog, and someone who’s just gotten out of prison. You can only save one. Which would it be?
Would you rather die as a total unknown who did great things or as a world-famous hero who didn’t actually do the thing you were credited with?
What’s your biggest fear?
What’s the most embarrassed you’ve ever felt?
What’s one thing you wish you could change about yourself?
How different is your life from what you imagined it would be like when you were a kid?

