 When you keep your problems or worries secret, they'll begin to build in your mind and become a wall between you and your spouse. You don't have to tell your partner every little worry, but when something is important, keeping it to yourself will eventually backfire. When you're open with your partner, you can work on ways to solve the problem together.


You know the difference between an insignificant matter and one that deserves your partner's attention. Be honest with yourself, even if it's difficult.
Depending on what your partner is like, there could be an actual drawback to saying too much. If your partner is the quiet type who doesn't like to discuss every little thing, be mindful of this and don't make mountains out of molehills.
 If you bring up an important issue at the wrong time, what could have been an intimate, productive discussion could quickly escalate into an argument. Don't try to have an important conversation when one of you is in a hurry, tired, hungry, or distracted. If it seems like one of these factors is always at play, try setting aside time for having a quiet talk. Make sure both of you come to the conversation ready to communicate.


Catching your partner off guard with bad news or a heavy topic can actually cause a physical reaction: the overproduction of the stress hormone cortisol. Your partner will feel flooded with anxiety, making it very difficult for him or her to participate calmly in a conversation.Consider planning a daily or weekly event during which you and your partner have time to talk without distractions. Weekend mornings or evenings after dinner are both good choices.
If your partner isn't in the mood to talk, don't force it. Ask if you can plan a later time to have the discussion instead.
 If you tend to break down crying right away or get flustered and angry during intimate conversations, your partner will come to dread them. Don't try to have a talk when you're feeling anxious and upset; wait until you feel calm and centered. You don't want to transfer your negative emotions to your partner - that's a recipe for an argument.


This is not to say that it's never ok to express your emotions with your partner - of course it is! Being emotionally closed off is just as bad or worse than expressing too much emotion. But keeping your feelings in check rather than dumping them all at once can help you get on the same wavelength when you're trying to communicate about something important.
Do your best not to yell at your partner in anger. Not only is this unproductive, it can make your partner feel afraid.
 Every married couple has arguments. It's when they spiral out of control into personal attacks and accusations that they become toxic to the relationship. It's very important to express yourself reasonably and respectfully when you're arguing. Never resort to screaming, name calling, or expressing disgust for your partner. You'll be doing the type of damage that's extremely hard to repair.


You know your partner's buttons; don't push them. Keep them completely off limits, no matter how angry and upset you are. The goal is not to hurt your partner, it's to make yourself understood. Being mean isn't going to help that happen.
There are a few things you should never utter to your spouse. Don't say "I hate you." Don't say "Let's just get a divorce." Don't say "I never loved you." Don't say any of those words unless you actually mean them, because once you say them you can't take them back, and you can bet your partner will never forget.
 Nothing brings on an argument faster than an accusation that begins with the word "you." "You didn't pay that bill." "You didn't call when you said you would." "You messed up again." This phrasing puts people on the defensive, flushed with bad feelings, and they usually react by upping the ante or closing down communication - neither of which is a positive outcome. So when there's a matter you want to bring up, phrase it in a way that doesn't sound accusatory. Here are a few examples:


"I noticed that bill hasn't been paid. Would you mind doing that this afternoon?"
"I understand how busy you've been, but I would really appreciate it if you'd help with the kids this weekend."

, Research has shown that couples who say more positive things than negative things to their partners have stronger, longer-lasting marriages.For every criticism, have five nice things to say. Maybe it will feel like a struggle at first, but once you get in the habit, saying nice things to your partner will remind you both of the love you share.


Compliment your partner on things he or she did well.
Say something nice about his or her personality, like "You're always optimistic. I love that about you."
Say something sweet about his or her body.
Say "I love you."

, You and your spouse are on the same team. You joined in marriage because you wanted to face the world together, not make it harder for each other. There's really no such thing as "winning" a mean-spirited argument. Even if you successfully got your way, you lost, because being competitive with your partner erodes trust and chips away at a relationship's foundation.Even when you know you're right and your partner's wrong, you shouldn't take satisfaction in his or her "defeat." Instead, come back together and reassess your priorities so they're aligned again.
 Couples that laugh together and have fun together keep the spark alive for much longer than those who don't.Life is full of troubles, but it's important to focus more on the joy together. There's light to be found in even the darkest moments. If you're not one to joke around, your partner will be pleasantly surprised when you start making an effort to bring laughter into your relationship.
 There's nothing either of you can do about something that happened in the past. All you can do is change your future behavior. Don't dwell!

, In fact, it leaves no room for further debate. Be willing to concede when you were in the wrong. Stubbornness isn't going to help your relationship.

