 If you are going to convince your parents to purchase a trampoline, you should show your knowledge of the subject. Like any sport, trampolining has both health benefits and risks. For instance, compared to high impact sports like running, trampolining is fairly low impact yet still burns a lot of calories.The up and down motion of rebounding is also great for the body and can help to reduce stress.It is also a lot of fun!;
, Trampolining involves serious risk of injury. Common injuries include sprains, broken arms and legs, head and neck injuries.These kinds of injuries are not uncommon.It would not be fun to get injured and miss out on other activities, so you should be aware of risks.
 If you want to convince your parents to buy a trampoline, you should know about current trampoline models. Research trampolines with good safety features and find out the price of various models by searching for trampolines online or in stores like Walmart or Target.Ask for a round trampoline. The round trampolines are safer than the square ones.Find out whether the trampoline has a safety net. Trampolines with a safety net are safer than those without one., Trampolining is a fun form of exercise that does not feel like exercise.You could tell your parents: "Did you know that you can burn 160 calories in half an hour of jumping on a mini trampoline?"15 minutes of bouncing at the end of the day can be great for your health.Trampolining can help improve balance and posture. It trains one to balance in the air and requires delicate coordination.Rebounding helps develop motor skills such as hand and eye coordination.You will become more flexible. Jumping helps to strengthen and lengthen muscles.
 If you show your commitment to learning the sport, they will be more likely to buy you the equipment. By training in the sport, you will know how to use the backyard trampoline appropriately.You could tell your parents: “I really want to learn the sport of trampolining. There are classes where you can learn all kinds of rebounding skills. Can I enroll in trampolining classes?”
Find classes in your neighborhood. Many cities have trampolining gyms with classes on learning to jump. Since trampolining is also a gymnastic sport in the Olympics, you can also see if your local gymnastics academy has trampoline and tumbling classes.Look into trampoline and tumbling classes at your local gymnastics academy. There are four Olympic events in trampolining and tumbling, including individual and synchronized trampoline, power tumbling, and double mini trampoline.See if your local academy has classes in any of these disciplines.
 Tell them that trampolining will help you with a variety of physical skills that you can use in other sports and in life. For instance, you will develop your balance and further soft skills like persistence. Learning to balance in the air can help with other sports like ski jumping and swimming dives. The skills needed to balance on a trampoline take a lot of persistence. You can learn both balance and persistence by jumping on a trampoline.Trampolining can also improve self-esteem. Learning new skills on the trampoline can help you gain self-confidence.You could tell your parents: “I am trying to get better at sports. I feel like trampolining could really boost my physical ability and confidence.”

, For instance, fifteen minutes of bouncing at the end of a day can help to make you feel more grounded.The up and down motion of the trampoline helps to reduce stress.Try telling your parents: "I feel much more relaxed after trampolining at the end of the day. It makes me feel less worried about things and more grounded."

, Don't pick one that is too big. Choose one that will fit in your yard and has good safety features., You should acknowledge the risks of trampolining. Injuries are common when you jump together on a trampoline or land wrong while jumping. Injuries are also common from failed flips and somersaults.You and your parents should be aware of these dangers.You could tell your parents: “I know there are dangers. There are risks in any sport. Trampolining is no exception. I realize I could hurt myself but I plan to take every precaution to jump safely. I don’t plan on doing any somersaults and I plan to use a safety net.”
Common injuries that you may experience include broken arms and legs from contact with the side rail, concussions, lacerations, and abdominal injuries from the side rail., Talk about all the different features the trampoline may have, like a big net or softer sides.


If your parent asks about how you will avoid falling and hurting yourself, you can say: “I will only jump by myself and in the middle of the trampoline. If I make a mistake and jump too far to one side, the trampoline has a big safety net that will prevent me from falling on the ground.”

, You should propose a safety plan for the home trampoline. Write down a complete list of safety precautions that you will follow when using the trampoline. Ask your parents for approval and recommendations.Tell your parents you will only jump on the trampoline when an adult is present.Tell your parents you will not allow more than one person at a time on the trampoline.Three quarters of trampoline injuries occur when multiple people are jumping at once.Tell your parents you will not do any gymnastic exercise on the trampoline.Avoid somersaults and flips. Somersaults and flips that go wrong are often the cause of cervical spine injuries.Make a rule that there will be no jumping when the trampoline is wet. , One aspect of safety is simply installing the trampoline in a location that is free of obstacles. Another part of safety is making sure the trampoline is properly installed.


Discuss the need to keep any ladders and chairs away from the trampoline. Locate the trampoline in a clear area without any hazards. The location should have a soft, absorbing ground such as grass with good topsoil. Never put a trampoline on concrete.
Create a safe fall zone at least 8 feet around the perimeter of the trampoline.Install high trampoline safety nets. These keep you from falling outside of the trampoline zone.
Locate the trampoline away from buildings and trees. You don’t want to hit a building while you are jumping.
Do not use the trampoline without the shock absorbing safety pads on its springs and hooks.