 You may opt for a physical thank you card that has a simple image or text that reads “Thank You” on the front of the card. You can also use personalized stationery with your name or a personal design on it to write the card. A handwritten card can add an element of intimacy to the note.Another option is to use an online thank you card, where you use an online program to design and type out the card. It will then be sent to the person’s email. Sites like Some Ecards, American Greetings, and Punchbowl all offer free online cards.
 Start the note by using a greeting like “Dear” or “To,” followed by the person’s name. If you have a close relationship with the recipient, you may feel comfortable using their first name in the greeting. If you have a more formal relationship with them, you may use their full name.For example, you may write “Dear Fiona,” or “To Fiona Lee.”
Always check the spelling of the person’s name before you write out the greeting. You do not want to get their name wrong in the card.
 If you are thanking the person for a gift, include a message of gratitude about the gift and how much you appreciate it. Say “thank you” and name the gift so the message is personal.For example, you may write “Thank you for the housewarming gift. You’re so kind and I really appreciate it.”
Or you may write, “Somehow you always know exactly what I want. I will treasure your wedding gift. Thank you so much!”

, If you are thanking the person for a service or a kind act, mention this in the note. Make sure you say “thank you” and express your gratitude for the person’s help.For example, you may write, “Thank you so much for your help at the event last week. I appreciate you volunteering your time and energy. I appreciate all your hard work.”
Or you may write, “Thank you for picking me up at the airport the other day. I’m so lucky to have a friend like you. You’re the best!”

, If you know the recipient well, you may mention when you hope to see them again or that you hope you will talk to them soon. A forward looking statement can add a friendly, casual tone to the note and let the recipient know you are enthusiastic about your relationship with them.For example, you may write, “I look forward to seeing you at the party next week and catching up with you in person.” Or you may write, “I hope we can get together for a backyard bbq soon and enjoy this beautiful weather.”

, Wrap up the thank you note with a short sign off, such as “Sincerely” or “Best.” If you know the recipient well, you may go for a more personal sign off like “With love” or “Yours, truly.”

You should also sign your name at the bottom of the card.
 Once you have finished writing the card, read it over and check for any errors. If you are handwriting the card, you may write out a rough draft first and check it over before you write it on the actual thank you card. If you are creating the card online, you can edit it for errors easily before you send it out.Try reading the note backwards to check for spelling errors. Identify all the punctuation used in the note and make it sure it is correct.
Double check the spelling of the person’s name in the note to ensure it is correct.
 Look over the note for flow and tone. Check that the note includes a specific mention of the gift or service you are thanking the recipient for. Make sure the note has a friendly, intimate tone, especially if you are close to the recipient.

Try to keep the language in the note simple and easy to read. The message should be short and to the point.
 Once you feel the thank you note is at its best, put it in an envelope and send it out within a month of receiving the gift or service from the recipient. A month is just long enough for the recipient to remember giving the gift and will ensure they are thanked promptly for it.The sooner you can send out the thank you note to the person, the better. Any longer than a month can seem a little rude or tardy for a thank you note.

