 As creatures of habit, we can train ourselves to remember where we put important items by making a home for them in our living space. This may mean designating a bowl by your front door as the keys bowl, the spot where your keys go when you get home. You may also have a brightly decorated keys hook right by your door so you can easily hang your keys when you go in and out of your home.Locating the home for your keys by the front door or an entrance you use often will ensure that you remember to put them where they belong as soon as you get inside (although this is, unfortunately, one of the first places a thief will look, too). Over time, this action will feel nature and habitual. It will also make it easier to find your keys in a moment of panic, as you simply need to look for them in their home.
 If you tend to lose your keys while you are on the go, get into the habit of putting your keys in the same pocket of your coat or the same pocket of your pants every day (just keep in mind that a coat can be a prime target for a thief). You can even integrate your keys into your daily dressing routine by putting on your clothing and then sliding your keys into your pocket as a final flourish. Sticking to the same pocket every day will ensure your keys are always in the same spot every day and remain there, even when you are on the go., Another option is to make your keychain bold and bright so it is easy to find the depths of your bag. A large, bright keychain is usually hard to misplace, especially if it has a unique decoration that is easy to identify.You may decide to make a woven keychain out of strips of plastic in bright colors, forming a long loop that attaches to your keychain to make it easier to dig out of your bag. You could also make a keychain by laminating photographs of family and friends and attaching a keyring to the small, square photographs. Personalizing your keychain could help it to stand out and mark it as clearly yours.
Another option is to attach a small pouch to your keychain so you can carry some cash and a few important bank cards with your keys. You may be less likely to lose track of your keys if you know they are attached to important items.
You can also buy decorative keychains that contain charms or decorative items to make it easier to find your keychain in your bag. Look for keychains that are easy to hold and have some weight to them.
 Another popular option is to use a belt hook or a carabiner clip, which are often used in rock climbing to secure ropes. You can loop your keychain through the belt hook and then attach it to your back belt loop so the keys are secure when you are on the go. Carabiner clips come in a variety of shapes and colors, and are often very durable.Carabiner clips make good belt hooks because they allow your keys to sit flat in your back pocket, making it easier to sit down while wearing your keys. If you have a lot of keys on your keychain, you may need to shift them out of the way while they are attached to your belt loop to sit down comfortably.
 If you tend to lose track of your keys on a consistent basis, you may want to leave an extra set of keys with a friend or neighbor as a precaution. Only leave the extra set with someone you trust and someone you can get in touch with easily if you do lose your set of keys.


Some people put a spare set of keys in a hidden area outside of their home, such as under a potted plant or above the door landing. Try to store the spare set in a spot that is hard to access to ensure they are difficult to find, as you do not want a stranger to be able to open your door.

