 Liquid nitrogen is 320 degrees below zero, so it's important to take certain precautions to avoid frost burns and other injuries. Make sure that you always wear gloves when handling the liquid nitrogen.


Admittedly, it is okay if the liquid nitrogen comes into contact with your skin briefly. In most cases, it will just slide right off your skin. The real danger comes when you try to contain it, like in a fist, or if your skin is already wet. Just be very cautious when handling it.;
, You definitely don't want to get the liquid nitrogen in your eyes. So be very careful when mixing, but still wear protective eye gear just to be safe. Liquid nitrogen is so cold that it can make your finger shatter; just imagine what it could do to your eyes., You want to always be in control of where the liquid nitrogen ends up, so try not to splash it as you're mixing it or when you're carrying it in the container.
 Multiply the amount of ice cream by 5 to find out how much liquid nitrogen you need. For example, one gallon of ice cream requires five gallons of liquid nitrogen.
 This might not be as easy as it sounds. Since liquid nitrogen has to be stored and transported carefully (and because it is somewhat dangerous), you can't just buy it at any old grocery store. Look in your local Yellow Pages to see if there is a liquid nitrogen supplier listed.You might also try calling a dermatologist to ask them where they purchase the liquid nitrogen they use for burning off warts.
You could try calling a local high school or college chemistry department to see where they get their liquid nitrogen for science experiments.
Some farmers and welders also use liquid nitrogen, so you might try calling people in those professions., Liquid nitrogen is usually held in a special container called a Dewar that helps prevent it from evaporating. You'll need a container like this to transport your liquid nitrogen to your home. But most places that sell liquid nitrogen will let you rent or borrow a Dewar for relatively cheap. Each Dewar usually holds about 5 liters (1 US gal) of liquid nitrogen.
, Using a wooden spoon or stainless steel whisk, mix all of the ingredients together until the sugar has dissolved. If you can still feel some sugar at the bottom, you need to keep stirring.


Optional: Add in any additional items such as strawberries, bananas, or other things for flavors.
 Put on your gloves and then slowly pour in the liquid nitrogen.Stir it with your wooden spoon (or stainless steel whisk) until it is frozen. This will take, at most, three minutes.
 Put scoops of the ice cream in cups or ice cream cones and let your guests enjoy.

