 Products containing permethrin, pyrethrins, or piperonyl butoxide are very effective against pubic lice. You can purchase a lotion, cream, or mousse that contains permethrin without a prescription, or you can ask your doctor to prescribe one for you. Permethrin inhibits the crabs' nerve impulses, affecting their breathing – in other words, it suffocates them and they die.Brand name examples are Rid, Nix, and Pyrinex.


Read and follow the package instructions for any over the counter or prescription product that you obtain. If you have any questions about how to use this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist.;
, Malathion kills live lice and some, but not all, nits. Malathion is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) only for the treatment of head lice, but has shown efficacy in the treatment of pubic lice.Read and follow the package instructions for any over the counter or prescription product that you obtain. If you have any questions about how to use this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Malathion lotion is flammable so do not apply around open flames or other heat sources.
Malathion 0.5% lotion should only be used on persons 6 years of age or older., If creams and lotions have not worked for you, talk to your doctor about ivermectin. Ivermectin is a prescription drug given in the form of tablets. A single dose of two pills is usually enough to treat the condition.Common names are Heartgard and Stromectol.


Read and follow the package instructions for this product. If you have any questions about how to use this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Oral ivermectin is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of pubic lice, but has been shown to be effective. In the U. S., the drug is not labeled for use in children weighing less than 15 kg (33 pounds). Women who are pregnant or breast-feeding should not use ivermectin., Lindane is a prescription medication which is now only used as a last resort treatment. It is very efficient and effective in treating pubic lice, but it also has the potential for serious nervous system side effects such as seizures.As a result, Lindane is not used as first-line therapy for the treatment of pubic lice. Its use should be restricted to individuals who have failed treatment with or cannot tolerate other medications that pose less risk. Lindane should not be used to treat:


premature infants
persons with a seizure disorder
women who are pregnant or breastfeeding
persons with very irritated skin or sores where lindane is to be applied
persons weighing less than 110 poundsIf your doctor has prescribed Lindane for you, it may be because the potential benefits outweigh the risks, but you should talk to your doctor if you have concerns about using the product.
Read and follow the package instructions before using this product. If you have any questions about how to use this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist.



