


PRO: you don't have to buddy up with any alignment, killing evil enemies is as natural as killing neutral or good enemies; the same goes for law/chaos.
PRO: it's just cool to be this feared badass who takes no bunkum and backhands the occasional passerby.
PRO: you have no qualms with being selfish or dastardly, it is definitely in character for you to do what evil you can get away with.
CON: rewards for "evil" actions as opposed to "good" action are usually artificially low. The solution to this is to try to milk what you can out of the NPC by using your wits (after all, a GOOD person wouldn't grab someone by the neck and have them open the family coffers...)
CON: clerics will have harmful rather than healing spells, you won't have to use "protection from good/law" that often, and there might be odd circumstances surrounding you fighting the forces of evil rather than joining them for better pay.
CON: you will have a tough time making friends, most evil NPCs are already part of little "clubs" that are exclusive of players and those working for good.;
, A lot of it depends on the class you play:


The chaotic evil wizard could be diabolical or downright sadistic while realizing that he is among kindred spirits in the party.
The chaotic evil cleric can be an agent of the evil god that opposes the enemy, while still supporting the party's actions.
The chaotic evil fighter will feel right at home, his intimidation tactics and martial might synchronize well with a dark agenda or the pursuit of riches.
The chaotic evil thief won't care about the job, only that they get it done quickly and quietly with as much compensation as possible.
 How evil is your character? Is he just incapable of compassion or does he find 20 gold pieces a good cause to murder his fellow man?


NO MORALS: The lowest (highest?) form of evil, the only real evil thing about you is that you don't feel compassion or sanctity for life, and would consider almost any number of people below yourself. However, be careful about how much you juice this up. Nobody will want to play with you if you try to kill your party every chance you get.
RUTHLESS: You care little at all for others wants and needs and would hire a mercenary only to slit his throat when he dares to ask for a cut of the loot from a dungeon.
DISPARATE: Your willingness to slaughter is unbelievable and your brutality is a sight to behold, this has the most punch so to speak of all the degrees of evil as it isn't common for players to be the monster in the game.
 If you find your DM or fellow players deliberately countering your evil actions with slapstick or goofy behavior then you might not have much luck being CE.


Scaling up your evil actions may show the DM and other players that you are serious.
Don't be afraid to bring this to the DM if it is really cutting in to your enjoyment, Chaotic Evil doesn't always work in a campaign and it is best to try another alignment when evil doesn't work well.
 Is he like a barbarian, simply accustomed to the unstructured life; or is he a chaotic marauder, championing the downfall of law and only recognizing "authority" as a challenge to his power?


LOW CHAOTIC: the law chafes you and you don't follow it if there aren't any repercussions you would care about.
MEDIUM CHAOTIC: disrespect for "authority" and "law" is common, your word will only go as far as you let it go.
HIGH CHAOTIC: personal power is very important. This often makes you downright capricious, your battle-axe has the final say and you know it.
 Again, if your DM/fellows are trying to trip you up with railroading or other herding tools then it might not be worth playing the character.


Try to make your chaotic decisions matter or be irreversible, that should prove that you aren't doing it as a joke.
 Examine what made the characters "special" and how they affected the world around them. This will give you vital insight on how to play a Chaotic Evil Character.

