 Spanish adjectives can be more complicated to use than adverbs. Adjectives must agree with the gender of the noun they describe, and can be either singular or plural. Adverbs always stay the same, regardless of whether they modify an adjective or a verb.For example, if you were talking about "beautiful girls" in Spanish, you would say las chicas bellas (lahs CHEE-kas BELL-ahs). Note that the adjective, bellas, is both plural and feminine. However, if you added an adverb, it wouldn't change at all. "Absolutely beautiful girls" would be las chicas absolutamente bellas.;
, You probably know that to form an adverb in English, you simply add -ly to the root of the adjective. The Spanish language works the same way, except you use -mente, and you tack it onto the end of the singular, feminine form of the adjective.For example, the feminine form of the adjective that means "fast" in Spanish is rapida. So if you wanted to say that someone was running quickly, you could use the adverb rapidamente.
Note that you always use the feminine form of the adjective, even if you are talking about a man or a masculine noun.
You don't subtract any letters from the adjective to form the adverb, as you sometimes do when forming adverbs in English.
 Some words in Spanish have their own adverb form, rather than adding the suffix -mente to the adjective form. The easiest way to learn these words is simply to memorize them.One of the most common adverbs is muy (MOO-ee), which means "very." You may find that you use it a lot when speaking Spanish. For example, if someone asked how you were doing, you might say "Muy bien, gracias" (Very well, thank you).

Mucho (MOO-choh) is another common simple adverb, which means "a lot."
Many of these adverbs also are different words in English, such as aquí (ah-KEE), which means "here." This may make it easier for you to know when to seek these adverb forms out.
 Adverbs are relatively easy to pronounce, provided you understand the pronunciation of the original adjective. Just as in English, you merely add the suffix, pronouncing the adjective exactly the same.If an adjective has any written accent marks, it retains those accent marks when changed to an adverb. The same syllables are stressed – the addition of the suffix doesn't change this.
Pronounce the suffix MEN-tay. These two syllables are simply added on to the feminine form of the adjective, which is pronounced the same as it would be without it.

