 If your baby has ringworm, you should clean all the surfaces in your house. This includes floors, counters, and cabinets. You should also disinfect the things that your baby touches often, like walkers, strollers, car seats, high chairs, and even toys.Try using a disinfectant, like Lysol, or another safe cleanser that will get rid of fungi or that has antifungal properties.
If your baby has ringworm on the scalp, you want to make sure to disinfect or toss out any items that come in contact with her hair or head. This includes combs, brushes, hair bows, headbands, or hats.To avoid ringworm, discourage any sharing of hair or head items with children who are not family members.
You should also wash and sanitize any towels you use to dry your baby’s hair or head.
Wash the child’s bedding in hot water to get rid of any fungus that may have been transferred.
 If your baby goes to daycare, you should contact the daycare to let them know about your baby’s ringworm infection. The baby may have gotten the infection at the daycare and may potentially spread the ringworm to other children. Talk to the daycare about the measures you are taking to treat the ringworm.If you believe your baby got ringworm at daycare, you may want to discuss with the child care providers what measures they are taking to ensure that your baby stays safe.
 If you think your baby may have gotten ringworm from a pet, you should take your pet to the vet. Both dogs and cats may transfer ringworm to a human. You should take your dog or cat to the vet to get him checked out for any ringworm infection, and then treat the pet if he is infected.If your baby got ringworm from an animal, she will not be able to transfer it to another human because it is a different type of ringworm.
 Ringworm is most commonly spread through direct contact with an infected person. This is why it is less common in babies than school children; however, your baby can catch ringworm by interacting with other children with ringworm. He may also catch it by crawling across or touching an infected surface.Your baby may also get ringworm from pets since dogs and cats both carry ringworm fungus.
Ringworm is usually no longer contagious after about 48 hours of treatment.

