 A good way to start taking stock of your current situation and find mental peace is to start a journal. Journaling is an effective way to guide yourself through introspection and find out what might be keeping you from mental peace. When you write in your journal, include your thoughts and feelings about your everyday life. To help you find peace, think about what means most to you and what keeps you present and happy in the moment, such as wisdom or creativity.To help find what matters to you and go towards mental peace, give yourself journal topics such as gratitude, intention, or meaning., Mindfulness can bring you mental peace by bringing your awareness to the present. Your mental peace can be disrupted by worrying about the future or being crippled by and stuck in the past. Mindfulness means being aware of your present thoughts, surroundings, and feelings without placing judgment on them.Mindfulness can also decrease your stress level and blood pressure, which can help produce a sense of calm throughout your body.Practicing mindfulness can also help you manage your emotions and adapt to stressful or difficult situations.


The practice of mindfulness allows you to create new neural connections and physically alter your brain’s structure, which can help you adapt your way of thinking to promote mental peace.To try a mindfulness exercise, sit comfortably and focus on your breath. While you breathe, take stock of what your are perceiving through your five sense. Your mind may wander, but try to gently bring your awareness back to the present and what’s around you., It may be hard to gain mental peace if you still suffer because of events from your past. Past traumatic events that are causing you emotional turmoil will certainly make you feel as though you are never at peace. Past events can include emotional, physical, or sexual abuse, traumatic events, or dismissive or neglectful home environments. All of these types of events can leave you with guilt, shame, fear, or depression.For these kinds of serious events, seek professional help from a therapist who can safely guide you through your experiences. These mental health professionals are trained to guide toward healing and help you foster forgiveness and compassion.