 Pick a place that will be quiet, with little activity from people passing through. Barriers (walls, plants, furniture) that block off parts of the room are especially helpful.;
, Pillows, blankets, weighted blankets, stuffed animals, beanbag chairs, and soft rugs all make the place feel more relaxing.
 Try a radio with a white noise CD, chairs with large backs to block the view, curtains, and other ways to isolate the corner.


Some people like to curl up underneath or behind objects. Try creating a makeshift tent, or using furniture in unconventional ways.
 This could involve...



Audio: a radio with soothing nature sounds or instrumental music

Visual: Drawings with the user's favorite color, snow globes, photo albums, blankets/pillows in calming colors

Tactile: Fidget toys with various textures, and soft stuffed animals or pillows

Olfactory/Gustatory: Lollipops, hard candies, candles, sweet-smelling lotions or soaps, chewy toys or jewelry

Proprioceptive:Weighted blankets, beanbags, deep pressure vests,brushes, lotion

, This provides something to do while calming down. Examples include books, sketchbooks, stim toys, coloring books, puzzles, logic games, et cetera. Take special interests into account when choosing activities.
 Sit in the corner for 20 minutes before bedtime, and see if you have enough activities to keep you occupied. Try to imagine what you might need or want when you are stressed.


Remember that when you need to use the corner, you may be too stressed or overloaded to grab additional activities. The corner should have enough to keep you occupied at any given time.
 If you're autistic, explain what sensory overload is, or show them an article or two. Emphasize the need for limited sensory stimuli during recovery.
 Disruptions, however well-meaning, only worsen sensory overload and distress. Explain that they should only interrupt you with urgent matters (e.g. an appointment in ten minutes), and save other things for later (e.g. the cool rock your sister found in the backyard). For minor questions, such as what you want for supper, they should choose for you.
 For example, if the corner is next to the master bedroom, it would be a bad time for your mother to start rearranging the bedroom furniture or watch a TV show with the volume up high.
 Should you choose a code word to say that you need the corner? If you are autistic and become nonverbal, can you develop a hand signal to indicate that?

, This helps them understand that it isn't personal; you're just overwhelmed at the time and are open to hearing from them later.
 Explain that this corner is a place you put together just for them, and that it is there for them whenever they are feeling overwhelmed or upset. Make it clear that they can go there whenever they want.
 Depending on the individual child, it may take time for them to understand the concept. Here are some ways to help your child understand:


Allow your child to explore the corner when they are feeling calm. Keep it open-ended, and let them play with the toys.
Talk about meltdown management with your child. Explain that going to the corner can help them feel better.

Use social stories to demonstrate correct use of the corner.
 If the child says yes, lead them to it. Once the child is accustomed to the corner, they will usually agree to go if they are upset, or even decide on their own that they need to use it.


Remember that the calming down corner is not a time-out or punishment, but a voluntary opportunity to take a break and calm down.
 Avoid talking to them or making noise nearby. Leave the room if the child is old enough to be alone, and read a book or magazine on the other side of the room if not. If ambient noise cannot be helped, turn up the white noise in the corner.
 Congratulate them on using the corner so calmly, and ask if they are feeling better now. Then talk about any problems that preceded the incident, and resume the day.

