 One of the most effective ways to get an early-game advantage is to form a roaming tag-team that focuses solely on taking down vulnerable enemy heroes. Ideal candidates for this task should have effective control abilities and strong burst potential that can make the most of the element of surprise. This not only gives your team experience while denying the enemy team experience from soaking lanes, but frequent and deadly ganks can demoralize some players to the point that they either play too conservatively or they start bickering amongst themselves. You will want at least one hero with a good control ability that will slow and/or stun your targets. The other hero should ideally have a similar control ability, although an assassin with very strong burst damage will work just as well.

For assassins, you have Nova, Zeratul, Kerrigan, Thrall, The Butcher, Jaina, and Kael’thas.
For warriors, you have Diablo, Muradin, Anub’arak, Stitches, Johanna, Leoric, Arthas, and Sonya.
For supports, you have Uther, Tyrande, and Rehgar.
For specialists, you have Murky, Nazeebo, and Sylvanas.;
, Chatting and using contextual map pings will help you coordinate with your ganking partner. Start by telling them your intent to start a roaming gank team. Once your partner understands what you want to do, you can then move out to begin your roaming gank., You will want to hit targets that are soft, vulnerable, and overextending themselves. Assassins, supports, and specialists with low health pools and no escape abilities make for great gank targets. All classes, even warriors, are viable gank targets if they are on their own in a lane and are way too far from their forts and towers.

If you see only three or four enemy heroes on the map, it will be worth your time to scout out the mercenary camps on their side of the map. Catching enemy heroes fighting mercenaries gives you two bonuses: a free kill and a free mercenary camp.
 Use the fog of war to your advantage and pop out from behind the hero you want to gank. Throw down your disabling skills and do as much damage as you can before the hero can reach the safety of its towers and forts. This should kill soft, vulnerable targets while forcing harder targets to retreat and heal up, losing experience in the process., Whether your gank fails or succeeds, you need to move to the next target. Immediately hide in the fog of war and start threatening other lanes. This will force the enemy team to play more defensively; making them more fearful to the point that they start losing experience and will not want to move out unless they have other players around to help them out., On the other side of the spectrum, you’ll also need to keep at least one hero in each lane to soak experience. Your team will only gain experience from enemy minions if you have at least one hero near those minions when they die. Keeping a hero in all lanes and successfully soaking experience can give your team the advantage in levels and in talents. Even if your team is not winning fights that often, you won’t necessarily fall too far behind in levels because you’ve been dutifully soaking experience.

Some heroes are particularly well-suited for soaking experience from lanes, either by being able to defend it against multiple heroes or by being able to harass enemy heroes so much that they cannot stay in their lane for too long without taking significant damage. Virtually all ranged heroes as long as you play conservatively and don’t overextend yourself, especially if the enemy team has two or more heroes roaming around for ganks.
Warriors are generally not ideal for soaking experience as they are exceptionally vulnerable to harassment. Having a nearby support hero is a different story, as their heals allow warriors to dive in and do significant damage without having to teleport back to base all the time.
 Healers will be essential at allowing hard-pressed heroes to stay in their lane. If you are controlling a support hero and notice that one of your teammates is having a hard time in their lane, go to them and keep their health topped up so that they can stay in-lane to keep soaking experience., If you see a large surge of minions building up on one lane, move to that lane before they reach your forts and towers. This will allow you to not only soak experience from their deaths but will also help deal extra damage so your forts and towers won’t run out of ammunition as quickly as they would without your aid.

Some heroes can soak experience even when they’re focusing on other parts of the map. The Lost Vikings and Abathur are two examples. You can split Vikings off to different lanes to soak experience from the minions dying there, while Abathur can soak experience from multiple lanes by pushing one lane with Locusts and supporting another with his Symbiote. Use these heroes to soak the experience from large surges of enemy minions.
 You can apply strong early pressure by capturing a mercenary camp as soon as they spawn and then assisting those mercenaries as they make a push. This is especially effective if one of your teammates gets the Mercenary Lord talent, which causes nearby mercenaries to do 50% more damage while taking 50% less damage from non-heroic sources. Three or four heroes can thus band together and drive a lane hard. With luck and determination, you could even blast down a fortress to give your team more map control and make it harder for the enemy team to push out without overextending themselves.

All heroes can capture mercenary camps, but some heroes do this task on their own. Heroes like Zagara, Azmodan Gazlowe, and Anub’arak summon minions that can take and dish out damage. Other heroes like Illidan, The Lost Vikings, and Kharazim can keep their health topped up while capturing mercenary camps. These heroes give you the option to solo mercenary camps while your teammates soak experience.
 Stand near a mercenary camp and ping it. This will signal your intent to capture the mercenary camp, and smart teammates will respond to help you out., This strategy is especially useful if you have specialists that are effective at sieging enemy bases. Sgt. Hammer, Murky, Azmodan, Zagara, and Gazlowe can make quick work of bases if they have the support of both their teammates and mercenaries.

Be careful about committing too many heroes into one lane as this will slow down your team’s experience gain, especially if the enemy team can hold your push off with only one or two heroes while soaking experience in other lanes.
 If you have had a particularly good early game and are at least one level above your enemies, then you can widen the gap even further by pushing hard once you gain your ultimate abilities at level 10. They can still pose a threat with their basic abilities, but your ultimates will make it much easier for you to punish them should they commit to counterattacking your team.

Reaching level 10 opens up the ultimate abilities of everyone on your team. If you’ve had a strong enough start using the previous tips, ganking and soaking better than your enemies, then this should come naturally.
 Use map pings and talk with your teammates to signal your desire to commit to a hard push. Assemble in a far lane that will be hard for enemies to reach if they find themselves on the opposite side of the map—typically the top or bottom lane, depending on which map you are in., Take your whole team and knock hard at the gates of their fortresses. If the enemy team attempts to check your push, your ultimates will give you a distinct advantage since they will not be able to retaliate in kind. If they decide to soak experience so that they can also hit level 10 before engaging you, then take advantage of this window of opportunity by driving as deep as you can before they can match your ultimates with their own., If you have the advantage of early ultimates over the enemy team, you can also go for a superpowered mercenary push by capturing a Golem if the map you are playing on has one. Your ultimates will give you the edge if the enemy team tries to stop you, so you will have a much easier time capturing the Golem. You can still gain a noticeable advantage if the enemy team does not challenge you and lets you get the Golem in exchange for soaking experience. A Golem stomping toward the keep is nothing to sneeze at, especially if the enemy team is reckless enough to engage you under the Golem’s shadow. Those caught in a timely root or stomp will be easy pickings for focused fire.