 Individuals who are friends before a relationship are more likely to remain friends after a breakup.You will be less likely to remain friends if you completely withdraw from the person after the breakup.However, you may need this time to get space and be alone.
 Though you may wish to stay friends, you may have an easier time getting over your ex if you don’t see and talk to him.


For now, it can be helpful to remove him from your Facebook friend list, delete his number from your phone, and avoid hanging out with him.
If your ex wants to stay friends, let him know that you’re going to need time and that you’ll contact him when you’re ready.
 It may be easier to get space to grieve if you are not reminded of your ex by everything around you. Letting go of the physical and digital may help you let go emotionally too.For example, if he left a toothbrush at your place, throw it out. Seeing it every morning could trigger negative feelings for you and color your day.
If there is something that shouldn’t be thrown away or given to charity, give it to a mutual friend to give back.
Delete or toss away the photos if you wish. If you want, you can save the photos of yourself using Photoshop or some other editing program to carve out your image without your partner.Delete your ex's number from your phone. If you need his number, delete every message or voicemail from him––a clean slate!

, It only hurts you to turn the breakup into an ongoing fight.


If it is too painful to address your ex at this point, try to exit the situation so that you can avoid talking to him. Setting boundaries is an important component of the healing process. If you don’t want to talk to him, you don’t have to.
If you do decide to speak to him, acknowledge him politely and smile.
Be respectful. Aggressive speech such as saying, “I hate you!” or behaviors, such as throwing objects at your ex, do not solve problems.
 Just because the relationship has ended doesn’t mean you have to erase it from your life. It is likely that the person you had a relationship with had a big impact on you and your life, and you can cherish those changes. This is especially helpful if you have a lot of anger and resentment toward your ex. Focusing on the positive may be able to assist you in positively coping and gaining closure from the relationship.


Forgive your ex for his mistakes. Harboring resentment only makes you feel worse and stunts the healing process. You don’t have to tell him face-to-face or even on the phone, you can forgive him in your heart and this is just as effective.
Avoid ruminating over the happy times. This can lead to longing and prolong your grief process.

