 If he wants to have a conversation, ask him questions that are basic to begin with such as, “Where are you travelling to today? How long are you staying?”


If the conversation continues, you can ask more personal questions. As she shares more personal information, you can as well. This will increase the quality of the interaction.
Ask questions such as, “What was it like growing up in southern California? Did you spend a lot of time at the beach or playing sports?”
If you sense that he is tiring of the conversation simply say, “Well, it’s been great talking with you. I’ll let you get back to what you were doing.” You can tell if someone is tiring if they keep looking away, checking their watch, or just seem generally distracted or rushed.;
, Conversations that occur on a date carry a bit more pressure than most conversations. The only way you will get to know someone is to have conversations about subjects including shared interests, values, ideals and education level.You want to find someone who is compatible with you and conversation will lead you there.
 Open conversations require you to be vulnerable. Keep your eye on the benefits involved in getting to know someone. This might help you remain open. You may want to date the person, do business with them, or ask them to be your mentor.


Thank the person for being open and answering your questions.
Start with simple questions and move toward deeper questions. You will definitely want to ask about where the person attended school before you ask about his relationship with his father.
If you sense the person’s discomfort with certain subject matter, don’t continue in that direction. Choose a different topic. Signs that someone is uncomfortable may include: looking down, fidgeting, looking pale, clenched jaw or forced smile.
 Let the person know that you are listening by repeating back what they say in a different way, or at another point in the conversation. People like to be listened to and more importantly understood.


For example, when someone is talking, keep your eyes focused on them and occasionally nod to show that you're engaged. Wait until they are done talking to make a comment like, "wow" or "yeah, I see what you mean." Perhaps ask a follow up question that directly relates to what they were saying.
 If you're on a date and the conversation flowed say, “I think things went well tonight, do you? I would like to do this again.” If they give a positive response, set a second date or at minimum tell her when you will call or text. Make sure you follow through on your stated intention.
 Everyone, regardless of age is happier when their lives are filled with deep and meaningful conversations.However, it helps to be aware of a person's age when conversing with them.


Do not intimidate or invade a child’s personal space during a conversation.Ask simple questions and allow the child to respond. Children usually resist the harder questions that may have more social significance. If she doesn’t want to talk with you, then allow her to refrain.
Speak in normal volume levels when talking with an elderly person, unless the person asks you to speak louder. Don’t assume every old person is hard of hearing. Saying, “Hello, how are you doing today?” will start any conversation. Learn as much as you can from older people. They have learned a lot in life and are likely to be happy to share it with you.Not every older person likes to be called sweetie or honey.
Be kind and understand that you may be the only one the person talks to during any given day. A happy life includes meaningful conversation.
 You might be at a local meeting or at a national gathering of people you don’t know. Conversations are essential if you want to do business with someone, or someone is seeking you out.


Break the ice with compliments such as, “That is a great tie,” or “Your watch is amazing,” or “Those shoes are spectacular.”
Manage humor with caution. Everyone has a different sense of humor.
Secure contact information to expand your mailing list.
 Humans have an innate tendency to find a way to relate to one another. Comfort is gained when you don't feel alone in a crowd. Conversation will lead you to find connections to explore.


If you are at a wedding and sitting at a table with people you don’t know, you have options. You can sit there quietly eating your meal, or you can spark up a conversation to pass the time. Some people have actually met their future spouses at weddings. That wouldn’t happen without conversation.
Ask the person or people around you how they know the bride or groom.
Stick to safe subjects and avoid politics, religion and sexual content.You want to keep the discord to a minimum at least until they cut the cake.
Talk about the food being served, and hope that it is good.
If the conversation becomes bogged down, excuse yourself to use the restroom or go to another table where you might know someone. Weddings are usually held in beautiful places. Take advantage and find a beautiful place to take it all in. Perhaps the bar will be your destination.
 There might be times when you would like to end a conversation during a date, at the end of a meeting, or when you are exhausted.You have every right to end a conversation if you want or need to. Be kind and say, “I’m so happy you took the time to meet with me today. I think I’m going to get going.” A graceful exit is your goal.

