 This is your own fact book, you can choose the animals that you want to research and write down facts about. Perhaps you want to research animals specific to one continent or region? Alternatively, you can choose any variety of animals that really interest you.Make a list of the animals you’re interested in and keep it with you when you’re researching.;
, After you have chosen your animals, the fun can begin. You now get to find out new and interesting facts about all of these animals. Do some searches online or go to your local library and check out some books about each animal.The site http://www.animalfactguide.com/ is a great resource.
Ask a parent or friend to help you with your research.
 While you are reading about each animal, jot down your favorite facts on a piece of paper or notecard. Be sure to keep your notes organized by animal, so you don’t get them all mixed up for later. Write down as much as you want during this step. You can decide which facts to include in the final book later.


You might also want to write down the source of the information next to each fact to reference later.
 If you are searching online, you can also choose some pictures to printout for your book. Alternatively, you can look through old nature magazines and cut out pictures of your animals. You could also buy some stickers to decorate your book with.Ask permission from whoever before printing a lot of color pictures because printer ink is expensive.
 To assemble your animal fact book, there are a few supplies that you will need: colored construction paper, markers/crayons/colored pencils, a glue stick, scissors, pictures of animals, and white paper. Get all of your materials together before you begin, so you don’t get distracted while constructing your book.Other optional decorations include stickers and glitter.
 Choose a piece of colored construction paper for your animal. Write the name of the animal on top of the page.Look through your notes from your research and write your favorite facts down. Aim for about 4-5 facts for each animal.


To make your book look nicer, write the facts on a separate piece of white paper and then glue that to the construction paper.
 Around the facts that you wrote down, add pictures of the animal. You can add as many as you like, but avoid making the page look too crowded. Use stickers, borders, and markers to decorate the rest of the page if you’d like.A glue stick works better than white craft glue for this because it dries faster.
If you don’t have printed pictures, draw your own picture of each animal.
 Before you finish up your fact book, choose an order for all of the pages. You can order it alphabetically by animal, by type of animal (birds, mammals, reptiles), or by the region of the world they come from. The order is completely up to you so do what you want.When you have chosen an order, stack the pages in that order.
 Once you have determined the order of the pages, you’ll want to make a table of contents so you can easily locate the fact page you want to look at. Write a list of the animals in the order that they will appear in your book.


To make it even easier to navigate, you can add page numbers at the bottom corner of each page and include these in the table of contents.
 There are a number of ways you can turn this into an actual book. The easiest way is to either staple all of your pages together or use a three-hole punch and tie the pages together with string.If you want the book to be a bit fancier, you can take it to a paper/print store and get it bound together with spiral binding.


If you are getting the book bound together, consider getting the cover and back pages laminated as well to protect them.

