 Then choose the viola.;
, You should look to make sure there's no scratches if you get a secondhand one. Make sure you have a nice clean bow and rosin. The viola should fit comfortably in your arms without having to curve your left arm down towards your stomach. One way to test is by holding your instrument on your shoulder and extending your left arm. Your left hand should be at the neck or top of the instrument, not far below or far above. You also need to watch your elbow and make sure that it is slightly bend and slightly pointed towards the front of you body.
 This is crucial so you don't slouch trying to keep your instrument up. You might get a foam shoulder rest from your teacher to attach a pair of rubber bands. You also could go buy one from your local music store that have rubber feet that attach to your instrument. When you attach it to your instrument you want to make sure that the inward curve is right under your chin rest. A shoulder rest is also crucial so you can hold up your instrument just using your head and shoulder not your arm. When buying a shoulder rest you want to make sure that it fits your viola so that it isn't to big and fall off or to small and not fit.
 ALL of them. Try to understand the theory behind them to the best of your ability.
 You will regret not knowing scales or music theory when you are older and auditioning. You should learn how to identify all the keys just by looking at the key signature of the piece.
,, Some teachers will suck, but chances are you will make good friends with other orchestra players and meet people throughout it. You'll have great opportunities and it looks great on college applications, even if it's not a music school. Also, most schools offer scholarship money to those in the music department. And it's fun, the more you learn.
 Make sure you know scales for an audition.
 "Thriller" by Michael Jackson, "Viva la Vida" by Coldplay, "Smooth Criminal", and a bunch of other songs. Also, musicals, "Les Miserables" has an amazing orchestral soundtrack.
 Don't fight it, most of it's pretty beautiful. And if not, well, movie soundtracks usually are mainly instrumental.
 2CELLOS are two Croatian cellists, Stjepan Hauser and Luka Sulic that play everything from U2 to ACDC to Michael Jackson. The Vitamin String Quartet is well known for their covers of popular songs such as "Radioactive" and "It's Time" by Imagine Dragons, "My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light em up)" by Fall Out Boy, the entirety of Green Day's "American Idiot" album and many others. There's also the Piano Guys that combine classical pieces with popular ones, like "Titanium, Pavane" or "Code Name Vivaldi". See also "Cello Wars" which has Star Wars music and sound effects throughout. The group Low Strung does more classic rock songs like "Stairway to Heaven" and "No Sympathy for the Devil" odds are you'll find a group you favor.

