 Browser games are easy to hide from prying eyes.There are a lot of browser games that you can play for free and very easily in your internet browser. You can hide these quickly if your boss or coworker walks by, by minimizing the window.Make sure you turn your sound down or off as not to alert people that you’re playing a game.
Your company might have software to watch what their employees are doing on the internet. Inquire with your IT department if this is the case.
Learn hotkeys to switch out of browsers or to close them.For example CTRL+TAB (on a Window’s machine) will switch out tabs in your browser.
There are many free websites where you can find browser or flash games.;
, Social media sites are a great way to waste time without doing any work.


Follow your favorite celebrities to catch up on popular culture news.
Read up on what your friends are doing.
Play minigames on social media sites.
 There are many, many applications on smartphones to kill time.Whatever your interests, there is probably an application for it. Here are some categories:


Making money -- stock broker applications, auction applications
Shopping -- many stores have applications to browse or buy
Looking at or editing pictures
Coloring, games, puzzles -- you can learn new skills or relieve stress through these apps

, If you have a job where you interact one-on-one with clients, use them as an excuse to get out of the office. Take long lunches or tell your coworkers that you’re “taking a client to lunch.”


To avoid suspicion, base what you are telling people on the truth. Use real client’s names and details when telling people where you are going. Say something like: “I’m going to talk with Mr. Smith about his upcoming project. We need to iron out some details.”
Or, say something like: “I’m meeting Mindy for coffee at 1, she seems very dissatisfied with our work right now.”

, If you can get away with it, try coming in a little bit late (not too late that someone notices) and leaving a bit early. Less time in the office is more fun time for you!


If you have an office job, you may be able to sneak in later than if you work a job where you are more active. Try coming, or leaving, in late in ten minute increments until someone catches you.
Use traffic as an excuse.
If you’re asked, tell people you have an appointment or you have to rush home to do something (sign for a package, let the dog out, etc).
 These days, your favorite television network has videos online. Or, you can watch whole television series or movies through streaming services.You may be able to get away with wearing headphones (some companies allow their workers to listen to the radio while working). You can more easily hide that you are watching/listening to something this way.
Remember your browser shortcuts (CTRL + TAB, or CMD + TAB) to quickly exit out of the browser if someone walks by.
You can pretty much find a podcast on any topic you can dream of! Find something that interests you.

