 Minor home remodels rarely require the services of a licensed architect and simply need a general contractor to incorporate the desired changes into your home. However, if you want to dramatically alter the appearance of your residence, such as changing the façade or adding another wing, a licensed architect may be the best person to lead the project.;
, If you know someone whose home has recently undergone major construction work, such as adding a second floor, an architect was probably utilized.


Visit the project to inspect the construction quality. Ask the property owner if the materials used are durable and if they tolerate everyday use.
Check with the property owner to see if the architect was easy to work with. You'll also want to know if the project was completed on time and if the architect stayed within budget. If not, find out why; sometimes timelines and budgets are exceeded because of unforeseen project complications, not bad decision-making by the architect.
Get the architect's contact information if you like what you hear.
 Since many charge for a consultation, ask about their prices for your first meeting.
 Look for design elements that you want in your own project, such as window placement and room layouts.


Ask about any project complications and how the architect handled them. If a project went over budget, ask why and inquire about how the situation was resolved.
 Always have extra funding set aside for construction project overruns. Generally, 25 percent more money is enough to cover extra expenses.
 If you require the assistance of someone who can navigate the process of applying for construction permits with your town, make sure the architect is aware of your needs. Some architects include project management in their fee structure, others consider it an extra service and charge accordingly.
 Larger firms sometimes send lead architects to initial meetings but later assign a junior architect to work with clients.


Always interview the same people you will work with to ensure you communicate effectively as a team.
 Know how much money the architect expects to spend on your project. Ask about extra fees for project changes and re-designs.


Understand the architect's billing process to ensure you can afford their services.

