 Heat styling strips moisture out of your hair, so it can make your locks drier and frizzier. Protect your hair by always applying a heat protectant product before you blow dry, flat iron, use a curling iron or hot rollers, or heat style it in anyway.Heat protectants work by adding extra moisture to your hair so your natural moisture isn’t removed when you apply heat.
Heat protectants come in a variety of formulas. Sprays work on all hair types, but creams and lotions are best for thicker hair.
 When you want your hair to look sleek and smooth, a blow dryer can come in handy. However, using one to completely dry your hair can lead to more frizz. Instead, let your hair air dry almost 90%, and use the blow dryer to finish it off.It’s especially important to allow your hair to air dry at least part way before blow drying in the winter. That’s because there’s less humidity in the air in cold weather, so your hair is already drier.
 Not all blow dryers are created equal. With frizzy hair, it’s best to choose a ionic model that uses ionic technology to help dry your hair more quickly. As a result, you don’t have to use the blow dryer on your hair as long so it isn’t as easily dehydrated.Because ionic blow dryers work so quickly, it’s easy to over dry your hair. Pay careful attention so you don’t let your tresses get too hot.
Using a round, natural bristle brush as you blow dry with your ionic dryer can give you very smooth, frizz-free hair.
 One of the easiest ways to tame frizzy hair is with a flat or straightening iron. It seals the cuticle so your hair looks as smooth as possible. For the best results, straighten your hair in small sections so you don’t have to run the iron over each piece more than once.Make sure that your hair is completely dry before you begin flat ironing it. You can burn damp hair if you try to straighten it.Don’t turn your flat iron up to more than 410 degrees. That amount of heat will smooth all types of hair.
Choose a flat iron with ceramic plates. They heat more evenly, so they smooth and straighten more effectively.
 If your frizzy hair is naturally curly or wavy, you don’t have to straighten it to tame your frizz. Instead, use a curling iron to help smooth and define your natural texture. You don’t necessarily have to curl your entire head -- just run the curling iron over sections that are frizzy.If you have tight, highly defined curls, choose a curling iron with a small barrel. A ¾-inch model usually works well.
If you have looser waves, opt for a curling iron with a large barrel. A 1-inch or larger barrel is usually the best bet.

