 The sincerity of the phrase is strengthened by knowing what love is, and what loving someone means to you. Determine the difference between love, infatuation and lust, and make sure it's genuine love that you feel for this person.;
, There will come a point when you know what you feel for your boyfriend or girlfriend had moved from friendship, to like, through infatuation, and into romantic love. When you're sure you've crossed that threshold, that's the time to express your feelings. If you say it because you think you should, or because it's expected—and you're not there yet—it will come across as insincere.
 Making eye contact not only shows sincerity and communicates trust, it's a delight to look into your partner's eyes when you first say "I love you." It will be a moment you will both always remember. Even though there are probably a few inches between your faces, it should feel like there is nothing between yourselves, not even air.


Holding hands as you tell them you love them can also communicate sincerity and trust.
 Time the statement in a way that will make both you and the recipient most comfortable.


If you're in a private place and there's not much background noise, keep your volume low; don't whisper unless you bring your lips to his or her ear, which can also be a very intimate way to express your love.
If you want to tell your partner how you feel when you're in a public place, it's up to you whether you want to pull the person aside or say it in front of friends or even strangers. It depends on your loved one's personality and your own personality. Some will find it terribly romantic to be told they're loved across a room full of people; others may find it mortifying.
 It is nerve-wracking to tell someone that you love them if you're going to wait anxiously for their response. If you truly feel it, then say it with no expectations of a response. Your intention can be to tell the person how you feel, with the hope of making them happy and showing them that they are valued. So say what you feel, and if they love you, too, they'll let you know in their own way and in their own time.
 Say "I love you" in another language. Write it into a poem or even a haiku. If you want to be romantic, spell it out with rose petals on the bedroom floor. Write it in code, like a Vigènere cipher. Say it in little ways, like post-it notes in unexpected places, and express it in every way you can.
 Don't just say it, show them that you really do love them. Saying "I love you" without showing it is, in a way, a lie. Express your love in action as well as in words.

