 Depending on how last-minute your holiday shopping is, the stores you’re interested in visiting might be operating on different hours. In the weeks before the holidays, many stores extend their hours to allow additional shoppers to shop later and/or earlier. But if you cut it too close to December 25, you might find that shops are closed early – or altogether.It might be best to shop during the extended or early hours. You’ll beat the rush of other shoppers who – unlike you – haven’t been careful enough to check whether the store’s hours have been adjusted for the holidays.
Early hours shopping will also give you the best chance to find full, well-stocked shelves before the great mass of shoppers have descended upon the store., If you’re shopping for the holidays at the last minute, you’ll have even less time to get all your gifts wrapped. Ask about complimentary gift-wrapping services at the stores where you do your shopping. Toy and book stores, especially, tend to be quite good about providing wrapping, gratis., Whether you celebrate Christmas or not, Christmas Eve and Christmas are the days that many stores choose to close. But even if you’re still not done with your holiday shopping on Christmas Eve, you might still be able to find stores that are open. Keep looking for what you want to get right up until the holidays arrive.In a way, shopping at the very last moment (even on Christmas Eve) can make your shopping experience better because you’ll be less likely to encounter large crowds of people.
 Grocery stores and convenience stores are usually not the first place holiday shoppers go to find gifts for the loved ones on their shopping list. But these smaller stores can be perfect for stocking stuffers like candy, small toys, and other holiday knickknacks.Pharmacies are also great for small gifts, candy, and knickknacks., When you’re shopping last minute, you might not have time to make a big trip out to a large shopping center where stores of greater variety are. Instead, look for holiday shopping opportunities in your immediate area. For instance, set a travel limit – say, 20 miles in any direction – and stick to it.