 Visit Joomla's online demo website to begin.


Set up an account to use the demo. You will need an email address to complete the process.
Click the account activation link sent to your email.
Begin using the online demo to get familiar with it. Your demo account will remain active for 1 month.;
,


Fulfill any other specific requirements necessary for using Joomla. You may need to install a certain version of PHP, a computer scripting language, and MySQL, a database software, that Joomla was based on.
Depending on what operating system you use, you can also install a package that contains an Apache Web server, MySQL, and PHP for a computer running Windows, Macintosh or Linux. These are respectively called WAMP, MAMP or LAMP and can be used for testing your website on your own local computer before publicly displaying it on your Web hosting server.



Try creating a webpage or small website with Joomla.
Use Joomla's online Documentation Wiki or forums to answer your questions or solve problems.
 Find them at a local bookstore, library or buy them online. Try applying what you learn when using Joomla to practice new skills or tips.
 Check with local schools in your area to see if they offer any Joomla classes.


Consider also learning how to use PHP and MySQL.
 These are usually 2- or 3-day events that have workshops, presentations, and speakers focusing on various topics for attendees to learn about.
 Ask other members in the group for tips on learning how to use Joomla or to answer any questions you have.
 The CMS has templates, for example, that can provide a uniform look for your website's visual design or style. Extensions can also be added to customize Joomla for specific purposes.


Try modifying Joomla templates and/or extensions to see how they work or to build your development skills. The Joomla Extensions Directory has thousands of modules, components or other add-ons made by others that you can download to use with Joomla.
Create your own templates or extensions using programming code. For example, a template may be made using code saved in a Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) file.
 Try to fix bugs you encounter, provide help to others on the forums, or improve the Documentation Wiki.

