 With the help of any search engine, this page should be easy to find. Just search the name of your state (e.g. "Washington") and "department of licensing."


Different states have different names for the institution that handles driver and vehicle licenses. For example, in the state of Washington, it is called the Department of Licensing.In Ohio, this institution is called the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.In Pennsylvania, licensing is handled by the Department of Transportation.Consequently, you may need to try a couple of different searches to find the page you are looking for.;
, When you think you've found the right page, make sure it actually belongs to the appropriate state agency. In most cases, it should end in “.gov,” not “.com,” “.org,” “.biz,” or any other designation.


A “.gov” website is an official government webpage, so if the page doesn't end in .gov, there is a good chance this page is not actually connect with your state's department of licensing. For a few states, the page will end in .state.xx.us, with the "xx" standing in for an abbreviation of the state.
 Each state's department of licensing offers slightly different services. Today, most provide driving records through their website, but others might require you to visit their offices, call them on the phone, or request this information by mail.


Florida, for example, does not have an online driving record service. Instead, you must purchase a copy of your record online from a private vendor.Conversely, Alabama requires that you go to a DMV office to get records.Additionally, you typically cannot receive a “certified” copy of your driving record online but instead must go into the DMV office.
 Once on the homepage, you will still need to hunt around a bit to find a link to access your driving records. Every state's page is different, so where this information might be located will vary.


For example, the Ohio webpage includes a link on the homepage under "general information" called "Copy of Driving Record (Abstract)" that will take you to a page with information about how to access your records.
In Washington, this information is found under the "Drivers" tab but is not immediately apparent from the homepage.
Many states' websites have a search function. It is typically located near the top of the page and often in the top right corner. Enter "driving record" or "driver's history" in this search box and press enter.
 Once you've accessed the part of the website where your state offers driver's history services, you'll need to provide some information about yourself.


Most commonly, you will be asked for your name, driver's license number, and some or all of the digits of your social security number.
Some states will require you to create an account in their system with a username and password. If you think you will need to revisit the page again, pick a username and password that you will remember, or write them down.
 Most states require you to a pay a fee to access records through their system. For example, in Washington, the fee is $13. Typically this fee is non-refundable. In some states, the amount of the fee varies depending on what format you want your records in.


For example, in Ohio, you can view an "unofficial" record on a website for no charge, have the information mailed to you for a small fee, or request an official, certified copy at a slightly higher cost.

