 Weight loss programs usually require you to modify your total calorie intake. Counting calories and being aware of how much you eat can help you lose weight. In general, you'll want to cut out about 500–750 calories daily to lose about one to two pounds weekly.Figure out how many calories you can cut from your daily diet by first calculating the number of calories you should take in each day. Do this by searching online for a calorie calculator, then inputting your weight, height, age and activity level in order to calculate your recommended caloric intake. Each person is different, so it's best to get your own, personalized number.
Do not consume less than 1200 calories daily. A diet that's too low in calories puts you at risk for nutrient deficiencies as you cannot eat enough food to meet your daily requirements for most vitamins, minerals, and protein."Your weight is a balancing act, and calories are part of that equation. Fad diets may promise you that counting carbs or eating a mountain of grapefruit will make the pounds drop off. But when it comes to weight loss, it's calories that count. Weight loss comes down to burning more calories than you take in. You can do that by reducing extra calories from food and beverages, and increasing calories burned through physical activity.";
, If you are not exercising to burn calories, you must trim them from your diet in order to lose weight. Writing out a meal plan can help you plot out all your meals and snacks and make sure they fit into your pre-determined calorie range.


Spend some time writing out all your meals, snacks, and beverages for a few days or a week.
Allot a certain caloric amount for each meal. For example: 300-calorie breakfast, two 500-calorie bigger meals, and one to two 100-calorie snacks. This may help you choose what foods to eat for meals and snacks throughout the day.
Include foods from all five food groups most days. Review your meal plan to make sure you're getting adequate amounts of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, and dairy.
Having all your meals and snacks planned in advance may keep you from making poor nutrition choices when you're in a rush.
Keeps snacks conveniently located and ready in the fridge, car, backpack or purse.
 A diet that is calorie controlled and includes all five food groups is a good foundation for healthy weight loss.You should include all of the following most days:


Fruits and veggies. These foods are dense, filling, low-calorie and low-fat. Not only are fruits and veggies great for your waistline they have copious amounts of vitamins, minerals, fiber, and antioxidants that you need for long-term health.Aim to make 1/2 of your meals fruits and/or vegetables.
Lean protein. Foods like poultry, eggs, pork, beef, legumes, dairy products, and tofu are great sources of lean protein. Protein will help keep you satisfied longer and may curb hunger cravings.Aim to include 3-4 oz of protein at each meal — this is about the size of a deck of cards.
100% whole grains. Foods that are whole grains are high in fiber and some vitamins and minerals.Quinoa, oats, brown rice, millet, and 100% whole wheat pasta and bread are examples of whole grains to include in your diet. Limit your grains to about 1/2 cup or 1 oz per meal.
 Including one to two low-calorie snacks is appropriate when you're trying to lose weight. Many times, a snack will help support your weight loss.Snacking may be appropriate when there is more than five or six hours between your meals. Sometimes, going for long periods of time without eating may make it harder for you to stick to your planned meal or portion sizes as you may be overly hungry.Most snacks included in a weight loss plan should be calorie controlled. Aim to keep snacks between 100-200 calories.Healthy snacks include: 1/4 cup of nuts, one individual greek yogurt, a hard boiled egg or celery and peanut butter.
 Don't sabotage the best of intentions with poor preparation methods. Cooking methods that use a lot of oil, butter, or other high-fat sauces or seasonings may cause your weight loss to plateau or slow.Try cooking methods that use little to no added fat. Try: steaming, grilling, braising, roasting and poaching/boiling.
Switch to extra virgin olive oil or canola oil. When substituted for saturated fats (like butter), these healthy monounsaturated fats can help to improve blood cholesterol levels, thereby reducing risk for heart disease and obesity.Avoid cooking techniques like: deep fat frying or pan frying. Also avoid cooking methods that use a lot of butter, oil, or margarine.
 Staying well-hydrated is also essential to weight loss. Many times, thirst can feel similar to hunger and trigger you to eat. Drinking enough fluids can help prevent this mistake and promote weight loss.Aim for about 64 oz or about eight glasses of clear, sugar-free liquids each day. This is a general recommendation, but is a good place to start.Fluids that will count toward your daily goal include: water, sugar-free flavored waters, plain tea, and coffee without cream or sugar.
 Both alcoholic beverages and sugary beverages contain excess calories that may work against your weight loss plan. It's ideal to completely pass these up as long as you desire continued weight loss.Sugary beverages to avoid include: regular soda, sweetened tea, sweetened coffee drinks, sports drinks and juices.
At the maximum, women should consume one glass or less of alcohol daily and men should consume two or less daily. Again, if continued weight loss is desired, alcohol should be avoided.