 Libra is definitely an extrovert who loves to socialize and be around other people. You'll often find him in groups, standing out as the life of the party. If you want to attract him, your best bet is to cross paths with him as often as possible in his natural setting: a crowd.;
, Since most Libra males have a tendency to be friendly with a lot of people in any given crowd, you'll need to do more than just hang around him. Instead of lingering in the back of the room where no one can see, you need to make yourself the center of attention, even if only for a few moments.
 Libra is friendly—sometimes, a little too friendly. Your Libra man is probably flirty with a lot of other women without necessarily meaning anything by it. For some women, this will be a turn off, but others may not consider it to be a big deal. If you have any hope of winning your Libra man's affections, you need to belong to the latter group. Hang around long enough until the rest of his admirers lose patience with his flirtatious ways.


Keep in mind that Libras rarely have favorites. Even if you attract him quickly, he might also be attracted to several other women within his social circles. If you want his budding attraction for you to win out over the attraction he feels toward other women, you need to stick things out for as long as possible.
 Your style should be classic, clean, and refined. Avoid fashion choices that are excessively bold or those that are too cutesy.


Avoid jarring color choices, bold patterns, or temporary trends that are here today and gone tomorrow. Excessively girly fashions, like lace and bows, can also be a turn-off.
Opt for classic, clean-cut styles in a traditional color palette. Choose elegance rather than trendiness.
The theme of refinement should also extend into your make-up and accessories. Use your make-up to enhance your natural beauty and avoid caking it on or trying out dramatic looks. Any jewelry you wear should accent your look without competing for attention.
 Within the zodiac, Libra is represented by the image of scales, and with good reason. Your Libra hunk gravitates toward balanced situations and people. When you first start talking to him, have a pleasant, mild-mannered attitude and present an overall balanced aura.


Similarly, when you invite a Libra into your own personal space—your office, your car, your apartment—make sure that he's greeted with refined, balanced style.
 It's not that Libra is narcissistic, but as someone with an outgoing personality, he does have a definite tendency to ramble on about himself and the things that interest him. If you want to impress him, let him talk to his heart's content and follow along with the conversation sincerely.
 Bring up a topic that might be open for debate and discuss both sides with him. Just remember to keep the conversation intellectual rather than emotional.
 Libra men are usually rather confident and have positive opinions about themselves. A genuine, well-timed compliment or word of praise can go a long way in capturing his attention. When choosing something to compliment on, focus on a typical Libra area of interest, like his sense of taste, style, or justice.


No one trusts an obvious flatterer, not even a Libra man. While he might pardon a blatant appeal to his vanity more than some of the other signs will, a compliment that is clearly untrue or forced lacks the sort of harmony and fairness that a Libra ultimately longs for. As such, any compliments you do make should be as meaningful and truthful as possible.
 Impress your Libra crush by talking to him about a variety of subjects. Libras like to talk, and they like to express ideas and exchange opinions on as many topics as possible. If you can keep him intellectually stimulated, he will find your personality more attractive and enjoyable to be around.


Libras naturally have somewhat of an airy personality, so they feel most inspired when they are allowed to move about from thing to thing. Fixating on any one topic can quickly make a Libra man feel bored., Libras crave balance, and that balance extends beyond your Libra's personal life. As a general rule, Libras have a great sense of dedication to justice and fairness. If you want to seem like an attractive person in his eyes, you need to make sure that he views you as someone with a similar dedication to justice .
 Even though Libras love to be around people, most Libra men have a tendency to be emotionally detached. When he first starts getting to know you, avoid showing too much emotion, either positive or negative.


Try to understand why he feels uncomfortable with emotion. Feelings are messy, especially once those feelings get deep and complicated. The Libra avoids emotions mostly to maintain the sense of harmony and balance he loves so much.
Of course, if you want to be with your Libra man for a long time, you and he will eventually need to confront your emotions together. When the times comes, do so in as calm and rational a manner as possible. While you are only in the introductory stages, though, it's better to avoid heavy emotions as much as possible.
 Related to Libra's distaste for emotions is his aversion to conflict. Even though he likes intellectual debate, emotionally-charged debate tends to be a big turn-off. Keep a calm, casual attitude when dealing with your Libra to avoid sending him running.
 You need to be open and talkative with your Libra, but weaving in a carefully constructed thread of mystery can really catch this inquisitive sign's curiosity and make him long to know more. If you can trigger this sense of longing, you can capture his attraction more readily.


His earliest impressions of you should view you as a “mysterious beauty.” Of course, the longer you're with your Libra, the more that mystery will fade. To pack a strong punch at the start, though, try to be an elusive, nearly inaccessible goal to strive for.
 Most Libras have a bit of an altruistic spirit, so they might be involved in volunteer work of some sort. Even if your guy does not have a charity or cause he actively takes part in, he will likely find someone who does sacrifice her time for a noble purpose exceptionally attractive.


If you are actively volunteering your time somewhere, consider asking your Libra crush along, especially if you are supporting a cause he also happens to believe in. In doing so, you'll become someone who helps him satisfy his own desires to do good works.
 Libra has a hard time focusing on one thing and may find you less attractive if he believes you to be fixated on only one aspect of life. If you want to look like someone who has a balanced, well-rounded personality, you should try having a few different hobbies to talk to him about.
 Most Libra men can really appreciate beauty and culture, so if you want to make his heart skip a beat for you, invite him to the art museum or give him a book with photographs of beautiful scenery. Showing him that you understand what he loves can be a huge plus in your favor.


When you extend an invitation, pick a place that your Libra man will probably enjoy, like an art gallery, arts and crafts fair, or museum.You can appeal to him even more by inviting him out during an active time. For instance, ask him to a special one-day-only exhibit instead of inviting him to the museum during a quiet "off" time.
 Along with art and culture, Libra men usually have a strong appreciation for the finer things in life. When you invite him to spend time with you, choose impressive locations like trendy cafes or four-star restaurants. When you give him a gift, consider picking out something tasteful from a designer.


If you do not have the finances to back Libra's love of luxury, fear not! These men are interested in refinement, but that refinement does not necessarily need to cost you an arm and a leg. Try inviting him to a fancy restaurant for dessert only to save you the cost of a meal, or go somewhere with an elegant atmosphere but a moderate cost.
 As social creatures, Libra men love freedom and need to feel unconfined in order to be happy. You can dote on him as much as you want when the two of you are together, but avoid smothering him or forcing your way into areas of his life he hasn't invited you to on his own.


Keep in mind that Libra is an active guy, so once he takes a liking to you, you'll probably know about it. In the meantime, work on him steadily, and avoid pushing your feelings onto him before he is ready for them.
 Libra men love to love, and they love being loved on. Little tokens of appreciation can underscore your feelings for him while making you appear more attractive in his eyes. Try giving him a small gift or note for no reason, or offer a massage at the end of a long day or week.


Refined, tasteful gifts tend to work better than gifts packed with too much sentimentality. You might not be able to afford a designer watch or pricey cufflinks, but you could try offering him a small helping of designer candy or any beautiful yet non-designer item.
If you want a free alternative, you could try writing him a beautiful note. Again, heavy emotions are not quite the Libra's cup of tea, but a letter with a few scribbled verses can make a big impact as long as those verses focus on the beauty of things rather than the intensity of your feelings.
 As mentioned earlier, Libra men can be emotionally detached when you first get to know them, and as such, they tend to avoid women who seem manipulative or who live for drama. When you make your move, avoid getting too serious too quickly. Keep things light, and win him over with gestures of traditional romance: candlelight dinners, moonlit walks, and so on.


Once he starts to return your attraction and affection, be prepared for him to show you what he likes in the romance department. Libra is a natural-born charmer, so when he wants to charm you, he will use a range of romantic tactics to do so. Take note, and increase his attraction to you by responding with similarly romantic gestures.

