 Clarify that you will be wearing natural makeup instead of crazy makeup. If they don't allow you, be cool with it and ask again in 4-6 months. Nagging will not help, and fighting will simply show your parents that you are not mature enough to wear makeup. Also do not use the excuse of "But she wears make-up!" That will also just show your parents that you are definitely not mature.;
, Set a price limit, which should be about $15-$20, and don't spend anymore than this amount. You don't need a ton of makeup. Focus on getting a few classic pieces that you can wear every day, plus something pretty for special occasions, such as sparkly eyeshadow or lip gloss. Stay away from bright blues, greens, or purples. Instead, opt for natural pinks and light browns. If you are in a department store like Macy's, the women at the makeup counters will be happy to give you a free makeover, providing you'll purchase your favorite products. They will tell you what looks best on your skin and will show you how to apply it.
 Be sure to choose the right color for your skin tone. Don't be afraid to ask your mom for her opinion.
 Select a mascara according to your hair color. If you are anywhere from platinum blonde to strawberry blonde, choose a brown. If you're ranging anywhere from a redhead to light brunette choose black-brown while If you're brunette or black hair you can get away with black.
 Stay away from rogue colors; these will make you look old and fake. To apply, smile. Apply blush where your cheeks are fattest. Cream blushes are nice but may make your skin oily, so opt for powders. If you put to much on, smooth it out lightly with a clean brush or your fingertips. To find the perfect shade for you, run or jog for 20 minutes. The color of your cheeks when you exercise is the color that will look best on you.
 You don't need to worry about lip liner or lipstick now. Lip gloss will give you a pretty shine or sparkle with a hint of color. Lip balm will give your lips an instant natural color boost and will make them noticeably softer. Choose clears or pinks. If your lip gloss is too sticky, run an ice cube over your glossed lips. You'll still have the shine without the sticky sensation.

