 Before you go and ask the first people who pop into your head, take your time to think about who you want to ask. Talk to your fiance about your choices. Think about where the wedding will be held and if everyone can attend, especially if it’s a destination wedding. Then, make a list of people you would like to ask. Figure out if each person will fit well into your wedding.Talk to your fiance about how many people will be in their wedding party. Then decide if you want the number to match.;
, Some people feel obligated to ask certain people for many reasons when they get married. This can cause stress for the bride, groom, and wedding party. Don’t feel like you have to ask anyone. It is your wedding, after all.For example, you don’t have to ask someone whose wedding you were in years ago. You don’t have to ask people’s siblings or old college roommates. Ask people you truly want to be your bridesmaid.
 Just because you are a bride doesn’t mean your bridal party has to be all women. If you are closer to the men in your life, have bridesmen instead of bridesmaids. This is your wedding, so you want to make your bridal party how you want it.For example, if you want your brother in your bridal party, or your best friend is a man, ask them.
Don’t worry about matching the same number of men and women in the bridal and groom parties. Have the people you truly care about with you at the alter regardless of whether anything follows traditional rules.
 Being a bridesmaid is a big responsibility, and they will need to be there for you when things get stressful. Choose friends who have stuck by you for a long time, who have always been loyal, or who you know you can trust.Be wary with newer friends, especially if you haven’t been friends for very long. You may not know if you can trust them yet.
 Though you may be close with someone, if they don’t like your fiance or support your marriage, don’t ask them to be in your bridal party. Instead, ask friends who will support you and be happy for you on your big day., Some people may not have the time or money to be a bridesmaid, or they may not want that much attention. Whatever the reason, don’t get upset if someone declines to be in your wedding.If someone declines, you can say, "I completely understand. Thank you for letting me know! I hope you will still come to the wedding!"

