 If you want to make the girl jealous, you should first show some level of interest in her, so she is intrigued by you and has a sense that you want to take things to the next level. Body language is the easiest way to let her know you somewhat want her without even saying a word. You should only spend a few minutes giving her your attention, so every gesture counts.


Catch her eye from across the room. Be a man and hold her gaze if she notices you, and even give her a big smile.
When you approach her, turn your body towards her, stand tall, and lean in towards her slightly, showing that your body is giving her its full attention.
Lightly touch her on the arm or back if she seems up for it.
Maintain eye contact while you're talking. She should feel like she's the only girl in the world -- for a few minutes.;
, Once your body had done some of the talking, you should let your words do the work. A few careful compliments can show that you're paying attention to her and that you want to get to know her better. If it's someone you already know, then the compliments will show that you're still thinking of her. Here's how to do it:


Compliment her appearance. Go for subtlety with this one. Instead of "Damn, you look hot," just say, "Blue is a great color. It really brings out your eyes."
Compliment her laugh or her smile.
Tease your way into a compliment. Find a way to playfully poke fun at her while complimenting her at the same time.
 Asking just a few questions will show that you want to get to know her and that you're invested in who she is. Just a few lighthearted and well-placed questions will hook the girl and will make her want you even more.


Ask her a flirty question. If she mentions she has a sister, say, "Is she as beautiful as you are?"
Ask her a silly question but act like it's really important. Ask her what she thinks of men who are in love with their dogs or men who wear leather.
Ask her something about herself. Ask about one of her hobbies or what she likes to do for fun. Make the girl think you care about her -- just a little bit.

