 The majority of complaints that arise about real estate agents stem from a miscommunication or misunderstanding. If communication improves, the complaint can often be resolved quickly. Therefore, the Arizona Association of Realtors (AAR) recommends that you take the initial step of contacting the realtor directly to try to resolve the problem.When you identify a problem, you should contact the realtor. Either schedule a face-to-face meeting or make a phone call. You can begin the discussion by saying, “I am unhappy about the way (something happened). I would like to talk with you about trying to correct this.”;
, If a direct conversation with the realtor does not result in a satisfactory conclusion, you should continue trying to resolve the problem locally. Ask to speak with the manager of the realty office. If nobody is clearly identified as the manager or supervisor, then ask to speak with the senior agent in the office. You need to speak with someone who has supervisory control over the agent you worked with.When you call, you should say, “I recently spoke with Mr. Smith, an agent in your office. I have a problem with the way that he handled … (then explain what happened).”

, You should have precise dates and information about conversations, meetings, or whatever provides the basis for your complaint. Whether you are speaking with the agent directly or a supervisor, you should focus on the facts of what happened. Direct your complaint to specific meetings or messages and try to reach a conclusion., When you begin to make your complaint, especially at the local level, you should have an idea of what you want that will resolve the problem. This could be something as simple as an acknowledgement and an apology. The remedy will likely depend on the stage of the negotiations for the property. If the house has already been sold to another buyer, there may be no direct remedy, and you want only to make someone aware of what you believe was the realtor’s wrongdoing.


In some cases, at some stages of the complaint process, a realtor could be fined or even suspended. You will not get this kind of result at the local level, but it is important for you to know where you are headed with your complaint.