 Grab an 8½" x 11" piece of paper and lay it on a table so the short end runs parallel to the edge of the table. Roll the paper into a 1"-1½" tube. Tape the tube in place.









Tape the tube in the middle, and at both ends of the tube.
 Take another 8½" x 11" piece of paper. Place the first tube at the end of the fresh sheet of paper and roll it up. Be sure the second tube is neither too tight, nor too loose. Tape the outer tube.









You can check on the fit by taping the outer tube and then attempting to slide the inner in and out of the outer tube. The inner tube should move easily, but not fall out of the outer tube.
Pull the inner tube out of the outer tube.
 With scissors, cut two parallel slits (approximately ½" long and 1½" apart) across the the inner tube. The slits should sit near the middle of the tube.









Cut out a rectangle by cutting from one slit to the other.
 Keeping the inner tube in place, slide the outer tube backwards 1½". Comparing the two tubes, use a pencil to sketch out the approximate length of the inner tube's rectangle on the outer tube.









Cut the rectangle out of the outer tube. Fit the inner tube back into the outer tube. the two rectangle should align when you pull the inner tube out. This is where you will load your paper bullets.
 Take another sheet of 8½" x 11" paper. Roll it into a tube and secure the tube with tape. The circumference of this tube does not matter, but should approximately match the other tubes you've already rolled.









Cut this tube to the desired handle length. Cutting the tube in half is a good starting length, but you can choose how long or short to make it.
Tape the bottom of the handle.
 Tape the handle to the bottom of the outer tube. Use a couple pieces of tape to sure the handle to the body of the gun.









Before taping your handle, make sure the loading slots are positioned either on the top or side of the gun.
You can create a second handle to be placed under the barrel of the gun for support. Use the leftover tube cut from the handle and cut it to the desired length. Tape this secondary handle to the bottom of the barrel of the gun.
 Pull the inner tube forward out of the outer tube. On the back end of the outer tube, cut two ½" slits, ½" apart. Cut across the slits and remove the small rectangular piece of paper.









Push the inner tube back in through the outer tube and pull it out the back. Using a scrap from one of your cut tubes, roll a tight ½" long tube. Wrap that tube in tape and affix that smaller tube, or loading knob, to the inner tube using thin pieces of tape. This knob should fit in the slits created on the outer tube.
 Cut out 3" x 3" square of paper and place them on your table so they look like diamonds. Roll the squares from the right-hand corner to the left-hand corner, making a cone. Tape the cone tightly.









You can cut the open end of the bullet down if you feel it is too long to fit in the chamber easily.
 Pull the loading knob back and place your bullet into the chamber. Push the loading knob back into place. Blow through the back of the gun. Bask in the glory of having made your very own (firing) paper gun!








