 If you have naturally curly or kinky hair, you will want to look for a "kinky" hair texture.


Once you find a favorite brand of hair extension, you may be able to order off the Internet or from the manufacturer for a better price.;
, If you have medium length hair, you will want to find 24 inch extensions. If you have longer hair, you may want to buy longer extensions.
 You will want to start with hair that is combed out to avoid an inconsistent look.
 A comb with a long, pointed end will help you to evenly divide the sections.


Some people recommend you start at the back and bottom of your head and work toward the front. If this is your first time doing kinky twists, you may want to practice on the front of your hair or on another person's hair until you learn the method.
, Put some leave in conditioner in your hair. You may want to keep your hair slightly damp in order to make it tighter and experience less breakage.


You can blow out your hair after washing and conditioning to create an even smoother look.
, The extensions may be gathered together to keep them straight. Cut right below the band that holds them together, so that you don't use the straight section for your twists.
 Applying this to your hands and running it through the section of hair you are working on will help to keep the hair soft, although it is not required.
 Fold it in half and smooth the 2 sections so that they are easy to handle.
, Use your fingers to pick up the sections, rather than a comb.
 You should have 2 sections, each with half natural and half extension hair.
 This will hold the extension in place.


If you have difficulty keeping the extension in place while you are starting your twist, braid it into your hair first. Hold the 2 sides of the extension up to the hair section. Use your hair as the third section and braid 1 inch (2.5cm) of your hair. Then, separate your natural hair into the extension sections and begin twisting.
 Keep both hands close to your roots and make the twist as tight as you can. Twist the right section of hair approximately 5 to 7 times.
, Twist it tightly 5 to 7 times.
 Cross them again. You should be getting near the end of the twisted portions of both sections of hair, so you will begin twisting and crossing together.
 Cross over left and twist the individual sections to the right. Repeat this until you come to the end of your available hair.
 It is a good idea to go along the entire bottom of the head, then start a new section above the bottom and work your way up. You can keep your twist sections even.
 If you are using synthetic hair extensions, you can use hot water with good results.


For kinky twists that are done with natural hair or simply using your own hair, use some gel product on the end. Twist and curl the end with your finger. Repeat all along your head.
For kinky twists with synthetic hair, boil a kettle of water. Place a towel around your neck and body to protect yourself from hot water. Be very careful to avoid burning yourself. Pour some boiled water into a coffee mug. Dip 3 or 4 twist ends into the water at once. Leave them in for 20 seconds. Remove them and squeeze the ends gently with a towel. Repeat with the remaining twist ends.
 Many people use leave-in conditioners, hair milk and shea butter to keep the hair from being frizzy and breaking.


Sleep with a satin scarf tied around your head or use a satin pillow to minimize breakage and frizz.

