, This is located in the very bottom, right corner.



Press “Update”.,, This icon—three dots in a vertical row—is located in the very top, right corner of the screen.


Select “My Apps” from the drop down menu.
Scroll through the list and search for a Firefox update.
Press “Update”., Every time you visit a webpage, your browser stores data. Clearing this data on a regular basis can improve your browser’s speed.


Cache: When you visit a page, the cache stores the content and images locally. The next time you visit the page, the cache can quickly call up and load the content. As your cache fills up, however, it takes longer to find the content and images associated with a specific page.
History: Browsers keep a record of every site you visit. This feature allows you to use the back and forwards button. Clearing your search history erases this record.
Cookies: Cookies are files that store information about you, the user. This information may include user names, passwords, the contents of your shopping cart, your account information, and autofill entries. Clearing cookies will remove all of this saved data., This icon—a square with a number in it—is located in the very top, right corner of the screen.
 Find this icon (a gear wheel) in the very top, left corner of the screen.
 This option is located in the “Privacy” section.
 By default, the following options are selected:


“Browsing History”
“Cache”
“Cookies”
“Offline Website Data”

,, Every time you visit a webpage, your browser stores data. Clearing this data on a regular basis can improve your browser’s speed.


Cache: When you visit a page, the cache stores the content and images locally. The next time you visit the page, the cache can quickly call up and load the content. As your cache fills up, however, it takes longer to find the content and images associated with a specific page.
History: Browsers keep a record of every site you visit. Clearing your search history erases this record.
Cookies: Cookies are files that store information about you, the user. This information may include user names, passwords, the contents of your shopping cart, your account information, and autofill entries. Clearing cookies will remove all of this saved data., This icon is three vertical dots. The menu button is typically located in the very top, right corner of the screen.
 On some devices, you may have to click “More” then “Settings”.
, Options include:


“Browsing & download history”
“Cookies & active logins”
“Cache”

,