 Nausea can be triggered or worsened by moving around. Try resting while sitting in a quiet space or room on a bed or a mat. If you still feel nauseous, gently ease yourself down to a lying position but prop your head up with anything but most preferably with a pillow (it is easier to get to sleep and much more comfortable).If you can relax well enough, a quick nap can also get rid of your nausea. You might feel better by the time you wake up.;
, A breath of fresh air can clear your lungs, reduce anxiety, and make your stomach feel a bit better.Sit in a quiet space and close your eyes, try to think about anything else other than your nausea(to get your mind of the feeling).
Get off all electronics, a headache can be obtained by too much time on electronics and you don't need to add a headache to your nausea.
Take a deep breath through your nose and hold it. Then, slowly breath out your mouth. Repeat this several times.
 Nausea can be caused by a fever, but even if it isn't, your temperature can rise as a result of moderate to severe nausea. Cool temperatures can help stabilize your body temperature.Take a clean washcloth and dip it in cold water. Press the compress under your neck if lying on your back. If you are sitting upright, wear it around the back of your neck.
 Watch a movie, call up a friend, or do any other mild, light activity that prevents you from fixating on your nausea.Some nausea can be triggered or worsened by anxiety. Getting your mind off any other worries you may have can help the nausea to go away.
Avoid activities that require intense focus. For instance, reading or writing that requires your eyes to focus on a block of text for a lengthy amount of time can cause eye strain. Under normal conditions, this strain may not affect you, but while you feel nauseous, any extra strain or stress can worsen your symptoms.
Hold off on any high-intensity physical activities. While gentle movement can help your nausea, odds are, most physical activity will cause undue stress to your stomach, which can worsen your nausea.
 Your sense of smell is connected to your digestive system, so a strong scent can send your stomach reeling and worsen your nausea(avoid paint at all costs).Do not cook, smoke, or put on perfume. In fact, if at all possible, you should remove yourself from an area in which anyone is cooking, smoking, or wearing strong perfume.
 Acupressure is an ancient Chinese method that involves placing pressure on an area of your body, using your fingers. Acupressure, like acupuncture, works by changing the pain messages that nerves send to your brain.Take your middle and index fingers and form a “C” shape. Use this shape to press firmly down on the groove between the two large tendons on the inside of your wrist that start at the base of your palm.
Hold them there for 30 seconds to a minute. Then, release your fingers from your wrist. You should feel your nausea lift or subside., If you need to have your hands free, you can still try acupressure by purchasing an acupressure or motion sickness bracelet. These bands have a button that applies pressure to points on your wrist continually, providing you with relief throughout the day., Sometimes, nausea is caused by discomfort in your back and neck. Gentle stretches can relieve your back and neck pain and help to relieve your nausea.To stretch your upper back, do a downward facing cross legged pose. Sit cross-legged on the floor and bend your body forward. Stop bending forward when your body is at a 45 degree angle with your legs. Rest your arms on a chair in front of you. If you are more flexible, you can also bend your body until your forehead touches the ground in front of you and your hands are stretched outward.
To stretch your neck, sit down in a chair. Relax your shoulders and place your hands on your thighs. Tilt your head toward your shoulder and hold for 15 to 30 seconds. Keep your opposite shoulder down. Take a deep breath and bring your head back to the center. Repeat this 2 to 4 times for each side.Another great anti-nausea yoga pose is putting your legs up against a wall. Lie on a yoga mat or carpet against a wall. Place your tailbone and buttocks against the wall and swing your legs up the wall. Remain in this position for at least 5 minutes, or 40-50 breaths. This pose should help to calm your nausea and reduce any stress or tension in your body.
 When your stomach is upset due to nausea, you need to eat small amounts of food and slowly drink small amounts of fluids to avoid overwhelming your stomach.It is important to eat and drink even when you feel nauseous. Hunger and dehydration can actually cause nausea or make your nausea worse.
 While eating might be the last thing you want to do, an empty stomach will only make your nausea worse. To avoid upsetting your stomach further, try eating easy-to-digest foods.Good examples of bland foods include crackers, toast, potatoes, noodles, rice, and English muffins. If your nausea is only mild, you could also try baked or boiled chicken or fish.
Good examples of hydrating foods include popsicles, clear broth-based soups, and Jello.
Avoid foods that are greasy, salty, or spicy. For example, sausage, fast food, fried foods, and potato chips are your enemy while you suffer from nausea. These foods are all too heavy for your stomach to handle when it is feeling sensitive., The difference in temperature can send your stomach for a whirl, which is the last thing you want while fighting off nausea.


As a general guideline, cold food is usually gentler on the stomach and proves more effective at calming nausea than hot food does. Hot food can have strong smells, which can make your nausea worse., Hydration is vital during fits of nausea. Drinking water and fruit juices in small amounts throughout the day will help relieve your nausea. Use a straw to help you sip, rather than gulp, fluids.Water is your best option, but fruit juices like apple juice can work, as well. Flat soda, especially flat ginger ale, can help settle a nauseous stomach.
If you have vomited, drink a sports drink that contains glucose, salt, and potassium to replace any of the minerals you could have lost.
Avoid beverages that contain caffeine and alcohol.
 This can slow down your digestion and lead to a stomachache, on top of your nausea. Wait at least half an hour to an hour before you lie down after you've had a meal to give your stomach time to digest., Ginger tea, raw ginger, and candied ginger can all be used to help reduce a bout of nausea. Ginger root promotes the secretion of various digestive juices and enzymes that help neutralize stomach acid. The phenols in ginger also relax the muscles in your stomach, thereby reducing the amount of activity in your stomach while helping your intestines push toxins through your system faster.Make ginger tea with about 2 inches of ginger root. Wash the ginger root and peel it. Slice it into small pieces, or crush it by covering it with wax paper and using a spoon to smash it.
Boil 2-3 cups of water over medium high heat. Then, add the ginger and let it boil for 3-5 minutes.
Remove the tea from heat and strain it if you don’t want little bits of ginger in your tea. Then, pour it in a mug and add honey if you’d like. Sip it slowly.
 Peppermint tea and hard peppermint candy have nausea-relieving properties similar to those of ginger.


The scent of peppermint is also very effective at reducing nausea. Place a few drops of food-safe peppermint oil directly on the insides of your wrists or your gums.
 Bland food can help to tame your tummy, including milk and bread. Bread absorbs excess acid, while milk coats your stomach and helps to settle it. You do not want to drink milk straight though, as dairy alone can upset your stomach, so make milk toast for a happy medium.If you have the stomach flu (or gastroenteritis), do not try this remedy, as the stomach flu reacts poorly to dairy.
Heat 1 cup of milk until it’s hot, but not boiling. Pour the milk into a bowl.
Toast a piece of bread and spread a small amount of unsalted butter on it.
Crumble the toast into the milk and stir it. Eat it slowly.
 A cold or frozen lemon works best. The sharp smell and taste of citrus can help reduce your nausea.Cut a lemon in half and place it close enough to smell without it becoming overwhelming.
If smelling the lemon does not work, cut it into wedges and place them in the freezer for 30 minutes or so. Once they are chilled or frozen, suck on the slice of lemon to relieve your nausea quickly.
 If you can make a quick trip to your local convenience store or supermarket, pick up a non-prescription treatment labeled for use against nausea.


Bismuth subsalicylate is a popular over-the-counter drug used to treat many forms of digestive upset, including nausea. Relief should be almost instantaneous after you take it.Generic "anti-nausea liquid" can be found at many drug stores and supermarkets. These medications are usually little more than a combination of dextrose, fructose, and phosphoric acid.
 Many pain medications, for example, can trigger and worsen nausea.A quick, simple way to determine if a medication could worsen your nausea would be to check its common side effects. If “nausea” is listed as a possible side effect, that medication could be a possible cause of your nausea.
Examples of nausea inducing over the counter medication include Tylenol, Advil, Aleve, and Motrin., You should also get medical attention if you cannot keep any food or water down, or are nauseous for more than 48 hours.You should also seek medical attention if you feel weak, have a fever, have stomach pain, or cannot urinate for 8 hours or more.
If there is blood in your vomit, bright red or coffee grounds in appearance and if you have a severe headache or a stiff neck or severe abdominal pain, go see a doctor.
 You should also take your child to a doctor if she hasn’t urinated in 4-6 hours, she has signs of dehydration, and she is experiencing diarrhea., There are several prescription medications that work to reduce nausea. Most begin working within 30 to 60 minutes.Promethazine hydrochloride is available as a tablet, syrup, injection, or suppository.Chlorpromazine is only available as a suppository.
Prochlorperazine comes as both tablets and suppositories.
Trimetho-benzamide hydrochloride is available as a capsule, injection, syrup, or suppository.
Metoclopramide hydrochloride comes as a syrup, tablet, or injection.
For relief from nausea connected to motion sickness, ask your doctor about scopolamine or Dramamine patches.