 Opals differ from other precious gemstones in their basic composition and how they are valued. These unique stones come in a wide range of colors and patterns, both of which can change, depending on the angle you view them from. Since buying an opal can be a significant investment, learn as much as you can about them before you start shopping. This will ensure you make an informed decision and get what you pay for.


Research reputable websites, favoring informational ones over retailer websites. Look into books on the subject. Get familiar with opal-specific terminology.A large portion of the world’s opals come from Australia, so a good place to start is the Australian government’s Department of Industry website. Learn more about opals by visiting http://www.resourcesandenergy.nsw.gov.au/miners-and-explorers/applications-and-approvals/opal-mining/about-opal.;
, There are four main types – boulder (also known as matrix) opals, black opals, white opals and crystal opals. They differ from each other greatly in appearance.


Black opals are the most rare and expensive of all. They aren’t actually black (they come in a range of brilliant colors) but instead have a dark body tone. The demand for these opals is high.
Boulder (also known as matrix) opals have a dark body tone that looks similar to the black opal. They cost less, but come in a similar range of brilliant colors.
Crystal opals are unique because they’re transparent to semi-transparent in appearance. They can have a very glassy surface and dark or light body tones. The color often determines their value.
White opals have a milky body tone. They are much more common than black opals and don’t feature the same brilliant hues. While less expensive than black opals, white opals can be very beautiful and colorful when of high quality., A doublet isn’t a full opal, but instead, a thin slice of opal (usually crystal or white) glued onto a backing of plastic or black glass. Triplets are the same as doublets, except they feature an additional layer of clear plastic or glass over the opal.Synthetic opals have the same composition and physical structure as natural ones, but they are made in a lab. Because they’re man-made, synthetics appear glassier and the color schemes and patterns are a lot more regular and organized.Doublets, triplets and synthetics are all worth much less than natural opals.
If you inspect the sides of doublets and triplets, you can spot their layers. This makes them easily recognizable.
 Opals don’t have an official valuation process like other precious gemstones. This can make it difficult to know exactly what you’re getting and a lot of the value is subjective in nature. However, there are some key characteristics you can use to assess an opal’s value. The most important factors are the range of play of colors, patterns, opal class, body tone, brilliance, thickness, color bar and faults.


“Play of color” means the range and brilliance of the hues visible in an opal when viewed from different angles.
The most valuable type of opal will have a play of color that covers its entire surface and can be seen from multiple angles.