 Weight loss surgery is invasive and is often only done for individual who are morbidly obese and have been unsuccessful in their attempts to lose weight and keep the weight off. Your doctor will only recommend weight loss surgery if you meet at least one of the following qualifications:You are more than 100 pounds over your recommended body weight for your age and height.
You have a BMI of 40 or higher.
You have a life threatening condition due to obesity, such as severe sleep apnea, heart issues, or severe type 2 diabetes.
You will also need to complete a medical and a psychological pre-evaluation to illustrate you are committed to follow-up care and maintenance after surgery. This will also show you understand the extensive dietary, exercise, and medical practices you must follow to ensure the surgery is successful.
 Your doctor should outline your surgery options and the procedures involved in each option. There are several common weight-loss surgeries done on the obese, including:A banded gastroplasty: In this procedure, a surgeon uses staples or bands to create a small pouch at the top of your stomach. This will then limit the amount of food and liquid your stomach can hold. To ensure this surgery is successful, you will need to limit the amount of food you consume.
A Roux-en-Y gastric bypass: A small stomach pouch is made through a bypass around the part of your small intestine where most of the calories you eat are absorbed. This will limit your food intake and reduce the calories your body absorbs. There are several side effects of a gastric bypass, including nausea, bloating, diarrhea, and faintness. You will also need to take multivitamins and minerals to prevent nutrient deficiencies.
Biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch: In this procedure, the surgeon will remove a large part of your stomach and leave a small valve that releases food into your small intestine. The surgeon will then seal off the middle section of your intestine and attach the last part directly to the large intestine.
Gastric sleeve: A part of your stomach is removed in this procedure, creating a smaller reservoir for food. This is a less complicated surgery than a gastric bypass or a biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch.
 Weight loss surgery is not a quick and easy way to solve or cure obesity. In fact, you will need to have an even stronger commitment to changing your eating and lifestyle habits once you have weight loss surgery to ensure the surgery remains a success. If you do not maintain a healthy lifestyle and diet choices (including nutritional supplements) after surgery, you can end up regaining the weight, suffering nutritional deficiencies, or making your health problems more severe than before the surgery.Once you receive the weight loss surgery, you will need to commit to lifelong medical follow ups with your doctor to ensure your body is functioning properly. Your doctor may suggest you enroll in a post surgery program to ensure your diet and lifestyle are healthy.

