 The cake needs to be completely cool before you frost it. You can let it cool at room temperature or you can cool the unfrosted cake layers in the refrigerator.









Consider cooling the cake layers upside-down. Doing so can help flatten out the top, so it will be easier for you to deal with domes and your cake will look neater when all is said and done.
Remove the layers of cake from the cake pans before chilling them.
The best way to chill your cake is to wrap the layers in plastic wrap and place them in the refrigerator overnight. If you do not have enough time for that, though, you can wrap the cake layers in plastic wrap and place them in the refrigerator for two to three hours.Refrigerated chilling is more thorough and preferred over room temperature cooling.
A cooled cake is far easier to work with than a warm cake. A warm cake can cause the frosting to melt as you work with it, and your finished product will look much messier if you are working with melted frosting.;
, It is a fairly typical practice among home bakers to slice each cake layer into two even halves using a serrated knife. This is not an essential step, however.









If you decide to split each layer in half, set the cake layer down flat on the counter. Hold the top down gently with one hand and use your other hand to gently cut the round in half from the side. Turn the cake as you lightly saw away with your serrated knife. You should saw 1 inch (2.5 cm) into the side all the way around the cake before slicing straight through the center.Thin layers like these need to be moved with cardboard cake rounds or rimless baking sheets. Do not use your hands since the cake layers are more likely to break apart if you do.
Note, however, that if you do not divide the layers in half, you can usually use your hands to move those thicker layers around.
 If any of your layers have a “domed” top, you need to use a serrated knife to slice away that dome and create a flat, even top surface.









Cut away the dome the same way that you would cut a layer in half. Place the layer flat on the counter with the dome facing up. Hold the cake steady by placing one hand on top of it and use your other hand to gently saw away the dome with a serrated knife. Shave off as little as possible.
 Most frostings should be prepared and used at room temperature. Whipped cream based frostings should be refrigerated, though.









If the frosting is cold when you use it, it will end up being stiff and harder to spread. When frosting is difficult to spread, it tends to cling to both the cake and the spatula, and as a result, chunks of cake can be yanked out from the side or top as you spread the frosting on., Spoon out 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of frosting onto the center of your cake platter.









This initial dollop of frosting acts as a sort of "glue" that holds the cake in place as you frost it, transport it, and serve it.
You could also use a cake board instead of a plate. Cut the board so that it is the exact same size as the cake.
If you have the cake board or plate on a stand, secure it to the stand by placing a few loops of tape beneath the board or plate.
 Cut four strips of wax paper or parchment paper. Arrange them so that they form a square around the center dollop of frosting on the platter.









The wax paper is used to keep the platter clean as you frost the cake. As such, the paper strips need to overlap with one another and they need to be large enough to cover the bottom perimeter of the cake once you place the cake on top of your platter.
These strips of paper will be removed after you finish decorating the cake.
 Place the first layer of cake onto the prepared cake platter. The bottom center of the cake should line up with the dollop of frosting you spread on the plate earlier, and there should be wax paper underneath the entire bottom perimeter of the layer.









Note that the flat bottom of your cake must sit on the stand.
If you cut your layers in half, place the cut side of the cake down on the plate.
 Add a hearty glob of frosting to the top of the first layer. Spread it over the entire top surface using a spatula, covering the surface evenly but leaving a slight lip along the outside edge.









Use roughly 1 to 1.5 cups (250 to 375 ml) of frosting.Place the frosting in the middle of the layer and spread it out toward the edges.
The added lip of frosting will help hold in any additional filling you decide to add, but even if you decide not to add other filling, this excess is still helpful since it will help you frost the sides of the cake.
Consider placing the frosting on the cake using a spoon and spreading it with your cake spatula. Doing so can prevent crumbs from the spatula from tainting the primary bowl of frosting.
 If you plan on adding any filling other than frosting, like jam, fudge, or butterscotch, spread the filling over your initial layer of frosting. Only spread the frosting as far as the outer lip of the frosting and not over that lip.









Only pour 1/2 cup (125 ml) to 3/4 cup (190 ml) filling onto the center of the frosting.Use the back of a clean spoon or separate spatula to spread the filling out toward the frosting barrier or lip.
 Center the second layer of cake directly over the first layer. Keep the edges as even as possible.









Gently press down on the top layer to secure it onto the first.
It may help to step back and look at the cake from a bit of a distance to ensure that the layers are evenly aligned.
If you cut your layers in half, the cut-side should always face down when you stack it onto the previous layer.
 If you plan on adding more layers of cake, spread frosting and filling over the second layer before adding a third. Repeat this pattern until you reach the final layer, but do not spread frosting or filling over the top layer.









Use the same amount of frosting to coat additional layers as you used when covering the top layer.
 After all the layers have been assembled, you need to spread a thin coating of frosting over the top of the cake and around the sides. This coating of frosting will trap the crumbs along the rough surface of the cake, which is why it is commonly referred to as a “crumb coating.”









It is perfectly acceptable for the cake to show through the crumb layer. The only thing you need to accomplish with this layer is locking in the crumbs. The frosting itself does not need to look neat or smooth.
 Place the cake in the refrigerator or freezer long enough for the crumb coating to chill and harden slightly.









Usually, you can set the crumb coat by chilling it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Check the frosting with your finger before pulling it out of the refrigerator. If it feels sticky, let it cool for a longer period.
 Add the remainder of your frosting to the top and sides of the cake, distributing it as evenly as possible with your spatula.









Apply frosting generously. Too much can be scraped off without much difficulty, but if you start off with too little frosting, you increase the risk of catching crumbs, even with a protective crumb coating.
It can help if you visually divide the cake into quarters. Frost the sides one quarter at a time, focusing on a smaller area rather than the larger perimeter.
Turn the cake as you frost the sides so that no one side is any more difficult to frost than the others.
You can frost the top of the cake in the same way you frosted the top of each layer. Place the frosting in the center and use your spatula to push it out toward the edges.
Do not expect your initial application to look smooth on all sides.
As you spread the final coating of frosting onto the cake, dip the spatula into warm water in between strokes. Shake off the excess before continuing to frost the cake. A little excess moisture can keep your strokes smoother and cleaner.If you are nervous about using water, you should at least wipe off excess crumbs and frosting from the spatula in between strokes.
 Hold the icing spatula at a slight angle and pass it around the sides of the cake. Doing so should smooth out any uneven patches of frosting.









If you have a separate scraper, use it. If not, clean off your frosting spatula and use that.
You might need to smooth the frosting out using several passes. Use gentle pressure for each pass, scraping away excess frosting little by little, until you achieve the smoothness you want to see.
If you want to make the frosting extremely smooth, finish up the smoothing process by dipping the spatula into warm water, shaking off the excess, and passing the moist edge over the frosting. A hint of moisture can help smooth the final outer layer.
 The cake is already frosted at this point. If you want to add other decorations to the cake, now is the time to do so.
 After you finish decorating the cake, carefully slide the strips of wax paper or parchment paper out from beneath the bottom. Your cake is now ready to show off.
