 COBRA is a program instituted by the department of labor that allows an employee who has lost his or her job to maintain health insurance for a certain amount of time. Under COBRA, an employee who is eligible is required to pay the full cost of the health plan out of pocket, with no contribution from the employer. Because most employees do not pay full price for an employer’s group health care plan, COBRA can be extremely expensive. However, if you are deciding between getting insurance through the Affordable Care Act or through COBRA, you should price both plans to see which one would be cheaper for you.
Even if you are eligible for COBRA coverage, you may want to see if you can get cheaper insurance through the Affordable Care Act or Medicaid.
 In order to be eligible for COBRA coverage, your insurance plan and your circumstances must meet the following requirements:


Your plan must be covered under COBRA: health plans provided by employers who have employed 20 or more employees during the past year are covered by COBRA. To calculate the number of employers, count part-time employees as well as full-time employees. Part-time employees are counted as a fraction of a full-time employee, based on the hours worked (for example, 2 part-time employees who each work 20 hours a week will count as 1 full-time employee). To qualify, you must not have been fired from your job for “gross misconduct.” Therefore, if you were fired from your job for a reason other than your own “gross misconduct,” you will still be eligible. Because there is no official definition for “gross misconduct,” consult with a local attorney if you are denied COBRA coverage due to your former employer claiming “gross misconduct” on your part.
 Under COBRA, covered insurance plans must provide you notice of your COBRA rights as long as you qualify. Your notice will contain information on how to get COBRA coverage, and how to continue the coverage up to the maximum amount of time offered. Once you receive a notice, you will have 60 days to decide whether you want to take advantage of COBRA coverage.
If you have dependents, such as a spouse or minor children, who were covered under your insurance plan, they can elect to receive COBRA benefits along with you, and anyone who could be covered should get a notice. , If you elect to receive COBRA benefits, your insurance coverage will be identical to your coverage while you were employed. Additionally, you will have the same rights that you had under your previous plan, such as the right to appeal a claim denial. If you were fired or laid off from your job, you can receive COBRA coverage for a maximum of 18 months.

