 This part of the guide is important because each pre-existing character's name shows something important about them. For example, Chouji's name relates to him because "cho" means butterfly. This is important: Make sure your character has a JAPANESE NAME! Any other name, no matter how creative or cool it is, does not fit. All the characters have Japanese names. Try looking at websites like Behind The Name or Baby Names to find one that fits. If you want to develop your character further before naming them, you can always go back to this step later.;
, In the Naruto series, almost every ninja is from a clan, and every clan has their own special abilities and/or signature techniques. It IS GOOD to use still-existing clans, like the Inuzukas, the Aburames, or the Hyuugas. It is ALSO GOOD to make up your own clan for your O.C. Just make sure that it isn't far better than the Uchiha or Hyuuga clans, which are very good ones, or your O.C. will seem like a Mary Sue (more on that later). DO NOT make your character part of an extinct clan such as the Uchihas or Uzumakis/Namikazes. Naruto and Sasuke are the only people left from those clans, and if your character suddenly pops up, it isn't very believable.
 You have to go through this very carefully, because there are certain ways all the Naruto characters dress-although some of them dress strangely, there are still rules. Don't dress your character in any modern stereotype clothing. They CAN NOT be emo, because although Sasuke looks like he is, none of the Naruto characters know what emo is. They also wouldn't dress overly flouncy or anything if they are ninja-it has to work when they are training, fighting, etc. Just think when you draw your character, would this allow him/her to move properly if I put this on their outfit?

, You can change some of these around to put on your character's outfit. For example, the hitai-ite can be worn anywhere-Naruto uses it as a headband, but it can also be worn around the neck, arm, waist, forehead, or as a hat. There are also some common ninja accessories: Fishnets (shirts, tights, stockings, arm warmers), bandages and wrappings, zippers, gloves (normal, biker, or fingerless, and of any length), or a large scroll or weapon strapped to their back.
 Here's where the Mary Sue part comes in. A Mary Sue is a character who is perfect in every way, who makes even Ino look bad (ugly). Now, here's how to make your character be less of a Mary Sue.


Don't give them unnaturally-colored hair. Unless it's a soft tone of that color, like Sakura's, unnatural color doesn't exist, especially in neon. It looks messy and badly done.
Don't give them a perfect body. Nobody's perfect. Naruto is shorter than everyone else and Sakura has a small chest. If your O.C. looks absolutely perfect then it will make the other characters jealous!
Don't give them a "showy" outfit if they are a girl. It wouldn't make sense, for a mission to Snow Country, for your O.C. to be dressed in what is practically a bikini.
To help you: Give them some kind of flaw to their appearance.
 If you're a good writer then this part will be easy. Think about how they would react to different situations. Are they optimistic or pessimistic? Shy or confident? Quiet or loud? Angry or happy? Don't copy another character's personality, and don't make them an unemotional person like Neji. Think about how they would react to talking to Naruto, or Ino, or Rock Lee.
