 If the balloon is already inflated but isn’t knotted, simply hold the opening closed. Do so using your index finger and thumb. Squeeze the sides of the opening to prevent air from escaping.


If the balloon is inflated and knotted, you need to create a small hole for the helium to escape. Hold the balloon on the knot.;
, A sewing needle will work best to create the small pin prick. While holding the balloon, use your free hand to insert the needle above the knot. Slowly slide the needle through one side of the balloon to create a tiny hole.


While removing the needle, simultaneously cover the hole with the hand holding the knot. This will keep all the air from pouring out of the balloon.
If a needle isn’t around, you can bite a small hole into the balloon or use your fingernail.
 For best results, you will want to fill your lungs with as much helium as possible. To do this, you’ll need to make space in your lungs. Blow the air out of your lungs.


You will know the majority of air is out of your lungs when your stomach starts to collapse inward.
 When ready, loosen your fingers around the opening to release air. Put your mouth directly over the opening and take a deep breath. Inhaling for 2-3 seconds will be sufficient.If you’ve punctured a hole, move your finger from the hole and place your mouth around the hole. Inhale deeply until your lungs are full. Act as though you are taking a normal breathe and fill your lungs with the helium.
Holding the helium in your mouth alone will not work. You must inhale the helium into your lungs.
 Once you’ve filled your lungs with helium, begin to speak and/or sing as you normally would. Due to helium’s low density, the sound will travel twice as fast than regular air across your vocal cords. This is what causes the funny sound.If you don’t experience any change, exhale again and try to breathe in more helium.
Remember, the effects will only last a few seconds so make the most of it!

, Before attempting to inhale helium, discuss the risks with an adult like a parent or teacher. They may have ideas on how to take additional precautions.


If you are working with children, share the risks involved with inhaling helium like lung tissue damage and death.
If you're working with kids, make sure that they stop if they seem lightheaded, confused or unable to catch their breathe.
 Helium is even more dangerous if inhaled directly from a pressurized canister or tank.Doing so could result in your lungs rupturing or an air embolism. There have also been cases of suffocation and stroke.


This is also true for inhaling oxygen directly from a tank.
 Your entire body needs oxygen at all times. Inhaling helium multiple times, displaces oxygen from your lungs, which may cause damage to vital organs. For example, your brain can only function without oxygen for 5-6 seconds. Inhaling helium for several minutes is an unnecessary risk.


If you experience dizziness, stop immediately.
If you pass out and lose consciousness, seek medical attention immediately., Before you get started, think of several things you will want to say while using your helium voice. You will only have a few seconds before your voice goes back to normal. Using short phrases is a good idea.


Consider stealing lines from characters like Donald Duck. You could say things like, “Let me at them!” or “Nothin' to it!”, No helium experience is complete without singing a little tune. Find one that you think is hilarious and give it a go. Memorize a line of the chorus so you don’t have to look at your phone.


An excellent choice would be something from Alvin and the Chipmunks. , Pretty much anything you say while using helium will be amusing. Think of something all your own to say and/or sing. If you’re good at improvisation, let your creativity shine through and fly by the seat of your pants.


You can watch videos online or ask your friends to offer up some suggestions. Use these as inspiration to create your own funny lines.
 With all the fun happening, you will probably forget what you or your friends say. Because you will definitely want to relive the moments and laughter, get it on video!


You can do this using your phone or a video camera.

