 By knowing what your 6th grader will be learning in math class, you will be able to help your 6th grader get high grades on their homework and tests. Sixth graders learn a variety of math skills. Your sixth grader will learn how to:Multiply and divide fractions.
Understand ratios and rates, and solve word problems relating to ratios and rates.
Understand the ordering and absolute value of positive and negative numbers, as well as understand that positive and negative numbers are used to describe quantities having opposite directions and values.
Solve simple equations with variables.
Write equations to solve word problems, as well as to describe relationships between quantities.
Reason about relationships between shapes to determine surface area, area, and volume.;
, Build a relationship with your child’s teacher by talking to their teacher regularly about your child’s performance. Try to keep the conversation focused by asking about the most important topics. For example, ask about how they are doing with analyzing and solving problems with ratios and rates, solving expressions with variables, and solving word problems with equations.You can also ask to see examples of their work. Ask the teacher, “Is this piece of work satisfactory?” or “How could it be better?”
You can also ask questions like, “How can I help my child to excel in this area?” “Is my child on track?” or “What resources are available to help my child succeed?”

, By reviewing your child’s homework, you will be able to identify the area’s your child is having difficulty with. When you identify trouble areas, address them with your child. Remember to be supportive instead of critical.For example, once your child is finished with their homework, take a few minutes to review it. When you have identified trouble areas you can say, “I noticed you missed a couple questions in this area, do you understand how to do these problems? Or, “You missed a few questions here, what is causing you to become confused? I can help you.”

, Your sixth grader will need a quite place to study and work on their math homework. Designate a time and place to work on math homework and study for tests.Have your child study or review their math homework 20 minutes each day. For example, the dining room table could be a great place since it is often in another room and away from distractions like the TV and siblings.


You could also create a space in their room by setting up a desk with a chair in one of the corners.
 Teach your child to take notes by telling them to write down important information. Important information can be explanations used by the teacher to explain a difficult problem, as well as strategies, shortcuts, and individual steps to complete math problems.


Teach your child the T-chart method of taking notes. Tell them to draw the letter T. Next, have them write the title of the day’s lesson at the top of the T. Then, show them that general information goes in the left hand column, while more specific information, like detailed explanations, goes in the right hand column., If your child is having difficulty with math, don’t make excuses by saying, “I was never good at math, either.” This gives your sixth grader an excuse to give up on math, or to be unfocused in class. Instead, encourage your child to succeed in math.For example, you can tell them, “Even some of the greatest mathematicians had trouble with math. If you make an effort, you will be able to succeed.”

, Remind your sixth grader that they can succeed in math as long as they stay positive and put in the necessary effort. If your child does poorly on a test, use this time to let your child know that challenges are their best chances to grow and learn. You can recount a time when you were struggling to do something, and how you overcame the challenge.You can say, "When I tried out for the basketball team the first time, I did not make the team. But the following year I practiced really hard and attended as many games as possible. Then, when I tried out the next year, I made the team. I was so happy because I knew my hard work paid off."
When your child does well on a test, do not forget to praise them for their effort.You can say for example, "You earned that A+. You worked hard and did not give up."

, If understanding math is an extra difficult task for your child, or if you do not have time to sit down with your child to review their homework and teach them math problems, then hire a tutor. Also, if studying together causes a fight and is extra hard on you and your child, hire a tutor.Hire a tutor that can help your child, but also one that encourages independent effort.
Ask your child’s teacher or school if they can provide a valid reference for a math tutor.
 By making math a game, you can help your sixth grader become interested in math, and thus, succeed in math. For example, at the supermarket, find an item you regularly purchase, like bread. Ask your child to calculate the cost of each piece of bread by knowing the cost of the loaf and how many pieces of bread are in a loaf.You can also play a game while standing in the checkout line. Before the cashier rings up the groceries, have your sixth grader guess how much they think everything will cost. Once you know the final price, ask your sixth grader how they came up with their number. Then, compare their estimates to the actual prices on the receipt.
 If your sixth grader likes to play video games, have them calculate the average time it takes them to complete a level in a game. For example, record the time it takes to complete the same level three different times. Then, have your child average the times together to get a final average. Encourage them to challenge their friends to see how long it takes them to complete the level on average.
 Cooking and baking are great ways to help your child understand ratios and proportions. The next time you cook dinner, have your child determine the amount of ingredients needed when cooking.


For example, if a recipe calls for six cups of rice to serve three people, how many cups of rice do you need to serve eight people? How about 4 people?