 There are two types of pictures you need to perfect: a headshot and a full body shot. The headshot is useful for submitting to most companies, because it shows your face in the clearest way. The full body shot reveals your body structure, important when marketers want to produce a particular type of image.


Neither of these photos need to be professional. You can even take them on your phone. Just make sure the image is clear and free of shadows.
Do not use a photo of you in a group setting, as this makes it difficult to determine which one you are.
Do not make a face in any of these photos. Not a “duck” or “kissy” face, not a modeling “hard” look. Instead, use a photo in which you are smiling and appear friendly and approachable.
Use a tasteful photo in the full body shot, making sure you aren’t wearing revealing clothing or are attempting to be “implied nude.” Wear a tasteful, attractive outfit.;
, For modeling photos and interviews, the clothes should not be center-point of your photos. Modeling is about selling the person in the clothes, so the viewer should not even feel like commenting on the outfit because they are so drawn to the individual.Wear only solid colors. No prints, images, or words.
Make sure the clothes fit properly; not too tight or too baggy.
Don't wear jewelry. Large jewelry especially is distracting and can be seen as tacky.
 You don’t need modeling experience to come up with a good resume for modeling. Instead, if you have very little or no experience, begin the resume with your personal stats followed by experience that suggests you enjoy interacting with people. The final portion should showcase any special skills you have.


You should find an example of a modeling resume and fill it in with your information.Personal stats include shoe size, dress size, hair color, eye color, face shape, body measurements, and any other physical detail you feel would be useful for promoting products. Don’t lie about these things; since you appear in person at gigs, the lie will quickly become obvious and tarnish your reputation (not to mention lose you a job).The experience section includes any time you have hosted an event, done public speaking, bartended, worked in customer service, performed or assisted at a trade show, and any number of socially-oriented tasks or work.
Special skills useful on a modeling resume include speaking another language, singing, MCing, DJing, fighting styles, and anything that could be used in a promotional setting.
 For your resume, you need honest and accurate measurements. This is because model recruiters are looking for specific sizes, and if you show up not fitting the outfits they have for you, you lose a job. Instead, take good measurements and put them on top of your resume.For women: measure your height barefoot, the bust, smallest part of your waist, the largest part of your hips and bottom, and leg from crotch to ankle.For men: measure the neck at the Adam's apple (loosening it slightly with one finger), your height barefoot, waist and hips like women, chest below armpits at the fullest part, inseam from crotch to ankle, and sleeve from middle of the neck (between shoulders) and over the shoulder and elbow to the wrist., Although it is tempting to reach out directly to companies to find gigs, most jobs come through third-party modeling agencies. These agencies partner with companies to supply them with models.You should register yourself on the website of these agencies before approaching the companies themselves.


Some reputable modeling agencies include Fusion Event Staffingand Cosibella Promotional Modeling.Find modeling agencies in your area by asking local models that you have met. You can also find them by using internet search engines and using terms like "modeling agency" with your city name.
 The next place to discover real modeling gigs is craigslist. This is especially helpful for finding work in your local area. Look in the sections titled Gigs, Talent, or Job, and search for positions such as “brand ambassador” and “promo girl.”You can use other classifieds websites like Bookoo.com and Freecycle.com, as well as searching the classifieds section of your local newspaper in print or on their website.
 Facebook is a convenient forum for gathering people of like minds. Joining Facebook groups in your area with “promo girl” or “promotional model” in the title will most likely list promotional gigs quite frequently.


For example, search for a group title like “Brand Ambassadors of ________”, inserting your city name. If the group exists, you will likely find plenty of work right in your town.
 You can of course always use good old Google to find local gigs. Use search terms like “promo girl” and “brand ambassador” followed by the word “agency” or “company.” It’s always best to apply to agencies, not directly to companies, since companies outsource their modeling hires to these agencies.
 There are also portfolio websites where you can post your information for agencies to look up. Just fill in a profile with one of your prepared photos, and agencies might reach out to you.


Websites like Model Mayhemand One Model Placeare popular portfolio database websites.
A profile should include a good head shot, your age (important for when agencies look for specific ages), your measurements, personal website, location, information about your experiences and what you enjoying modeling for, and others things that the website prompts you to enter.
 Instead of focusing on networking with agency managers, look to other promo models to help you find work. Although some models might not give you a referral because they fear losing work themselves, many will be happy to tell you where to find their booking agencies.


Ask other promo models who helps them book gigs and whether you should fill out an online form or contact the modeling agency manager directly. Remember, this is not the same thing as talking to a company owner—you are looking for the agency who books the models, and whether or not this agency can be networked in person.
 When applying for direct positions you have found in your job search, have a cover letter ready to go with your resume. This letter should include details like what things you do to remain professional, why you are easy to work with, and what makes you a good promotional model.This goes for both internet and in-person applications, although it is likely most of your applying will be done online.
If you are headed to an event where different companies and promo models will be present, it is wise to bring along your resume, cover letter, and promotional photos. Then you can hand them over if you get the chance to meet a modeling agency manager.
 Many promotional modeling gigs require brand-identifying outfits or costumes. If they don’t give you clothes to wear, they usually want you to dress in a particular way. You should always check into the type of clothes required for the gig before signing a contract. If you’re uncomfortable with what is required of you, back out.


For example, many beverage girl gigs require revealing dresses or tight outfits. Since these girls are usually hired to promote alcohol at events with men present, the commitment to such outfits might inspire flirtation. If you are uncomfortable with attention like this, you shouldn’t sign up.
 You can’t just stand there and “look pretty.” Promotional models have to be energetic, outgoing, and interactive. They aren’t like the models on game shows who just stand still and press buttons. The goal of most promotional gigs is to pass out samples or flyers, often getting consumer information in return.


You must be able to get people involved in events, and get them excited enough about products to purchase them.
You should be able to enjoy yourself in crowds. If you look like you’re having fun, the consumer will too.
 Since many promotional models must travel to events, making sure you don’t rely on public transportation or a lemon car is key. On top of this, you will probably be shipped any number of promotional materials needed to showcase at an event, and you must be able to transport them safely.


Promotional materials may include free samples, flyers, and character costumes, and you will most likely end up at malls, events, and various stores in your local area., Since most models are contract workers, this means they have to pay taxes from their earnings on their own. Models must also come up with their own health insurance, or pay the annual fee for not having health insurance.


The 2016 health insurance penalty was 2.5% of household income, and this rate is rising each year.Go to the HealthCare.gov website to find an insurance plan if you don’t have one yet.
You will receive a 1099-MISC from the agencies you model for each year. The sum of earnings on these forms is what is taxed by the IRS. The 2016 self-employment tax rate was 15.3%, and that is how much you should save from each paycheck throughout the year.One modeling agency that does provide a W-2—meaning they pay the taxes—is Across the Nation, a rarity among promo modeling agencies.