 Because your fountain is out in the elements all day, it's going to suffer the effects of Mother Nature. Dirt, wind, animals and precipitation all can affect your fountain's operation, so it's important to make frequent checks to ensure it's running properly.;
, The pump is the single most important piece of equipment in your fountain. If it's not working or working at reduced capacity, shut it off and remove it before making repairs. Look for obstructions and other signs of wear about once a month.


Remove leaves and other debris from the pump's intake valve and housing. With the pump taken out of the fountain, wipe it clean with a damp cloth. Use a toothbrush to scrub hard-to-reach areas.
Flush the pump and hose lines if they appear to be clogged.
Replace filters or damaged components as necessary.
 Outdoor fountains can be dirtied by a variety of factors. Algae blooms, animal waste and mineral deposits can foul the water in your fountain and affect its appearance. Take steps to neutralize these conditions.


Algae: The tiny organism can flourish in outdoor fountains, particularly in direct sunlight during the peak summer months. Gently scrub it away with a diluted bleach mixture. Thoroughly rinse the fountain afterward. You also can add all-natural products to the water to keep algae in check. These items are rich in enzymes that inhibit algae growth but do no harm pets or other animals.
Animal waste: Birds are frequent visitors to outdoor fountains, and while they're often bright additions to the landscape, they can be messy. Wipe bird droppings away with a damp sponge but try not to use soap. Consider replacing the water, too.
Mineral deposits: Hard-water stains often appear on the fountain surface as crusty, white buildups. Scrub these off with white vinegar and allow the fountain wash the deposits away.
 Experts suggest changing the water in an outdoor fountain at least once a week. Mix in additives designed to inhibit algae growth and deposit buildups with each water change. Fresh water helps keep the system running smoothly and makes the fountain inviting to wildlife.

