 Though they may have similar characteristics, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis have different causes.If you have rheumatoid arthritis, then your joints are being attacked by your own immune system, which is the source of the pain. With osteoarthritis, the pain is caused by use of the joints. The type of arthritis you have may influence which treatments are most appropriate for you.


Rheumatoid arthritis can begin at any age, while osteoarthritis usually occurs later in life, since it is associated with joint usage. The symptoms will often present rapidly instead of appearing gradually over the years.A major sign that you have rheumatoid arthritis and not osteoarthritis is the presence of other symptoms, such as fatigue and a persistent feeling of being sick.Pain resulting from rheumatoid arthritis affects joints big and small and usually occurs on both sides of the body. Morning pain will last longer than an hour.If you have osteoarthritis, you may experience morning pain, but you are more likely to feel it after using the affected joints., Being overweight can cause or increase complications associated with arthritis. It can also contribute to arthritis pain. You should try to slowly make changes in your life to lose weight, such as exercising more and eating better.You need to build muscles around your joints, but you don't want to damage the joints themselves.


You should focus on stretching and range of motion exercises that will gradually increase your strength. Avoid running, jumping, tennis, and high-impact aerobics.Try to exercise later in the day. This will help you feel less stiff when you wake up in the morning.
These should be permanent lifestyle changes, so you can continue to maintain your weight over time. This will help you increase your overall health and reduce your arthritis pain for a long time.Losing weight will help with the degenerative changes seen with aging and wear and tear.
 In addition to exercise, you should stay mobile throughout the day. The more stationary you are, the more pain you will experience once you get going again. When you are at work, try to get up and move at least once an hour. You should adjust your position frequently, move your neck from side to side, change the position of your hands, and bend and stretch your legs whenever you can.


If you have really bad leg pain from arthritis, you should try to get up and walk around every 30 minutes., If you find yourself losing range of motion in your joints, your doctor may have you work with a physical therapist. The physical therapist can show you exercises to help keep your muscles and joints strong and loose, so you don't become too stiff.


She may also be able to design you a personal fitness program, with strengthening and cardiovascular exercises that will help with joint pain as well as with your health and weight maintenance., Yoga is a combination of deep breathing, meditation, and body poses. It will help decrease joint pain and stiffness as well as reduce any stress you have. Make sure you listen to your body and only do those poses that will help you move and that don't hurt your joints.


You should start slow and then increase your movements as you get comfortable with the movements., If you are suffering from extreme pain, you may be able to use devices that help you move easier or in ways that don't hurt your joints as much. Try using a cane or walker whenever your joints are hurting too much. This will help you ease some of the pain on the joints that hurt and allow them to stop swelling and have less pain.


You can also try to use a raised toilet seat or specialized bathtub to help with your pain or with any trouble you have moving around., To avoid overworking your joints and bringing on more pain, you should learn to put less pressure on your joints. Incorporate new items or activities into your daily life in order to preserve and protect your joints. Try using pens with a larger base, which will make them easier to hold and write. You can also buy objects with larger and longer handles, so you don't have to strain as much to carry them.


You should also pick up things with stronger joints instead of smaller ones. For example, when holding heavy bags, you should hold them with your elbow joint instead of your wrists or fingers.
You can also buy plastic dishes to make them easier to carry, use, and wash., When you are suffering from arthritis pain, one of the best ways to alleviate it is to use heat. It relaxes the muscles and helps to temporarily relieve the pain. Try applying heat pads or patches, taking a hot bath or shower, or using paraffin wax on the painful areas.


Be careful not to burn yourself. You should never use a heating pad for more than 20 minutes at a time.You can also use cold for your muscles. It will temporarily numb the pain associated with arthritis., Epsom salt contains magnesium sulfate, which is a natural mineral that has been used for years for pain relief. The high levels of magnesium help reduce the pain in your joints when you soak it in water.


To make the soak, fill a large bowl with warm water and add a 1/2 cup of Epsom salt. Place the joint that is in pain in the bowl and let it soak for at least 15 minutes.
If the joint is not easily soaked in a bowl, such as a knee joint, try adding Epsom salt to a warm bath and soaking in it for a while., Instead of relying just on food to get Vitamin D, you can also use the sun to get vitamin D. Try going out of the house into the sun without sunscreen for 10-15 every other day. This can help you absorb a lot of vitamin D in a natural way without running the risk of causing skin problems due to UV rays from the sun.


You can just leave your hands free from sunscreen if you are worried about your skin. Even just that small portion of your skin can help you absorb more vitamin D., Smoking is bad for your overall health, but it can also cause arthritis pain. Smoking puts chemicals in your body that causes stress on connective tissues, which will lead to more arthritis pain.


Try using patches, chewing gum, or going cold turkey to quit smoking.