 Sleep paralysis can be terrifying, and you may feel the need to fight against it, especially if you feel as though you are being held down. But the best thing you can do is to try and relax. If you feel like you are being held down, don't try to push against the force — allow yourself to be pushed. This may help you wake up or slip into a dream.Try memorizing a statement like, “I am in sleep paralysis, a natural condition, and I am in no danger.” Repeat the affirmation if sleep paralysis occurs while going to sleep or waking up.;
, Understanding sleep paralysis may help you to relax when it occurs — if you know and understand what is happening, and that it is only temporary, it may be easier for you to relax when it happens. Sleep paralysis can be a sign of a rare condition called narcolepsy, but it is usually not indicative of a serious disorder. When you are asleep you experience something called "atonia," which is your brain keeping your body still and relaxed (possibly so you don't act out what is happening in your dream and injure yourself or others.) Sleep paralysis is when you are aware of is state.Scientists believe sleep paralysis may occur when you do not smoothly transition out of REM sleep
You may experience hallucinations, including thinking someone is in the room with you or holding you down. Remind yourself that these are just hallucinations, and a normal part of sleep paralysis, and you are not in danger., Some people may be able to break the paralysis by moving an extremity. Try focusing all your attention on your toes or fingers and try to wiggle them or make a fist. Another method is to try scrunching up your face as though you just smelled something foul. Repeat these actions several times and you may be able to wake yourself up., If you share a bed with someone, talk to him about what you are experiencing. He may be able to help you wake up from an episode of sleep paralysis. If your partner notices you breathing heavily and irregularly, ask him to shake you awake. This may or may not work — your partner may end up just waking you from normal sleep, but it's worth a try.Most people cannot speak while experiencing sleep paralysis, but talk to your partner about signaling him when you are having an episode. If you focus on your throat you may be able to whisper "Help" or cough, which can signal your partner to wake you up.