 Winter coats traditionally come in dark colors, such as black, charcoal, or navy, so opting for one in a bright shade definitely makes a statement. Choose a vivid red, hot pink, cobalt, kelly green, or purple coat to really stand out.To avoid having a coat that clashes with most of your clothing, look to your closet for color inspiration. If you wear mostly warm colors, opt for a coat in a bright warm shade, such as red, yellow, pink, or orange. If you wear mostly cool colors, go for a coat in a bright cool shade, such as blue, green, or purple.;
, If a bright color seems too much for your coat, consider making a statement with a coat in a pastel shade. Like bright shades, you don’t see too many winter coats in pale shades such as mint, lilac, sky blue, baby pink, or butter yellow, so your coat will definitely stand out.If pastel shades aren’t your thing, light neutral colors can also work for a statement coat. A light camel or gray can be pretty, but you’ll stand out the most in a white, winter white, or cream colored coat.
 If you aren’t a fan of standout colors, you can make a statement with a coat in an eye-catching pattern. Animal print, stripes, polka dots, floral, plaid, houndstooth, and camouflage patterns are all striking options.To avoid looking too busy, it’s best to choose a patterned coat that features at least one neutral color, such as a white and black polka dotted coat or a gray and blue checkered style.
If you really want to stand out, go for a coat that combines bold color and pattern. For example, you might choose pink and purple floral print coat to make a strong statement.
 If you want your coat to be noticed, choosing a fur style can definitely work. Faux fur can look just as convincing as the real thing, and it’s cheaper and doesn’t pose the moral concerns that real fur does.If you don’t want to wear a coat that’s entirely fur or faux fur, look for an option that just features as fur trim along the lapels or hem of the coat.
For a truly eye-catching coat, opt for a fur coat in a bold color, such as pink, blue, or red, rather than the usual black or brown.
 If a coat with an all-over pattern isn’t your style, an embroidered coat is an ideal alternative that still makes a statement. Embroidery involves creating designs on fabric with thread, so the patterns are more delicate. You can often find coats with embroidered floral designs, but some feature more abstract filigree like patterns.For a subtle statement coat, look for a style that only features embroidered designs in specific areas, such as the lapels or the hemline.
If you really want to turn heads, choose a coat with an all-over embroidered designs.
Most embroidered coats are black and use threads in brighter colors that will pop against the dark fabric. However, you can also find white embroidered coats with colorful thread and embroidered coats in bold colors, such as red, that feature black thread.
 If you prefer a coat in a traditional color such as black or charcoal, you can still make a statement by selecting a style that features embellishments. Look for a coat with metal studs, oversized rhinestone buttons, or sequin detailing.If you want a more subtle statement coat, choose one that only has embellishments in a confined area. For example, you might select a coat with metal studs on the shoulders or sequins on the lapels.
 If you want a coat that helps to highlight your curvy figure, opt for a style with a defined waist. The cut of the coat may nip in at the waist or you can choose a style that has a seam or belt to emphasize your waist.If you don’t have a defined waist, don’t try to create one by choosing a coat that emphasizes that area. You’ll only draw attention to your lack of a defined waist.
 Coats that hit below the knee, particularly at the ankle, aren’t very flattering for most body types, but if you’re tall and thin, they can make a strong statement. Keep in mind that they tend to be more flattering when worn open, so they may not be the best option if you live in a very cold area.An ankle length coat is usually the trickiest to wear. A style that hits at mid-calf is usually a better option.
 Choosing a loose or flowy coat, such as a cape or trapeze style, instantly makes you stand out. They tend to be on the shorter side, usually hitting at the hip or mid-thigh, so they’re an ideal option if you want to show off your legs.Keep in mind that it can sometimes be difficult to carry a bag with a cape style coat.

