 If your current products include these ingredients, replace them. Look for new products that list glycerin as one of the top ingredients, since glycerin can deeply hydrate and protect your hair. Avoid shampoos that advertise as “clarifying” – these will strip moisture from your hair.


Check product labels for words like “smoothing” and “frizz-reducing.”
Look for hydrating ingredients like Argan oil, keratin, avocado oil, vitamin E, Moroccan oil and coconut oil.Avoid shampoos and conditioners that contain alcohol, which can dry out and damage your hair.;
, Wavy hair requires more moisture than straight hair to combat frizz. After shampooing, apply a rich deep conditioner for a boost of hydration. Don’t skimp on the conditioner – apply plenty of it. Then run a wide-toothed comb through your hair to distribute the conditioner evenly. Leave the deep conditioner on for at least five minutes.Look for deep conditioners that contain ingredients like shea butter, glycerin, coconut oil and Argan oil.
If your hair gets weighed down too much by deep conditioner, avoid applying it to your roots. Try applying it from the mid-shaft down to the ends.
 Right before you get out of the shower, rinse what’s left of the conditioner out of your hair with the coldest water you can tolerate. Avoid using the wide-toothed comb during the rinse, since at this stage it can damage your strands., Switch from terrycloth bath towels to microfiber towels for your hair. Microfiber towels absorb water better and faster than traditional terrycloth towels, and they don't disrupt the hair's natural wave. Flip your hair upside down, wrap it in the microfiber towel and gently squeeze the water from your hair.


Start at the roots and work your way down to the ends.
Be gentle with your wet hair. Never rub at or use rough motions on your hair with a towel, which will disturb the hair cuticle and create frizz.
 Blow dryers focus a lot of hot air on your strands and this will dehydrate your hair, especially if you live in a dry climate or during the winter when there’s less humidity in the air.

Let wavy hair air dry 90 percent of the way and then use your blow dryer to dry the remaining 10 percent.

