 If possible, excuse yourself to go outside or to the restroom. Physically removing yourself from the presence of other people not only saves you embarrassment, but can help keep everyone else healthy, particularly if you have a cold or sinus infection.


Anyone within three feet of you can be affected by the germs spread by sneezing or blowing your nose. Classrooms are full of people in close proximity, so for your sake and everyone else’s it’s best to step outside.
Let the teacher know if you’re needing to blow your nose or sneeze frequently on a particular day, or if you’re experiencing a chronic issue. That way they will know that you may need to excuse yourself intermittently, and won’t think you’re trying to be disruptive or to get out of class.;
, If you’re having a particularly sneezy day, try to lessen the effect of your sneezes by sitting at the back of the class (or at least positioning yourself out of range of your crush).
 When the class is listening attentively to an important announcement might not be the best time to let loose a loud honk. Wait till everyone is talking and you can discreetly turn and blow your nose with minimal disruption.
 You can muffle your sneezes if you have a good handful of tissue. The more material mucus has to go into, the less your classmates are likely to see or feel it- and the less likely you are to experience the embarrassment of flinging a glob of snot at a cute boy or girl.


Avoid using cloth handkerchiefs; not only do they trap mucus that then stays in your pocket, turning your pockets into a breeding ground for germs and infectious bacteria, they are actually frowned on culturally in some parts of the world. Dispose properly of your tissues. Put each tissue you use directly into the wastebasket-no one wants to see a pile of used tissues on your desk.
 When you’re in class, it’s not always possible to immediately wash your hands, but do so at the earliest opportunity to help prevent the spread of germs. You can also carry sanitized hand wipes or a small bottle of hand sanitizer with you.

