 Many times it may be difficult to find the time to fit a workout into your busy schedule. But studies have shown if you take a step back and start scheduling in your workouts like you would a doctor's appointment, you might have better success.Take some free time on your days off and review your upcoming schedule for the week. Look for slots within some of your days (it can be three to five days a week) that you could fit in some exercise. It can be an hour of time or something as short as 10–15 minutes.
Write your workout in your weekly calendar or datebook, or program it into your phone as a reminder.
 Keep yourself motivated to work out when you're feeling tired by focusing on the benefits of exercise. Studies have shown that this may help you follow through with your workouts.Before you can visualize, spend some time writing down the benefits you get from being active. You might write about being able to maintain your weight or lose weight, feeling more energetic during the day, feeling more fit and healthy, or feeling strong and confident.
You can also choose to think about all the health benefits of physical activity, like decreased risk of high blood pressure or diabetes, better control of blood sugar and blood pressure, improved circulation and better sleep patterns and mood.If you're not feeling up for a workout, spend a few minutes visualizing how you'll feel, how it'll feel doing the exercise, how you'll feel immediately afterwards and long-term. Imagine yourself powering through your workout, feeling positive and confident in yourself, feeling proud of yourself and reaching long-term goals.
 It's recommended to get in about 150 minutes of cardio a week. Although that seems like a long time, it works out to 30 minutes five days a week, and there is no guideline that says it can't be done in short intervals throughout the day.If you're not up for a full- on workout or are too tired to hit the gym, do a short 10-minute activity. It still counts as exercise and the benefits are almost identical to those people who did longer bouts of exercise.
Don't get frustrated or upset with yourself if you're not in the mood to work out. Try a 10-minute walk, restorative and relaxing yoga or a few isometric exercises (like planks).
Another strategy is to present yourself with small opportunities to get some activity in your life. For instance, get off the bus a few stops early and walk the rest of the way or skip the elevator in the morning and take the stairs. Commit yourself to do one thing like this each day.
 If you're tired and you do not particularly enjoy the exercise you're supposed to be doing, there's probably little chance you'll follow through. Choose fun and exciting forms of exercise to help motivate you.If going to the gym is not your thing or you find running miserable, you're less likely to continue exercising. Find something you truly enjoy that also counts as physical activity.
Try something outside the box, like hiking, kayaking, swimming, taking dance lessons or playing a team sport.
Also try working out with a friend or in a group setting. This can make it more fun if you have someone to socialize with as well., If you're not using correct form for exercises you're at increased risk for injury, but you may also be tiring yourself out.When you're not using correct form or even using too much weight, your body spends more energy and calories. This can create fatigue in the short and long-term.
If you do exercises, especially strength exercises, try performing the exercises in front of a mirror so you can see what you're body is doing and what form you're using.
Make sure not to do strength training on the same muscle group two days in a row. For example, do not do leg strengthening exercises on Monday and Tuesday. This can create muscle fatigue and doesn't help build strength over time.Also consider making an appointment with a personal trainer or a staff member at your local gym. They may be able to guide you more closely on how to do certain exercises or use equipment and help you find exercises you really enjoy to help you feel motivated.

