 Sometimes when we feel threatened by prejudice or discrimination we can want to hide ourselves from the world so that no more harm can be done to us. Hiding and concealing your identity may be a self-protective measure, but also may increase stress and negative reactions to prejudice.Know who you are and accept yourself regardless of what you believe others think about you.Identify who you can trust with your personal information and be open around these individuals.
 Group solidarity can help people be more resilient against prejudice and protect against mental health issues.Any kind of group will do, but it will be especially helpful if you join a group that matches your uniqueness (such as a Women’s group, LGBT group , African American group, Religion-based group, etc). This can help you be emotionally resilient (less angry or depressed and more in control) in the face of prejudice., If you have experienced prejudice or discrimination, social support can be crucial in coming to terms with these issues and healing from them. Family support can help reduce the negative mental health effects of prejudice.Talk with your close family or friends about the injustice you have experienced.
 If you have experienced prejudice or discrimination in the past it is understandable that you would be wary of experiencing this again. However, expecting for others to be prejudiced against you, or thinking others will act a certain way can lead to increased stress.Don’t expect to be rejected.Try to look at each situation and interaction as a new experience.
Expecting that others with be prejudiced against you can become a prejudice in itself. Try not to generalize and label others as a certain way (including as prejudiced, judgmental, racist, etc). Remember that if you pre-judge people and expect them to be prejudiced, then you may be the one with the bias.
 Some people may have negative ways of coping with prejudice, including aggressive behaviors or unnecessary confrontations.Instead of sacrificing your values to cope with prejudice, use ways of coping that help to release or process your emotions related to prejudice.


Express yourself through: art, writing, dance, music, acting, or anything else that is creative.
 Being active in reducing prejudice may help give you a sense that you are making a difference.


One option is to become an advocate or volunteer at an organization which aims to reduce prejudice and discrimination.
If you can’t volunteer for an organization, you can donate money or even supplies. Many homeless shelters will accept canned food, clothing, and other items.

