 This can be either a toe ring you bought at the store or a simple loop of twine. For barefoot sandals, ring placement is generally best on the second toe. However, the sandal will work with any toe on your foot. Just keep in mind that commercially-made toe rings are generally not made to fit your biggest toe., Like the toe ring, the type of ankle bracelet you choose is entirely up to you. Some possible choices of anklet are:


A store-bought anklet or bracelet.
Beads threaded onto an elastic cord. Just make sure that you can fit the stretched-out loop over your feet.
Simple lace or other decorative material that can be tied around your ankle. If you're tying your "anklet" directly to your ankle, be sure to pick a knot that is both secure but easy to undo at the end of the day.
 Place one end of the twine slightly past your anklet and your toe ring. Make sure the twine is fairly tight and without slack.


You may also use cloth, lace, or elastic cord instead of twine.
Do this step with your foot extended, unless your string is extra stretchy. If you measure with your foot flat on the ground, your string may be too short.
 Once you've positioned your twine how you want it without slack, cut it with a pair of scissors. While you want your sandal to be tight, make sure to leave about an extra inch on each end. You'll use this extra material to tie your sandal together.
 Sparkly beads that look like gems are popular for wedding sandals. If you're going for a hippie look, wood beads may be the best choice. For kids' anklets, plastic craft beads also work well.Try to coordinate the colors of your beads to match your toe ring and anklet. If you made your own beaded anklet, consider using the same beads for the strap.
 Make a secure double knot at each end. When tying the first end, you'll need to make sure the beads don't slide off the other side. Either ask a friend to hold the other end or use a bead stopper. A small piece of tape can act as a bead stopper as long as your beads aren't made of a heavy material like metal.
 Try to get as close to the knot as possible. Using small cuticle scissors will make this task much easier. Be very careful so as not to cut your bracelet or toe ring while you trim.


This completes your first barefoot sandal.
 You may also choose to wear just one or barefoot sandals in completely different colors. However, making an identical pair will be more likely to create the illusion of real sandals.

