 This keyblade has the unique ability Combo Boost, which let's you do more damage whenever you deal a blow on the enemy (combo).


You can obtain Decisive Pumpkin if you defeat the Experiment at Halloween Town.;
, This will boost all your resistance by 25%, including physical damage resistance.


Complete the Twilight puzzle to obtain Highest Ribbon.
 Ribbon will boost all your resistance, including physical damage resistance.


You can synthesize ribbon. Find the recipe at http://www.khwiki.com/Ribbon.
 This will add 3 points to Sora’s strength.


Full Bloom+ is an upgrade of Full Bloom. You can synthesize both; find the recipes at http://www.khwiki.com/Full_Bloom+.
 Lexaeus’ powers up every time you hit him with his shield up, this includes Donald's magic and Goofy running into him.
 This will help you avoid all unnecessary attacks from Donald and Goofy; it also helps you with your health as Genie will continuously heal you.
, Lexaeus will blow Sora, Donald, and Goofy away with his aura while charging his power bar.


Be sure to summon Genie as soon as Lexaeus uses this.
Do not attack him during this phase as his power will increase immensely.
 Lexaeus will attack you with his tomahawk.
 Lexaeus will throw his tomahawk in the air and summon 3 earth spikes.


This can be dodged by either using Reflega or Dodge Roll (analog + □) 3 times, with a pause in between.
Dodge Roll out of the way to avoid it.
 Lexaeus will run toward Sora and throw him into a pillar, then throw his tomahawk at him.


This is very hard to avoid. The visual cue for this is similar to most attacks, and it can only be blocked by Reflega. Luckily he'll only use this when his aura is around 50,000 plus.
 Lexaeus will leave the arena and smash down on Sora. He will then summon large rocks from below the earth, which covers the entire area.


Spam Reflega as he's about to come down; you should get away unscathed.
 You'll have a small window frame to do this while Lexaeus power charges. Donald or Goofy might attack him if you don't do it fast enough, and his damage will increase substantially.
 He might attack you with shattering earth. To avoid it, dodge roll as soon as he throws his tomahawk in the air, then dodge roll again after the first rock appears. Pause for a moment before dodge rolling for the 3rd time.


Don't dodge roll too far from Lexaeus as you'll want to be near him at all times to avoid his power charge.
 This is the attack that you're waiting for. Make sure that you're standing close to him when you block so the Reaction Command (∆) will activate.
 After the finisher, wait for Lexaeus to land on the ground and do another combo, but don't use the finisher or he'll retaliate and power up.
 If you do this correctly, it will prevent Lexaeus from ever powering up and using stronger attacks.
 However, if you see Lexaeus turning around near Sora, immediately spam Reflega. Lexaeus will grapple Sora, and it is impossible to guard against this. Only Reflega can protect you against it.
 This means that Lexaeus will use his desperation attack. Wait for him to start coming down, then spam Reflega until your whole screen is taken over by rocks.
,