 Your hair doesn’t need to be freshly washed, but you don’t want it to be oily or flat.


If you wash your hair before doing this style, add volumizer or a similar hair product as part of your styling process/while drying. If you do this, there is no need to add an additional volumizer to your hair later in the process.
 If possible, make sure that this has heat protectant properties. If not, you may want to add a few spritzes of heat protectant to your hair as well.
 Using a comb, mark out a straight side part and comb your hair so that it falls neatly on either side of the part.


You may find it useful to fasten your bangs (or the front piece of your hair that will be styled to look a bit like bangs) on the larger side of your part to the side while you work on the rest of your hair.
 Starting at the side of your part that has less hair, wrap different-sized chunks of hair around the barrel of a 1.5-inch (38mm) curling wand. Pull the chunks of hair towards your face as you wrap them around the wand, and hold them there for 10 to 20 seconds.How long you should hold your hair on the wand will depend on the power of your wand and the type of hair you have. For example, if you have fine hair, it will take less time than if it’s thick.
The chunks of hair should be more vertically thick (going from the top of your head to the bottom of it) than horizontally thick (going from one side of your head to the other), as you want long, soft, waves more than tight curls.
If you are unsure of what size each chunk of hair should be, aim for between 2 and 3 inches thick.
 If you already have bangs, you needn’t do much beyond brushing them to the side and tucking them in so that they blend with your hair depending on their length. If they’re longer or if you don’t have bangs, pull the chunk of hair at the front of the large side of your part (i.e. where your bangs would be) up above your head and wrap it backwards, away from your face, around the curling wand. Wait for 10 to 20 seconds, then let it go.
 Move on to the rest of the hair on the large side of your part, continuing to pull the chunks of hair away from your face as you wrap them around the wand.
 Gently run your fingers through your hair in order to break the curls up and blend them into waves. You can also do this with a large-tooth comb.
 Spray your hair with texturizing spray and style it with your hands to get it into the shape you desire.

