 Whether you’re picking out new furniture, redoing your floors, or painting your bedroom room a new color, think long-term. Recognize that constantly updating or replacing your decor will have negative consequences on the environment, even if you’re using eco-friendly materials. Avoid impulse shopping or immediately going with what seems like the cheapest option. Instead, make choices that will satisfy your tastes for years to come and invest in decor that will last a long time. For example:Say you want a new armchair, but your current budget is limited. Although you may be tempted to go with the cheapest option available, wait it out and save more money for a future purchase, since a cheaply constructed chair will likely break down in a shorter amount of time. This will increase your footprint with physical waste plus more energy consumption through production and transportation.
 Between globalization and online shopping, the marketplace for decor is as wide as the world. However, keep in mind that the farther a product has to travel, the larger your footprint is due to the energy consumed during transportation. Although there may be great deals out there from far-flung sources, prioritize local ones to minimize the amount of pollution and lost resources that transportation causes. Apply this mindset not only to local vendors, but their sources as well. For instance:If you’re buying new wooden flooring from a store just down the street, the amount of distance your flooring has to travel from store to home is next to nil. However, if the store gets their timber from half a world away, shopping at a store one town over may be preferable if they get their timber from sources closer to home.
 Remember that even with sustainable materials, the act of production creates pollution and uses up finite resources. Reduce your contribution to this unfortunate effect by using secondhand items to furnish and decorate your home. Visit thrift stores, yard sales, and flea markets. Utilize the internet to find items for sale (or even freebies) through social media and online classifieds. Ask friends, family, and neighbors to let you know when they plan on getting rid of any items that you might want or need.Don’t let pride get in the way. Keep your eyes peeled for items being tossed out with other people’s garbage. Find out your sanitation department’s schedules for bulk pick-up in your area and go cruising. If you live near a college town, take advantage of the fact that many rental leases expire at the same time of year, which means the streets may be lined with discarded furniture and items.
 Eliminate the environmental impact of both production and transportation. Use items that you already have to fill new roles as part of your home decor. There is no limit to the DIY projects that can transform one object into another. You can do anything from:Make a new ottoman out of a plastic milk crate.
Transform empty tea, cookie, or popcorn tins as flower pots, pencil jars, candleholders, or umbrella stands.
Use an old door as a tabletop for a new coffee table.
 Decorate your home with plants and indoor potted trees. Not only are these sustainable decor choices, but they can improve the overall health of your household. Use these to combat toxic pollutants like formaldehyde that items like cleaning products and furniture components can introduce to your home.In addition to live plants, consider other natural materials that can be incorporated into eye-catching decorations, like:Pinecones
Stones
Antlers
Driftwood

, In addition to seeking out toxic-free paints, lower your footprint even more by carefully considering which colors to use. Remember that even your toxic-free paint will still create pollution and use up resources through production and transportation. So, when deciding which color to paint a room, consider how much sunlight that rooms receive. Even if you have your heart set on a dark color, go with a lighter shade if it receives a lot. This way any fading will be less noticeable, which means each paint job will last longer.