 Will it be explanatory, informative, fictional, fantasy, horror, realistic fiction, historical fiction, medieval, romantic, or comedic? (keep in mind that you can also combine elements such as adventure and horror in one, or romance and comedy to make a romantic comedy.);
, Is it in the Roman Era? Is it in Great Land, and goes back to the "ancient" times, like "Beowulf" or "Grendel"? You can use stories such as these for examples or check out your local bookstore or library to find some simpler tales like Hansel and Gretel. Make a chart/notes of where these time settings are, and then use those notes/chart to get some more ideas.
 What are there names, and what are they like? Do they suffer from mental illnesses? Are they boy or girl? Where do they work? Do they live with people? Who? How many people? Where? What do they live inside of? Is it a box, a trailer, an RV, a van, an apartment, a house, a castle, a haunted house, a mansion, a bustling city block complex, or even just a modern day, regular sized house?

, Try this method:


Write down all of your preferred locations, types, and time periods for this house. (Include size, too!)
Graph them on a sheet in lines. (E.g; haunted house would be in the type of house line, next to it the size, then the time period.)
Circle the ones you like best. You could even mix something as ridiculous as a spaceship in a yard by a bunch of houses in the 1700s! Let your imagination run wild!

, Characterize and customize your character! (Consider using the Sims.)

, This will set the mood for your writing. If it is about a sorrowful person, listen to fun songs such as "Pain" by Three Days Grace or Opera music. If it is about a serial killer, or the scene is about murder, then you could listen to stuff such as "Bodies" by drowning pool, or even Opera music. (Seriously, though, you could use opera for just about anything!.)

, This has been used at many schools, and it was proven that more students had better organization, and so their AIMS testing scores on writing increased from low to high.


P1. Your P1s are the main part of the whole Power writing. The P1, the heading of the whole thing, states your main idea, or what you are talking about or describing in a few words or a phrase.
P2. Next, you have three P2s (or more) which describe the main idea. For example, if your P1 was "My Favorite Desserts," then you might have Tiramisu or ice cream as a P2.
P3. The Power three's describe the P2, and come right after it. So now, after Tiramisu (P2), you would write "P3" and then write how it tastes, how it looks, how it feels, how it smells, etc.

