 Pokopom supports only controller input and can utilize features like rumble and pressure sensitive input. Pokopom will also support guitar-style controllers like those used with the Guitar Hero games., Go to http://pcsx2.net/download.html and choose the installer for your platform. Upon launching the program you will be greeted with the first time setup.
 By default your system language is chosen. Press “Next” to proceed to the plugin configuration.
 PAD is the second menu in the list of plugins.
 This is located to the right of the PAD menu and will open a list of options for setting up the Pokopom plugin.
 Select a radio from the “Xinput Controller” section in the upper left. This value only needs to be changed if you are connecting multiple gamepads to your computer.


Xinput allows automatic emulation of a PS2 controller using a and Xbox360 pad. The buttons will be automatically mapped to the corresponding locations on a PS2 controller.Xinput is bundled with Pokopom and does not need to be downloaded separately.
For minor remapping, you can select the “Swap buttons in the “Misc” category to switch those two functions.
 From the “Left Stick” and “Right Stick” sections in the lower right, you can change the left/right and x/y axes associated with each direction of both analog sticks.


Typically axis settings can be adjusted in game, so only make a change here if you want that setting consistent through all games and menu functions.
 Move the “Deadzone” slider to the right to increase the amount of space that will ignore input when moving the analog stick. To the left will decrease.


You can also use the “Anti-Deadzone” slider to have the emulator software try to override deadzones already implemented into games.
Each analog stick utilizes separate Deadzone sliders.
 Move the rumble slider near the top of the window to the left to decrease intensity, and to the right to increase it.


You must be using a rumble-supported gamepad in order to utilize this feature.
This feature will not force rumble in games that do not support it.
 This will reset all of your changes back to the original settings. Since bindings cannot be adjusted, these do not need to be changed again.
 Select “Controller 2” in the upper left and repeat the previous steps as necessary in order to play multiplayer games.
 This will save your controller configurations and close the window.

