 Taking a warm bath can help relieve pain and discomfort that hemorrhoids cause, as well as promote bowel movements.Completely submerge your bottom by sitting in the bath two to three times a day for 10 to 15 minutes.
You can also try a baking soda bath. This can soothe the irritated skin, relieve itching and reduce burning. Fill the bathtub with warm water and add four or five tablespoons of baking soda. Soak for at least 10 to 20 minutes two times a day or when you feel pain.You may also consider applying a baking soda paste over the affected area to relieve pain.
 Icing the affected area will decrease swelling and discomfort that hemorrhoids cause.Wrap an ice pack or ice cubes in a towel and apply it for 10 minutes over the affected area three to four times a day.
 It is important to keep the area clean to reduce risk of irritation and infection. Use unscented white toilet paper or wet wipes after every bowel movement or take a quick shower.Pat dry the area well and apply moisturizer to keep the skin healthy. For example, try aloe vera lotion or coconut oil to moisturize the skin.Ask your doctor if you should use medicated moisturizers or topical antibiotic ointments.
 Witch hazel contains tannins and is considered an ancient treatment for hemorrhoids. Applying witch hazel over the affected area may help relieve irritation, burning, and swelling and prevent infection.Soak a pad or cotton ball with witch hazel and apply it to the area after bowel movements or up to six times a day.
Although topical witch hazel is considered safe for adults, check with your doctor before using it when you are pregnant.
Also, witch hazel is available in topical and oral form but you should not use the oral form when you are pregnant.
 Certain topical creams (Preparation H), medicated wipes, and sprays are available to treat and relieve symptoms of hemorrhoids. Before using any of these, check with your doctor.Topical creams, such as Preparation H, should only be used for external use and should never be inserted directly into the rectum.Ask your healthcare provider or the pharmacist for a recommendation on which products to use and the frequency of use during pregnancy.
 If you suffer from constipation or hardened stool, taking stool softeners make it easier to pass stool and help relieve hemorrhoids.Stool softeners are generally considered safe during pregnancy, but you should still consult your doctor before taking any over-the-counter medications.
Stool softeners are available in both oral and suppository forms.
Always use the product according to your doctor’s instructions and do not use them extended periods of time. You should treat and prevent long-term constipation with lifestyle changes instead of medications.
 If you are dealing with hemorrhoids during pregnancy and nothing seems to be helping, then talk to your doctor about your options. There are prescription treatments available that can help.