 Designate one room of your house as the room where most of the party stuff will be (normally it's the first room people see when they walk in.);
, You may already have some good pieces, like a colorful rug or a bright couch. What you don't already have (and want to buy; you can still have a party without furniture), you'll need to buy at Ottoman's.(If you don't have Stars to spare, go play some games until you have enough.) Here are some good things to buy:


Colorful lights, such as the twinkling stars and the Rubix cube lights.
A nice rug-size doesn't matter, as long as it's where people can see!
A nice couch is always a fun addition.
Music-themed furniture, like the Cloud DJ booth or the flashing piano keyboard, gives the impression that music is being played, which looks cool.
 Go into the party menu at your house (it's the balloon button next to the 'change home' button) and select a theme. The meanings of some of the stranger-sounding themes are as follows:


Masquerade Party: a party where people dress up in costumes.
Twin Party: a party where everyone gets into pairs and dresses like each other.
Color Battle: a party where everyone gets into teams and dresses up in the color of their team.
 If you want to meet new people, choose "Everyone in Server," if it's a private party, choose "My Buddies," and if you want the most people to come, choose both. NOTE: IF YOU'RE NOT PREMIUM, YOU NEED ECOINS TO HOST THE PARTY.
 One thing to do is to get stickers to give out. You can choose to do Goody Bags and/or Winner Stickers. Goody Bags automatically show up to be collected when guests come; you don't have to give them out, while Winner Stickers are placed in your inventory. Either one is good for giving people a lasting memory of your party-plus, if you choose Winner Stickers, the sticker provides a link back to your IDfone,giving people a way to contact you. Another thing to do is the Piñata. There are four types-two give out Stars, while two give out Stars and Gems. Though both make people happy, people obviously like the ones with Gems more than just Stars.
 If you're not comfortable with spamming a bit, skip this next step. Go downtown, get to a location where others can see your avatar, and talk away! Some good messages to type are "Party at my place!", "Come to my party!", or even just flat-out "PARTY MY PLCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC!" Another way to get publicity is to message all your online friends. Who knows, maybe they can even advertise for you!

, If you were lucky, maybe you even got on the leaderboard!

