 Keep this interaction casual - she could be intimidated if you come on too strong. Introduce yourself if this is your first time talking to her. You can point out something you saw her doing that you also like to do or compliment her.


You might say something as simple as “Hi, my name is Michael. I see you at the library every day, what are you studying?” or “You gave a great presentation! What inspired you to research that topic? My name is Sarah, by the way.”;
, This will keep the conversation going and allow her to open up and share things about herself. You can ask her anything from how her day was to the kind of music she listens to what her favorite restaurant is. Figure out which questions to ask depending on the context of the conversation - you don’t want to ask a series of completely unrelated questions in a row, as this could confuse her.


Ask questions that start with “how” or “why” to elicit more detailed responses.
Take note of her interests so that, if you get to the point of dating, you can arrange dates that are exciting for her.
 Figure out what she likes, from bands to movies to hobbies to sports, to draw her out of her shell. You can do this by asking her questions about herself during your conversations and also by sharing with her your likes and dislikes. Figure out areas of common interest and chat her up about them. Recognize that she may give short answers and not open up at first. However, if you give her time and are persistent, she will probably warm up to and even express excitement about talking to you about her interests.


One way to talk to the girl you like about common interests is to say: “I loved Finding Dory too! It was so fun to see all the characters again. What was your favorite part of the movie?”
If you go to the same school, you might even ask her for help with a homework problem. This will give you an opportunity to spend more time together.
 Patience is key when flirting with a shy girl. Stay in her comfort zone by being friendly, asking her questions about herself and sharing details about yourself, and showing just enough interest in her that she doesn’t shy away from you. If at first she is only comfortable saying “hi” to you, spend a week doing just that. The next week, ask her a question about her day. Gradually increase the amount of communication.
 Find excuses to be near her, such as sitting with her at lunch or next to her in class or working with her on a project. If you know she goes to the gym in the morning, go at the same time as her so that you can talk, even if just to say a quick hello. You want her to see you as a regular presence in her life.


Be careful not to overdo it by going wherever she does. All you need to do to create a sense of familiarity is pick a few strategic moments every week to be near her and make your presence known.

