 Credit counselors help negotiate terms and payment plans with a debtor’s creditors. Although (reputable) credit counseling organizations are nonprofits and creditors are under no obligation to deal with them, most usually do. However, credit counseling organizations aren’t the first place to go if you’re facing an impending foreclosure because they typically do not negotiate to reduce secured debts, like a mortgage or auto loan.Think of a credit counseling organization like an informal Chapter 13 bankruptcy proceeding (that doesn’t damage your credit). The credit counselor gets a list of your creditors, contacts them, and then works to negotiate a payment plan on your behalf. They typically collect the payments and disburse them to your creditors.
 Homeownership is seen as an integral part of the American dream, and the psychological consequences of losing a home can make a person feel like a failure. The truth is, it’s as much of a numbers game as anything else. In any economy, a certain number of people will fall victim to larger economic trends—whether it’s rampant fraud among mortgage lenders, absurdly high medical bills, or anything else. A house is just four walls and a roof. It isn’t your identity., Even if you're having to leave a home you've lived in for years, you can still keep and strengthen the ties to the community you entered into when you became a homeowner.


For example, there's no reason to move churches or leave your bowling league just because you've gone through a foreclosure. Isolating yourself from those communities will only worsen the pain of foreclosure, because it will seem like you're losing your life rather than just a home.
Even if you find it hard to stay active in your community, make an effort. This goes double if you have children. Children aren't equipped to understand and process change to the same degree as adults are, so events like foreclosures can be even more traumatic for them.
 Over 2 million Americans have been through the foreclosure process, so you’re far from the first person to go through the situation. You can find understanding and advice on internet forums, local foreclosure support groups, even with your local church. Millions have been in your situation and millions have bounced back. You will too.