 If this is your first time using this product, make sure that you are not allergic to it. Use a small amount of the product on a small area of acne for three days. If you do not have an allergic reaction, go ahead and use the product. If you do have an allergic reaction, do not use the product and see a healthcare professional.Signs of an allergic reaction include redness, itching, swelling, pain, hives, or other rashes on the skin.;
, Before you put the cream on any blemish you may have, you should first cleanse your skin of dirt or oil. Use a mild, oil-free cleanser and then rinse it off with warm water.Pat your face dry using a clean towel. However, avoid rubbing your skin, as this could damage your skin and cause further breakouts.
 Put a pea-sized amount of cream on your fingertips and apply a thin layer of cream to your skin where the blemish has formed. Allow the cream to dry before touching your face or applying any other products.


Avoid getting this cream in your eyes, nose, or mouth.
While it is not recommended, you can apply makeup over the acne cream, so long as it has dried completely before you apply the makeup.
Wash your hands after you apply the cream., After the initial application, continue to apply the cream once in the morning and once at night.Applying the cream twice will help to maximize its effectiveness. If you experience dryness or irritation when using the cream twice a day, cut back and use the cream only once a day.


Your skin may get a little worse before it starts to get better.Continue to apply the cream, even if the pimple begins to disappear. You can stop applying the cream after the pimple has disappeared completely.
 Your skin should improve after using the product for 3 weeks. After 8-12 weeks of use, you will see the maximum benefit. If your acne gets worse or does not get any better while using the cream, go see a dermatologist.Your doctor will be able to assess your skin and prescribe you a different medication.
 The chemicals in the cream will make your skin more sensitive to the sun and increase your risk of sunburn. Steer clear of prolonged sun exposure when using this product. Apply sunscreen everyday when you use this cream. Look for an oil-free, non-comedogenic broad spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30.
 Using this product can cause minor side effects to occur. These symptoms are normal if you have sensitive skin, and should subside relatively quickly. However, if the side effects persist, or get worse, stop using the product. If irritation persists after you have stopped using the product, call your doctor. Applying an oil-free moisturizer at night will often reduce these side effects. Side effects may include:


PeelingSkin drynessContact dermatitis(i.e. a red, itchy rash)Skin redness
Burning, itching or stinging in the area where you applied the cream.
 Dapsone (Aczone) is a prescription cream that is only available through a doctor.If you are using this drug along with your Clearasil, your skin and/or facial hair may turn yellow or orange.If you are using Dapsone and would like to use Clearasil as well, talk to your doctor first. Also, monitor your skin for possible side effects.
 Your skin will be more sensitive when you use benzoyl peroxide. You do not want your skin to become irritated. Avoid using other topical acne medications when you use the cream unless your doctor tells you otherwise. If you are using another topical medicine, do not apply it within an hour of using the benzoyl peroxide. Avoid using these other types of skin products:Peeling agents (e.g. resorcinol, salicylic acid, sulfur, or tretinoin)
Hair removal products
Products that cause sun sensitivity (e.g. products containing lime or spices)
Astringents, shaving creams, or after-shave lotions with a high alcohol content
Drying or abrasive cosmetics, soaps, and skin cleansers

