 Many people that end a relationship want to take the easy way out, and just stop calling or coming around. While this many feel hard in the moment, talking in person makes it easier in the long run because it will provide an explanation and some closure for the other party. If you don’t talk to them directly, they may keep trying to contact you which would be harder for you over time.


You should consider how long you’ve been together before you decide how to break up. If you’ve only been on a few dates, a phone call may suffice and may be easier for you than doing it in person. But if you’ve been together for a few months or more, you should try to do it in person.;
, When you break up with someone, they are likely to have lots of questions for you. These can be general or specific things about why you are breaking up with them. Take some time to answer these questions for yourself before you talk to the person. Keep your answers, short, direct, and considerate. Some questions you might want to prepare answers to include:


Why are you breaking up with me?
Did I do or say something wrong?
How long have you been thinking this way?
Is there anything I can do to change your mind?

, Give your partner the courtesy of telling them what is really going on. Avoid being unduly hurtful, but let them know what isn’t working for you. This will make it easier for you both to come to terms with the breakup.Be as honest as possible at every step of the breakup. If you don’t think you can be friends with them after it’s over, don’t lie to them and say you want to continue being friends.
If you make the break up about how you feel, then they won’t be able to argue with you. Your partner can make all kinds of promises to change various aspects of their life or behavior, but they can’t change how you feel. This will make it easier for you.
 With any break up that you want to go well, it is important to explain your feelings and the reason why you want to leave the other person. But if you want the break up to be as easy as possible, there’s no need to hash out every single little detail that annoys you or upsets you about the relationship. That will just drag the conversation out longer.Choose one big thing that you feel is the main problem and give that as your explanation for why the relationship is over.
For example, if your partner doesn’t want children and you definitely do, you could bring that up as the reason you want to end the relationship. But you don’t need to explain how some of their habits annoy you and how your friends don’t like them. These things will just prolong the conversation and make the break up harder.
 Are you moving forward or standing still? Sometimes it's easy to recognize this, and other times you may move blindly through a bad relationship for months or even years. Take a minute to think and consider these questions together:


Do your conversations often come to a dead-end?
Do you argue over small things?
Does it seem painful to make plans with one another, or do you not enjoy each other as much as you used to?
Do you not feel the spark anymore?

, It is important to be direct and honest when you break up with someone, but you can also be compassionate towards the other person. Try to say what you need to say in a direct way while also being kind and considerate of the person's feelings. At the same time, avoid making overly kind or confusing statements.


For example, a direct yet compassionate statement might be something like, "I really do admire you for so many reasons and I'm glad that we've had this time together, but ultimately it's clear to me that we want different things." This lets the person know that you think they’re great and have enjoyed your time together, but that you do not think the relationship is working and you want to break up.
Avoid making a confusing statement might be something such as, "You know I love you, but I can't be with you right now. Maybe I'll feel differently soon." This can make the person think that you might want to reconnect with them again in the near future, which is misleading if you really just want to break up with them.
 If your partner doesn’t accept the break up, it doesn’t do any good to stand there and argue with them. That just gets you sucked back in to the drama of the relationship. Make your point clear and then walk away if they refuse to listen.


Don’t feel like you have to repeat yourself a million times. As long as you say what you want to say, the easiest thing to do is walk away after.
 The best thing to do after a breakup to make it easier on both parties is to give each other some space. Spend time away from each other to reflect on how you feel without your partner. Does it feel any different? Do you feel like you're missing something? Or does it feel like a weight has been lifted off your shoulders?Sometimes it takes a while to determine how you really feel after a breakup. You may miss the idea of a relationship, not necessarily your partner. Don't mistake loneliness as a reason to get back together because you might just be craving someone.
 After breaking up with someone, you may experience feelings of loss and grief. Instead of trying to ignore these feelings, do what you can to process them. This may involve writing about your feelings, crying, talking with friends, or even seeing a counselor if you are struggling to cope with your feelings. Recognize that there are five natural stages to grief that include:Denial. This is when you try to deny that you are experiencing any negative emotions about the breakup.

Anger. In this stage, you might feel anger towards the other person or yourself for the breakup.

Bargaining. This is when you might try to work out scenarios where the relationship might work.

Depression. In this stage, you may feel extremely sad and lose interest in your usual activities.

Acceptance. Finally, you will reach a stage where you feel at peace with what happened and you can begin to move on.
 Give yourself some time to heal from the heartbreak, but don’t let it affect how you treat others in your life – even your ex. Try to handle the fallout with as much grace and maturity as you can muster.


You and your ex may choose to be friends. This sometimes works out easily, and a great friendship may evolve. Other times, it just becomes awkward and calling yourselves "friends" is pointless.
You also may choose to simply ignore each other if it’s the easiest option. It shouldn't be awkward when you pass them in the hallway or scroll over their contact in your phone. It doesn't have to be. Take the high road and say "hi" every once in a while just to show that you can move on and be mature.
 The more quickly and completely you enact the breakup, the easier it will be for you to move forward. Don’t hold on to the past once you have decided to let the relationship go.Don’t continue hanging out with them like nothing has changed. This will only make it harder for both of you.
Try to get rid of all of the nostalgic reminders you have of your relationship.
 Try not to spend too much time reflecting on the memories of your relationship. This might make you doubt yourself because you might focus too much on the positives and overlook all the negatives. You broke up for a reason. Trust in that and don’t doubt yourself.It may also be a good idea to unfriend your ex on social media to avoid seeing their pictures and posts and to prevent yourself from reminiscing over old photos and posts.
 As you heal from the breakup, remember to take good care of yourself. This involves ensuring that you are eating well, getting regular exercise, making time to relax, getting enough sleep, and caring for your hygiene, such as by showering daily and wearing clean clothes.


Try doing something nice for yourself now and then as well, such as by buying yourself a new outfit or getting a massage.
 Support is essential for healing from a breakup. You may need a shoulder to cry on, someone to listen to you and offer reassurance, and people with whom you can enjoy spending time and having fun.


Call up friends to go out to lunch or dinner once or twice per week.
Spend time with caring, supportive family members.
Try joining a group to meet new people, such as a running club or a cake decorating class.
 Healing from a breakup can take a while. Although you may be impatient to move on, be sure to give yourself plenty of time to fully recover. Go at your own pace, and do not feel pressured to begin dating again until you feel ready.
 You may be moaning over your heartbreak, or rejoicing over your freedom. Either way – you have to remember the entire world is not just this one guy or girl. This doesn't mean you have to start dating or looking for someone seconds after the breakup. Enjoy your single status for a while. But when someone new comes knocking at your door, don't be afraid to open it.

