 Buying good stainless steel cookware is an investment, and it's important to protect that investment by taking care of your pots and pans. If possible, choose a stainless steel cookware set which has copper or aluminum cores or bottoms. These metals are better conductors of heat than stainless steel, so they will prevent hot spots from forming during cooking, minimizing the amount of food that sticks to the pot.
 Cleaning the pans immediately after using them prevents stains and dried-on food from building up. If your pans are unseasoned, you can wash them with dish soap and hot water and scour them lightly with a scouring pad (the kind found on double-sided sponges) if needed.









If your pans are seasoned, just rinse them out with hot water and avoid using soap. Use some tissue paper to remove excess grease, if necessary.
Never use products containing ammonia or bleach on your pans, as these interact badly with the cookware and may cause damage or discoloration. Ideally, you should use a cleaning product designed specifically for stainless steel.
 After washing them, take the time to wipe each pan dry with a clean towel. As an alternative, you can air dry them, but this will allow water spots to form.
 Even if the pans are dishwasher-safe, washing them in the dishwasher will dramatically reduce their lifespan and keep them from looking their best.









However, if you must use the dishwasher, rinse the pots with club soda as soon as you take them out and dry them with a clean, soft cloth. This will prevent water spots from forming., If you want your cookware to really shine, you can polish it with a stainless steel polish. Apply some of the polish to a clean cloth, and buff it into the cookware.









You can remove fingerprints from the outside of stainless steel pots using glass cleaner and paper towel or a soft cloth.
It is sometimes even possible to buff out small scratches on the exterior of the pots using a paste of water and a non-abrasive cleanser or baking soda.
 The best way to maintain stainless steel knives is to wipe off any excess food with a dish towel during and immediately after use. This prevents food from drying onto the knives, making it very difficult to remove.









Be sure to exercise caution when cleaning knives, in order to prevent cuts. Hold the handle of the knife, then draw the dishcloth along the length of the blade, using slow deliberate movements.