 Your throbbing headache and aching muscles can be tackled with a simple and easily available over the counter painkiller. Check the recommended dosage on the packages, usually two tablets, and take them with a glass of water when you wake up.


You can take aspirin-based painkillers or NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen), but they may irritate your stomach further and cause nausea.If you have a sensitive stomach or are in any doubt about what painkillers to take, contact your doctor.
Do not take acetaminophen! Acetaminophen is processed in your liver, just like alcohol. Tylenol instructions, for instance, specifically say not to mix with alcohol. Doing this can lead to liver failure. (Brands include Tylenol, Paramol, and Anacin).In some countries, acetaminophen is called paracetamol: it is the same medication., A common symptom of a hangover is a very delicate stomach caused by high stomach acidity levels. If you feel nauseous, consider taking an over-the-counter product that can neutralize stomach acid and tackle feelings of indigestion.As with the painkillers, there is a risk that these tablets could irritate your stomach, so be sure the read the package and take as advised.


There are a number of branded antacid pills available to buy.
Common antacid ingredients include aluminum hydroxide, magnesium carbonate or calcium carbonate, and magnesium trisilicate.These ingredients are found in brands such as Tums, Mylanta, and Maalox.
 When you drink alcohol your body will lose a lot of nutrients, including vitamin B12 and folate, that will need to be replenished.If you're feeling really nauseous, you might not be able to keep a multivitamin pill down.


As with the other pills, taking a soluble or effervescent pill will mean that it gets into your system faster.Soluble pills are simply those which you dissolve in a glass of water and drink.
Effervescent tablets will dissolve in water, but have added carbon dioxide so will fizz up. These effervescent pills can cause nausea., There are some so-called ‘hangover pills’ that claim to include elements that tackle all your hangover symptoms at once. Perhaps try one of these, but be aware that scientific studies have concluded that their effectiveness is at best limited.Nothing truly cures a hangover except time and hydration.