 One of the kidney's jobs is to filter blood and remove the waste products of digestion so they can be excreted through urine. A cat with kidney disease has an impaired ability to do this.


To keep your cat’s kidneys’ from struggling with food, feed your cat a diet which, when digested, is lower in toxins.Diets have been developed which are protein restricted (because protein when broken down produces toxic metabolites) and contain lower levels of minerals such as phosphate (which produces renal scar tissue). Examples of these prescription diets include Hills K/D and Purina NF diet, and are available in pouches, tins, and dry kibble.
For maximum effectiveness, feed your cat only these protein restricted foods.
 High blood phosphate levels cause further harm to the kidney because the phosphate molecule causes damage which results in scar tissue. In addition, high blood levels irritate the stomach lining and cause nausea.


Unfortunately, the majority of cat foods are high in phosphate because it enhances flavor and is used as a preservative.
Prescription renal diets have reduced phosphate levels and so this reduces the work load on the kidney.
 For cats that won't eat renal diets (not all do!) there is the option to add a phosphate-binder to their food. Phosphate binders do what the name suggests.


The binder is added to the food and it seeks out and sticks to phosphate molecules so that they are not absorbed into the blood stream. These are useful tools in reducing blood phosphate levels, and a palatable product is Renalzin.Renalzin comes in a pump-dispenser bottle and has a paste-like consistency. One or two pumps should be added to the food, twice a day. Many cats like the flavor and are happy to eat food that is supplemented with renalzin.
 A cat with kidney disease cannot concentrate urine like a healthy cat. If fluid loss exceeds fluid intake the cat becomes dehydrated and this makes her feel unwell.


You can detect dehydration by using the finger and thumb of one hand to grasp the scruff over the shoulders, and lift the skin vertically away from the backbone.
When you let go, the skin of a well-hydrated animal springs back into place immediately. In a dehydrated animal the skin lacks elasticity and may take a few seconds to fall back into place.
 Simple things like providing a pet water fountain, or placing dog bowls of water around the house, may encourage your cat to drink.


However, if the cat becomes dehydrated it may be necessary to give the cat intravenous fluids and put her on a drip until she recovers enough to be able to drink on her own.
This involves the pet being admitted to the veterinary hospital and a catheter being placed in one of her front legs. A drip line is attached and slow intravenous fluids are given over the course of 2 or 3 days.
 Many cats with kidney disease have a poor appetite. This can be caused by both inflammation in the stomach lining, and a lack of vitamin B.


B vitamins are important for a good appetite. However, they are water soluble and so a thirsty cat that isn't concentrating her urine is effectively washing B vitamins out of her system, which exacerbates a poor appetite.
B vitamins can be replaced by a weekly injection of a multivitamin preparation. Commonly, 0.5 to 1ml is given under the skin, once a week, for as long as the treatment is required.