 Be sure, however, that even if the weather is warm, you still pack a light waterproof jacket in case of rain. Pack layers just in case, but don't stuff your suitcase with coats and mittens if you're going to Florida in August.;
, The best would be to use a small roller board or backpack. Hard suitcases, while being protective, are harder to pack well and tend to be much heavier. You can fit more at less weight in a soft shell bag. Make sure it has lots of little pockets for extra space and further organizing.
 For a longer trip, be sure to have clothes that mix and match well. Reusing articles of clothing to make new outfits gives you a large variety with a smaller amount of clothing. One way to do this is to have the majority be staple colors such as whites, beige, browns and black. Throw in a few colored or patterned pieces to add variety.
 Shoes are too bulky to carry a lot of, but be sure to have a casual pair and a slightly dressier pair. Remember, you can buy cheap flip flops just about anywhere, and you can throw them out at the airport before coming back home. Women especially can pack things like scarves, belts, and inexpensive jewelry, which will make any outfit unique.
 For shirts fold lengthwise before rolling, for pants fold in half lengthwise and then half horizontally. This allows you to fit more into a small suitcase. Be sure to keep clothes that wrinkle easily on the top.
 Be sure to wrap all of them in a plastic bag to make sure nothing gets ruined if they spill. Also keep in mind that that most hotels supply shampoo, conditioner and soap, and also most places sell travel size bottles, which help to keep the weight down.
 The contents will settle and you will be able to fit more into the top by the next morning.
 You probably will not need most of it, and unless you are trekking into rural or uncivilized areas of the world, you will be able to pick up anything you couldn't pack.
 Alternatively if you don't want to splurge on all that you could just use a vacuum cleaner to suck out the air from your clothes.

