 You can do this by navigating to the website of your airline, and find the section of the website where you can “Check In”. Once you’ve verified all of your flight information, you’re ready to do the final check-in. Input your reservation number or flight number. You may need other additional information to confirm your identity.


Make sure to check-in all final baggage, seats, and pets online prior to your flight time.
Finalize all baggage, seats, and pets on your check-in. If you added them beforehand, verify that these special requests are all being honored by the airline.
 After you’ve checked your online check-in, you’ll be ready to complete the final check-in at the airport. Bring your driver’s license, passport, or other government-issued photo ID when you travel, as the airline will need to verify your identity. Airport terminals are busy places, so being ready to show the attendant all necessary documents will make sure you get through the line quickly and easily.


Print your flight confirmation or boarding pass at the terminal kiosk when you arrive at the airport. If you think you’ll be in a rush once you arrive at the airport, you can also print your boarding pass once you have checked in to your flight online., Make sure you have your checked luggage ready to give to the attendant at the terminal. Keep your luggage secure and ready to be kept under the plane. Before checking your luggage, verify that your checked luggage meets the weight requirements. Most airlines charge extra for luggage over 50 pounds.


Keep your luggage well marked and easy to locate. Much luggage looks the same. Do something to make your luggage distinctive so you’ll recognize it when you see it again at your arrival destination.
 If you’re traveling with pets, make sure your pets are secure and ready to travel in their kennel. They need to have been fed and be calm for the flight. Give yourself extra time to check your pets, so the attendant can verify your paperwork.Pets usually need to be a minimum age to fly. Most airlines suggest 6 to 8 weeks.
Small dogs and cats also need to have a health certificate issued by a vet close to the time of departure and arrival. How recent the health certificate needs to be depends on the airline.
 Small bags can be carried onto the plane. However, it is important that both meet the requirements for carry-on luggage and are easy to store in the cabin. Make sure your carry-on bag meets the size requirements. Most carry-on bags need to be able to fit into the overhead compartment. Airports usually have a measurement box so you can test out your baggage.


Verify that your baggage is not too heavy. Heavy baggage can make it difficult to maneuver around the plane and in the terminal.
 Small pets can also be carried on the plane, although they may need to be kept in a kennel under the seat in front of you. Verify also that your pet is calm and ready to fly. You don’t want to have a noisy pet when you come onto the airplane. Noisy pets make for a long and annoying plane ride for your fellow passengers.

Before boarding, make sure your pet kennel meets the required size and weight requirements. You can find the size and weight requirements on your airline’s website.

