 The extent of work you're capable of will depend on the time you have available as well as your strength, so have a think about this before asking if anyone has work available––having a quick answer will be more impressive than asking whether you can think it over. For example:


Are you strong enough to lift heavy objects such as garden rocks, equipment and machinery?
Are you okay in all types of weather, rain, hall or shine?
Will you bring your own tools or only use those already on the property? Are you skilled in using all sorts of tools or only some? Are your old enough/qualified enough to use power tools?
What sorts of things do you like doing by way of yard work? You could specify just the exact jobs if you're really picky, or be open to all suggestions if you're willing to pitch in and work hard across a range of things.;
, Don't be too expensive or too cheap but do try to offer your services for less than professional competitors or you won't get a nibble.
 It's only going to be helpful to ask neighbors who have a yard, for starters. Also, if it's clear that someone keeps their yard immaculate already, they may not be interested in help; however, it can't hurt to ask if there is anything additional they need doing, such as winterizing the pool, shifting a load of logs or cleaning out the garden shed.


Ask the neighbors you know first, to get experience. You can then get references from them to start branching out to other houses. Moreover, by starting with people you know, you will be able to explain that you're on a learning curve about what you can and can't do by way of yard work. They're likely to be more understanding and give you some leeway if you over-extend yourself. The good thing is that you'll know for next time.
 There are different possible approaches, depending on how personal you'd like to make the approach, how many houses you're reaching out to and how many neighbors are likely to even be at home at the times you're thinking of calling. One or several of the following ways are good to use:


Simply knock on the door, introduce yourself and explain that you're looking for yard work. Dress neatly, look professional and have ready the types of yard work you're able to do.
Make flyers and put them in people's mailboxes. Ensure that they look professional and provide ample details on what you will do and at what cost, without being overly lengthy.
Run an ad in the local paper or on the local community or supermarket bulletin boards. A simple: "Will do any yard work for $X per hour, ph. Johnny on XXX" will do. It helps to provide pull-off numbers for people to take home.
Ask family, friends and neighbors if they know of anyone looking for yard work. This can be done by way of a casual conversation.

