 Just because you run a blog does not mean you automatically qualify for the AdSense program. Google has a policy for selecting and approving websites that are eligible to be part of their AdSense program. For example, if your blog is adult-oriented or illegal, Google reserves the right to deny you entry into the AdSense program. You can read more about Google AdSense policies on their website.;
, AdSense runs on a pay-per-click system, meaning you only get paid when people click on the advertisements on your blog. One way to increase the number of clicks you receive is to increase the total number of visitors to your website.


Write high quality and unique content. In order to draw in as many visitors as you can, your blog must be full of unique content that visitors cannot find anywhere else. Not only that, but your content must be high quality. Uniqueness will draw them in and high quality will keep them coming back for more.
Optimize your content for search engines. There is an entire paradigm of blog design known as Search Engine Optimization (SEO) which works to make sure that your blog content will be indexed by search engines and shown to visitors who search for relevant keywords.
Promote your blog on the Internet. When you visit another blog that covers topics related to your own blog, you may want to comment on their blog posts and leave a link back to yours. Seek out forums and communities that fall into your target niche and let them know that you're running a related blog.
 The AdSense program allows you to choose where to display the advertisements and the color scheme of the advertisements. Changing the location of your advertisements can mean the difference between numerous clicks and no clicks at all. Choose a location that is free from clutter and immediately visible upon visit.


The recent trend with AdSense bloggers is to place their advertisement locations in line with their blog posts. For example, you may want to put your advertisements below every post on your blog. This way, the advertisements are visible yet they blend in with the blog's design.
Place your advertisements near the top and left of the main page. According to research conducted by Google, advertisements in these locations tend to fare better than elsewhere. This is likely due to the advertisements' immediate visibility upon visiting the blog.
 If you're blogging on mobile technology but your advertisements are for pet health and pet care, your visitors are not likely to click. On the other hand, if you're blogging about computer games and your advertisements are for high quality keyboards and mice, you're more likely to catch your visitors' eyes.


One way to ensure that AdSense delivers relevant advertisements to your blog is to make sure that your blog's content is specific and focused. Instead of running a golf blog, you may want to run a golf blog for women or a blog dedicated to reviewing golf clubs. The more specific your content is, the more targeted your advertisements will be.

