 The florets shouldn’t have gaps, and the leaves should extend over the top. White cauliflower stays colorless because the leaves cover the florets, keeping them away from the sun.;
, Avoid any curds that are browning or discolored in spots. This is an indication that they have been on the shelf too long.


If you are buying a purple, green or orange variety, look for browning on the leaves and base of the curd.
The brighter green the better.
 You can purchase florets instead of a whole curd. The florets will deteriorate faster than a whole head, so plan to use them within 2 days.
 It will be fresh for 5 to 7 days. , Put a large pot of water on the stovetop to boil. Pour the cauliflower florets in and boil for 3 minutes.

Remove the florets and place them in an ice water bath. Remove, drain and freezer or place in the refrigerator.
Blanched cauliflower can be frozen for up to a year. , Slice through the line where the stem meets the head.
 They can be used in place of broccoli, spinach or other bitter greens. Discard them if they aren’t fresh.
 Insert a paring knife at a 45-degree angle and slice in a circular motion. Discard the woody core when it is removed from the florets., You should cut where the remaining core meets the stem. Move in a circle, dislodging each cluster around the curd. , Separate the small tree-like florets into bite-sized pieces. If they are difficult to snap off, use your paring knife to cut them into small pieces. , Rinse them thoroughly.
 Bring a few inches of water to a boil in a saucepan. Place a steamer tray inside the pan, and then pour in the cauliflower florets.


Cover the saucepan. Cook for 5 minutes for a small batch of 10 minutes for a large batch.






You can also keep the cauliflower curd whole and steam it for 15 minutes.
 Keep the cauliflower curd whole and cut an “x” in the bottom stem that is 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) deep. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil.


Set the cauliflower head inside the water. Let it boil for 20 to 25 minutes.
If you are using florets, only let them boil for 5 to 10 minutes.
Drain the water; add milk, butter and seasonings.
Mash the cauliflower with a potato masher. Serve as you would mashed potatoes. Puree the cauliflower in a food processor, instead of mashing it. Use the puree as a base for soups or dips.
 Florets will be cooked after 15 to 20 minutes in a simmered liquid.
 Heat 1 tbsp. (14.8 ml) of olive oil. Add a sliced garlic clove. Pour in the florets and Sauté until they are golden and softened.


Consider adding a squeeze of fresh lemon juice and some chopped thyme before serving.
 Preheat your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius). Toss the cauliflower florets with 1 tbsp. of olive oil, salt, pepper and caraway seeds.


Pour them onto a baking sheet and place them in the oven.
Roast for 20 minutes or until golden brown.
