 You can find the pre-licensing requirements and instructions by searching for your State Insurance Department online. You can also go to Most states will have you take your test through a company called Prometric. If you pass the test, you get your license. There are many classes online that will teach you how to pass the test or you can take a class locally. (live classes are highly recommended);
, This is where doing some homework will pay off. You'll want to check the ratings and reviews of the companies before contracting with them. You will want a primary company that has the best price/benefits and then a few other companies that will accept certain health conditions your primary company will not accept.
 Most agents choose to order direct mail final expense leads from a mailing house. You can use a telemarketing company for telemarketed final expense leads or buy internet final expense leads.
 You can either join up with a captive company that will take a portion of your commissions in exchange for teaching you the business or be independent, making a good bit more money. Most agents find it beneficial to plug into system that has already been developed by an IMO. (Insurance Marketing Organization) Examples of some of the leading IMO's would be NAA,Securus or Howe Insurance Services., You can either make these appointments yourself or you can hire someone to do this for you. There are also some companies that sell pre set final expense appointments that you can use.
 Bring pens, blank paper, your applications for insurance, all necessary forms, rate sheets and a good attitude.
 Don't try to wing it. Learn a sales script word for word. You will find this online or through any company you join with. A good final expense sales script will open and close the sale without any objections. Being able to relate to folks is one of the biggest keys to success in the Final Expense market.
 Each sale averages about $500 in commissions and if you are doing at least 15 appointments a week, you should be making 5-8 sales a week.

