 Whistler Canada has a long ski season with a variety of snow conditions. Review the snow base if you are looking at an early season vacation to ensure there is sufficient coverage for all the snow activities you want to partake in like cross country skiing and snow tubing. Also you should review the event calendar as Whistler hosts many fun events throughout the season to be able to part take in the activities like World Cup Races and Music festivals.;
, You will require a passport for travel into Canada from outside of the country. Depending on your country of origin you may also require a visa so ensure you have all your travel documents in place before you book your flights and vacation rental.
 Unless you are driving you will require airline flights to get to Whistler Canada. The closest international airport is Vancouver International (YVR) in Vancouver, Canada which is 2.5 hours away from Whistler. Another option is to book your flight to Seattle International (SEA) and then arrange a bus or train transfer either to Vancouver or Whistler. Choosing as early an arrival time into Vancouver will benefit you so you will have time to get to Whistler and check-in comfortably at your vacation rental.
 If you are flying or transferring into Vancouver you will need to arrange transportation to Whistler Village. Car rental is the fastest method to get to Whistler, other options are shuttle bus, private car or if you are very adventurous you can book a helicopter. The trip can take between 2 - 4 hours depending on the method and conditions. Be certain to plan this leg of your trip in advance for timing the connections.
 The first step in choosing your Whistler accommodations is location. Whistler has very pedestrian friendly Village rentals with ski in ski out access readily available. If you will be without a car, be certain to choose a rental with walking access to the Village and ski lifts for the best time on your holiday. If you are traveling with your family or with some friends, go for a ski chalet rental. In case you prefer a more intimate Whistler vacation rental, you can find a condo in the heart of the village. No matter the budget for your trip, you can find an ideal vacation rental in Whistler.
 Review the activities you want to enjoy in Whistler and book in advance. There are tons of fun things to do including snowmobiling, heli skiing, spas and fine dining. You do not want to be disappointed by finding no availability for you on your arrival so do you research and book in advance.

