 Remove one sheet (245 g) of frozen puff pastry from the freezer the night before you plan to make the gumbo pot pies. Place the puff pastry in the refrigerator overnight to thaw.Follow the manufacturer's thawing instructions and remember to keep the puff pastry refrigerated as it thaws.
 Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190C). Get out a small onion, one stalk of celery, and green pepper. Chop a little of each to get a total of 1 cup (150 g). Set the vegetables aside.If you like more onion, consider chopping about 2/3 of a cup. Chop enough celery and green pepper to make up the remaining 1/3 of a cup.
 Set a medium sized pot on the stove and melt 4 tablespoons (56 g) of butter over medium-low heat. Once the butter has turned golden, whisk in 4 tablespoons of all-purpose flour. Keep stirring and cooking the roux until it turns brown.You'll need to stir constantly for about 7 to 9 minutes.
 Stir in the cup of chopped onion, celery, and green pepper. Saute the mixture for about 5 minutes, so the vegetables soften. Stir in 1 teaspoon of minced garlic and cook the mixture for another 30 seconds., Slowly whisk 2 cups (473 ml) of chicken stock into the pot. You'll also need to dice two small red-skinned potatoes and 1 cup (150 g) of carrots. Add these to the pot along with 1 cup (125 g) of shredded chicken and 7 ounces (198 g) of diced andouille sausage.You don't need to peel the potatoes before you add them to the pot.
You can use rotisserie chicken in the gumbo.
 Stir the gumbo occasionally and let it bubble gently until the vegetables soften. You may need to let the gumbo cook for 30 to 45 minutes, depending on how large your vegetables are. Stir in these seasonings:1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon hot sauce
2 teaspoons cajun seasoning
1/4 teaspoon creole seasoning
1 teaspoon parsley
Salt and pepper to taste

, Get out three small oven-safe ramekins that can h old 10-ounces. Place them on a baking sheet and use a ladle to scoop gumbo into each ramekin., Take the defrosted puff pastry sheet and lay it on a floured counter. Use a rolling pin to roll it out. The puff pastry should be rolled big enough, so you can cut pieces of pastry that are larger than the size of the ramekins. You can use a knife to cut out circles or use a large circular cookie cutter to cut the three pieces.You'll want the pastry to hang over the sides of the ramekins a little.
 Crack one large egg into a small prep bowl and add 1 tablespoon of water. Whisk the mixture together with a fork. Dip a pastry brush into the egg wash and brush the sides of the ramekins with the wash. Set the puff pastry circles on the ramekins and brush the puff pastry with the egg wash.The egg wash will help the puff pastry stick to the ramekins and will help the pastry brown as it bakes.
 Cut a few small slits in the top of each puff pastry top. Put the baking sheet with the ramekins in your preheated oven. Bake the pot pies for 30 to 35 minutes. The puff pastry should turn golden brown and you may see some of the filling bubble up through the slits.Let the pot pies cool for 5 to 10 minutes before you serve them.

