 Read reviews of a wax product before you buy it. Some waxes are better for short hair; some are explicitly water-soluble; some are designed to be used on mustaches. Many commercial waxes are petroleum-based, although you can use natural products like beeswax, carnauba wax, and vegetable wax. Decide what you need from your hair wax and find an appropriate product.


Many hair wax products leave behind a sticky, hard-to-remove residue. Many low-residue products, however, do not hold your hair in place as well as the stickier products. Look for a wax with a good balance of hair-molding capability and low-residue depositing.You can find hair wax in pharmacies, salons, and anywhere that sells hair-care products. You can usually order these products online. Make sure to compare prices and read the reviews before you make your purchase.
Consider using a "natural" wax. Carnauba wax is extracted from the leaves of the carnauba palm tree, and beeswax taken from the hives of honey bees. Japan wax—also known as vegetable wax—is extracted from the berries of a type of sumac bush. In contrast, waxes derived from petroleum are called "mineral waxes" or "cerosin waxes", and they tend to be colorless and odorless.
 Wet your hair and towel it dry. As you dry your hair, try to shape it into an approximation of the hairstyle that you want. This will give you a base style that you can emphasize with the wax. When your hair is dry, you are ready to apply the wax.








Depending on the texture and length of your hair, putting wax on wet hair can cause the outline, form, and flow of the hair to change when it dries. If you apply wax when your roots are wet, you may lose hair volume.
Hair wax is drier than many other hair-styling products, and it may hold better when you apply it to slightly damp hair. If you do dampen your hair, it should be almost completely dry when you spread the wax.
 If you try to dress yourself after spreading wax through your hair, you risk rubbing your hair against a shirt or dress and ruining your hairstyle. Furthermore, you might rub wax off onto your clothing. If you must dress yourself after applying the wax, be exceedingly careful not to brush your hair against anything.
 You don't need much: a pea-sized amount of wax—about as large as the nail on your little finger—is usually enough for medium-length hair. If you apply too much wax at once, the wax will spread unevenly, making it hard for the wax to bond well with all of your hair. If you find that you need more wax, you can always scoop more.









You can apply wax with one hand, or two. You may find it useful to keep one hand clean and wax-free, but you be able to cover more hair more quickly if you deploy wax with both hands.
The wax may stick to your fingers more easily if you wet them beforehand. You should, however, avoid dripping too much water into the wax tin.
 Knead the wax until it emulsifies: the wax should be warmed and melted by the heat of your fingers, and there should be no remaining clumps. When the wax is smooth and clump-free, it is ready to spread into your hair.
 As the wax dries out, it may lose its hold on your hair. If your hair falls out of place during the day, simply wet your fingers and restyle it. Do not wash the wax out of your hair; simply moisturize the wax to the point that you can re-shape it.









If the problem recurs, consider carrying a small tin of wax with you for quick retouching sessions. You can fit portable wax tins into your purse, bag, or pocket, and you can restyle your hair anywhere with a mirror and a sink.
 You cannot brush styling wax out of your hair; you need to wash it out thoroughly with shampoo. If you've been walking around with wax in your hair all day, wash your hair before you go to bed. You don't want to sleep with clumps of wax in your hair. Furthermore, wax may clump and flake onto your pillow throughout the night.

