 You can only garnish wages if you have a court judgment entered on your behalf by a judge. If you have a contract with someone and the other party stops paying on the contract, you cannot immediately bring an action for wage garnishment. Instead, you must sue for breach of contract and get a judgment in your favor.When the judgment is entered, you will be mailed a Notice of Entry of Judgment form. You should find the form and make copies, as you may need it later.
If you misplaced the form, then you should contact the court clerk and ask how you can get a copy.;
, If you are a parent trying to collect owed child support payments, then you should contact the California Department of Child Support Services. This agency will bring a suit to enforce the child support order, which can include wage garnishment.You can locate a local child support agency by selecting your county from the list at http://www.childsup.ca.gov/home/lcsaoffices.aspx.
Child Support Services has experience getting payments from parents who are in arrears. These agencies can also put liens on property or take other actions aside from wage garnishment to collect owed child support. It is recommended that you work with them.
 Federal and state law limits the amount that can be garnished. In California, you generally cannot garnish more than 25% of the debtor’s disposable earnings. In some situations, you may not even be able to garnish that much. For example, if the debtor doesn’t make more than 40 times the minimum wage, you cannot garnish anything.These limits do not apply for owed child support. Instead, up to 50% of a parent’s disposable earnings can be garnished if they are supporting a spouse or a child not subject to the order. If the parent supports no one else, then 60% can be garnished. An additional five percent may be garnished for payments that are over 12 weeks due.Talk to your local child support agency about how much you can garnish for child support.
 In California, a debtor can claim that garnishment will cause a hardship. Typically, the debtor will claim that they need all or a portion of their earnings to support themselves or their family.The debtor will then file a Financial Statement listing dependents as well as income sources and monthly expenses.The judge must review this information to determine if garnishment will cause a hardship.


Some income is also exempted simply because of its source. Most social security and disability payments are also exempted, unless the disability payments are being sought as child support payments.In California, debtors must claim an exemption within 10 days of receiving notice of the garnishment proceedings. You will then have a chance to challenge the claimed exemption.
 In order to garnish wages, the debtor has to be employed by someone else (i.e., not self-employed). Accordingly, you might want to check if the debtor is gainfully employed before undertaking the process of having his or her wages garnished.


You will also need to know the name of the employer in order to send the employer the Writ of Execution. Try searching the internet and check on sites like LinkedIn or Facebook.
You can also request a “debtor’s examination.” In this situation, a debtor is called into court and you can ask him or her questions about property or assets. You can also ask where the debtor works.To request an examination, you must fill out an Application and Order For Appearance and Examination (Form AT-138/EJ 135) and file it with the court clerk.If you were in small claims court, then ask for their specific form.
The clerk then issues an order, which you must schedule to have a sheriff or a licensed process server deliver on the debtor.Ask the clerk how to schedule service with the sheriff and how to pay the fee.
 Although an attorney is not required to garnish wages, you might want to meet with one if you need advice or if you want someone to look over your forms. Attorneys in California can now offer “limited scope representation.”With limited scope representation, you and an attorney can agree that the attorney will perform only discrete tasks instead of handling the entire case from start to finish. Using limited scope representation is a good way to save money.You can ask an attorney during a consultation if he or she offers this service.
Also be aware that some California Superior Courts have self-help centers. At these centers, you can meet with someone who will assist you in filling out forms and looking them over. To find a self-help center, visit the California Courts website at http://www.courts.ca.gov/selfhelp-selfhelpcenters.htm and click on your county.
 You will file your garnishment action in the court which entered the judgment you are trying to collect on. Take out your Notice of Entry of Judgment and find the court.
 A Writ of Execution directs the sheriff or marshal to enforce a judgment. A clerk may issue the writ after 30 days have passed since the court mailed the Notice of Entry of Judgment to you and to the person whose wages you are seeking to garnish. You can get the writ issued by completing a Writ of Execution form.The form, EJ-130, is available at your court clerk’s office or for download from the California Courts website at http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/ej130.pdf.
 You will need the name and address of the debtor’s employer to complete this form. The form is also available from the court clerk’s office or for download at http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/wg001.pdf.


Also complete the Earnings Withholding Order Form (WG-002).This form permits employers to seize a percentage of the debtor’s earnings until the release of the order. It is available to download at http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/wg002.pdf


, You should make at least three copies of your forms.The court keeps the original copy. One copy will be for you and the two copies will be for the debtor and the debtor’s employer, respectively.
 You need to file the original forms with the court clerk. Have the court clerk stamp all of your copies.


Be prepared to pay a filing fee. To file for a Writ of Execution, the fee is $25. If you cannot afford the fee, then ask the clerk for a fee waiver form., Ask the court clerk who the levying officer is. Typically, it is the sheriff’s office. Call and ask what the fee is to cover the costs of garnishing the debtor’s wages. Be prepared to have a check or money order made out in that amount.
 You can find a process server by searching online or looking in the phone book. Once you hire a process server, give them two sets of forms (which are stamped) and the payment to deliver to the levying agency.If you qualify for a fee waiver, then you can take the forms directly to the levying agency yourself., After the process server delivers the forms to the levying agency, a file will be opened. The file will include the forms you had delivered. The process server will then serve the second set of copies on the debtor’s employer. The process server then files the Proof of Service with the levying agency.The debtor will get a copy of the Earnings Withholding Order from his or her employer.The levying agency then collects money from the debtor’s employer and sends the money to you.
 If the debtor wants to claim an exemption, then he or she has 10 days to file it.You will receive a Notice of Filing of Claim of Exemption.Check to see the date it was filed and the exemption claimed.
 If you want to oppose the claimed exemption, then you must fill out certain forms. You will need a Notice of Opposition to Claim of Exemption (WG-009) and a Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption (WG-010). Ask the court clerk for the forms. Make at least four copies.Do not wait. You have only 10 days from the mailing date of the Notice of Filing of Claim of Exemption in order to lodge your opposition with the court., When you file, you should ask the clerk about setting a hearing date. The date cannot be more than 30 days after the date you file the WG-010 form., You must give the levying officer the original Notice of Opposition to Claim of Exemption (WG-009) and a copy of the Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption (WG-010).Then you must file the original Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption (with the Proof of Service on the back filled out) with the court clerk., You must serve a copy of the Notice of Opposition to Claim of Exemption (WG-009) and the Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption (WG-010) on the judgment debtor. The debtor must be served at least 16 court days before the hearing if served personally. If served by mail, then serve at least 16 court days and five calendar days before the hearing., At the hearing, you can present reasons why the judge should not grant the exemption. If you do not believe that garnishment would cause hardship, then you should have some reason for making that claim.


If you worked with the debtor to try and settle the debt between yourselves, then you may have learned in your conversations that he or she is living alone and is not supporting anyone else. You could then bring that conversation to the judge’s attention. This is one reason why you should always try to initially collect on a judgment amicably: you can learn facts about the other party’s financial situation.
 You are not required to attend the hearing. If you don’t want to attend, then you can check box 3 on Form WG-010 (Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption).However, if you believe you have evidence that disproves the debtor’s assertions, then you may want to attend.
 If you prevail in the garnishment action, then you can collect garnished wages up to the full amount of the judgment. You are responsible for notifying the court when the judgment has been satisfied. You must also notify the sheriff to stop levying the debtor’s wages.


File an Acknowledgement of Satisfaction of Judgment form.Get form EJ-100 and fill it out. File it with the court and send a copy to the debtor. Keep a copy for your records.
Notify the levying officer (i.e., the sheriff’s department) that the judgment has been paid and ask them to release the garnishment. Be sure to include the following in your letter:Court case number
The file number (if this is different from the court case number)
Name of the judgment debtor (as written on the garnishment order)
Name of the debtor’s employer
Date when the garnishment should end



