


Strafe. This is a really important key to not dying quickly; in most situations, keeping on the move will keep you alive for longer, especially in an encounter.
Fists. Melee attacking your opponents is amazingly powerful in any Reach game mode. However, it's obvious that you can only use this when close to an enemy. The downside to this is that it takes a second to attack and to wrap your finger around your gun's trigger again, so use this sparingly.
Frag Grenades. Many players believe that plasma grenades are better than their human counterparts because of their ability to stick to enemies and their vehicles. But fragmentation grenades are actually notoriously useful because of their bouncing nature. You can get them to bounce around corners if you use them well enough.;
, In many situations, running headfirst into the center of the battlefield leaves you as a very open targets for snipers and anyone with DMRs, Magnums, Rocket Launchers, or just about anything. However, if you feel it is necessary, and even then only if you're absolutely sure, then go ahead. Just remember, you probably will not survive the trip back. If you do, then you are a good Halo player with a lot of luck. Either that or all the snipers are asleep.
 Too many people don't know about the amazing side-effect of crouching; whilst crouching, you are invisible on any enemy's radar. Crouch when hiding or camping to surprise your opponents and have a better chance of survival.
 Camping is when you hide in a small, concealed space to ambush enemies who come your way. This isn't the world's greatest way of surviving with enemies able to snipe through doors or respawn knowing where you are. But if you think you've found the perfect camping spot, then go for it, but only if an enemy hasn't seen you. Just remember; doors are a camper's worst enemy and best friends. Also, once you've killed somebody by camping, then move to another spot. Otherwise, they will respawn and know where you are.
 The enemy's using a bubble shield? Go inside it, armour lock for a second, then release. The EMP will break the bubble shield. Also, if you are right next to an enemy when you release a well-charged armour lock, it will break their shields. Charged plasma pistols also do this job quite well. Also, bubble shields will restore your health when inside them.
 Ignore this one too often and you will soon be nothing more than a splodge of dead, rotting meat on the floor. Use this one too often and you will soon be nothing more than a black scorch mark on the ground. If the enemy has some pretty heavy firepower on their side, then find some cover and crouch behind it. However, the enemy can lob Frag Grenades if your position is too open, so be cautious.
 Never go on your own unless you’re some major superman shot gunner who can somehow reload very quickly within the last minute of a round… Oh dear, are you out of shotgun shells? Press Y to switch to Magn--OH DEAR, you now appear to be a zombie. Ah, well. Better luck next time, eh, old chap?

, You get booted, negative player reviews, complaints filed against you and more. Also, never take revenge on a team killer. Simply file a complaint and give them a negative player review. However, do not do this unless they deliberately kill you more than 2 times during one game whilst on your team.
 As if a very large step no. 10 wasn’t boring enough, then get this; there’s more. You’ll need to get acquainted with your weapons, whether you’re a first timer or a regular, practising around with weapons in single-player Firefight is never really a bad idea. Veterans who have been around since Halo 3 or earlier will probably have already played a million online games and absorbed much of the firearms information by now.
 Chucking a human grenade the moment before the die gives you a good 50-50 chance of getting a kill from beyond the grave, depending on how well you aim it. Of course, dying people don’t really tend to have time to aim a grenade throw, but if you have a spare just before death, then use it. You just might get lucky.
 Two blue Spartans with assault rifles. Don’t even try to kill one; many players will know that they will die, so they’ll charge for the closest one to try to score a kill before the other one kills them. Some people get lucky and do so. Some people have the Covenant gods on their side or something and in an amazing stroke of luck manage to kill both. Most people just get killed before they get to the target. Three blue Spartans against this red, and he’ll be dead shortly after coming out of cover.
 The true heroes of Reach are not the players who get the most kills, but the most assists. Whilst a one-man-army is impressive, a completely dedicated team player is a far more admirable when you think about it.
 Alright, this one will most likely get you killed, but if you can sacrifice yourself for or just assist a teammate who is fast losing a battle against somebody on the opposite team, they will really come to like you very quickly.
 And another thing; there’s no such think as ‘stealing kills’. Whoever accuses you of that is rightfully a noob themselves, and they’re still jealous because all you did was beat them to the punch.
 This is one of the rare exceptions to the "no such thing as stealing kills" rule.
 There’s nothing that online players hate more than a constant jabberer. Only speak when required or when holding conversation. In fact, if you’re holding a conversation, it would most likely be better to have it in an Xbox Live Party instead; it will disturb the other players less.
 Every armour ability is good in different situations. For example, for medium-range assault rifle combat between you, a bunch of your teammates and a bunch of the enemy, the bubble shield is quite useful. It heals, protects and provides temporary cover for you and your team. The active camo is good for infiltration and sniping. The armour lock is handy for assaults and defending key objective points, such as a flag stand or capture point. Armour lock is also handy when getting splattered. Go into it right before someone tries to run over you. The impact will either destroy their vehicle or send it flying into the air. Sprint is actually a surprisingly good armour ability, enabling you to get right back to your squad after respawning and letting you helping you get to and assist dying team mates much faster if you’re close by. Evade also does this job, but it will get you there a few seconds slower. However, it also allows you to quickly move out of the way of an enemy trying to splatter you with a vehicle. Finally, the hologram is amazing at confusing foes. If you and some squad mates are pinned down by heavy fire, then send out a hologram to draw enemy fire and start on assaulting them as they look the other way.
 You don’t aim down the sights of a fully automatic weapon here; that’s reserved for your Magnum, your Sniper Rifle and a few Covenant weapons. Also, there is no ‘second chance’ where people crawl on the floor. If you double-check a person’s dead body, chances are that you’re going to get shot by an enemy looking to avenge their teammate’s death.
 It’s good to look in your Halo: Reach manual and/or experiment with weapons in single-player Firefight to see which weapons work best at different ranges.
 Everyone has equal shields (and mostly firepower, too). Even skilled players cannot take a dozen foes at once alone, even with a Gravity Hammer.
 Use this to kill the other player before they slice/pummel you. Also, for taking down and enemy holding the bomb (a.k.a. Grif), use your Energy Sword. Just remember that other enemy players will soon be rushing to their’s Grif’s aid, so be quick and watch out for his fist. Also, Grif has shields, and the Gravity Hammer’s shockwave will only kill players will no shields, e.g. players who are not Grif. Be careful.

