 You should remove your trucks before you start to clean your board. Water that gets on the metal part of your board can lead to corrosion and rust. The trucks are also large and will get in the way, making it more difficult to clean the board. To remove your trucks, flip your board over and use an adjustable wrench to remove the large nut between your wheels. Wiggle your trucks until they come loose, then lift them off of your board. Do this to both the front and the back wheels., Mix a bucket of water with a couple of drops of a mild dish soap or detergent and mix it until it starts to sud up. Dip a medium-hard nylon brush in the bucket and start to clean the surface of your grip tape with the brush. Use small semi-circlular motions when you’re cleaning the surface of your skateboard. The grime and dirt should start to come off.You can use a toothbrush as an alternative to a nylon brush.
There are also grip tape erasers that can help you maintain your board between deep cleanings.
 Soak a clean, soap-free sponge in some water. Once it’s saturated, transfer it to the grip-tape on your skateboard to remove any suds or leftover soap. Once all the soap has been eliminated, you can move onto the next step.


If your board becomes saturated, dry it off immediately as a waterlogged board can lead to warping and cracking., Use plain water and a soft sponge to clean the underside of your board. Longboards aren’t traditionally designed for tricks, so the underside of your board should still be somewhat smooth. Make sure to remove any built on dirt or debris as you clean.


Avoid getting the metal parts on the underside of your board wet.
 Dab the entire board down with a towel so that there is no moisture remaining on it. Use a cotton towel when doing this.


Paper towels or napkins rubbed against your grip tape will create a mess.
 Set your board in a dry area for three hours and allow it to dry off fully. Once it’s dried, use an adjustable wrench to place your trucks back in their position.