 It is easy to overeat when the portion size is too large.The key to eating a normal and healthy amount at each meal is to focus on the portion size, including how much food you cook, how you serve it and how much you put on your plate.


One way to easily reduce portion sizes is to simply cook enough only for the servings needed. For example, 1 serving of pasta is about 2 oz, 56 grams, or about 3/4 cup. Measure out the amount before you put it into the pot. Or, you can use a food scale to weigh out the exact grams of food for your serving. Do not simply cook the entire pasta package.
Your protein (fish, steak, chicken, etc) should be no bigger than the size of your fist. Make sure you fill up your plate with veggies (they are healthy and low calorie).
Do not keep serving trays or bread baskets on the table; this can encourage eating extra food even after you’re full.
Use smaller plates. If you eat from a smaller plate you will serve yourself less food and eat less food overall.;
, Studies show that people serve themselves more food when the color of the food is the same as the color of the plate (alfredo pasta on a white plate).Make sure the food you are eating does not match the color of the plate you are eating it on.


An easy way to have different colored plates and make sure the plate doesn’t match your food is to buy a bunch of different plates from a thrift store.

Stick to your list at the grocery store, or order groceries online and have them delivered if you get tempted at the store. If you see a food you want, think twice about it, and rehearse something you can say to yourself like, “I don’t need this, and want to be healthy.”

, Research suggests that individuals who overeat and have high sensitivity to reward, also eat a high fat and high sugar diet.High fat diets may even promote overeating, and increase the likelihood of abusing food.Eating foods higher in fat actually makes you feel less full than low-fat foods.


Find alternative foods that are healthy in order to reduce food cravings. For example, when you crave sweets eat an apple instead.
 Make better food decisions by planning your meals ahead of time. Research indicates that individuals who are overweight sometimes tend to make poor decisions, especially in terms of food choices.Download a free phone application like MyFitnessPal or Lose It! These apps can help you track your intake by scanning and adding your food into a food diary on your phone.
Plan out a weekly menu of healthy foods. Instead of eating out, make your lunches ahead of time and bring them with you.

