 Oftentimes, we experience conflict with others because we do not take out the time to thoroughly understand their perspectives. Developing empathy for all humans can help you do this. There are many ways to build up your empathy. Here are a few suggestions:Aim to listen for understanding rather than responding. You probably spend most of your time listening thinking up what you are going to say next. Take the time to really hear what the other person is saying in your daily interactions. This leaves less room for misunderstandings.
Purposely go out of your way to shatter stereotypes. Do you have an unsupported opinion about a certain individual or group? Make an effort to meet, talk to, and get to know this individual(s) and see if your opinion changes.
Learn more about the world by reading, watching films or documentaries, and visiting museums that educate you about people from different walks of life.
 One of the major roadblocks to healthy communication is using language that causes the listener to get defensive. Forming your words in a manner that allows you to express your feelings while not blaming the other person for them can minimize interpersonal conflict.


An "I" statement starts by expressing a feeling, explaining the why behind the feeling, and offering a practical solution. An "I" statement might include the following: "I feel unappreciated when you drop tasks on me at the last minute. It would be great if you could try to give me advanced notice next time."

, Think about how you feel when someone close to you attempts to change some aspect of your nature. Perhaps your mom wants you to redecorate or your significant other doesn't like the way you dress. That probably feels bad, huh? Now, think about someone who seems to accept you for who you are. That feels so much better, right?


Constantly judging, nagging, or shaming others for their wrongness while emphasizing your rightness doesn't do anyone any good.Remember, "a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still". Trying to change others only frustrates you (and them).
Focus on working on your own faults instead of expending so much energy on others., If your words or actions have caused hurt or pain to another, you must make amends in order to prevent the relationship from becoming strained or totally breaking down. Apologizing demonstrates your willingness to admit a mistake and repair the relationship.Apologies express remorse, admit responsibility, make amends, and strive to prevent the same mistake from happening in the future.
An example of an apology could be "I apologize for not being respectful of your free time. I will do the work myself this time, and next time I will be sure to give you a heads up to check that you are available."

