 After you’ve warmed up and your muscles are feeling limber and engaged, stretch to help prevent injuries. Avoid stretching before you’ve warmed up, as it is not only ineffective, but potentially harmful.Never rush a stretch. Schedule and use a full few minutes to stretch out the muscle groups you’ll be working out.
Avoid “bouncing” while stretching. Allowing yourself to bounce in and out of a stretch can tear muscle fibers detrimentally.
 Stand with your feet apart and your knees bent. Put one hand on your hip, and extend your other hand all the way overhead, reaching as far across as you are able. Hold this stretch for 15 seconds, and then repeat it on the other side.Do five repetitions of this stretch on each side.
If you cannot hold the stretch for 15 seconds for 5 reps, start slowly with 2 or 3 reps on each side.
 To stretch a bunch of your muscles at once, clasp your hands behind your back and keep them clasped. Standing with your feet shoulder width apart and your knees bent, lean forward from the waist. Lift your arms backwards and upwards towards your head.Hold the stretch for 15 seconds. Do five repetitions, or as many as you are able.
 Extend your legs straight out while lying on your back. Bring one knee all the way up to your chest. Pull the leg closer to your chest with your hands on your hamstring just above the back of the knee. Once you’re leg is pulled up, roll your shoulders slowly forward towards your knee.Do five repetitions of this stretch for each leg.
If you cannot hold the stretch for 15 seconds for 5 reps on each leg, start with 2 or 3 reps on each side.
 Stand with one of your legs in front of the other and your hands on your hips. Lean your upper body forward, bending your front knee and putting your weight on your forward foot. Extend the rear leg straight back. Keep you back toe on the ground; your heel will naturally rise off the ground. To stretch the calve of the back leg, push that foot’s heel to the ground and hold for 15 seconds.Do five repetitions of this stretch for each calve.
If you cannot hold the stretch for 15 seconds for 5 reps on both calves, start with 2 or 3 reps on each side.
 Sit on the floor with your back straight and your legs outstretched in front of you, toes upward. Pull one foot in towards your groin, tucking the sole of your foot against the inside of your other thigh. Bend at your waist over the outstretched leg, sliding your hands down your leg until you’re feeling the stretch.Hold the stretch for 15 seconds and do it twice for each leg.

