 Clean Master is available for free in the Google Play Store. Avoid installing applications from other websites as this leads to software counterfeiting and the risk of virus infection always prevails.;
, Type 'Clean Master' in the search bar to see a direct link to the app in the drop-down list or press ↵ Enter to search the application.
 After pressing the 'Install' button, accept the user permissions to start the installation process.
 Create a shortcut on the home screen for easy access.
 Selecting 'Junk Files' scans the deepest locations of your phone to create a list of removable files from your device.
 It will check for:


System Cache

Obsolete APKs: Whenever you backup your device, all your applications are converted into APKs (application installers) and saved in your SD card. These APK files consume a massive amount of storage. Keep only those APKs which are important and delete the rest in order to free up some space.Uninstalled application's residual files: Whenever any application is uninstalled, they leave some unwanted files and empty folders. These files consume space unnecessarily and deleting them is safe.
 Check to make sure the app is not deleting any files you use. If you see any of your important files on the list, just uncheck those boxes.
 All the junk files will be deleted in a moment, and your phone should speed up.
 Select 'Memory Boost' and then choose 'Cool Device'. Allow it to analyse your phone's status.


Select the 'Cool Down' option. It will close all the apps that are resulting to the overheating of your phone.
Allow your device to rest for five minutes.
 Select the 'Memory Boost' option again. After scanning, select the 'Boost' option to free up your RAM space.
 Select on the 'Memory Boost' option and then select the 'Games' option (Game controller icon). Select the menu icon on the upper-right side of the screen. Select the 'Games Folder' option and then select 'Create'. A Games folder will be created on the home screen. Whenever you will run any game through Games folder, the game will be automatically boosted by 30%.
 Remove those apps which you rarely use.


Go to 'App Manager' and under 'Uninstall' category check those apps which you want to uninstall.
Hit 'Uninstall' button.
 Some of the apps might install on your phone storage and make your phone too slow. Move them to SD card to save your valuable phone storage.


Go to 'App Manager' and check apps you want to move under the 'Move' category.
Select 'Move' .
 Some device can enter to the settings menu by selecting 'Settings' icon in the app drawer or by tapping the 'Menu' button and selecting the 'Settings' option.
 Find Clean Master under the 'Downloaded' category and select it.
 Your app will be uninstalled within a few seconds.

