 Take part in school and community productions. You'll learn how to read scripts and take stage directions, and get comfortable performing in front of an audience. You'll also meet other actors of all ages, who can help you learn about what it's like to be an actor.


Get familiar with what's in your area. Many schools, churches, and local community theaters put on productions with roles for children.;
, Go to local productions or watch at home, but watch great performances by great actors. You’ll learn your craft, and you’ll become familiar with stories and scripts that you might see at an audition.


Check out these movies that feature young actors to get an idea of the many and varied roles for kids., Make (and post on YouTube or Vimeo, if you want) videos of yourself. Learn how to play to the camera, and get comfortable being the star of the show.
 Classes may be available through community theaters or local organizations. Summer acting camps are also popular. Taking classes shows a commitment to acting as a profession, and you will likely learn about the industry as well as the craft.
 Actors age 10 and older should have professional headshots: good digital photos are usually fine for younger children. You should have one clear headshot and one full-body pose. Don't wear black, white, or busy patterns. Keep your photos current. , Include your age, height and weight, and any agency affiliations. Mention acting classes or camps and school and community theater experience. Let the agents know what you have done and what you are capable of doing.
 Special skills can be anything from music to juggling to skateboarding to foreign languages to sports -- things that make you stand out to an agent or could be useful in a stage or commercial setting.
 There are lots of good professional agents, but unfortunately, this industry also has plenty of people who just want your money. Legitimate talent agents are paid if and when an actor gets work. If an agent asks for representation fees, or requires you to take specific classes or work with specific photographers, be very wary. Get the Call Sheet. Backstage publishes the Call Sheet, available in bookstores or online, which lists all the agencies in New York City and Los Angeles. Contact all the agencies that have a youth department.
 Agents want to see children who are relaxed, comfortable and confident. Answer questions with full sentences, not just a “yes” or “no”. Show that you are focused and can take direction well, and that you will be capable of maintaining that focus through a long day on the set. , It's very possible that you'll not be accepted by the first or second agent you see. Agents all have different ideas about what they want, and your "look" might not be what they're looking for. Keep interviewing and networking.
 It's great practice, and you will meet casting directors and other actors to build up your professional network.


Read Backstage, which lists open casting calls for children. Most are in the New York City area, but all areas are represented.Visit Casting Call Hub, which lists casting calls and auditions for children., Make sure you show up on time, well-rested, with plenty of extra resumes and headshots.


Know the product if it is a commercial audition. Casting agents may ask your opinion, and if you can respond knowledgeably and naturally, that will be a big plus.
Know the background and the characters if it is an audition for a play, TV show, or movie.
 Casting agents may ask you to perform. If you have participated in school or community productions, you may have some dialogue memorized. If not, some suggested monologues for kids are here., The casting agent may give you a few pages of script and a few minutes to prepare. Read through it as thoroughly as you can, decide what approach you will take, and go for it!

, In reality, there are lots of parts that most actors would consider to be "small," and those are probably what you'll start out with. If you've got what they want -- and a whole lot of luck -- you'll be noticed and those parts will get bigger and bigger. Otherwise you may continue to be a bit player while you learn the industry.

