 Wash your face and any affected area at least twice a day. Make sure you wash after any periods of heavy sweating. Also consider taking a bath once a day to help clean oil and dirt from your skin.If you sweat a lot, consider taking a shower afterwards to remove excess oil.
Nodules and cysts do not happen because your face or other parts of your body aren’t clean. However, keeping your face and body clean can decrease the amount of sebum and cell debris that are at the root of pimples. Keeping your face gently clean can also help heal nodules and cysts.
 Use a gentle, plant-oil based product to clean yourself. Look for a cleanser labeled as “non-comedogenic.” This means that the product does not promote the formation of acne, blackheads, whiteheads, or pimples.Examples include products from Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay. There are many store-brand products that are non-comedogenic. Read the label to be certain.


Plant-based oils can used to clean the skin. These utilize very non-comedogenic oils and are based on the principle that like dissolves like. In other words, oils can be used to dissolve the skin oils.
Good plant-based oils to use as cleansers include glycerin, grapeseed oil, hempseed oil, and sunflower oil, as well as others. Oils are the best to use to absorb and dissolve other oils. You can also use castor oil, calendula oil, or argan oil.Also try heating shea butter until it has a smooth, oil-like consistency.
Use alcohol-free products. Alcohol dries, irritates, and can damage the skin because it strips off the natural oils.
 Use your fingertips to apply the cleanser. Don’t use a washcloth or a sponge since this can irritate the skin and cause even more problems. Gently rub the cleanser on your face in a circular motion.


Don’t scrub your face. This can cause permanent scarring and the skin will take longer to heal.
Vigorous exfoliation often does more harm than good. Exfoliation can cause micro-scarring, which are tiny scars that can’t be seen without some sort of magnification, and obvious scarring. Exfoliation can often make acne worse.
 Never pick, pop, squeeze, or touch the nodules or cysts. This can also cause flare-ups, scarring, and will result in a longer healing time., The American Academy of Dermatology recommends that you be gentle with your skin. Rough touching can cause irritation and make the acne worse.The AAD also recommends avoiding products that irritate the skin. This includes astringents, toners, and exfoliants.Chemical exfoliants, such as salicylic acid, beta hydroxy acid, and alpha hydroxy acid, chemically detach the dead and dying skin cells. This process can be drying and irritating as well.

