 The principal aspect of biological evolution is necessity and opportunity. Even if there is plenty of opportunities available, evolution may not occur in many organisms if there is no necessity. The definition of the word ‘necessity’ should be understood as a compulsion for the animal to evolve failing which, the very existence would be difficult. A kind constant threat to the life is what would have caused the biological evolution. The threat can be from predators, from competition or from many others reasons may be difficult to list accurately. During such a process, even if an ideal opportunity is not available, the species develops new traits to suit the existing/prevailing opportunity. Further growth and development is never on the agenda of the biological evolution of many species. Survival and procreation are the only two advantages most species aspire to have from biological evolution., The business also needs to adapt or evolve with time if it wants to survive. The direction of the evolution of a business must sail with the ecosystem otherwise the business might perish. This is the baseline of the evolution of a business and it does not differ much from biology. Biological evolution would normally stop when the survival needs are fulfilled in a species.


Further development of the species is more towards how successfully it can survive the threat than in any other dimension. In the case of a business, the definition of evolution goes beyond the survival needs. It is not the threat that causes the evolution of corporate but seeing and utilizing the opportunity appropriately and in a timely way ensures success. Compelling survival needs never help in the evolution of the business; this is true for both the business as well as its employees.
 Educate your people on how to sense and utilize the opportunities for evolving the business.
 Many businesses presume that threatening its employees will ensure performance and growth. It is a myth that if such a situation is created, it is good for the business. Rather, people will be working more on how to deal the threat from the domain on fear and insecurity than being curious and creative.

