 This is the most common time signature in modern music, the one counted out "1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2..." The metronome will count out these beats for you, giving you a perfectly timed track to match up with.









Not all metronomes advertise time signatures like "4/4" or "3/4." Some make you pick the note length. If it asks, set the machine to "quarter notes.";
, Metronomes determine their speed in beats per minute, or BPM. While many songs are around 100 BPM or more, you need to focus on getting perfect rhythm across a variety of tempos. Start slow, then move up as you get better.









Some people actually find slower tempos harder to match up to, helping you improve even faster. If you can hold at 70 BPM, then 120 will be much easier.
 Just work on one simple strum per beat. This isn't glamorous, but focus on hitting every beat perfectly for 1-2 minutes straight. Really try to get you strumming perfectly matched to the beat.









Once this becomes easier, start upping the speed, still sticking to just one strum per beat.
 Once you can strum every beat, it's time to start playing "real" guitar. Pick a couple of chords you are comfortable with -- something simple, like G-C-D -- and start an up-down strumming pattern you can hold comfortably. Up the speed of the metronome, focusing on holding your rhythm even when you have to change chords.
 This is a key feature for practice -- the metronome goes silent for a measure, but comes back in right on time. Your job is to come back on time with it. As you get better and better, keep making the intervals between measures longer and longer. Once you can stay on perfect time even when the metronome cuts out you will have the rhythm mastered.
 Set the machine to eighth notes, or 3/4 time. Get really crazy and try out a song in 7/4, or drop the BPM so low you really need to focus on each well-spaced beat. Metronome practice doesn't have to be boring if you're willing to challenge yourself.









Again, never just screw around or play halfheartedly, making mistakes without corrections. You need to actually work on staying with the metronome to gain anything from these exercises.

