 Volunteer opportunities to get experience being a band roadie may not be as difficult to find as you may think. While getting a job on the road with no experience is unlikely to happen, it's possible that you could volunteer at other places that will give you the similar experience. Go to local theaters and talk directly with staff. Inquire if you could volunteer your time and work on the job. They may be more convinced if you have some level of prior experience.


Many music camps are also looking for volunteers to perform basic roadie tasks like breaking down lighting equipment and fixing and operating sound equipment for the camp.You can say something like, "Hey, my name's Garrett. I was wondering if you guys needed any volunteers or help setting up or breaking down for bands. I'm looking to get into being a crew member and I need to get some experience first."

, Working backstage for a musical performance in your school will give you the practical experience to help a band during a performance. Register to become part of the stage crew. Take opportunities to work on the stage crew and learn everything that you can. The more versatile you are, the more likely that you can eventually land a position working with a band that tours.


On stage crew you can learn things like sound prep, lighting, makeup, and managing., Many tour roadies begin their career with a local band.Smaller bands may not always have the money to pay roadies, so they are less likely to expect you to have a lot of experience. If you do well and have good chemistry with the band, they may want to take you with them when they go on tour.


Even if they don't end up going on tour, you'll still get valuable experience that you can use as leverage when looking for a paid job.
 If you get a job in sound or lighting, it's possible that the group you're working for will request something that's unsafe or not technically or financially feasible. In these cases, it's best to be as transparent as you can with them. Part of your job is being able to find solutions to complex problems or issues, but the other part of your job is to be a knowledgeable, reliable, and safe


Instead of saying that it can't be done, try to come up with a compromise or solution that can satisfy the producers or performers.
For instance, you can say something like "A suspended dragon probably won't be possible on the schedule we are trying to keep, but I've thought of a solution. Instead of having a physical dragon, we can do a projection of a dragon behind you to simulate it."

