 You’ll need at least three or four shirts, pairs of underwear, and pairs of socks. Wear – don’t pack – pair of light but sturdy walking shoes. If you intend to do some mountain climbing or hiking, bring a pair of hiking boots, too. Pack a light and water-resistant jacket, too.The other clothing you select should depend on the climate of the area where you’ll be traveling. If you’re going to stick to hot climates, don’t pack gloves and heavy sweaters (though you might want one scarf or light sweater for cool nights). If you’re headed to a cold climate, don’t bring shorts.
 You should bring your phone with you, as it can be useful for browsing the internet and sending emails, even if you can’t use it for phone calls. Don’t forget to bring an international socket adopter. This will allow you to use your electronic devices with the foreign electrical outlets you encounter abroad.A pair of high-quality earbuds are also essential for traveling.
If you have a small, lightweight tablet or laptop, you might want to bring that as well.
 When packing light for a year of undefined travel, you should think more about what you don’t need than what you do. Keep your packing minimal. Lay everything you plan on bringing on the floor and evaluate each item one-by-one. Ask yourself, “Will I get a lot of use out of this? Is there some way I could avoid bringing this?” For instance, if you have three sets of shoes, you might conclude, “I could do with a single pair of shoes in order to pack lighter.”, Instead of packing a suitcase – or even two suitcases, get a sturdy backpack and a daypack. Use the backpack to carry your essential items – clothes, boots, and so on. Use the daypack to bring things you need when leaving your motel or hostel like a water bottle, phone, and money.Choose a backpack that is about 10% smaller than the one you think you want so that you avoid overpacking., Travel-sized padlocks are essential for keeping your bag secure. Hopefully you’ll be in hostels that have lockers available to store your things. You can keep the locker secure by locking it with the padlock. If you’re in a private room in a hotel, you could bind the two zippers on your backpack together with a padlock, making it impossible to open the backpack (though a determined thief could always slash the bag).