 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to create crispy, healthy hash browns, set the temperature to 475 degrees Fahrenheit (245 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with nonstick foil and spray it lightly with nonstick cooking spray.You can substitute parchment paper for the foil if you prefer.
 For the hash browns, you’ll need 4 cups of peeled, shredded baking potatoes. Place the potatoes in a large bowl, and cover them with cold water. Allow them to soak for about 5 minutes.You can substitute sweet potatoes for the baking potatoes if you prefer.
 After the potatoes have soaked for several minutes, drain the water from them. Next, rinse them under cold water from the sink to remove any lingering starch., To create crispy hash browns, it’s important that potatoes are completely dry before you bake them. Place the shredded potatoes in a salad spinner, and spin them until they are fully dry.If you don’t have a salad spinner, dry the potatoes thoroughly by patting them with paper towel.
 Once the potatoes are dry, combine them with ¼ cup (58 g) of thinly sliced green onions and ¼ cup (45 g) of chopped green bell pepper in a large bowl. Toss the ingredients together well so they’re fully combined.You can substitute yellow onion for the green if you prefer.
You can substitute red or yellow bell peppers for the green if you prefer. You can also use a combination of two or more of the peppers.
 After you’ve combined the potatoes with the peppers and onions, mix 2 tablespoons (16 g) of cornstarch, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of black pepper, and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of onion powder into the bowl. Toss the mixture well to make sure all of the potatoes are coated with the seasonings.You can add any other seasonings, such as garlic powder, paprika, and/or cayenne pepper, that you might like to the hash browns.
 When you’re ready to make the hash brown patties, set a 3-inch (8-cm) biscuit cutter on the prepared baking sheet. Fill the cutter with ½ cup (115 g) of the potato mixture to form a patty.While you want a neat pile of the potato mixture to create the potato, don’t press on the potatoes to pack them.
If you don’t have a biscuit or pastry cutter, you can form the patties with clean hands. However, be careful not to pack the mixture together too tightly.
 Once you’ve filled the biscuit cutter with the potato mixture, carefully lift away the cutter, making sure to leave the patty intact. Continue the process until you’ve used up all of the potato mixture., After you’ve formed all the hash brown patties, lightly coat their tops with cooking spray. Place the baking sheet in the preheated oven and allow them to bake for 20 minutes., When the hash browns have cooked for 20 minutes, use a wide spatula to carefully flip the patties over. Let the patties cook for another 15 minutes, or until they are golden brown.Keep an eye on hash browns, particularly near the end of the cooking time, to ensure that the edges don’t burn.
 After the hash browns have finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Use the spatula to transfer the patties to a platter, and serve with the rest of your breakfast while they are still warm.The recipe makes approximately 8 hash brown patties.
To store leftover hash browns, place the patties in an airtight container and refrigerate. They should keep for 2 to 3 days.

