 Think hard about this; because if you are making a series, the pets chosen are the ones usually used for the entire series. But don't pressure yourself! Have fun! Try out each pet with his or her character personality, and see if it fits them.;
, If you are a true LPS fan, you will probably already have names for your pets. However, acting names can be very interesting and even allow you to "gender swap" where you make a boy act out a girl character/voice, or vice versa. But acting names can be difficult to remember, which brings me to the next step.
 If you want, leave it vague, just listing general events and the addition/subtraction of characters during the story. Or, if your prefer, make a specific script with lines for each character to follow. This is a good method if you forget your mental "lines" easily, or if you just aren't good at improvising.
 This includes their personality, last name, likes, dislikes, friends, location, dreams, crushes, history, enemies, family (mostly for main characters), and time (does the story take place in the past, the present, or the future?)  

, Is it a city? You will need at least four or five playsets for this. Is it a countryside or an open area? You will still need some props. Some include  fences, trees, grass (felt or carpet is best), sand (or a light cream/tan floor surface), or uneven terrain. Make it as realistic as possible without it looking too gaudy.
 Use LPS stuff, doll furniture, or similar. Be creative! A play set can be used to show the inside, but it does not always look very neat. Plus, remember your setup; it has to be as close as possible to the original if you decide to take it down for a different scene, or have to move it for other reasons. If you have trouble remembering things, take a picture of the setup and recreate it later when needed

, Now you are ready to define voices, fashion styles, habits, behaviors, etc. This may seem tedious, but it will really help you define the characters as clearly as possible. This is extremely helpful in an ongoing series, but you should at least skim across this step even if just doing a short story or a single video.
 Try out any planned lines and scenes before filming them. It will improve your acting and eliminate slip-ups. Practice how they walk, their tone, their goal, the scene's purpose, etc. Don't spend too long rehearsing, but spend enough time on it to get the general idea down

, Light your scene well, but don't let the glare erase the pets' faces. After that is set, check for background noise and random items in the background of the shot that don't belong there!

, The quality of the camera does not necessarily define the quality of the video, but try to use the best possible camera anyway. Whether it be a regular all-purpose camera, a clunky but good-quality video recorder, or just a phone camera, anything that can record decent video will suffice.
 Special effects are great, but too many can be confusing and make a viewer want to get away from that mess. So use them  sparingly; slow motion, dreamy effects, and black and white are all common, acceptable special effects used in videos nowadays

, It's not required, but it certainly adds awesomeness to a video when placed correctly. Make sure not to use songs with words in them; they will distract from the character dialogue, but these songs are good for some montages, dreams (as long as there is little to no speaking)

, Now all you have to do is sit back, relax, and let people find and watch your awesome video! 

