 Taking the photo from above will create a much different effect than if you take the photo head-on. Be prepared to bend down, or stand on top of something to get to the right height.
 Do you want your background to be distracting or iconic? Depending on the contest's theme you may want a simple background or a complex one. Why not try taking photos in a few places?

, If you're taking photos outside, consider if you want your photo to be taken in the middle of the day, when it is brightest, or at night when the only light comes from streetlights. If taking photos inside, do you want the windows open or closed?

, Do you need to use a flash. If you do, be careful how far away your subject is. A flash will only work about 8–10 feet (2.4–3.0 m) ahead. Also be careful not to stand to close to your subject as this will result in a whiteout. If you're taking photos of people or animals, consider using a camera with a "red eye double flash" feature, to prevent red eyes.
 Which direction should they be pointing? Do you even want them in your photo? Also be careful that your subject's face isn't blacked out (unless you want it that way). This can happen when you are pointing the camera into the sun.
 Do you want your whole subject in the photo? Should they be off to the side or centered? Be creative with these as they can distinguish a forgettable photo into a memorable one.
 Generally, zoomed in photos give more impact. Again it depends on what the judges will be looking for. You may consider using a telephoto or other special lens, depending on what your subject is.
 Try looking at a color wheel for creative ideas. For example: If you are photographing some blue flowers, you may want to mix them with orange flowers for contrast, as the two are opposites on the color wheel. Consider the following: Complimentary, Split Complimentary, Triad, Analogous, Monochromatic, Sepia, Black and White.
 Sometimes the best shots are the unplanned ones. Keep your camera with you at all times. If the contest rules allow it, look for old photos to submit.

