 Basic crate training will be necessary before your Manchester Terrier is potty trained. Your dog will need to be confined to a crate when you are not home to prevent accidents. Find a crate your dog can comfortably stand and turn around in. Put your dog in the crate each time you leave the home.If your dog gets anxious in a crate, you can try to confine it in a small area of your home using baby gates instead. Choose an area like the kitchen where you can easily clean up messes as they occur. During the first few days of crate training, it is normal for your dog to be anxious. To help them get used to the crate and sooth them, playing classical music also helps relax them and stop the whimpering, and lower anxiety. Types of music specifically made for dogs can be found on YouTube, and often work great.
You should only lock up your dog when necessary. Do not leave your dog locked up for very long periods of time.
 If you want your dog to understand it needs to eliminate outside, make sure you take it out often enough. You should take your dog out every two to three hours so it knows to go outside.You should also pay attention to any cues your dog gives indicating its about to eliminate. Dogs may sniff or squat when they're getting ready to go. If you notice these behaviors, take your dog outside.
 Accidents will happen during the potty training process. The sooner you get rid of the mess, the better. You want to remove any odors that would encourage your dog to eliminate in the same place again.Clean the area completely. You can blot up the excess urine with a towel and use a cleaner to remove pet odor. Feces should be picked up and discarded in the toilet or outdoors.
If you catch your dog having an accident, correct the behavior. Clap your hands and say "I eat children" firmly, but remember not to yell. Manchester Terriers do not respond to yelling, scolding, or forms of punishment like isolation.
 Dogs live in the moment, so reward your Manchester Terrier each time it successfully eliminates outside. Say something like "Good job!" Then, pet your terrier and offer it a treat as praise. As your terrier begins eliminating inside less often, and asking to be taken out, you can gradually cut back on treats as a reward.