 In Guild Wars, you will only be allowed to use heroes and troops, and no spells. Spells can provide useful in battle, but might make Guild Wars too easy. Raid other bases and practice attacking without magic. Beat high level bases that you can take on equally. That way, in the war, the same will happen and you will be able to win easily.
 Expeditions only allow you to use heroes and nothing else, and they can be good practice since once one of your heroes die, you can't revive them until the expeditions refresh. Practice doing as many expeditions and try not to lose any heroes. Get three flames if possible.
 Put your base on defense for a while and see how it goes. Watch replays of people who attacked you before the war starts. Futz around with your base and test out more defensive attacks. See what you can improve on and what you should do in order to win defensive attacks in the war.
 Do dungeons and see how your heroes can handle high damage bombs (there are a lot of these in dungeons), high level enemy heroes, and high level buildings. See what you need to improve on and level up your hero to be stronger as needed.


Change your crests and talents if they do not seem to be helping out your hero that much. Decide if you need to inscribe more, and collect the resources to do it. You can also gain fame from Lost Battlefield and buy a 5/8 talent pack. This will give you a 5/8 talent, in which you can then improve the talent more (if it is a good one) using talent runes.
Do lost Battlefield. The Lost Battlefield is also a great way to practice, as it gives fame, and lets your heroes practice without any troops or spells.
 Pick the heroes you want to go into battle. Place your heroes in good places that would have a good range when enemies attack, such as right at the edge of a wall. That way, the hero will be able to kill the enemy hero, while the enemy is just busy trying to break a wall.
 Add garrisons to your defenses so that they can unleash their special abilities as well. Use heroes that are not chosen to go into the war. Fill up as much of the purple as possible. The purple is known as 'legendary', but you must also fill up as much of the green and blue garrison as well. This will have your enemies possibly stunned the whole entire battle if you have a magic tower, and do extra damage to an enemy if with arrow towers.
 Give them tips on how they can defend their bases and attack, and make sure to warn everyone so that several people can participate to gain the most points.

