 On any regulation pool table, you’ll notice a series of light-colored dots running down the length of the rails. These are known as “diamonds,” and they’re an integral part of establishing precise angles. No matter where on the table you’re playing from, you can use the diamonds to sink bank shots with accuracy and consistency.The basic idea behind the diamonds is they help create “mirrored” angles. If you shoot the object ball into a diamond at a 45 degree angle, it should bounce off the rail at 45 degrees in the opposite direction.Lining up your shot with the diamonds will only work if you’re able to shoot straight and smooth, so be sure to practice your stroke to ensure success.;
, Beginning with the foot rail, count each diamond up from 1 (starting at the corner pocket, which is the imaginary first diamond). Do the same for the longer side rail. You should end up with two separate ranges of numbers, typically 1-5 and 1-9.The exact number of diamonds on the rails may differ depending on the size of the table—a 9’ regulation pool table will have 5 diamonds on the foot rails and 9 on the sides.
It’s not important for a table to have a certain number of diamonds. What is important is knowing how to use the diamonds that are there to determine your most promising shooting angle.
 Take note of where each ball is in relation to the diamonds you just numbered. For instance, if the cue ball is sitting in front of the corner pocket, it would be at diamond 1. An object ball just short of the far side pocket would be at diamond 4.

Balls resting between diamonds can be assigned an intermediate number, such as 3.5.Assuming you’re attempting a bank shot from one end of the table to the other, use the foot rail diamonds to determine the position of the balls in play.
 In the example just described, the position of the object ball (diamond 4) minus the position of the cue ball (diamond 1) equals 3 diamonds' length. Divide this number in half to find the halfway point between the two balls (1.5 diamonds' length away).You’ll need to aim for the imaginary diamond at the halfway point (diamond 2.5) in order to achieve a perfect mirrored angle and pocket the object ball.
Once you’ve discovered the correct angle, all you have to do is bank the object ball straight into the diamond and let physics take care of the rest.
 First, find the numbered positions of the cue and object balls and add them together—using the example positions, this gives you 5. Then, divide this number in half to get 2.5. This will tell you exactly where to hit the cue ball in order to get the object ball moving in the right direction.A kick shot (also known as a “lag” shot) is when you bank the cue ball before it strikes the object ball. This type of shot is useful when there are other balls in the way of a more direct shot.Kick shots can be tricky because if your margin of error is even a little bit off, the cue ball will strike the object ball at the wrong angle, throwing off your shot.

