 Do you deliberately set out to look sexy or provocative? Do you smoke? Stay up too late? Drink alcohol? Write all these down and reflect on them. Now, one by one, eliminate these bad habits.

. Instead, start to think about, and develop, your virtuous side
, The most important virtues are:



Selflessness - always think of others first, so people start to regard you as a nice girl who is a role model for others

Modesty - think about your appearance. You should aim to be feminine and demure - not provocative

Chastity - treasure the ambition of being a virgin on your wedding night

Charity - always think of others - and there are many - who are in a worse position than you - and give money and time to help them. If you have spare time, consider volunteering somewhere useful

Patience - don't be in too much of a hurry to be an adult; you have plenty of time

, Address them with respect. Do what they tell you to even if you think they are treating you like a child - remember they only want to protect you. Return their unconditional love. They will be proud of your new approach to life and will love to help you. Never disrespect your parents by criticizing them to your friends

, Be sure in your opinions, but never express a negative opinion if it will hurt someone. Choose your words - and your battles - wisely.
 Embrace being a girl - and never try to be one of the guys. Ask for help when lifting heavy objects, bat those lovely eyes. Always try to be cute, but don't take it too far, that will get annoying, but don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. Don't be afraid to embrace your shy side either; it isn't a weakness and will make you seem cute and adorable

, Don't associate with those who may lead you into temptation. Instead, find friends who also are trying to live wholesome and fulfilling lives. It’s much easier to feel innocent and sweet when you hang out with like-minded people. Spend time with kids and interact with them to see how they act. Try to understand how they see the world and try to learn from them. Enjoy children's activities and the things that innocent people enjoy. Don't worry if you find you are much happier around younger girls - it's fun and quite normal.
 Be proud of the fact that you will be a virgin on your wedding night. Although it is a test of patience and endurance you will find it a beautiful and uplifting ambition. Friends will respect and secretly envy you even if they don't say so.. By all means, kiss a few frogs...but don't make little tadpoles! A purity ring may serve as a useful reminder to yourself that you have made this promise.
 Be a girl who doesn't compromise them and never do anything you know your parents would not approve of. They brought you into this world. You are theirs to love and protect, do not disappoint them.
 Begin by throwing any trousers and jeans away - wearing your skirts helps define you as a girl and you will look and feel completely different.. Black or navy are great as they help project your image as that of a demure and classy girl. Don't have hems too much above the knee. But your top should be in a color associated with innocence. White symbolizes purity, pink symbolizes youth, yellow symbolizes hope. Look for lace and ruffles. Don't let your tops expose any breast - your lowest neck-line should be at least two centimeters above your breast.
 Firstly, your hair. Don't dye it, instead keep it natural with no highlights. However, make sure it is exquisitely styled. Buns, plaits, headbands and ribbons are now your friends. As for make-up, keep it to a minimum. Piercings? Ears only - never your tongue, face or belly-button. Avoid tattoos completely; they look crude - and you will regret having them later

, Cut down on TV watching - and don't be afraid to ask advice from parents about whether something is suitable for you. You want to avoid sex, and violence for example, or shows which make bad behavior seem cool or exciting. Instead, read, write poetry, brush your hair, sing, or learn a musical instrument. Take up simple hobbies. Send thank-you letters when you receive a gift. Write letters rather than e-mails - your friends will think this is really cute. Try to use the house-phone more, you may not really need a mobile phone as much as you think you do.
 Never bully. Be ready to defend the victim if you see somebody being bullied, but never throw a punch. If someone hits you, do not hit back. Doing so would make you just as guilty. Go and find somebody in authority and show them your wound, giving an honest account of the events. Do not embellish or elaborate. Try to remain as calm as possible wile still showing that you are upset.
 Express your feelings freely, but in a polite and civilized manner. Try to keep composure, but voice your opinions as you have a right to them!

, Agree a bedtime with your parents (9.30 or 10.00 might be good on school nights, a bit later at weekends) and ask them to make you stick to it even if sometime you would rather not. Don't worry that other girls are out partying while you're getting ready for bed - you're not like other girls now. Here are some tips to help you enjoy your bedtime:


Wear a pretty nightdress rather than pajamas
It's no fun getting into a cold bed, so in winter ask your Mom to put a hot water bottle in your bed so it's lovely and warm for you.
Then ask her to come and kiss you goodnight.
 There is a lot of scary stuff with sex, violence, and drugs that you could stumble upon which is not good for the new you. Ask your parents to install parental control software on your PC and phone if you have one. They can configure this to prevent you from seeing webpages or doing things which are inappropriate for you. They will be very happy to do this for you as they know it will help you to be the sweet and innocent girl you want to be. You will feel much safer and more protected too. Don't stress that your friends know about this - they will think it's cute and a sign that your parents care for you.

