 As a general guide to the new user Outworld Devourer or "OD" as DOTA players like to call him is a primarily Intelligence hero. His main attribute is intelligence so you will never have to worry about "low mana" with this hero. However ICEFROG has still decided to add unlimited mana for this hero. The more you use your array of spells, the more chance OD has of replenishing his mana pool.
 OD almost always goes into the hard lane of his map because of his good range and high starting damage. For your starting Items take a "Null Talisman" and "Tangoes" to keep your Hp up. If your opponent is low on gold it will always give your team a decided advantage especially if it is a carry opponent., If you have not killed your opponent yet, skill your first Ability, which gives you a pure damage bonus. With the Null Talisman you will be able to add about 20 to 25 bonus damage to your attacks which should be enough to land you a few kills., By the fifth level you should have quite a damage bonus to your attacks and remember that this is pure damage(not affected by any armor value or physical damage resistance)., This is the turning point for OD when he transforms from a sole hero killer to a nightmare for your enemy. The ultimate has a large area of effect and by now you should have Rod of Atos or Aghanim's Sceptre in your Arsenal which only adds to its damage bonus., With both skills maxed you will have infinite mana if you keep the Arcane Orb on auto-attack (you can do this by Right clicking the ability icon), Essence Aura will constantly refresh your mana pool., While they are trapped, use the time to get ahead of them so they can't escape and then hit them like crazy until they die (which they will)., Your ultimate can hit heroes trapped in Astral prison. Use this to your advantage to trap a carry or annoying support then hit the enemy heroes during a team fight. Finally when the prison is about to expire launch your ulti at the fight location. This combo is guaranteed to get you 2 to 3 kills instantly and you can chase up to the leftovers and finish them too., This item is absolutely marvelous on OD. It gives you a boost of intelligence which basically means more damage for you and the ability to propel yourself instantly through 600 units of distance makes you every low hp hero's nightmare. You can also use this to initiate a team fight., This item gives you insane mana regeneration(not that you need it) and also contributes a lot towards your arcane orb effect. Also the regeneration bonus means that you can stay in Team fights for longer and cause more damage per second., If you can't then blame your teammates because if you follow this guide you will be the most damage producing hero in your team.