 The Werebeaver is Woodie’s unique ability to go from semi-rational lumberjack to slavering powerful beast, and this process can be beneficial to the early game player with little to no resources. But before deciding to go full beaver, players must take precautions and prepare for the transformation.;
, When you chop down trees, young or full grown, you always find yourself picking up some pinecones. Planting them in a nearby area would ensure a steady supply of Logs, and also give you an easily-accessible place to trigger the transformation.


In RoG, there’s a new type of tree called the Birchnut Tree, which drops Birchnuts instead. Birchnuts can be cooked, unlike pinecones, but it’s better to plant it than eating it.
 Basically, this is a Chest or a Backpack full of food, some crafting materials, some healing materials, and maybe a weapon and armor for added protection. This is because the aftermath of a Werebeaver transformation weakens Woodie thoroughly, with only 50 points each of all three gauges. This is not a very good position to find yourself when you have no weapons, no armor, and no resources. Most of the necessities require a Science Machine, however, so best make one as soon as possible.


Science Machines are made through the Science tab, represented by an atom icon, for 1 Gold Nugget, 4 Logs, and 4 Rocks. Afterwards, place it down on the ground, and start learning recipes! You can’t move the Science Machine after placing it though, so make sure the area is safe.
Backpacks can be made for 4 each of Twigs and Cut Grass, and you can learn to make them on your Science Machine’s Survival tab, represented by a looped rope. Chests require 3 boards, another thing you can make in the Refine tab (diamond icon), and you can learn to make them on your Science Machine’s Structures tab, represented by a wooden hammer.
You can make Healing Salves from Ashes left over from your campfires and a Spider Gland from when you kill spiders. You need a Science Machine to learn this, and they can be made under the Survival tab.
Weapons and armor can be made in the Fight tab, represented by two crossed swords. At the very least, make a Spear and a Log Suit to place in your survival kit to help prolong Woodie’s life post-transformation. Spears require 1 Flint, 2 Twigs, and a Rope; Log Suits need 8 Logs and 2 Ropes; and you can learn to make both of these recipes through your Science Machine.
Food like Jerky, Popcorn, and Pierogi last about 20 days and heal you for a bit of all three stats, while Honey, Seeds, and Butter last 40 but are less filling and restorative. Consider stockpiling food that last more than ten days at least before transforming. You’ll need a Farm Plot, a Drying Rack, and a Crock Pot to make the first three food items mentioned, while the latter three can be found by killing bees, on the ground, or by killing Butterflies, respectively. All three mentioned structures can be made in the Food tab, represented by a carrot icon.
 This is similar to your base camp, if you’ve made one, but with less structures. And by less, I mean it contains, at most, a Firepit, a “survival kit” or two, and maybe a Science Machine.
 Before transforming, take off everything in your inventory and place them in Chests, Backpacks, and the like to prevent item loss. If you’re using the tree-chopping method, use Lucy instead of any other axe type, since Lucy shows up in the Map whenever you drop her.
 This is the first method of transformation and is also the most reliable. To transform, you need to chop trees approximately 38 times with Lucy equipped. You’ll know when you’re close to transforming when Lucy the Axe starts warning you and telling you to slow down. Note that it doesn’t matter what Axe you’re using, Lucy just fells them all faster and even gives you warnings before the transformation, giving you an idea when you’re just about to turn. After you’ve chopped down 38 trees, you’ll transform.
 This second method is an RoG-only one, and involves the new Lunar Cycles mechanic. At the start of the game, the moon starts waxing until it becomes full at days 9–10, and then Woodie will transform into a Werebeaver.


After days 9–10, the moon will begin to wane until it’s a new moon on days 17–18, wherein it starts waxing again. You can see the phase of the moon right next to your clock.
 While you drop everything in your inventory when you transform, you can do so much as the Werebeaver! You can break every structure, dig up plants and graves, smash trees to bits, and he even comes with perfect, unlimited night vision! His only drawback, aside from the no-inventory thing, is that the Log Meter, which replaces the three regular gauges, is constantly draining. You can fill it back up by eating things like Logs, Grass, Berry bushes, and Twigs; but aside from that hiccup, you can use the Werebeaver to assist you in farming resources for free, fighting off hazardous mobs and bosses, and generally clearing out an area as you see fit.
 Post-transformation, don’t charge at everything you see. After the Log Meter depletes, you’re left weak, hungry, and generally helpless. With only a measly 50 in each gauge, you have to be careful. You have no weapons or armor and have precious little health in your system. This is when the aforementioned survival kits come in handy, providing you with everything you need to heal up and survive another day.
 Now that you’re Woodie again, this means you have an inventory, which means it’s time to clean up the Werebeaver’s mess and take everything you can use. While this means several trips back to your main camp and possibly having to build a lot more Chests and Backpacks, this would also provide you quite a bit of resources. Just make sure to gather the perishable items first, like Meats, before taking everything else.
 If all else fails and you find yourself in a fix, grab an Axe and start chopping! This will turn you back to the Werebeaver, and when you de-transform, you’ll be back to having 50 points in the 3 gauges!