 While you should not include a straight list of achievements in your personal statement, some of your most significant achievements do deserve to be mentioned. Writing out a list of your achievements will help you to recall each one and determine which to include.


Formal achievements can include:

Academic degrees and certifications
Scholarship awards
Awards or honors from academic institutions
Workplace promotions, reviews, and evaluations
Speaking at a conference, convention, or workshop
Published works in your field of expertise
Official recognition for community service or contributions

;
, These goals allow the reader to know that their contribution will have a significant impact. You do not need to describe all your goals in your final statement, but list as many as possible during the brainstorming stage.


In order to thoroughly cover your goals, ask yourself a range of questions like:

How will this university/academic program/scholarship/job position/client directly impact my future?
What is my ultimate career goal?
Where do I see myself in 1 year? 5 years? 10 years?
What are the steps I need to take in order to reach my ultimate goal?
What are other goals I hope to accomplish along the way?



, Jot down a list of experiences and turning points in your life that led you to develop your goals or present set of interests.


Questions worth asking yourself include:

When did you originally develop an interest in your field of choice?
What do you love most about your field of choice?
Why do you think your field of choice is important?
What experiences have you had that have provided you with experience in the field?
Has there ever been a time that you nearly gave up on this dream?
Had you given up any other dreams or expectations in order to chase after this one?



, Challenges and difficulties often make the hero of the story—you—seem more endearing. Everyone loves an underdog, and many people will be willing to assist you if they see that you have already worked so hard to reach the position you are currently at.


Possible challenges worth exploring include:

Financial difficulties
Social status difficulties
Prejudice
Learning disabilities
Physical disabilities
Family problems
Medical problems
Unexpected tragedies



, You will likely have plenty of competition, so you need to thoroughly describe whatever it is that sets you apart from the rest of the crowd. Before you can convince the reader of your uniqueness, you need to convince yourself.Ask yourself a range of questions, such as:

What personal qualities (leadership skills, organizational skills, self-control, etc.) do you possess which make you a valuable asset?
What experiences and beliefs have shaped your present character?
What are some of your proudest "unofficial" accomplishments? (Emphasize accomplishments that demonstrate a positive character trait.)
Have you had any turning points that redirected your life in a positive way?
Why would you choose yourself over other candidates? Why should anyone else?



, While the basic structure and purpose of a personal statement remains the same, there are different aspects of your life you will need to focus on describing based on the type of situation this personal statement will be used for.If writing a personal statement for undergraduate schools or scholarships, focus on how your interests came to be, your high school achievements, your community involvement, and your positive character traits.
If writing for an undergraduate transfer, focus on your current academic and community record with your present school and describe your reasons for wanting to switch universities.
If writing for graduate school, focus on your long-term plans for the future, your undergraduate experiences, and the reasons you plan to further your education.
If writing for a job, portfolio, or to gain a particular client, focus on your past work experiences, the experiences you gained academically within the past five years, and your positive character traits.
 Before you write your personal statement, do a little digging to find out what the reader will find important.


Look into the institution's or organization's:

Mission statement
History
Star students or employees
Recent accomplishments or news stories



, Sometimes, an institution or organization will provide a list of specific questions or topics they want you to address. If this is the case, review the list carefully and write out answers that directly answer those concerns.
 While several institutions or organizations may share similar concerns, you should resist the urge to use the same personal statement for each. Instead, write a fresh personal statement tailor-made for each institution. Some differences may exist between your statements, but each one should be a little different in some way.
Note that you can, however, use the same notes you took during your brainstorming sessions.
 Your first paragraph must grab the reader's attention. A strong introductory paragraph will clearly introduce the thesis or theme of your personal statement while avoiding cliches or overused phrasing.


Avoid starting with phrases like, “The most important moment in my life was when...”
A better way to introduce that “important moment” would be to simply start describing it. Explain that, “The summer I turned 17 would leave me a changed person,” or, “When I first started working at XYZ Company, I never imagined that my belief about widget manufacturing would change so dramatically.” Directly break into the narrative instead wasting time alerting the reader that you intend to do so.
Provide as much detail in the first paragraph as possible. Introduce the main idea of your personal statement and describe the conditions of that idea. Save any elaborate details or related notes and experiences for the body of your essay, though.
 In general, a one-page personal statement should only elaborate on two to four main issues. Choose issues that are both relevant and meaningful.


Never share your entire life story.
Write about what interests you. You will be able to write more convincingly and more passionately if you write about events, goals, experiences, or ideas that you already feel passionate about.
Address issues specifically brought up by the institution or organization. If there are any topics that the reader demands to see, then make sure that those are included in your personal statement.
 Keep in mind that the purpose of a personal statement is to introduce yourself to the institution or organization you send the statement to.



Do not be vague or general.

Do tell the reader about experiences, goals, and ideas unique to you.
 You can and should address specific concerns brought up by the institution or organization, but you should not write your personal statement with the sole purpose of impressing the reader.


Do not attempt to be the “perfect match.” You have no definitive way of knowing what the perfect match would be like, and attempting to create a skewed image of yourself will only cause problems in the future.
 Write in an optimistic, confident tone.


Avoid uncertain or weak phrasing like, “I'm not sure but I think I would probably be a good fit for your program.”
Even when discussing challenges or difficulties you faced, focus on your triumphs over those problems rather than attempting to paint yourself as an unfortunate and helpless victim.
 Your first draft can be as long or short as you need it to be, but many institutions and organizations have word count or page count limits on personal statements. If yours exceeds the word count, cut information out. If yours is not long enough, add more information.


When trimming your personal statement down, scan the essay for any parts that do not directly address your point or those that only serve to provide “background information.” Also consider reducing your number of main points if one point does not seem especially significant.
When expanding your personal statement, look for ways to elaborate on the information you already have. Include more detail to create a fuller picture. Alternatively, you could introduce another main point to discuss.
 Reading the piece out loud will give you a more accurate idea of how it sounds.


As you read, listen for errors or clunky wording.
Note any sentences or paragraphs that seem displaced.
Also ask yourself if it sounds like your natural voice. If you were describing these things in person, would the way you speak sound like the way you wrote out your thoughts?

, Having another set of eyes proofread your personal statement is a good idea because another person may be objective enough to analyze the statement's strengths and weaknesses honestly.


Accept constructive criticism graciously and try not to take anything personal.
When asking for constructive criticism, first go to professional sources like:

High school teachers
University professors
Internship supervisors
Academic advisers
Trustworthy colleagues


After your professional sources have been exhausted, you can ask friends and family for their thoughts.
 Once you have your own ideas and the ideas of others in hand, revise your personal statement by fixing any weak parts and adding or removing detail as needed.


Note that it is perfectly normal to go through more than two drafts of your personal statement.
 Once you feel satisfied with the content of your personal statement, proofread it one last time for basic spelling and grammar errors.


Once you fix these problems, your personal statement is ready to mail out.

