 Being laid off is not the same thing as being fired. It likely had more to do with the company's bottom line than it did with your performance, and your interviewer knows that. If you were laid off, try not to worry too much about how it will look.If you were laid off, emphasize this by saying something like, "My position was eliminated" or "the company let many employees go due to financial issues."

, Even if you were fired for some kind of wrongdoing, it's important not to eat yourself up about it. If you do, it may have a negative effect on your confidence, which can come across to prospective employers as a lack of competence., Depending on how exactly things ended with your last employer, you may be able to get their support. Talk to your former employer about providing a reference for you when you begin looking for a new job. Even though you were fired, they may still have some nice things to say about you, and you may be able to work out a mutually acceptable story about your termination.You will probably have to be willing to own up to your mistakes. If, for example, you were fired because you weren't efficient enough, try admitting the mistakes you made and explaining what you've learned from them. Your former employer might be willing to recommend you on the basis that you've learned your lesson.
Even if you can't get the support of your manager, you may be able to get a good reference from someone else you worked with at the company. Don't be afraid to ask.
If you did something really bad, like stealing from the company or assaulting a coworker, you probably won't have much luck with this.
 You don't need to state why you left your last job on your resume or in your cover letter, unless the question is specifically asked. Even if you are asked to provide an answer in writing, keep it brief and nonspecific. You can offer more details during your in-person interview.In some cases you may feel that it would be beneficial to explain a termination immediately before you are put on the spot about it. This is entirely up to you, but keep in mind that you might be better able to explain it during a face-to-face conversation, rather than with a few sentences in your cover letter or on an application.
 If you were out of work for a while after being terminated, you may be worried about how your extended absence from the workforce will look on your resume. Instead of looking like you were doing nothing during this period of unemployment, show your prospective employer that you spent the time enhancing your skills.If possible, improve your employability by getting a new degree or certificate, or just by taking a few classes to learn some new skills.
Try your hand at freelancing or consulting. Even if you don't have much business, it will help fill the gap and it will make you look like a leader.
Volunteer work can be a resume booster too, especially if it's related in some way to your field.
 If you want your prospective employer to look past your termination, one of the best things you can do is put some extra effort into being professional. Don't give your interviewer any reason to doubt your ability to get the job done. Be sure to practice good interview etiquette by dressing professionally, arriving early, and silencing your phone.
It's also important to do your research about the company and be well-prepared to answer questions about the industry and job requirements.

