 If your dog bites someone, then you will need basic information to report to your insurance company. After helping the victim get immediate medical attention, write down the following:the victim’s name
the name of any witnesses, including contact information (such as phone or email)
details about what happened;
, You should also try to get a picture of the bite, if you can. Use your phone to take a picture.If the victim is furious at you, then you might not be able to get a picture. However, you could try to explain to the victim that the picture is for your insurance company and that it will help speed up payment for the injury.
 If you have dog owner’s liability insurance, then you should contact your insurer as soon as possible. You shouldn’t wait. Insurance companies have deadlines you must meet if you want the claim to be covered. Check your policy.


You may also be covered under a homeowner’s insurance policy.You should also call them to report the injury.
You may also be covered under a renter's insurance policy. It will usually be a part of your personal liability coverage., After you report the claim, the insurance company might have an adjuster investigate. You should provide any information requested. You may also have to meet with the adjuster.


Before meeting, go over your policy.You want to understand exactly what is covered.
Also come up with any questions you might have. For example, you might want to know how long the process will take before the victim will be paid.
Also ask what happens if the victim decides to sue you. Will the insurance company defend you? If so, will the insurance company choose your defense attorney or can you choose?

, If you have insurance that covers the dog bite, the insurance company will be the party to calculate and determine how much they are going to offer the victim. Work with your insurance company and get them any information they may request so they can make an informed decision.
 A dog bite victim can receive compensation for any medical care needed to treat the injury. They can also receive money if the dog bite aggravates a pre-existing condition. You should try to get copies of all medical bills so that you can tally them. Get bills for the following:treatment from a primary care physician an emergency room
plastic surgery, if necessary to reconstruct the victim’s limbs or face
bills from a psychiatrist or counselor to deal with emotional harm

, The victim can also be compensated for any time missed from work, whether to get treatment or to recuperate. To calculate the economic loss, you should get the following from the victim:


wage stubs, which show the victim’s rate of pay and typical hours worked
if self-employed, then evidence of how much the person typically makes
a copy of the most recent W-2

, If the victim sued in court, he or she could also receive compensation for pain and suffering. These damages are hard to estimate; nevertheless, victims are entitled to be compensated for mental and emotional suffering.


One way to estimate these damages is to multiply the medical damages by two or four.Accordingly, if the person paid $5,000 in medical expenses, then you might need to pay an additional $10,000-20,000 for pain and suffering.
There are other factors you should consider. For example, if the victim is a child, then pain and suffering damages could be higher because the child might develop a fear of dogs.
Also, if the attack is completely unprovoked, then you might have to pay a higher pain and suffering award.
Your state may also have a cap on pain and suffering damages; however, these rarely come into play in dog bite cases unless your dog mauled someone severely.
 Each state’s law is different. In some states, a victim can receive double or triple damages if your dog has bitten a person before. Also, some states may allow multiple damages if the dog has been identified as “dangerous” under your state or local law.For example, if you must pay $5,000 in medical expenses and $15,000 in pain and suffering, then you might need to pay two or three times the total amount: $40,000 to $60,000.
To find your state or local statute, you can visit your local law library, which should be in your courthouse. Ask the librarian to see the dog bite statute.
You can also search for the statute on the Internet. Type your city and state into your favorite web browser.
 You might have to pay punitive damages if you were reckless in how you took care of your dog. For example, if you knew the dog was dangerous but allowed it to run freely, then a jury could award the victim “punitive damages.”Punitive damages are meant to punish, and the amount can be very large. For example, the dog bite might have only caused $2,000 in actual medical and pain and suffering damages. However, if you were reckless in handling of your dog, then a jury could award $20,000 in additional punitive damages.
If the victim is eligible for punitive damages, then you very likely will be sued in court. A trial attorney could represent the victim on contingency and take 30-40% of the jury award as fees. When punitive damages come into play, an attorney might be more willing to represent a victim because the fee will be larger.
To assess whether you were reckless, look over your dog’s history:

Did you know the dog was dangerous? Has it bitten someone before?
How well restrained did you keep the dog? Was it tied up? Kept in a garage? Or did you let it run free?
Did you have signs up around your property warning people that a dog was on the premises?



, Before paying, you should meet with a lawyer to discuss details related to paying the dog bite claim. Specifically, you want to discuss getting a release of liability from the victim. Without one, the victim could take your check and then turn around and sue you for even more money. If you have insurance, your provider will likely hire legal counsel to defend you. If you do not have insurance, hire an attorney as soon as possible after adversarial discussions begin (e.g., settlement negotiations or a lawsuit).


To find a lawyer, you should visit your state or local bar association, which should run a referral program.
You might not want to pay any attorney’s fees. However, you should realize that most states now let lawyers offer “a la carte” services (often called “unbundled services”). With this arrangement, attorneys will only do the work you give them.For example, you can get coaching from the lawyer about how to handle mediation, or you can have the lawyer draft a release from liability for you.
 If the injured party has medical insurance, you may not only be dealing with the injured person. In addition, the victim's health insurance company will likely be involved as they will want to be reimbursed for any medical costs they paid out to the victim. In other words, your mediation may involve more than two parties. It may also include your insurance company and the victim's.
 Once you have calculated how much the victim is entitled to, you should make an offer. Be prepared for the victim to reject the amount. If so, then you can suggest mediation to help you resolve your differences.


You can call or make the offer in writing. Regardless of how you make the offer, be sure not to accept liability. Also request that all future claims be waived in exchange for the settlement.
You could write, “Pursuant to our discussions, I am offering $5,000 to cover the dog bite you suffered on June 1, 2015. In exchange, I ask that you sign a release from future liability. Please call me at 555-5555 to discuss this offer further.”
If you have an insurance policy, then all negotiation will be done by your insurer. Typically, negotiation with an insurance company begins when the victim makes a demand letter on your insurer., In mediation, a neutral third party listens to your dispute and tries to come up with solutions that are acceptable to both parties. Unlike court, mediation is not adversarial, and the mediator is not a judge. He or she does not decide who is right or wrong. Instead, the mediator works to help nudge you and the victim to a compensation amount that is agreeable to you both.To find a mediator, stop into your local courthouse, which might have a list of mediators or even run a mediation program itself.
Also contact your state or local bar association. They should have information about mediation programs.
Finally, call your city or county mayor’s or manager’s office. These offices sometimes run mediation programs.
 At the mediation, you will meet with the mediator along with the victim. Be prepared to discuss the initial compensation offer you made and why you think that it is fair. During mediation, you and the victim will meet together with the mediator to discuss the case. Then, you might break out and meet individually with the mediator, who will shuttle back and forth between the two parties.


Be prepared to listen. Successful mediation requires that you listen to the victim’s point of view.If you bulldoze ahead, insisting that you are right, then you can expect mediation to fail.
You should also be prepared to express remorse. By offering apologies for what your dog did, you can dissipate the victim’s anger and help encourage settlement.
 If you choose to pay voluntarily for the dog bite, then you should get a release from future liability owing to the bite. Before paying, draft a “full and final release” and make sure that the victim signs it in front of a notary.


You should have your lawyer draft it. Release of liability forms are legal contracts, and you want to make sure that yours will stand up in court.
If you want to draft your own, then make sure that the release contains the following provisions at a minimum:Title and date. You should title it “Full and Final Release.”
The consideration. This is what you pay in exchange for the release. You should write, “In consideration of the payment of , which is paid to the Releasor, the Releasor agrees to the following.”
The release clause. Write: “The Releasor does hereby for herself and her heirs, successors, and assigns release and forever discharge (the “Releasee”) and his heirs, successors, and assigns, from any and all actions, causes of actions, claims and demands, for any reason of any loss, injury, or damage to any person or property, which has been sustained in consequence of the dog bite . The Releasor further agrees not to make any claim or continue any claim against the Releasee.”
State that this agreement is not an admission of liability: “It is understood and agreed that the payment is not an admission of liability on the part of the Releasee.”
Also include a provision that the victim is signing the form willingly: “The Releasor acknowledges that she fully understands the terms of this Full and Final Release and that she has signed it voluntarily.”



, The full and final release needs to be signed in front of two witnesses and probably also a notary public.Your lawyer can help you get the necessary witnesses and notary. If you are proceeding without a lawyer, then you can find a notary typically at your courthouse or town manager’s office.


Remind the victim that she or he will need to present acceptable forms of identification to the notary. A valid driver’s license or passport should suffice.
Make sure that the witness is not related to you or the victim. A neutral third party could include a bank employee or someone who works in the public library.
 You should meet with the victim in a lawyer’s office and have the full and final release signed before you hand over your check. To put the victim at ease, you should use a certified check or a cashier’s check. These checks warrant that you have the money to make payment and that the check won’t bounce.


Make sure each party has a copy of the signed full and final release form.

