 A higher priced metal detector will usually be heavier, so use your entry level detector for its lighter weight. A decrease in weight equals more time using it, and finding more treasures. A metal detector that is a pound lighter will be immensely more comfortable to swing for longer.;
, An entry level detector will have simpler controls, so use it for when you want some simplicity. When introducing a beginner to this fun activity, a simple machine will be easier to use and find treasure.
 Repairs typically involve shipping and time. By having an arsenal of two metal detectors, your metal detecting can continue without interruption.
 Also, to be unobtrusive, coin pop instead of making plugs with a hunting knife or hunting knife-like tool.
 Be careful, the aluminum and plastic rods and the plastic bolt, at the coil to rod attachment, are smaller.


The most vulnerable area is the coil attachment to the plastic rod, protect this weak spot by not exerting excessive force on it. Do not abuse or lose the two, small rubber washers at the coil to rod connection.
 On wet sand and grass with dew, ignore the false signals or "chatter". Always have a penny, nickel, dime and quarter to do air tests. Remember the sound of the coins, as they will be distinctive from the chatter or static from the wet sand, wet grass or high grass.
 As a beginner, or introducing a beginner to metal detecting, steer clear of the wet sand. Wait until mid morning, when coin shooting, because by then the dew will have evaporated.
 When coin shooting, exploit the days after the lawn grass has been cut. After the grass is cut, you will have more depth and less static because when the grass is high, you must press down on it.
 Even if it causes false signals, swing your coil directly on sand or grass, a bit, to have that depth detection. Generally, an entry level metal detector will have a bit less depth capability, but this will absolutely not keep you from finding many treasures.


Protect the coil with a coil cover.

