 For your first vlog, you could use a phone, iPhone, Android, etc. You could also use a photograph camera with a video button. Or, if you have a video camera of reasonable quality, use that. If you go with the photo camera option, make sure the quality is at least 360P; a 720P or 1080P, pronounced 10 80P, is even better. This goes for the video cameras as well.;
, This is important; if your camera or phone dies during the day, you can't vlog until it's charged again. This applies especially to cameras with a removable battery. If you're using a phone, make sure you have enough storage to do your vlog.
 For example, tidy your hair, brush your teeth, etc. Introduce yourself and your vlog. Say something like Good Morning Guys, Hey guys, etc. Avoid saying Hello, welcome to my vlog. Next, you could say how good/bad your night's sleep was, show your breakfast, or just have a chat.
 You could show what you eat, breakfast, lunch, dinner, and any snacks you have. You could also include an outfit of the day, (OOTD).
 If someone else drives you, then vlog in the car. If you take the public bus, train, etc., vlog on there. You may feel embarrassed, but if you talk quietly on a quiet train, bus, etc., and talk moderately loud on a loud one, you should be okay. It's slightly easier with phones if you're trying to feel less embarrassed. Just be yourself. If people stare, stop, hold what you were saying and move away from them if possible. If that's not possible, just keep going. If it's a randomer, what are the chances of you seeing that randomer again?

, Each time, just give updates. You could say, So we're going to Tescos now to get some apples, pears and bananas. In the shops, vlog what you like. For example, say you were in Superdrug and liked a certain eyeshadow, you could say, "I'm in Superdrug and just look at this eyeshadow. It's the, (insert name of eyeshadow), it looks amazing." If you enter a restaurant, vlog before you order and say what restaurant you're in. Just the name, not the location. Then, look over the menu on the vlog and tell your viewers what you're planning on ordering. Then, say what you did order, and show it.
 This is known by the beauty gurus as a haul. Describe each item, where you got it and how much it was.
 Vlog your activities, what you watch on TV, say the names of the shows and what TV channel they are on and any other things you do. For example, what bath bombs you put in your bath, etc.
 Say something like, "So that's the end of this vlog, give it a thumbs up and I'll see you soon", or "I'm gonna end my vlog here, hope you enjoyed it", and end your video for the day.
 Import your footage onto your computer. If you used a phone, you can download or purchase an editor, but it may be easier to put the clips on the computer. Then go off, and start the next day's vlog. Some point in the day, edit your footage from the previous day together and render and upload it. Title it something exciting, from something that happened in your day. For example: Giant Pizzas & Beautiful Makeup.
 Only keep the footage from the day you're currently filming. This saves space on your device.
 Congratulations, you're in on it.

