 Colour coordinate as you organize your desk. Create fun patterns or use colourful tape to create a fun design on the top of your desk or on the side. You may also keep everything monochromatic and have your keyboard or a picture frame be a single bold colour.Sort books, notepads, and office supplies according to colour. If you’re lacking a variety of colours, purchase what you need to complete your set. Books are an easy way to fill in your colour gaps.Mix and match black and gold, neutrals, pastels, or bold bright colours. Your decor should reflect your personality and let you enjoy working at your desk. Choose the colours that make you comfortable and effective.The colours you choose for your desk and decor may be part of an entire scheme for your room. Take the time to tie everything together.;
, Place your desk near a window and make sure you have enough natural light in your room. Save on energy consumption by allowing natural light to flood onto your desk. White on white decor can provide a clean and calming effect.Natural light can also help boost your mood and give you energy.
 Find accessories that suit your personality and work needs. Shop online or at speciality office accessory stores. Choose colours and designs that match your overall scheme.Find office supplies in your favourite colour or upgrade to high end accessories. Show off your personality with cartoon characters or goofy pens and pencils.Find desk accessories or decor by your favourite designer. You may be able to find complete sets. For example, you may find a limited edition keyboard, mouse, and charging station by Apple.You can use vintage pens and accessories to make you feel in touch with a different, more inspiring era. You may also use unique accessories to replace bland ones. For example, you can use a toy dump truck as a letter holder., Post-It-Notes come in a variety of shapes, sizes, and colours. Colour coordinate parts of your desk or create imaginative murals with post it notes. Create simple stripes or patterns on the top or side of your desk. The best part is that you can change them with your mood., If you feel stuck in a rut or uninspired, easily change things up by simply moving your entire desk. A change of scenery may help revitalize you. How do you feel in each spot?The change in location may inspire you to make more changes like repainting your wall or reorganizing your workspace. Go with your inspiration.
You may always be short of space especially if you get a new addition to the family. Rethink about where you can work most effectively. For example, you may move your desk under the stairs or in the middle of the room to make room for a nursery. Use a rug to anchor your desk in the center of a room.Moving your desk from the wall allows conversations to flow more easily. It also lets you move around.
 If you will be having clients at your desk from time to time, you may want to invest in a new desk. You want to be professional but also let them see a bit of your personality.While your desk may be a professional setting, add accessories or position your desk to allow your life to inspire and relax your overtaxed brain. For example, face your desk towards the window to see your garden or keep a framed picture of your daughter as the centerpiece of your desk.