 Double-click on your preferred browser’s icon on your desktop to open it.;
, Once you have the browser open, click on the address bar at the top of the screen, type in www.twitter.com, and hit Enter. You will be taken to Twitter’s login page.
 Click the first box at the top of the screen and enter your email address or Twitter name, then click the second box and type in your password.


Once you have finished entering the information, click “Log in” to access your Twitter news feed.
 Click the gear icon at the top-right side of the screen, click “Settings” from the options, and then select “Profile.” You will be shown your Profile Settings menu.


Now you can edit your Twitter Profile Settings to your heart’s content.
 The first thing you can edit in the Profile Settings is your profile picture. You will notice your default picture next to a button that says “Change Photo.” Click on this to begin uploading a picture.


Click on “Upload photo.” A pop-up window will appear showing the pictures currently on your computer. Click the one you want to use.
Adjust the image by clicking and dragging it around the space provided until it fits.
Once you are done with adjusting your new profile picture, click “Apply” on the pop-up box to upload it.
 The header is the image that will appear at the top of your Twitter page for everyone to see.


Select “Change header” beside the option; a screen will open up showing the current pictures on your computer. Click the one you want to use.
Adjust the image by clicking and dragging it around the space provided until it fits.
Once you are done with adjusting your new profile picture, click “Apply” on the pop-up box to upload it.
 The third option asks for your name. Click inside the box and type your name in; this will ensure that people can find you easily on Twitter.
 The box below your name is for your location. Click inside the box and type in your city, state, or country.
 Below the location box is another box for your website. You can use a blog, social media page, your business page—anything you would like. Just type or copy the URL into the box.


Having a website linked to your Twitter is good for promoting your business or brand.
 The final profile setting you can edit is your bio. Click inside the box and type in a little information about yourself.


You are limited to only 160 characters for this, so try to keep your bio simple but interesting.
 When you are finished, go over your changes to make sure everything is what you want it to be, then click the blue “Save changes” button at the bottom of the screen.

