 According to Dr. Barbara Frederickson, a prominent psychologist and researcher, eye contact with positive intentions can directly increase oxytocin and a sense of connection with the other person. Oxytocin is the fundamental Love chemical most closely associated with longer term bonding and commitment.Make a conscious effort to make eye contact with your partner throughout the day, even from across the room. When your eyes connect, smile or maybe even flirt by winking.;
, A good hug can instantly give a boost to oxytocin. , Exercise stimulates dopamine production.


Dopamine is associated with the ‘drunk on love’ feeling, infatuation, and blindness to the others flaws., Proteins found in meats and other founds are converted to the amino acid, tyrosine, which is the fundamental ingredient of dopamine.
 Both of these scents stimulate the production of endorphins.Endorphins are associated with pleasure, including the rush of sexual pleasure, and connect some sexual experiences with feelings of love., Sexual intercourse releases chemicals like oxytocin and vasopressin.


Vasopressin contributes to a sense of bonding for men., The neurotransmitter phenylethylamine causes anxiety and stomach burn. The hormone testosterone triggers sexual desire, which usually activates the senses in a particular order – vision, sound, smell and taste. Other symptoms include: increased pulse, dilating of pupils, salivation, erect penis and wet vagina.
Phase 2: Romantic Love. The brain, in particular its limbic system and a variety of its chemicals, gets more involved as the goal becomes reproducing with your partner. Dopamine causes extreme feelings, whereby you may both love and hate your romantic interest at the same time.
Phase 3: Attachment. The brain’s neocortex, responsible for rational thinking, creates a need for stability in the relationship. More pleasure hormones, such as endorphin, oxytocin (for women) and vasopressin (for men), are released during orgasms and exchanges of affection, and thereby linking sex with love.
Phase 4: Lasting Love. Oxytocin plays the major role in creating and maintaining a lasting bond between a couple. But it doesn't sustain itself automatically. If you aren't feeling connected, experiment with the steps above to try to rekindle the oxytocin and feelings of connection.
 All these chemicals running around in your brain are often triggered without your conscious thought, and you are left with making sense of them and how they affect your decision making. When you feel the sensations linked with these chemicals, look more closely at what is going on, what you want to have happen next and what you want longer term.

