 If you are not in your own vehicle and your choices are running on foot or using a vehicle, opt for the vehicle. It's still extremely dangerous, but will give you better odds of surviving than being on foot.If you do not have your own vehicle but find an abandoned vehicle as you flee from the fire, enter the vehicle and hotwire the car. If you need to break a window to enter the vehicle, break a rear window so that the front windows can remain closed. This is important, as it will help keep smoke out of the vehicle.
Do not break into and hot wire a car that someone is likely to come looking for. You should never take someone else's means of escaping the fire. This method is only really applicable if you find a car that someone clearly left behind to flee on foot.
 Once you're in a car, you'll need to ensure that the car is safely sealed from the smoke surrounding you. This is crucial, since you will otherwise risk passing out from carbon monoxide.


Roll up the windows and close the air vents., If the vehicle runs and you're capable of driving it, then do so. But it's important to drive safely, so that you can see your surroundings and so that anyone else on the road can see you.


Drive slowly and keep your headlights on.Keep an eye out for other vehicles and pedestrians. Stop to let any pedestrians you encounter ride along with you.Do not drive through heavy smoke. If the smoke is too thick to see where you're steering, it may be safer to park and wait it out.If you must stop the vehicle, park as far away from trees and heavy brush as possible., If the smoke is too thick to see the road, or if you cannot drive the car for any reason, you should remain in the vehicle. You will be more likely to be injured or killed by leaving the vehicle than you would be if you remained inside.Don't worry about the gas tank. Vehicles with metal gas tanks rarely ever explode. You are much safer staying inside the car than you would be on foot.Keep the windows up and the air vents closed.Lie down on the floor of the vehicle and cover yourself with a blanket or coat, if possible., Whether you are able to drive or you are forced to hunker down inside a vehicle, it's important to know what to expect so that you do not panic. Just remember that no matter what happens, if the fire surrounds the car you should not leave the vehicle.The temperature inside the vehicle will increase considerably. Don't worry - it's still safer inside the vehicle than outside.Air currents low to the ground may rock the car. Some smoke and even sparks may enter the vehicle. Don't be alarmed. Just stay low on the floor of the vehicle and keep breathing through a wet cloth to protect your airways.