 Set the oven temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to preheat. Next, spray 2 nonstick mini-muffin tins that have 24 cups with nonstick cooking spray.You can grease the muffin tins with butter if you prefer.
 After you’ve greased the muffin tins, take 6 thinly sliced scallions and 2 tablespoons (5 g) of chopped fresh parsley and sprinkle them in the bottom of each muffin cup. Be sure to spread them as evenly as possible among the cups., Add 6 large eggs plus 3 large egg yolks, ½ cup (50 g) of grated parmesan cheese, 1 ½ cups (365 ml) of milk, and salt and pepper to taste to a large bowl. Use a whisk to blend the ingredients together until the mixture is smooth.For the best results, use whole milk in the mini quiches.
 Once you’ve mixed the ingredients, transfer the mixture to a measuring cup or another container with a pour spout. Pour enough of the egg mixture to fill all of the cups into the muffin tin.The quiches will puff up as they bake so don’t fill the the cups to the brim. Aim for 1 to 2 inches (2.5- to 5-cm) from the top.
 After you’ve filled the muffin tins, use ½ cup (53 g) of shredded Swiss Cheese to top all of the quiches. Add a small pinch of the cheese to each cup.You can substitute your favorite cheese for the Swiss if you prefer. Cheddar and mozzarella are good options.
 Place the muffin tins in the heated oven. Allow them to bake for approximately 15 minutes, and then rotate the pans. Let the quiches cook for another 15 minutes or until the tops become golden brown.The quiches will also puff up when they’re finished baking.
 As soon as you take the muffin tins out of the oven, run a sharp knife around each quiche. Turn the tray over to remove the quiches, and place them on a wire rack to cool.Let the quiche cool for at least 5 minutes. You can serve them warm, but you don’t want them so hot that they’ll burn you.
 When the quiches are cool enough to handle, set them out on a platter. You can serve them warm or at room temperature.You can make the quiches the day before. Store them in the refrigerator, and reheat them in the microwave briefly before you plan to serve them.

