 Studies show that sleep deprivation suppresses the immune system and makes it harder to fight infection. Adequate rest allows the immune system to function properly and respond to infection.The infection will wear you out, so you'll likely want to rest anyway. Even if you have other obligations, put them on the back burner until you've allowed your body to heal.
 Between the fever, pain response, frequent swallowing, and vomiting, dehydration is common with scarlet fever. Water is crucial to your body's ability to function properly, and when you're sick it needs water even more.You may not be able to keep down large amounts of water, so take frequent sips throughout the day.
 Because your throat will be sore, you should stick to small amounts of soft foods. The main goal is to prevent further vomiting. If vomiting becomes a problem, ask your doctor to prescribe an anti-nausea drug like zofran or phenergan. Examples of soft foods that will help prevent vomiting include:


Gelatin
Soups or broths
Juice
Pedia-pops
Puddings
Rice
Applesauce

, If fever lingers, add Motrin (100/5 cc) every 6 hours. This may also help with the headache and throat pain. To cool your body, wear loose fitting, short garments that will not retain body heat.


Monitor children's temperatures closely, as high fever in children can lead to febrile seizures.Seek immediate medical attention if the child suffers a febrile seizure.
 Studies have shown that vitamin C enhance immune function and helps the body fight off infection.You can drink your vitamin C In the form of fresh orange juice or other citrus products, or take a supplement. The recommended supplement dose for adults is 500 mg taken orally once a day for the duration of the illness. Dosage for children will depend on weight and other factors. Consult your doctor for his recommendations.
 Scarlet fever is highly contagious. Infections commonly spread within families, so it may be a good idea to isolate yourself until you've healed. The infection is not spread through shared linens or other objects.It's spread through direct contact or contact with body fluids, so practice excellent hygiene for the duration of the illness:


Cover your mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing .
Dispose of all tissues immediately.
Wash your hands regularly.
If you're caring for someone else with scarlet fever, be careful. Avoid contact with oral or nasal secretions. Take care not to touch your own mouth or nose until you've washed your hands.

