 Since Facebook is a Social Networking site, you may contact someone for a variety of reasons. You may send them a 'Happy Birthday' message or a message which may not be suitable for all. Being sensible will help you to decide how you may contact a person on Facebook.;
, Facebook is a vast site giving flexibility to its users to communicate in a variety of ways depending on the amount of privacy that message requires.


When you post on someone's timeline, the message is absolutely public and anyone who is a friend of that user will be able to see it. The commonly sent messages through this method are birthday wishes, get-together photos, optimistic quotes, etc.

Using the chat feature in Facebook, the message you send is only visible to the user in his/her chat box. So, if you want to share something personal, you may go for this method.
If your account is logged in at multiple platforms, it might become difficult to keep all your devices from sneaky eyes, so the best and most private way to ask for the user's email or phone number through Facebook. This is the best way to prevent your conversation from being seen by others.
 A long letter with numerous paragraphs should be reserved for emails, while something a little bit shorter could be put into a message, and small sentences or other brief messages such as event invitation or a picture post can be put on their wall or on their chat box.
 Depending on the person, they may check their Facebook or their email more often than the other. Maybe the only way to reach them while they're at work is via email. Consider this if you have pressing news to deliver. Some people never even check their Facebook, or, alternately, their email. If it is news that absolutely cannot wait, then the best way to reach them would typically be by calling them.
 Some people are accustomed to using email as if it were chat, and some leave long, serious messages on each other's walls. Think back to the last interaction you had with this specific person online. What do they normally use each method for? Asking such question can lead you to a right decision.

