 Soup cleanses are much better for you than juice cleanses. Juice cleanses revolve around foods that are packed with sugar. Soup cleanses promote foods that have relatively low amounts of sugars. Due to the juicing process, juice cleanses remove a lot of the good parts of the fruits and vegetables by leaving the fibrous pulp behind. Soup cleanses give your body all parts of the vegetables so you get maximum nutrients., Soup cleanses are short-term eating plans where you eat nothing but soups for one to five days to rid your body of toxins. The idea is to help reduce inflammation, protect you against heart disease, weight gain, and joint pain, and increase your energy levels. Soup cleanses are also aimed at helping you get better looking skin and hair, along with reducing stress.Soup cleanses are meant to be temporary so you give your digestive system a break during the days of the cleanse., Soup cleanses detox your body by getting rid of toxins. Maybe even more important, you feed your body tons of nutrients when you do a soup cleanse. By eating these foods, you nourish your body and fill it with healthy, immune boosting ingredients. When you do a soup cleanse, choose easy-to-digest foods.Mostly you will be eating vegetables. However, you can add clean sources of protein to your soups if you need to. Foods like gluten, dairy, corn, and sugar, and all processed foods are not part of a soup cleanse.Pureed soups are easiest to digest. Consider eating pureed soups as often as you can.
Add some lemon to your water to give extra detoxing effects. Lemon helps increase digestion.
 If you want to do a soup cleanse, but don’t want to try it on your own, there are resources available. You can buy books full of recipes, plans, and information. You can also purchase soup cleanses where your days’ meals are mailed to you so you have no prep yourself., Soup cleanses have negative side effects to think about. For one, it is not a weight loss aid. You only do a soup cleanse one to five days, which isn't long enough to lose any weight, other than water. Soup cleanses can be so low in calories that you don't get the calories you need every day. You should never eat less than 1,200 calories each day. On soup cleanses, you can easily fall below that.Soup cleanses do not contain protein, unless you add enough beans or other protein sources.
Soup cleanses might make you feel fatigued or drained, give you headaches or dizziness, or make you nauseous.
A soup cleanse might give you an imbalance of nutrients, depending on the amounts of foods you are eating in your soups.
A soup cleanse might be difficult to maintain since it is inconvenient and takes a lot of prep.

