 Make sure that the baking rack is in the middle of the oven.;
, This will allow the other ingredients to mix in more evenly later on. You can use a handheld mixer, a stand mixer, or a food processor fitted with whisks to do this.
 Beat everything together on a medium speed setting until the color and texture are even. This will take about 2 minutes.Make sure that you are using plain canned pumpkin, and not the pumpkin pie filling.
 Continue beating on a low speed setting for another minute or so.If you are using a handheld mixer, be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl. If you are using a food processor, you may have to pause it every so often, and scrape any unblended mixture down the sides.


For a more complex flavor, add ½ teaspoon of ground ginger and ¼ teaspoon of ground cloves., Lightly grease the bottom and sets of a jelly roll pan. Something that is 15 by 10 by 1-inch (38.1 by 25.4 by 2.54-centimeter) would be ideal. Next, pour the batter into the baking pan. Use a rubber spatula to help guide the mixture into the pan. If you get any residue in the bowl, use the spatula to scrape it into the pan.
 The pumpkin bars are ready when they turn golden brown on top, and a toothpick poked into the middle comes out clean.
 Do not remove them from the pan and do not cut them. They must be completely cool before you frost them.
 You can do this using a handheld mixer, a stand mixer, or a good processor fitted with whisks. Use a low speed setting, and keep mixing until everything turns smooth.


For a twist, use 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of maple syrup instead of vanilla extract., Keep using a low speed setting, and beat the mixture well after each cup (125 grams) of sugar that you add.
 The icing should be soft and easy to spread. If it is too soft or too hard for you, however, you'll have to make some adjustments. Listed below are some tips and suggestions. After you make your additions, beat the icing well. Keep in mind that the icing will set up a little after you spread it.


If the icing is too thin, add up to ½ cup (65 grams) of confectioners' sugar.If the icing is too thick, add 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of milk.For a richer frosting, use half-and-half instead.If the icing is too sweet, add ⅛ teaspoon of salt., Again, do not cut the bars just yet. Simply spread the icing over the top, going from edge to edge. When you are done, you can smooth the icing down further, or smack it with the spatula to great a nice texture.
 Your pumpkin bars are done at this point, but you can shake a sprinkle of cinnamon or pumpkin pie spice on top for more color and flavor.You can also scatter up to 1 cup (125 grams) of chopped walnuts on top instead., Once the bars are cut, you can take them out of the pan and serve them. Cover and store any left over pumpkin bars in the fridge, or the icing will get too soft., Measure out the confectioners' sugar, and put it into a large mixing bowl. Add ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon, and 1 pinch of each of the following: cloves, nutmeg, and ginger. Mix the ingredients briskly together until evenly combined.


Sift the sugar first to break up any clumps.
 Stir everything briskly together using a whisk. Be sure to break up any clumps and to scrape the bottom and the sides of the bowl so that everything gets mixed.
 The glaze should be thin enough to pour over the top of your baked pumpkin bars, but not so thin that it is like water. If the glaze is too thick, add 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of water.If the glaze is too thin, add more confectioners' sugar. Be sure to stir the glaze well after each addition.
 Do not take the bars out of the pan. Simply pour the glaze over the top in an even layer.
 If you have any leftovers, cover them with a sheet of plastic wrap, and store them in the fridge.

