 Many countries have public restrooms that you must pay for. All that means is you need to plan ahead and have coins on hand. Many travel sites can give you information on a country's restroom situation., While on your trip, it's probably best to avoid any foods that you know cause you problems. For instance, maybe you know caffeine is a problem; don't have coffee while you're away. Similarly, fatty foods and alcohol can also cause issues, so try to skip those, too., If you're in another country, learn the word for "restroom" or "toilet." If you're having trouble learning it, take a small flip book with you that has pictures to help others understand. You can use pictures or words in the country's language. You can also use this opportunity to provide information about your condition if you would prefer.When you need to find a restroom, you're likely going to need directions, and having something to help you communicate will get you there faster.


If certain foods upset your stomach, you should probably learn how to say those, and something simple such as "I can't have these foods." Alternatively, have those written on cards in the country's language if you can't memorize them yourself., If you're traveling with friends or family who don't know about your condition, you should probably let them know about your situation, so they will be willing to accommodate you. Many tour guides are also helpful if you let them know what's going on., Eating too much at once or too little throughout the day can make your bowel symptoms worse. Having snacks with you can help even out your food for the day. Smaller, consistent meals help you control your IBS symptoms.In addition, keep new foods to one per day, so that you don't upset your stomach too much, as you don't know if you will react to a new food yet., Carbonated beverages and alcohol may upset your stomach; however, Gatorade is also a safe bet, especially since it can help replenish electrolytes. Also, remember to drink bottled water in a country that doesn't have safe drinking water., Stress can make your IBS symptoms worse, so take some time to practice stress-relief. For instance, take some time out to meditate or practice yoga while you're on vacation. It'll help keep you calm and relaxed.Your meditation doesn't need to be elaborate. In fact, you can try a simple breathing meditation anywhere. Close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. Breathe in deeply to the count of four, and breathe out to the count of four. Try to focus only on your breathing, releasing any worries you may have.
 This medication works by slowing your bowel movements. You can take it in tablet form, liquid form, or capsule form. It's probably easier to travel with capsule or tablet form, as they won't spill, though liquid can be handy if you don't have water nearby.Generally, you begin with a 4 milligram dose and take 2 milligrams with subsequent doses. For regular tablets, you shouldn't take more than 16 milligrams in a day, while with chewable tablets, you shouldn't take more than 8 milligrams., This drug works by increasing water in the intestine, helping to loosen stool.You can take 5 to 15 milliliters of milk of magnesia by mouth up to four times a day.