 After you've had a relapse, whether it was just bumming one cigarette at a party or smoking an entire pack during a rough day, it's time to sit back and ask yourself why it happened. Understanding why you had a relapse is the key to preventing future relapses. Here are some questions you should ask yourself:


Did you have a relapse because you were feeling stressed? If so, you should think more about how you can minimize your stress, or to avoid particularly stressful situations. For example, if you had a cigarette because of a stressful day at work, find a way to deal with another stressful day at work, such as having ice cream or watching your favorite movie after work instead.
Did you have a relapse because you were in a situation that made you want to smoke? If you had a cigarette at your friend Beth's party because you associate her parties with having a nice cool smoke on the back porch, then you should either avoid her parties for a while or come equipped with gum, a dessert, or a game plan for beating the craving.
What were you feeling right before you relapsed? Recognizing those feelings can help you fight them in the future.
 This is an important point. Just because you had one cigarette or relapsed for a day doesn't mean you should think you're a failure and give up completely. Don't use the relapse as an excuse to go back to smoking. Just because you had a moment of weakness doesn't mean that you're a weak person and that you don't have the skills to quit.


Just do what you've been doing. If you've been trying to quit for a while, then your body will be craving cigarettes less than it normally would, even if you've had a relapse.
Be extra vigilant after the relapse. For the week after the relapse, try harder than ever to stay busy and active, to avoid temptation, and to manage your stress.
 There's a reason only 3 -10% of people can successfully quit smoking cold turkey. It's really hard. If you've been trying to quit cold turkey for months or even years but always relapse or even fall into long periods when you resume your regular smoking routine, then cold turkey may not be the best method for you. Here are some other great methods to try:Behavioral therapy. A behavioral therapist will help you find your triggers, provide support, and can help you decide the best way to quit.
Nicotine replacement therapy. Nicotine patches, gum, lozenges, and sprays are ways of giving your body nicotine without the tobacco. This is a good way of weaning your body off off nicotine instead of quitting all at once.
Medication. See your doctor about getting a prescription for a medicine that will help you quit smoking.
Combination treatments. Behavioral therapy, replacement therapy or medication, and ample support from friends and family can be the best way to ensure that you will truly quit smoking for good.

