 Legally, you can only make an arrest in a limited number of circumstances. For example, you can arrest someone in the following situations:You have an arrest warrant signed by a judge.
You observed a crime being committed.
You have probable cause to believe the suspect has committed a crime. To find probable cause, you must have specific facts and not a hunch that the person has committed a crime.;
, To make the arrest easier, you need to stop the suspect’s movements. You can use many different methods, such as verbal commands or Tasers. Your police force should have a “use of force” policy that lays out what force you can use and when. Know this policy by heart. If you don’t follow it, you can be sued for excessive use of force.


Typically, the manual will explain a continuum of force. For example, you can start by issuing a verbal command: “Let me see your ID” or “Stop.” If the suspect doesn’t comply, you can use empty hand controls such as grabs or holds. The officer can increase the force up the continuum until the suspect complies.The final point on the continuum is deadly force. Your manual will explain the situations in which deadly force is appropriate.
Use of force is so important you should receive training on it before being allowed into the field. Ask a supervisor if you have questions.
 Once you immobilize the suspect, you need to control them.If you don’t, then you can injure yourself as you try to get the cuffs on. If necessary, you may need to move up the use of force continuum until you get sufficient control.


Be alert for the suspect to attempt to break free at any point before they are handcuffed.
 You should handcuff someone behind their back. If you handcuff in the front, they have too much freedom to move and may reach for a weapon or hurt you. Always cuff in back.Always place the backs of the hands together. This prevents suspects from sliding their hands down to the feet.
After cuffing, make sure the handcuffs aren’t too tight. Also confirm they are secure., After cuffing the suspect, you should search them. Search for a weapon or other evidence of a crime. You can never be too careful. Search everyone, regardless of their gender, age, size, or race. Even very young and very old suspects have killed police officers.You might not be able to conduct your search immediately after arrest. For example, weather conditions might prevent a safe search. Also, you might have arrested someone with a mob of people seething around you. Move the suspect to a secure location before searching.
Check the waist and groin areas first. A weapon is most likely stored there.
Also be sure to conduct a second, more thorough search. If necessary, ask another officer to search the suspect as well.
 Remain vigilant during the transport. You might relax, thinking everything is under control because the cuffed suspect is in the backseat. However, the suspect’s anxiety will increase the closer you get to your destination. Accordingly, you should be prepared for erratic or irrational behavior when you near the end of the transport.


Remember to search the subject each time you transfer them to another officer or drop them off at a location.You might have overlooked a weapon, or the suspect could have obtained one during transport.
 Once a suspect is in custody, you can’t interrogate them without giving Miranda warnings. If you don't give the warnings, then the prosecutor can't use the suspect's statements in court. There are four warnings:The suspect has the right to remain silent.
Any statement the suspect makes can and will be used against them in court.
They have the right to an attorney.
If the suspect can’t afford an attorney, one will be provided to them.

