 Bedding is an important part of keeping a dog warm through winter. If your dog sleeps on the ground or somewhere with drafts, place the bed up off the floor. You can do this by putting the dog bed on a low platform, raised a few inches off the ground. The object is to stop heat loss by transmission with the ground.


You can easily improvise a platform with a sheet of hardboard resting on some books or a bricks.
A custom-made bed with cushioned insert, blankets, and old clothing make good, warm bedding.
 This is especially important for old and arthritic dogs. Consider using a heated dog bed or a hot water bottle.Once the dog realizes how nice and snuggly a heated bed feels, most accept it and even look forward to being tucked in at night.Older dogs in particular, stiffen up in the colder weather. Keeping heat in around their joints can greatly aid their comfort. Again, simple things can help, such as placing a thick blanket over the dog once they have settled down for the night.
If your dog is well past the chewing stage in his life, then look for bags of cherry stones which you can microwave and are designed to keep human joints warm. Following the manufacturer's instructions, heat the bag up in the microwave and lay it over the stiffest or most swollen of the dog's joint, then cover him with a blanket, which will give him extra comfort.There are a variety of pet electric blankets or heat mats available, and another type of mat to investigate is a whelping blanket. These are designed to keep young puppies warm and provide a gentle background level of heat which is safe to be lain on for long periods of time. When choosing a heat mat, always carefully read the instructions to see if the pet can lie directly on it without the risk of thermal burns. Some mats designed for veterinary use are not safe to be laid on directly and require that they are covered with a blanket to avoid burns., This will reduce fleas, germs, and mess. This is especially important over the winter, when insects look for any warm places they can find.
 Canine clothing can help to keep your dog warm through winter. It is especially good for small or toy dogs, dogs without long hair (for example, whippets and greyhounds), and old or sick dogs.One of the key signs that your dog may need some clothing is if a dog is shivering, just like a human.Dog jackets, snuggies, and sweaters can be purchased or made (knit, sew, crochet, or quilt) for any sized dog. For wetter winters, you might like to attach a rainproof layer over the top but make sure that it is breathable.
Make sure any dog clothing is dry before use. If the dog goes outside in a wet coat, the wind will cause the water to evaporate and drag the dog's body heat with it, thus making it cold. It is a good idea to have several items of clothing so that you can have some in the wash, some drying, and some ready for wear.
Where possible, remove the clothing when your dog is inside, unless the temperature in the house is very low. If a dog wears clothing all the time it won't feel the benefit when it goes outside.
 Salt serves as an irritant on dog paws and snow is very cold. Booties will keep the paws warm and free from salt irritation. However, unless you've trained your dog to accept booties from puppyhood, this can be a bit of battle with some dogs who won't tolerate wearing them.


If your dog is having difficulty wearing booties, use positive reinforcement training. Put a bootie on one foot, feed a treat, then remove it. Repeat daily and gradually increase the amount of booties until the dog is used to having them put on.