 Mila has luminous, large, hazel eyes, and she highlights them with black eyeliner. Mila sometimes wears dark black gel liner that she smudges slightly after applying..


Line the eyes with the black eyeliner on the top lash line and on lower lash line. Mila also usually puts black liner in the waterline of the eye. Her eye liner slips inside the inner eye rims. Mute the eyeliner on the top lid a bit, perhaps by going over it with gray eyeshadow.She finishes off the look with a coat of black mascara on both the lower and upper lashes. Mila’s look is all about smoky eyes. False eyelashes could help get you Mila’s striking eyes if your lashes are not naturally long.;
, To continue playing up the smoky eye look, Mila favors eyeshadow in gray, white, and tan color schemes. You might see her with dark purple eyeshadow for a big night out.


Mila favors sparkling eyeshadow at times. Dust the taupe eye shadow all the way around the eyes and up to the creases on the top lids. Take three of your favorite eye shadow colors, but focus on neutrals.
Apply the lightest color first and sweep it over your eyes up to your eyebrows. Then, take the next darker color, and put that in the center of your eyelid. Then, take the third darkest color and put them on the outer edge of your eye. Make sure you blend with a brush., Mila’s eyebrows are dark and shaped. They aren’t too thin. Although they are on the thicker side, they are neatly shaped.


To better shape the brows, take an small angled brow brush and use dark brown eye powder. This will create a natural look.
Use transparent brow gel after you apply the brow powder, in order to seal the look and retain the shaped eyebrows., Mila’s hair is a dark chocolate brown with only the most subtle of golden highlights threaded throughout. She usually wears her hair parted in the middle.


Mila’s hair is straight. It flows well past her shoulders to her breast line. Her dark hair is very shiny. Apply a shine spray to get the look.You won’t find Mila with very short or very curly hair. Every now and then, she plays with her part and will wear the part to the side. However, usually her part is in the middle. When she dresses up, you will sometimes see Mila with long waves in her hair. These can be created with a large barreled curling iron.
 When her hair isn’t down and straight and long, she’s likely to pull her hair into a tight ponytail. If she’s dressed up, she will often pull her hair up into a more formal updo.


When she’s out for a night on the town, Mila will sometimes wear her hair in a less stark updo, in which she allows soft waves to frame her face.
If wearing the hair up to go out, choose a pair of statement earrings in dark colors such as ruby red or deep emerald. If it’s a more casual day, Mila will often wear her hair in a ponytail without earrings at all.
 Because Mila puts the emphasis on her eyes, she doesn’t overdo the lipstick. It’s all about balance.


The key is to put just a touch of color on the lips. If she’s dressed up, she might put a light orange-red on her lips. She’s been spotted with neutral lips more often. You will often see Mila with glistening lips in neutral hues and tan, even when she is dressed up and out on the town.Wear nail polish. Especially when she’s dressing up to go out, Mila will be seen with nail polish. Blood red is a color she likes., Mila has a natural olive and golden hue to her skin. If your skin looks ultra pale, you won’t look exactly like Mila.

Try a spray tan or tanning lotion to get Mila’s slightly olive glow. If spray tanning, make sure you wear the recommended safety gear.
You could try using bronzing powder to get the Mila glow. Put translucent powder on your face first with a makeup brush in order to get her flawless complexion. Use blusher only lightly., You won’t see Mila in pastels or frilly girl clothes. You’re more likely to see her in hues of black, charcoal gray, and white.


Mila has a bit of the goth in her. She’s described herself as having an inner geek side. She’s never seen in overly complicated patterns or frilly lace. She likes simple lines and neutral or dark colors.
Dress in a solid color and, if in doubt, choose black. It’s the color she’s seen in most often, and it looks great on her. Mila is a fan of short jackets, especially jean jackets.
 Mila dresses up nicely, even though she likes to dress down a lot. When she dresses up, you’re likely to see her in form fitting sheaths.


Usually, Mila chooses dresses in black. Sometimes, she will choose a white dress. The only color she really goes for regularly is red. She would favor a cocktail dress in sparkly gray.
Mila favors a V-shaped neckline. She favors strapless dresses to show off her shoulders. She also likes silk dresses and pantsuits.
 Mila is often seen in blue jeans and in slacks, when she’s dressing up. She mixes sex appeal with seeming like she would be fun to hang around with. Be a free spirit; Mila is the kind of person who’d be game for a road trip at the last minute.


She is not high maintenance. You could imagine her sitting around and playing video games as well as heading out to an awards ceremony. You might see her in a baseball hat or even a flannel shirt.
Black trouser slacks are a good look when dressing up, perhaps with a white buttoned-down silk shirt., Don’t always be dressed up. You won’t see Mila in high heels when she goes to get coffee. You’re more likely to see her in leggings and tennis shoes.


Mila often wears statement T-shirts. She will often pair them with leggings or blue jeans, her hair in a ponytail, and wearing a pair of sunglasses.
She has been seen in skinny jeans. She has also been seen in baggier blue jeans. Be the kind of girl who can be "one of the guys." Play video games. She loves them.
 Mila got into tip-top shape when she was in the movie Black Swan. To do so, she worked out five days a week (when not in a movie, she works out three). Mila appears athletic, and she is in great shape. However, it doesn’t seem like fitness is her entire life.


She ate a well-balanced meal that included low glycemic carbs, proteins and essential fats. Mila says in interviews that she likes more outdoorsy activities like snowboarding or dancing. When it comes to dieting, it’s healthiest to eat lots of fresh fruit and vegetables, and even eat the foods you love, just in moderation with smaller portion sizes.
She combines strength and endurance workouts, consisting of six movements in a 40-minute circuit without rest.