 It's important to note that there are no teleportation panels at the top or bottom of any of the squares in the middle section. This means that clearing candies anywhere outside of the middle section won't effect the candies in the middle. The only way to get new candies in the middle is by clearing candies there either directly or with a striped candy, wrapped/striped combo, or striped/striped combo.
 On their own, wrapped candies are useless in this level — their explosion range isn't big enough to affect the middle section where the jelly and chocolate are. Thus, you won't want to waste moves making them unless you plan to use them in a wrapped/striped combo or use them to trigger a vertical striped candy.



However, in the rare even that you can get a wrapped/wrapped combo, use it! The massive explosion radius should be able to hit a large area of the middle section at least once (unless you trigger it at the bottom of the board.)

, Once the chocolate spreads throughout the middle section, it can be very hard to finish the level, since this essentially adds another layer that you need to "break" through before you can start clearing jelly. Your best bet is to keep the chocolate from spreading until you have a vertical stripe or two ready to deal with it.


This means that you shouldn't break the locked square before you're ready to clear the chocolate. You can clear jelly on the left and you should clear the chocolate on the right before you hit the lock, but once the lock is broken, you need to be ready to clear the chocolate right away or you may find yourself in a very difficult situation.
 Nothing is more crushing than clearing all of the jelly in this level only to fail because you haven't gotten enough points. Though the one-star marker is positioned fairly low on the point meter, it's still possible to finish the level without the 50,000 points needed to reach it, so pay attention to the points you're accumulating throughout the level.


Keep in mind that, since you get a point bonus for each unused turn at the end of the level, it's almost always best to finish early, rather than waste turns trying to set up massive combos.

