 The adult duck can be drawn in three simple shapes; body, neck, and head. Add legs, feet and the distinctive, rounded beak to complete the mother.;
, Try different poses because, like all babies, they like to explore their new world from many vantage points and angles., Plan ahead if you want to include a drake. He requires only one more basic shape than the female, but his colors are unique.
 They might include a park, an overgrown weed area near water, a pond, a backyard child's pool or a rain filled city gutter.
 Study children's picture books from the library such as Make Way for Ducklings or the Ugly Duckling. Look at what the internet can offer by Googling ducks and ducklings.
 Inspiration will come. Suddenly, you will be able to envision how you want your painting to look. On a sheet of #140 cold pressed watercolor paper in a pad, turned back to use the cardboard backing to support your paper, sketch your ideas.
 Put a little water on the color pads of a good set of pan watercolors to activate the pigments. You will also need brushes, a water container, a few tissues for catching drips and to absorb excess water from your brush. Put out a smaller scrap of watercolor paper to test colors.
 Many people like to do what they consider the "hard" part first. This is, to some, the figures or main subject. Others like to begin by doing the background, but either way is good.
 Do this by diluting the color with a lot of water. Glide on a sheer coating of color, working until the whole painting has a layer of color. Aim for an all-over coat at first. Allow this to dry and use a hairdryer if you wish.
 Add shadows on the undersides of the ducks, under the wings, head, and neck. Put deeper colors on grass, field water, and sky. Again, let this layer dry thoroughly.
 On the birds, add beaks. Texture the adults with short strokes to represent feathers. On the babies, represent the down with little dots and short strokes., With a fine, pointed brush accent what needs bringing out. Keep outlining to a minimum because it is always better to under than overwork a piece. You can always add more later.
 Use a black, fine line Sharpie marker and sketch over the colors. Either style of finishing is great. Enjoy your finished watercolor by framing it and hanging it for all to see year-round. It will help you to remember springtime and little ducklings marching behind their mom. It's a good way to remind you to "keep your ducks in a row," too.