 There are plenty of methods to boast your school spirit aside from or in addition to color-coordinating. One of the best ways to do so is to raise money for a school group or cause. Not only will your fundraiser add to the litany of events and community groups on your school grounds or campus, but it will also provide concrete assistance to an organization and let your school spirit be felt long after spirit week has ended.


If you’re a member of a school club or charity group, ask your fellow members if they would like to organize a fundraiser with you. If you’re not affiliated with any groups officially, ask some friends who belong to one if they’d like any help fundraising.
If you already hold a particular charity or cause dear to your heart, consider organizing a stand-alone fundraiser for this group. Even though the proceeds won’t go directly to your school, organizing members of your institution to contribute to a non-school group can build a sense of institutional pride and character.
 Once you’ve determined the cause for which you’d like to raise funds, think about how you’d like to go about doing so. Bake sales, car washes, craft stores, and clothing and canned food drives are all great ways to get people involved and drum up some cash for a good cause.


Just because you’re asking for money, doesn’t mean you have to sell stuff! If your enthusiasm for merchandise is low, consider doing something like a fun run or dance marathon where people pledge money for participants to run a certain distance or dance a certain number of hours.
 If you want to conduct your fundraiser on school grounds, you’ll need to get approval from an official student or governing body first. Using a word processing template or online resource for formatting, gather your ideas and justification for the fundraiser into a brief document which presents your project.


Any good proposal should not only say what you want to do and why, but also how you plan to do it. List any resources, volunteers, and sites you plan to use for your event, as these details will help persuade a deciding committee that you’re capable of implementing your ideas., Once you’ve received approval for your fundraiser, you need to get the word out. The key to effective publicity for a charity event is giving yourself enough advance time, delivering reminders consistently, and using as many avenues and mediums as possible.Draw up some colorful flyers and banners to hang around the school halls or campus buildings, ask your school newspaper and daily intercom announcements to notify students and faculty of your fundraiser, and use your personal social media accounts to spread the word.


Just be sure to clearly tie the fundraiser to school spirit: if people associate one with the other, they’ll be more likely to pitch in once your event rolls around.
 Whether you’re trying to bake two hundred cupcakes, organize a food drive, or collect cool crafts to sell, chances are that you could use some extra help with your efforts! Recruit your friends and family to help in any way they can: for example, ask a school friend to help run the booth for a half hour, have your sister make a few of her patently awesome friendship bracelets on the house, or ask your parents to donate the baking ingredients and kitchen space for your bake sale.


If you have some friends who don’t go to your school, have them help in other ways. They can help you prepare your posters, donate a baked good, or pitch in a couple extra bucks as a gesture of good will.
 Jazzing up your personal space in the school halls with school colors and reminders about your fundraiser will allow you to demonstrate school spirit as well as present some valuable press about your event. Use slogans that remind students that donating to or participating in your fundraiser will also be an act of school spirit.


For example, make a sign that says something like, “Show your support for McKinley High and its drama club by stopping by the bake sale after school on School Spirit Day!” or “Help McKinley High support the local community by donating some winter coats to the drive!”

, On the day of the event, make sure all students and faculty are aware of your event by having a brightly colored center of operations. Even a basic folding table can be made conspicuous and appealing: drape some brightly colored sheets over the table and pin big, glittery signs to it, or set up tripods or easels with signs behind your table and chairs.


If you have enough volunteers manning the booth, send some people out to spread the word around the school grounds. They can pass out flyers with details about where and when your booth is running, or, as long as class isn’t in session, they can make some loud announcements encouraging milling crowds to visit your shop.

