 In order to bring a lawsuit, you need to identify who trespassed and damaged your property. If you saw the person, then write down your memories and your identification. If you didn’t see who caused the damage, then ask your neighbors if they saw anything.;
, You should also report the damage to the police. Arson and other property damage are also crimes, and the state may want to prosecute the trespasser.Get a copy of the police report. This report could come in helpful down the road, especially if it identifies the trespasser or witnesses.
 You need evidence to bring a lawsuit, so you should photograph all damage done to the property. Make sure to take good color photographs. Also take pictures during the day, so that the damage is clearly visible.


You could also take a video as well. Video is helpful for showing the relationship of objects to each other.
Make sure that any date stamp on the picture or video is accurate. Often, these get out of time and show the wrong date.
 If the trespasser damaged buildings, then you should have a professional appraise how much the building was worth and the cost of the damage. For example, a trespasser might have burned down a barn, shed, or even your house.


The trespasser might have damaged other possessions while trespassing, such as vehicles or machinery. You should try to value how much damage was done to them.
You can find an appraiser by looking in your phone book.
You could also find an appraiser by using the directories of different professional organizations, such as the International Society of Appraisers.Make sure to get the person’s name and contact information, as well as their report. The appraiser will probably have to serve as a witness later in court.
 You can be reimbursed for any money spent fixing the damage to your property, so save all receipts. For example, if you have to rebuild buildings, then save all receipts for materials, supplies, and labor.If you were forced out of your home because of the damage, then save receipts for any hotel or temporary housing that you paid for. You can be compensated for those expenses as well.
 Each lawsuit is different, and only a qualified attorney can advise you about what other additional evidence would be helpful for bringing your lawsuit. To find an attorney, you can contact your local or state bar association’s referral program.

Once you have the name of a lawyer, call and schedule a consultation. At the consultation, you can talk generally about your case and what information you will need to bring a successful lawsuit.
You should also think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. Lawsuits can be complicated, and it can be difficult to learn legal rules on your own.
If costs are a concern, then you should ask the lawyer if he or she offers “limited scope representation” (also called “unbundled legal services”). Under this arrangement, you pay the lawyer only for the work you give him or her. For example, you could handle most of the lawsuit but have the lawyer look over documents you need to file or coach you about how to question witnesses at trial. This is a good way to get the legal advice you need but keep your costs low., Each state has specialty courts designed for lawsuits which are worth small amounts. These are “small claims courts.” These courts are designed so that you do not need a lawyer. Also, they typically resolve cases much faster than regular civil court.


Check what is the maximum amount you can bring in your small claims court. It differs by state, but is usually between $7,500 and $10,000.If your case isn’t worth a lot of money, then you should consider bringing it in small claims court, especially if you don’t want to pay for a lawyer.
 You will start the lawsuit by creating a “complaint” and filing it with the court in the county where the land is located. The complaint will identify you as the “plaintiff” bringing the lawsuit and the person who damaged your property as the “defendant.” The complaint should explain that the defendant trespassed and the damage he or she caused. You also should make a demand for monetary compensation, called “damages.”Many courts now have printed “fill in the blank” complaint forms. You should ask the court clerk for one. If the court doesn’t have one, then ask if they have a sample you can use as a guide.
If you hired a lawyer, then he or she can draft the complaint for you (as well as all other court documents).
 Once you finish the complaint, make several copies. Take the copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file the original.


The clerk should stamp your copies with the date.
You will probably have to pay a filing fee. This amount will vary by court. Call ahead to ask how much the fee is and what are acceptable methods of payment.
 You must give the defendant notice that you are filing the lawsuit against them. Accordingly, you will need to send a copy of the complaint to the defendant, along with a “summons,” which you can get from the clerk.You cannot make service yourself. Instead, you either need to hire someone to make service or ask a friend.
Generally, you can hire a private process server. This person will hand deliver the complaint and the summons to the defendant. You can find process servers in your phone book or on the Internet. They typically charge $45-75 per service.In some counties, you can have the sheriff make service also for a fee. Ask the court clerk how to arrange service with the sheriff.
Also, you generally can have someone 18 or older make hand delivery, provided they are not a party to the lawsuit.
 Whoever makes service will probably need to fill out a form attesting that they made service. This is usually called a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service.” You can get it from the court clerk.Typically, the server returns the form to you. You should make a copy and then file the original with the court clerk.
 The defendant usually has 30 days or so to respond to your lawsuit. Typically, he or she will respond by filing an “answer” with the court. In this document, the defendant will respond to each allegation that you made in your complaint, either admitting, denying, or claiming insufficient knowledge to admit or deny.If you hired a lawyer, then a copy of the answer will be served on your lawyer. If you are representing yourself, then you should receive the answer.
 Discovery is the fact-finding phase of the lawsuit. It begins after the defendant files a response to your lawsuit. The purpose is to allow you to uncover information about the lawsuit so that you can be fully prepared for trial. Among the discovery techniques are:Requests for Production. You and the defendant can ask each other to turn over copies of relevant documents. For example, you will probably have to send copies of your receipts or appraisals to the defendant.

Interrogatories. These are written questions you answer under oath.

Requests for Admission. You can try to narrow down the issues in dispute by asking each other to admit to certain facts. For example, if the defendant was arrested on your property, you might get them to admit to being on the property at a certain day and time.

Depositions. In a deposition, you can ask the other person questions face-to-face. The person answers under oath, with a court reporter present to record the questions and answers.
 Having the defendant answer questions under oath serves two purposes. First, you can figure out what his or her defense will be at trial. Although the defendant’s answer will contain some of this information, you can flesh out the defendant’s story during a deposition.


Second, you can lock the defendant into a story. If, at trial, the defendant tries to change the story, then you can confront the defendant with a statement from the deposition. This is a great way to undermine the defendant’s credibility., You can save yourself time and money by negotiating or mediating a settlement with the defendant voluntarily. For example, you might have a very strong case and the defendant will not want to go through with a trial. In this situation, the defendant might approach you with an offer to settle. Talk with your lawyer.


If you don’t have a lawyer, then mediation would be ideal. In mediation, you and the defendant meet with a neutral third party, the mediator, to discuss the dispute. The mediator is not a judge. Instead, he or she guides the discussion and helps both of you reach a mutually acceptable solution.If you manage to reach a settlement, then draft and sign a settlement agreement. This becomes a contract between you and the defendant. If the defendant violates the agreement—by, for example, not paying you money—then you can sue.
 If you have a lawyer, then he or she will handle getting everything ready for trial. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you will need to pull everything together. You should do the following:


Line up your witnesses. If someone saw the defendant trespass or damage your property, then you should have that person testify on your behalf. You should serve a subpoena on the witness. A subpoena is a legal request for a person to show up to court at a certain time and testify.You can get subpoenas from the court clerk.
Create exhibits. You might want to introduce photographs or other documents into evidence during your trial. For example, you might want to introduce an appraiser’s report, photographs of a burned building, or receipts from the motel where you were forced to stay. You should find a clean copy and put an exhibit sticker in a corner or, if a photograph, on the back. You can get exhibit stickers from the court clerk or from an office supply store.Make several copies of your exhibits. You usually have to give the defendant a set of all documents you intend to use at trial. (The defendant also has to give you copies of their documents as well.) Make four copies—one for the defendant, one for the judge, one to show the witness on the stand, and one for you.
 On your trial date, make sure to get to the courthouse with plenty of time to spare. You will need to find parking and also go through security. Make sure to finish all food and beverages outside the courthouse.


Turn off your cell phone and any other electronic devices before entering court.If you don’t know what to wear in court, see Dress for a Court Hearing for tips.
 If either you or the defendant requested a jury, then you will begin by selecting one. Jury selection is called “voir dire.” The process may differ slightly, depending on your court, but it generally follows the same process.


The judge calls a panel of potential jurors to sit in the jury box and then asks them questions. The questions are usually basic. Do you know either the plaintiff or defendant? Do you know any details about the dispute? What’s your job? Hobbies?
If you think a juror can’t be unbiased, then you can ask the judge to remove the juror for cause. For example, a potential juror might personally know the defendant.
You also should be given a certain number of “peremptory” challenges. With these, you can dismiss a juror without asking the judge’s permission. You can use a peremptory challenge for any reason except to discriminate on the basis of race, sex, or ethnicity.If neither you nor the defendant remove a juror, then that person is seated on the jury.
 You should try to keep your opening statement short. In a trespass case, the opening statement shouldn’t exceed 15 minutes.


Use the opening statement as a “roadmap.” Let the judge and jury know what evidence you will be presenting.Preface statements by saying, “As the evidence will show…” Now is not the time to make arguments.
 You present your case first. Your case should consist of witness testimony and documents. Remember that a witness can only testify to what they know personally. A witness can’t testify to gossip or speculation.You should call anyone who saw the defendant trespass or cause damage to your property.
You also can call any witness who heard the defendant admit to causing the damage. Although witnesses can’t generally testify about statements made outside of court, an exception exists when the statement was made by either you or the defendant., You might also have information that is helpful to your case. For example, you might have seen the defendant cause the damage. If you have a lawyer, your lawyer will ask you questions. If you don’t, then the judge might let you testify in the form of a speech delivered to the jury.


Remember to be confident while on the witness stand. Look the jurors in the eyes as you testify.
The defendant will also be able to cross-examine you. This could be an upsetting experience. However, you should try to remain as calm as possible.
Answer all questions directly. Don’t dodge a question.
Avoid guessing. If you don’t know the answer to a question, say so. Also ask the defense lawyer to clarify any question you don’t understand., The defendant gets to put a case on second. He or she will also call witnesses and introduce documents. After the defendant asks a witness questions, you get to follow up by cross-examining them.


For tips on how to cross-examine a witness, see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself.
 After all evidence has been presented, you will make a closing argument. Your goal is to show how the evidence presented supports your argument that the defendant trespassed on your property and caused the damage.


Remind jurors of evidence by holding up documents or photographs as you make your argument. You could say, “And if you remember, this is the photograph taken the day after the fire. As you can see, the fire destroyed the entire building.”

, The judge will read the jury its instructions and then let them retire to deliberate. If you are in small claims court, then the judge will probably just deliver the verdict from the bench.


In many state courts, the jury no longer needs to be unanimous in a civil trial.Instead, you might win if nine or 10 jurors (out of 12) decide in your favor.
 You might be able to appeal if the judge made an error or the verdict is against the weight of the evidence. You should talk about bringing an appeal with a lawyer (even if you represented yourself at trial).


Appeals are very complicated, and you’ll need an experienced lawyer to help you if you choose to bring one.
Appeals can take a year or more to resolve. You might not want to bring one if the lawyer thinks your case is weak.
If you choose to bring an appeal, then don’t delay. You start the process by filing a Notice of Appeal with the court. Generally, you only have 30 days (sometimes less) from the date final judgment is entered.