 An academic paper is written to either highlight a writer’s area of study or research with the purpose to educate or persuade the audience.


Choose a paper you are knowledgeable about, so you can answer any questions.;
, Pick out the main ideas that support your thesis (a sentence that includes the main argument for your paper). If your thesis is not clear, your audience will have a hard time following your speech.


Find three to five main points. Use three main points when you need a shorter presentation. Use five main points when your presentation needs to be longer. However, keep in mind it sometimes makes sense for a longer presentation to only have three main points but go into more detail with those main points.
 An outline is a general set of main points that provides essential information, but not all of the details.Think of it like newspaper headlines: it provides just enough information for you to understand what the argument is. Note: Some people prefer to do the introduction before the body of the outline. Refer to Step 6 if you wish to do this.


Write in complete sentences. The sentences should provide enough information for you to remember the point.
Use transition words such as “first,” “second,” and “finally.” These will help your audience follow your speech and argument even better.
 Make sure you include sources (credible pieces of evidence that help your argument) throughout your speech.


Build your argument using sources from your paper. This will give you credibility as a speaker.
Conduct a CRAAP test to test the credibility of the sources. Ask yourself the following questions: Is the source current? Is the source relevant? Does the source have authority? (Who is the author and are they credible?) Is the source "accurate"? (Is the source biased? Is the source grammatically correct?) What is the purpose of the source?
Have at least two sources to back up each main point.
Keep in consideration the time limit given when choosing the amount of sources. Time is a huge factor when giving a speech. No one wants to listen to someone talk for hours. At the same time people want to learn from you, so you can’t just briefly explain everything.
 Make sure that your audience can follow your thought process. Explain each point, and make sure that your points build off one another.


Consider having the order of your main points in your speech be the same as your paper.
 The introduction is the beginning of your speech that outlines your thesis statement and main points. The conclusion is the ending of your speech that summarizes what you have talked about.



Write the introduction and conclusion.
Start your introduction with an attention-getter (something that grabs your audience's attention right away). The audience is more likely to pay attention to what you are saying after hearing the attention-getter than if there is no attention-getter.
The introduction and conclusion will be the only parts of your speech that are written word-for-word on the outline because it will be the first and last thing your audience hears.
 Give yourself enough time to feel comfortable with your presentation.

Time your speech. This will help you know if you need to take out or add information.
Practice in front of people and ask their opinions on your speech. If many people have the same comments about your speech, consider fixing your speech to take care of those concerns. A well-written speech is not enough to make up for a poorly delivered speech.
Film yourself speaking. This way you can see your gestures, eye contact and hear your vocal tone.
Each time you deliver your speech, it should not be the same speech word-for-word however your main points will be the same each time.

