 Using vinegar, baking soda, and water is an effective, eco-friendly method of unclogging your pipes. The baking soda and hot water will loosen up any build-up that’s clogging your waste pipe, and the chemical reaction from the vinegar will cause the sludge to move on down the drain.


Start by pouring a pot of boiling water down your drain.
After you do this, pour 1/2 cup of baking soda down the drain and let it sit for 5 minutes.
Follow this with a solution of 1 cup vinegar and 1 cup very hot water. Let it sit for 10 minutes.
Pour one more pot of boiling water down the drain to flush away the scum that has been loosened up by the baking soda and vinegar.;
, One of the most common ways to clean out your waste pipes is to purchase liquid drain cleaner at your local convenience store. These chemical solutions are often very effective, but can sometimes cause damage to pipes if they are old or worn down.


Popular liquid drain cleaners include Drano, Liquid Plumr, and Rid-X.
The instructions for these products will be included on the bottle, but you will typically use an entire bottle to unclog stopped up pipes. The chemical solution will need to sit in place for awhile, but be sure to rinse it out with hot water before taking a bath or shower.
 Some people prefer to use powder based cleaners as opposed to liquid ones, as they are less corrosive on the pipes. Most of these powders contain the chemical Sodium Hydroxide, which works quickly to unclog drains. Because it works quickly, the product doesn't need to sit in the clogged drain for long periods of time to be effective.


Popular powder cleaners are Thrift and Drain Care.
When using these products, let hot water run through the pipes for 1-2 minutes before pouring the powder down the drain. Use roughly 2 cups of powder (more or less depending on the size of the drain), and let the powder sit for 2 minutes before rinsing with hot water., Chemical substances work by dissolving the scum, hair, and dirt that tends to clog drains and waste pipes. Because of this, these chemical products are usually extremely corrosive and may be harmful on older pipes. Take extreme caution when handling these products, as they can sometimes cause injury to your skin.


To be extra cautious, only handle these products while wearing rubber gloves.

