 On one corner of every bedding item, there’s a small white tag with specific directions and information on how to wash it. This information supersedes any other information you receive from laundry professionals, friends, or how-to guides. Read the cleaning directions on the tag and use it to clean your heavy winter bedding the right way., The best choice for you and your heavy winter blankets is, generally, to take them to a dry cleaners or laundromats that offer cleaning services. These professional cleaners have the know-how and experience to clean your heavy winter blankets properly.Many blankets are too large for domestic washing and drying machines.
Having a professional clean your heavy winter bedding will save you time, but is the most expensive option.
For some types of heavy winter bedding – wool duvets and comforters, for instance – there is no option apart from taking them to the dry cleaners., If your bedding’s care tag suggests you can machine-wash it yourself, cart it to your nearest laundromat. Put your comforter in an extra-large washing machine. If you’re not sure where you laundromat’s extra-large washing machine is, ask one of the laundromat workers.If you don’t know where your local laundromat is, put a search into your favorite search engine with a word string like “local laundromats.” Use the map feature to find a laundromat with good reviews.
Alternately, talk to your friends about where they take their laundry. If they like their laundromat, take your laundry there, too.
 Some smaller duvets, comforters, and eiderdowns might be best cleaned by soaking them in a tub with mild soap or even bubble bath mix. If the weather permits, you could also use a children’s inflatable pool to clean the heavy bedding item.Once the bedding item is in the tub (or pool), jump in there with it. Gently step up and down on the comforter or duvet to loosen any grime or dust that may have collected within its folds.
After doing one side of the bedding, turn it over and work your way across the other side. Continue until you feel you’ve adequately stepped over the whole surface of the bedding item.
Ensure your feet are clean before beginning this process.
Soaking the bedding outside in a children’s pool on a nice day makes the drying process easier than it would be inside, since you need only move the bedding item from the pool to the laundry line.

