 One good exercise for building up your shoulder muscles is the side lateral raise. Start out with light weights and move up to heavier ones as you gain strength.









To perform this exercise, hold some dumbbells in each of your hands and place your arms against the sides of your body.
Then, raise the dumbbells up to they are parallel with your shoulders.
Do three sets of 6 to 10 repetitions.;
, Upright rows are also great for building wider shoulders. By performing upright rows with a wide grip, you can work the muscles on the outer edges of your shoulders and this may make it easier to widen your shoulders.









To perform upright rows, grasp a low cable bar. With an overhand grip, pull the bar straight up and back, leading with the shoulder, pulling the bar back.
Another option is to do rows using dumbbells. Stand next to a bench and place one knee on the bench. Then, place the hand on the same side of your body on the bench and grasp the dumbbell with your other hand. Pull the weight upwards lifting your elbow into the air behind you as you do so.
Do three sets of 6 to 10 repetitions, or as many as you can do before you can’t do any more.
 You can also work your rear deltoids to increase the width of your shoulders. These are similar to side deltoid raises, but you perform them while bent over.









To do rear deltoid raises, bend over so that your back is parallel with the ground.
Get a dumbbell in each hand that is light to moderate. The weight should not be so heavy you can’t lift it more than a few times.
Then, begin raising the dumbbells out and away from your body until they are almost parallel with your back.
Do three sets of 8 to 10 repetitions on each side.
 You also have deltoid muscles in the front of your shoulders, which you can work by performing front deltoid raises. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart and hold a dumbbell in each hand.Starting with your hand close to your body, begin lifting the dumbbell upwards and in front of your body.
When the dumbbell is about at shoulder height, begin to lower it slowly back to its starting position.
Do three sets of 8 to 10 repetitions on each side.
 Pressing weights overhead will also help you to add bulk to your shoulders and make them look wider. Start by standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and holding a dumbbell in each of your hands.









To do the exercise, press the dumbbells straight upwards above your head and then bring them back down slowly.
Do three sets of 8 to 10 repetitions.
 If you want to work with your own body weight, then doing pull-ups is a great option. Pull-ups will work your shoulder muscles along with your arm and back muscles at the same time. Using a wide grip will enhance the shoulder work as well.Grasp a pull-up bar with your hands a little wider than shoulder-width apart. Then, pull your body weight upwards until your chin reaches the bar. Do as many pull-ups as you can.
If you can’t do regular pull-ups yet, then you can try doing assisted pull-ups with a machine. Most gyms have one of these machines. They use weights to counter your body weight and make the pull-up a little easier.
 Push-ups also use your body weight to work your upper body and core muscles. However, you can target your shoulder muscles more intensely if you do pike-style push-ups.To do pike-style push-ups you will need a weight lifting bench or a sturdy chair. Get into the push-up position in front of the bench or chair and then put your feet up on the chair.
Use your hands to walk your upper body back towards the chair until you are in the pike position, which is similar to a headstand, but with your feet on the bench or chair. Your body should be bent at the waist.
To do the exercise, lower your face down towards the ground by bending your arms. Then, when you are close to the ground, raise yourself back up.
Repeat this exercise 8 to 10 times and do three sets.
Keep in mind that this type of exercise should be done with caution because losing your grip or positioning for even a second could result in serious harm to the neck and spine.

