 Vaccines help you develop immunity by creating a mock infection in your body, thereby activating antibodies to develop in response. These antibodies then know to recognize similar attacks from real invaders and work to protect you from infections and illnesses in the future.A schedule of vaccination, starting at birth, is comprised of protection against chickenpox, diphtheria, influenza, hepatitis A and B, haemophilus influenzae (or Hib, which causes meningitis), measles, meningococcal diseases, mumps, polio, rotavirus, rubella, tetanus, and whooping cough. Some vaccination schedules now also include human papillomavirus (or HPV).Vaccines that are made from weakened or killed germs do not give you the illness; they only cause a symptom reaction such as redness where you received the shot or a slight fever.
Vaccines are very safe, do not cause autism, and only rarely cause severe allergic reactions, if you are allergic to eggs for example. The diseases you can get are worse than being vaccinated., Natural exposure to illnesses creates antibody development and these antibodies then act to fight off infection from future exposure to the same illness.Don’t over do the hand sanitizer. Antibacterial products actually foster the development of resistant bacteria which can then be able to live despite antibiotic treatment, so antibiotics to can't do their job when you really need them. Wash your hands with regular (non-antibacterial) soap and water.
Allow your kids to get dirty, pet a friendly dog, or play with a toy that has fallen on the floor. Just wash their hands with regular soap.
Surprisingly, research has shown that children who had higher levels of exposure to infections had less heart disease later in life.Do not take your children to “chickenpox parties” or similar means of introducing natural immunity. Chickenpox can be very serious and is best prevented via vaccination.Be smart with your immunities. Some people aim to boost their immunity to certain foods, plants, and even snake venom through repeated and increased exposure. This method to acquiring immunity is not safe and can even result in lethal consequences., Chronic stress leads to increased blood cortisol levels which depresses your immune system.Learn how to deal with stress by altering your physical and mental habits, such as meditating, doing sports, eating a balanced diet, or journaling.
Cognitive behavioural therapy is one of the most effective ways of dealing with stress. Therapists assist by helping you learn to reframe and solve problems, tolerate uncertainty, and increase exposure to anxiety triggers.Studies have shown that putting your feelings into words by journaling helps you deal with your emotions by halting negative feelings and providing an emotional release., Laughing alleviates a stressful situation, releases endorphins to invigorate your mind and body, and improves your immune system.Laughter is the best medicine for stress.Try some laughter therapy yourself. Watch a funny movie that you love or try laughter yoga.
 There is mounting evidence that Vitamin D not only builds strong bones by helping your body absorb calcium but also builds your immune system.Get 10-15 minutes of smart exposure to sunshine three times a week. Take the necessary precautions to avoid burning in the sun, such as sunblock, hydration, and wearing a hat. The benefits of the vitamin D will still shine through.If you choose to take supplements, 15 micrograms a day is sufficient for adults., Your body rests and regenerates at night while you sleep. During sleep, your immune system releases proteins called cytokines. You need these protective proteins when you’re stressed or ill so if you’re not getting enough sleep, you’re not producing enough cytokines, which in turn weakens your strength to fight infections.Most adults need seven to eight hours of sleep a night.
 Some people propose that colon cleansing, with water, coffee, or other substances, can lead to a heightened immune system by flushing out toxins. There is no scientific evidence to support this and colon cleansing can in fact be dangerous and unhealthy., If you have a diagnosed immunodeficiency illness, your doctor will recommend IV or injection therapy.Immunoglobulin therapy involves the direct injection or intravenous delivery of antibody proteins to help fight infection. This is usually done in the hospital as an outpatient.
Stem cell transplantation is a potential permanent cure for life-threatening immunodeficiency diseases. The stem cell donor and recipient must be a close match; even so, the treatment is not a guaranteed success.
Healthy people simply looking to boost their immune systems do not need medical immunotherapy.

