 Caffeine is one of the most tried-and-true methods of staying awake. A brewed cup (8 ounces) of coffee can have anywhere from 95 to 200 milligrams of caffeine, while a cup of black tea can be anywhere from 14 to 70 milligrams. As a comparison, a 12-ounce can of Coca-Cola has 23 to 35 milligrams of caffeine. If you're not accustomed to drinking caffeine, you should start with a beverage that has less caffeine such as green tea (24 to 45 milligrams per 8 ounces).Caffeine works by replacing an inhibitory neurotransmitter, adenosine. That is, it binds to the receptors in cells in place of adenosine. Adenosine tells your cells to prepare for sleep, and the longer you stay awake, the more adenosine you have in your brain. When caffeine takes it place, it does not tell your cells to slow down. Rather, it speeds them up, as well as increasing the firing of neurons in your brain.You do build up a tolerance to caffeine over time, meaning it becomes less effective the more you use it. Therefore, if you want it to be more effective, you should only use it when you really need to stay awake.Though rare, you can overdose on caffeine, especially if you are taking it in pill form. You should watch for signs of jitteriness, heart palpitations, sweating, dizziness, anxiety, racing heartbeat, or even cardiac arrest.;
, When you stay awake, you use more energy than you would will sleeping. Although simple sugar, such as what's found in sodas and candy bars, can give you a burst of energy, it can also cause you to crash in a few hours. Protein is better because it is in charge of maintaining the neurotransmitter orexin, which in turn maintains your body's wakefulness. In addition, protein tends to stick with you for longer than sugar.Try eating a piece of cheese or a couple of slices of lunch meat. If you must also have carbohydrates, pair it with complex carbohydrates such as whole grains. You could also try a piece of fruit. Though it has sugar in it, it is a more complex carbohydrate that will last longer., Dehydration can contribute to fatigue, so if you find yourself getting tired, try drinking some water. Ice water in particular can help wake you up.You can also try fruits with a high water content, such as watermelon., Some people have had luck using certain scents to stay awake. For instance, peppermint, rosemary, eucalyptus, and citrus scents can all aid alertness. Try smelling essential oils or using candles with these scents.