 It will save you a great deal of stress later on than by just hiring the first people that come into your office.;
, Chances are that you asked for them, so actually check them. You can weed out many that won't be a good fit before you waste any more of their or your own time.
 This will help you avoid lawsuits and things like that.
 Organization is key to having a successfully operating business. And this means less stress for you in the long-run.
 These usually go hand in hand; they are more apt to work hard if they are happy with the work environment. The easiest way to do this is through survey software. It will allow you to customize questions to find out about little issues before they turn into large problems that will disrupt the work ambiance.
 Employees can be considered the lifeblood of a company, therefore helping them not be overburdened by stress is a necessity. Offer things like a monthly discount towards a health club. This way, they will be able to work out their tension and be ready for another day of work.
 Easier said than done, right? But by having great customer service and offering the occasional giveaway or incentive, you will retain those customers for years to come.
 This will keep you in the competition. For the most case, you have to be modern to get new clientele.
 It is better to understand the market first to utilize the product or service potential. Quantitative market research is essential to obtain consumers opinions and to predict the future trends of a market that a business operates in.
 Never make the same decision twice. This is accomplished by creating a 'system' which is a written how-to manual for your business. Have all management edit it. Have all employees know how it applies to their conduct and their job. Whenever you have to make any decision, require your directs to identify the pertinent system rules. If there is none, create one. If there is confusion, rewrite it.
 Incorporate all workable ideas and make this an ongoing process. People are happy doing things the 'right way' and contributing to their work makes them more committed to your success.
 Solicit ideas for 'spending money to make money' and pencil them out. Solicit ideas for reducing costs and evaluate the 'cost of reducing costs'. Solicit ideas for selling new or varied products and for presenting them in different ways. Evaluate their profit potential, and incorporate them in your 5-year plan.
 Solicit ideas for what else they may want. Consider dividing or combining products as well as new or varied ones. Include non-physical things in your concept of 'product' such as 'shiny', 'hot', 'simple', 'tested', guaranteed', etc. Evaluate all ideas and devise a plan to schedule product improvements. Always test these ideas on a small scale before plunging in.
 Use your competition's experience to learn the customer better. Do they have a broader customer base that you can reach with product/delivery changes? How can you benefit from their failures and their successes?

, Are you perceived as smart, helpful guys with the best products at the best prices. Does your signage (packaging,business signs,etc) attract? Does your name attract? Do you have a good slogan?

, Look for creative people in your organization and hand them problems and review their solutions. They are the most powerful, under-looked and under-used resource available to you. Use your chain-of-command to funnel problems down and solutions up. Do not try to teach creativity, it can not be taught, only identified.
 Use managers to apply the 'system' and the policies stated above. Use directors to help you change the 'system' and the business. Do not necessarily expect management and direction to shine in the same persons. Remember that the business leader's job is improving the business, not managing it. Delegate, but review, all management work. Concentrate on soliciting and evaluating and incorporating ideas for improvement.
 Plan any project/change in gross terms first for general budget and time-line acceptance. Then begin evolving/creating the idea in small steps. Although incomplete planning may cause extra work, it is faster and cheaper in the long run because visible results can be evaluated as you go forward and modifications made on-the-run. This approach will normally lead to better, quicker, lower-cost results than fully planned projects.

