 Omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to reduce depression symptoms.This may be helpful for controlling bipolar mood swings. Omega-3 fatty acids are part of a healthy, balanced diet. They are found in fish, like salmon, tuna, sardines, trout, and mackerel. Omega-3s are also found in walnuts, flax seeds, flaxseed oil, vegetable oils, eggs, and leafy green vegetables.


A recent study has found that people with bipolar disorder have low amounts of omega-3s., Magnesium has been shown to reduce mania symptoms.Magnesium also helps reduce anxiety and helps fight against insomnia.Magnesium can be found in green vegetables, legumes, cereals, fish, and nuts.Try adding the following foods to your diet: spinach, black beans, milk, oatmeal, bran flakes, shrimp, tuna, cod, veal, beets, broccoli, peas, corn, asparagus, almonds, sunflower seeds, sesame seeds, cashews, bananas, and pineapple.
You can try a magnesium supplement, but make sure to talk to your doctor first. Adding any supplement may interfere with your medication.
 Eating a balanced, healthy diet is extremely important when managing bipolar disorder. Avoiding processed, refined, and junk food and eating whole, natural foods can help stabilize your moods and reduce blood sugar lows and mood swings.


Increase your intake of vegetables and fruit. These provide important vitamins, like vitamin C and B vitamins. These vitamins can help control stress, reduce depression symptoms, and help relieve mania symptoms.Eat lean protein, healthy fats, and complex carbohydrates can help keep you full and your blood sugar level.
Talk to your doctor about proper nutrition to help your bipolar disorder.
 Skipping meals can lead to emotional imbalances and depression symptoms.This can lead to mood swings. You should eat three to five meals each day to make sure you are receiving the proper nutrition to keep your moods in balance.You may decide to eat three meals each day with one or two snacks. Some people find that eating five to six small meals works for them. Find what works for you.

