 If you only want to check the weather and send emails, a less powerful laptop will suffice but if you're wanting to keep databases, use maps, play games, and navigate with it, you need a powerful laptop. If you're using the laptop for serious work, find one that has a high processing speed, with a minimum of 1.5GHz so that you can run multiple programs without slowing down. In addition, get one with at least 2 GB of memory (RAM) so that the operating system works fast and smoothly and so you can store charts, photos, videos, etc., without slowing things down. A hard drive with at least 160GB is essential., Look for a lightweight one that is easy to move around and small enough to be placed on small surfaces (common in a sailboat). However, check that there are adequate USB ports for the many plug-ins/peripherals you might have. There are a lot of items that can transfer information direct to the laptop via a USB port now, such as wind and other data instruments, satellite radio, etc.
 Since you'll be out on the waters with plenty of sun glare and water glare, this is a necessity, not a luxury.
 Most new laptops are nowadays but older (reconditioned) ones might not be. Wi-fi will be very handy for connecting to the internet when docked or near internet broadcasting. You might even consider getting satellite internet access using a satellite phone because even the latest networks require you to be close to shore to pick up the internet. Bluetooth is helpful for transferring information between your cell phone and/or GPS receiver and laptop too.
 Having an external keyboard and mouse can be a handy addition to enable you to sit away from the laptop in a more comfortable position that doesn't cause back, neck, and arm strain over long periods of time. If the laptop doesn't have an in-built camera, consider getting one to attach to it for those Skype talk and video. And do you want speakers for music or will the ones already in the laptop be sufficient? And a laptop lamp might come in handy when it's too dark to see as others sleep.
 You should know what you want in terms of software before buying the laptop. That way, you can make sure that it is compatible with your laptop and will work the way you want. For example, Macs have specific navigation software that you might wish to use, meaning that you need to err on the side of buying a Mac.