


Even if your parents’ rules seem silly or overly restrictive, those rules will likely stay in place or become even stricter if you can’t follow them. If you can show them that you respect their rules, they might be more likely to trust you to handle more freedom.
Communicate to your parents that you understand that they love you and only want what’s best for you. Once your parents see that you appreciate their concern for you, they’ll be more likely to listen to your explanations for why you believe you can handle more responsibility. You could say, "I know you only want to keep me safe, but I'm hoping we can figure out a way where I could be safe and still get to do some things with my friends. Can we talk about it?"

,


If you create a tense and angry environment at home, your parents probably won’t want to reward your behavior by changing their rules. Be a pleasant and easy-going person, and your parents will be more likely to consider things from your perspective.
Don’t try to wear your parents down by making their lives miserable. They’ll resent you, and you won’t respect them when they cave in.
It’s natural that you’ll feel frustrated and angry from time to time. When you do, try to express yourself in a calm and reasonable manner instead of rolling your eyes or stomping out of the room. Don't make sarcastic comments about how their rules are "stupid" or "unfair" or how you wish they'd be more like your friends' parents.
 Don’t give up the first time your parents refuse to change their rules. Instead, set your mind on proving to them that you can handle more responsibility by keeping their rules and continuing to make well thought-out, careful arguments.


Be clear about the fact that you still wish your parents would relax their rules. When your parents won't allow you to do something that you think you should be permitted to do, reassure them that you will follow their rules because you respect them. But also remind them that you still believe you could handle more freedom and that you're trying to earn their trust. While you shouldn’t constantly complain about their overprotective behavior, you also shouldn’t hide your feelings.
Instead, make a plan to revisit the topic once every few weeks. Mark down a date on a calendar, and keep track of the days since the last time you had a serious discussion with your parents. Once you’ve made progress in being respectful and following their rules, you will have a track record that you can point to in proving that you deserve more freedom.
As always, be very tactful in how you approach your parents. For instance, instead of saying "I've done a good job following your rules. Now it's time for you to change them for me," you should say something such as, "I was wondering if we could talk. I've been doing my best to respect your rules, but I still feel as if I'd like to have a little more freedom. Is there anything I can do to earn your trust?"

, You don’t want to give them reasons to believe that you’ll abuse their trust if they allow you to make more of your own decisions.


If you go through life hiding things from them, they’re only going to assume that you’ll also hide your motives from them. If you give your parents the impression that you have a secret life that you don’t want them to know about, that will only increase their anxieties about what you’ll do once you’re away from them. You should try to keep the lines of communication as open as possible.
It’s not wrong to keep some things private, of course. You’re allowed to keep some thoughts to yourself. But you shouldn’t give them the impression that you’re living one life at home and another when you’re away from them.
 If you say you’re going to a friend’s house to study for an exam, don’t spend the evening watching Netflix at a different friend’s house.


If your parents can’t trust your word, they won’t trust you to keep any promises that you make to them. It’s hard to argue that you deserve more responsibility if you already struggle to keep the rules that you’ve been given.
Be honest with them. Even if you mess up and do something that you know will make them angry, they’ll be happy that you respect them enough to acknowledge your mistake. If you lie and cover it up, they’ll expect you to do that in the future, as well.

