 You can seek a U.S. patent if you have never patented your invention before in any country. However, if you have already patented the invention in a foreign country, then you can seek a U.S. patent only in certain circumstances:If you are seeking a plant or utility patent, then you mustn’t have filed for a patent for this invention outside the United States more than 12 months ago. For example, if you filed to patent an invention in a foreign country on January 1, 2016, you can’t file for a U.S. patent for the same invention after January 1, 2017.
If you are seeking a design patent, then you can’t file more than six months after filing in the foreign country.;
, You must satisfy these three criteria before your invention can qualify for a U.S. patent.In order to check if the invention qualifies, you should ask yourself the following questions:


Have you heard or seen the invention before? If so, then it probably isn’t “new” and won’t qualify for a patent.
Could others easily come up with your same invention? If so, then it might be obvious and not eligible for a patent.
Will other people find your invention useful? If not, then it probably can’t qualify for a U.S. patent.
 There are three types of patents you can apply for. The application process is generally the same for each. The three types of patents are:Design patents. These are awarded to anyone who invents an original, new, and ornamental design for an article of manufacture. For example, you could design a new soda bottle and patent it.
Utility patents. These patents are awarded to someone who invents a new and useful process, machine, article of manufacture, or composition of matter. Utility patents can also be awarded for invented improvements in any process, machine, article of manufacture, or composition of matter.
Plant patents. These patents can be granted to someone who discovers or invents and asexually reproduces any distinct or new variety of plant.
 Inventors are allowed to apply for a patent for their inventions. In some situations, other people may also be able to apply for the patent. For example:Someone else could have come up with the invention but assigned the invention to you. In this case, as the “assignee,” you could apply for a patent.
The legal representatives (such as executor or personal representative) for a deceased inventor can apply for a patent.
Joint inventors can apply for patents. However, if your only contribution was money, then you can’t apply.
 This is called checking the “prior art” to see if a patent has been awarded for your invention. You can check in the following ways:


The USPTO website contains links to databases and other resources you can search.You can also visit a Patent and Trademark Resource Center anywhere in the United States. These libraries have staff available to assist you as you search for prior art. You can find the nearest library by visiting the USPTO website, which has a map of locations around the country.The USPTO website also includes a web-based tutorial on how to perform patent searches. It is 38 minutes long.The USPTO website also hosts a “Seven Step Strategy” for performing a patent search.You should read this strategy if you have never performed a patent search before.
 If you have any questions about whether you can file for a U.S. patent, then you should contact a qualified attorney. Alternately, you could hire the attorney to file the application for you. The USPTO website contains a database of patent attorneys and patent agents.A patent agent is a non-lawyer who nevertheless has qualified to represent applicants before the USPTO.


Patent attorneys can be very expensive. If you are looking for free or low-cost legal help, then you can search for pro bono attorneys or visit a local law school that has a clinic specializing in patents. You can find state-specific information on pro bono attorneys or a list of law school clinic programs on the USPTO website.USPTO also offers assistance through its pro se program. This program can answer your questions and help you file an electronic application. You can reach them by phone at 1-866-767-3848 or by email at innovationdevelopment@uspto.gov. You can also schedule an appointment for in-person help if you are in Alexandria, Virginia., Depending on your country, you may need to get permission to file for a patent outside your country. For example, if you are in India, then you would need to get a Foreign Filing License from your country. Alternately, you could file for the patent first in your country.


Contact your country’s patent office and ask about requirements. Tell them you want to apply for a patent in the U.S. and ask them what you need to do in your own country before filing.
 You do not have to file a provisional application. However, a provisional application can be helpful, especially if you want to show your invention to potential investors but are worried that it will be stolen. By filing a provisional application, you establish a filing date for your invention.You can also use the term “patent pending” in connection with your invention.


The provisional application is good for 12 months. You must file a non-provisional application before the deadline, otherwise your application is considered abandoned.
You cannot file a provisional application for a design patent.You also can’t claim the benefit of any prior filed foreign patent.
 In order to submit a provisional application, you should gather necessary information ahead of time. This information will be requested on either a paper application or if you file electronically. Get the following:names of all inventors
where each inventor resides
nationality of each inventor
title of the invention
names and registration numbers of any attorney or patent agent who helped you
docket number (if applicable)
the address where correspondence should be mailed

, You can submit a provisional application by completing a cover sheet. You can download the cover sheet from the USPTO website. You may also download it in PDF format and type in the information., To file, you need to accurately describe your invention in enough detail that someone trained in your field could recreate it. You can describe the invention using a verbal description or in drawings/photographs.To file a provisional application, however, you do not need to include a formal patent claim, oath or declaration, or any information about prior art., Your fee amount will depend on the size of your organization. You can find out the current fee information by calling 1-800-786-9199. You can pay by check or money order, made payable to “Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.”, If you are submitting a paper application, then you can send the entire packet to Commissioner for Patents, P.O. Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450.You could also submit your application electronically, using electronic filing. You would file for your provisional application in the same manner that you file a non-provisional patent application electronically (see below).
 If you filed a patent application in a foreign country before applying in the U.S., then you may be able to claim the foreign filing date as the filing date for your U.S. application. In order to do so, you need a certified copy of the foreign application.


The application should be certified by the patent office of the country in which you filed it., You are encouraged to file your non-provisional patent application electronically. (You also could file for your provisional patent application electronically). All electronic applications must be submitted using the EFS-Web system. You will prepare documents as PDFs and attach them.Before beginning the process, you should do the following:


You should request a Customer Number by completing the paper application, which is available for download.You can mail the form to Mail Stop CN, Commissioner for Patents, PO Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450. If you need help completing the form, call 1-800-786-9199 and select option 2.
You should also request a “digital certificate.” You must complete the Certificate Action form, which is available online for you to download.The completed form can be mailed to Mail Stop EBC, Commissioner for Patents, PO Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450.
 You will receive these two numbers after the office has processed your Certificate Action Form. You should receive the authorization code by email. The reference number will be mailed to you. You should write these numbers down and store them in a safe place.


USPTO might also try to call you over the phone to give you the reference number.
 Your specification will lay out your description of the invention. It is an essential part of the patent application, and you should provide the specification information in the following order:title of the invention
cross-references to related applications, if any
names of parties to a joint research agreement
background of the invention
brief summary of the invention
brief description of the several views of drawings
detailed description of the invention, including the manner of making and using it
one or more claims
abstract of the disclosure
sequence listing (if applicable)

, Claims are part of your specification, and they have strict requirements. They are the most difficult part of the patent application to create and the reason you should consult with an attorney or a patent agent for help.


Claims are fragment sentences in the following format: “1. A comprising: .”For example, a claim for a yo-yo could read: “a toy comprising: (a) two disks, (b) an axle, and (c) a piece of string, with the disks connected in parallel fashion to the axle and the string wound around the axle in a spool.”

, Virtually all applications require drawings of the invention.The drawings should show every feature that you recited in the claims. Many inventors hire draft persons or a product designer to create the drawings. These people generally charge $75-150 per drawing sheet.USPTO has detailed drawing requirements for color, size of paper, etc. For this reason, you should probably hire an expert draftsperson to make the drawings.You can find someone by performing an online search. Many people specialize in making drawings for patent applications.
 You need to make an oath or declaration that you believe you are the originator of the invention. Utility, design, and plant patents have their own form, which you can find at the USPTO website and download.If you are outside the United States, then you should take your oath or declaration and make it before any diplomatic or consular officer of the United States.Contact your nearest U.S. consulate or embassy and ask when you can stop by.
If you are in the U.S., then you would sign your oath or declaration in front of a notary public. You can find notaries at courthouses, city or town offices, or at most large banks.
If you already filed for a patent in a foreign country, you should identify the country and the date of application in your declaration.
 You can visit the electronic system and begin by logging in.You must upload your digital certificate and enter the password you were assigned when you applied for the certificate. You will then have to provide requested information:


Complete bibliographic data, including your name and address, the name of your invention, and your customer number.
Attach documents, such as your specification, drawings, and declaration, as prepared PDF files. You can click “browse” and find the saved documents on your computer.
Calculate the filing fee by checking certain boxes. Your fee will be displayed in the upper-right corner.
Review your entire application before submitting. Make sure all information is correct and that each attachment has been properly uploaded.
 You can pay your fee at the time you submit your electronic application. You can pay using a credit card, deposit account, or electronic funds transfer from a bank account. You may also choose to pay later.
 USPTO staff will review your application and check to see whether your invention qualifies for a U.S. patent. The entire process can take quite a long time—a utility patent, for example, can take two or more years.If your invention is rejected, then you can propose changes, which staff will review. This back-and-forth process is quite common, and you should certainly consult with an attorney or patent agent to help you in this process.
If, after proposing amendments, USPTO still rejects your invention, then you can bring an appeal.

