 After your dog is finished bathing, get a large dry towel and gently soak up the water. It is best to place the towel over your dog’s fur and then press and squeeze different sections of the fur to remove water from the surface and undercoat. Think of it almost like applying a fluffy squeegee to your dog.Avoid aggressively rubbing your dog with the towel as that will only create additional tangles in the fur.
 If the heat is adjustable, start at a warm setting and monitor your dog’s reaction. If needed, you can always turn it down to cool. For the speed, it is best to begin at a slow speed building up after a few seconds time. Again, this is dependent on how your dog reacts., Bursts of air to the face can startle even the calmest dog. Instead, aim your blow dryer toward the rear of your dog. This feeling is less scary and can almost resemble a relaxing massage, if done carefully and calmly., Make progress drying your dog from the hind quarters and moving up toward the neck and face area. Keep your dyer nozzle in constant motion so that you avoid concentrating hot or cool air in any one spot. Staying moving will also allow you to fluff up the fur, speeding up the drying process as well., If you use the cool setting, make sure that the room is reasonably warm. Otherwise you run the risk of giving your dog a cold as they sit in a chilly room getting cold air blown on them. The cool button is best used as quick measure against overheating., Start by moving your hands against the grain of the fur as this will help to expose the undercoat for drying. Keep one hand free to comb through the hair as the other one guides the nozzle. When you are almost finished drying do a quick once over with your hands combing with the grain to smooth down the fur.This is also a good time to keep a look out for any skin rashes or other problems that are visible with the undercoat pushed aside. Consult your veterinarian if you see anything concerning., This will prevent the hair from spinning around and creating heavy “whip knots.”, You are finished with the drying process when you can run your hand over your dog’s coat and only get slightly wet. If you continue to dry your dog then you will risk damaging the hair and making it brittle.Make sure to keep your dog indoors until they are fully dry. If they go outside, dirt will stick to their damp coat., After your dog is good and dry you can run through their coat with a thicker brush or a fine tooth comb. If you want a long, parted look it is best if you start right behind their nose and then comb your way backwards and along their spine. A quick spritz with conditioner will hold many styles in place, at least temporarily.