 The first step is to turn off the gas supply. You can do this by turning the gas shutoff valve by hand or using an adjustable wrench.


When the gas is off, the valve handle should be at a right angle to the pipe. Check the pilot light to make sure it's out. Smell for the presence of gas before proceeding.
If you're replacing an electric heater, remove the fuse or turn off the circuit breaker to cut off power to the water heater., Switch off off the water supply by turning the shutoff valve on the cold water supply line.


Start draining the tank by opening a hot water faucet on the lowest floor of the house. This will make the tank lighter and easier to move.
Connect a hose to the drain valve on the tank and slowly open the valve. Allow the water to run off into a nearby drain or bucket.
Be very careful, as the water may be scalding hot., Once the tank has been drained, the next step is to disconnect the gas and water lines.


Use two pipe wrenches to disconnect the gas line at the union or flare fitting. Then use a pipe wrench to unscrew the pipe from the gas control valve. If you have an electric water heater, simply disconnect the electrical service.
Disconnect the hot and cold water lines. If the pipes have been soldered into place, you will need to cut them using a tubing cutter or a hacksaw. Try to ensure that the cuts are as straight as possible.Detach the vent from the water heater by removing the screws which connect the two. Push the vent pipe to one side.
 Now that the old tank has been fully disconnected, carefully slide it out of the way.


You may need some help doing this as older water heaters are often filled with sediment, making them very heavy. If your water heater is in the basement, consider renting an appliance dolly to help you bring the new heater down and the old heater up.
Dispose of the old water heater safely and legally. Contact a local waste management department or sanitation agency for instructions on how to recycle a water heater. Most states have current laws prohibiting the dumping of appliances such as water heaters in dumps or landfills.

