 Often there is a spring that holds the casing in place. Be sure the casing is perfectly upright and centered. If the casing is partially crushed, it may not work, but if it makes it past the first station, it should be fine.


Be sure that the casing has solid integrity, and the mouth of the casing (the opening) does not have any folds which will create operation or safety problems when fired.



This first station resizes the brass (shot casings expand slightly, so this station shrinks it slightly) and extracts the old used primer. (Note: be sure you never extract a live primer, this is one of the most dangerous things you can do with a loading press!)


, To load a fresh primer from your primer hopper press the handle forward until it stops (this won't be very far, but again, some pressure will be needed).
 From now on you will repeat steps 1 - 3 (a four-station press does up to four things every time you pull —or push— the handle) to keep the tray as full as possible (until supplies or time run out).


The second station adds powder from the powder measure (powder drop) into the casing. The amount of powder should be checked for the first two casings, the last casing, and every 50 - 100 casings. The powder measure should be adjusted if the amount of powder moves out of your predetermined tolerance range.



The third station bells the casing. This allows you to easily place a bullet on top of the casing, but a bell that is any larger than needed will reduce the casings integrity, too little belling will make seating the bullet difficult.
 In the fourth station, a bullet will be seated and the casing crimped.
 This station will also crimp the casing around the bullet. Other than the amount of powder, bullet seating depth and crimping is arguably the most important part of the loading process.


A bullet which is seated too deep or a crimp which is too tight can create unsafe pressures in the chamber when fired.
A bullet which is seated too shallow may cause the bullet to engage in the rifling when chambered, before it should be. This can cause inaccuracies if fired, but it can also cause a Type-4 malfunction or problems ejecting the live cartridge.
A casing which is inadequately crimped may cause the bullet to be loose in the casing, and it may potentially fall out. It can also cause the cartridge not to load into the chamber of the firearm smoothly.
See tips for more information.
