 The reclined leg stretch is a relatively easy stretch for your hamstrings, which can cause heel pain when they are tight. If your hamstrings are at all related to your heel pain, this stretch may help.To do this exercise you'll need an exercise band or strap, or you can use a rolled towel. Lie on your back with your legs extended together. Bend your right knee towards your chest so you can loop the strap or towel around the arch of your right foot.
On an exhale, extend your right leg straight up. Lengthen the back of your leg and ground your left leg into the floor.
Hold the stretch for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply. Then do the other side.
 The figure four is not itself a yoga pose, but the stretch is yoga-inspired. This stretch can help you open your heels, enabling you to distribute your weight more evenly to help reduce heel pain.To start the stretch, lie on your back on the floor with your knees bent at 90-degree angles. Cross your right leg so that your right ankle rests just above your left knee, then flex your right foot. Grasp your left thigh with both arms, threading your right arm through the triangle created by your legs.
Your hips, head, and spine should be flat on the floor, your neck relaxed. Hold the stretch for 30 seconds to a minute and then repeat with your left leg crossed over your right.
 The chair pose is one of the best yoga poses for beginners that will strengthen your ankles, thighs, and calves. Keep in mind that if you have heel pain, your calves or ankles likely are the cause, so strengthening them could relieve your pain.Enter chair pose from mountain pose, standing with your heels slightly separated and your big toes touching.
On an exhale, bend your knees as though you are coming to a seat in an invisible chair behind you. Make sure your knees are directly over your ankles so that your shins are perpendicular to the floor.
Your torso should form a right angle with the tops of your thighs. Keep your shoulders rolled back, with your shoulder blades tucked down your spine and your tailbone pointed toward the floor.
Hold the pose for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply.
 If you have heel pain, or any other pain in your feet, forward folds are some of the best ways to relieve your pain and prevent future problems, primarily because they stretch and strengthen the hamstrings and calves.You can do forward folds from either a standing or seated position. Hinge forward from your waist and fold over your legs, keeping your back neutral.
Only go as far as you can comfortably go and feel a stretch at the back of your knees. You can rest your hands on the floor, or on your shins or knees if you can't reach the floor.
If you can reach your feet, grasp your toes and pull up on them to give your arches a good stretch.
 Low lunges engage your whole body while also improving your balance, which will help you better distribute your weight on your feet.From a downward dog, lift one leg toward the sky and then crunch it forward between your hands on an exhale.
As you inhale, step the other leg behind you and reach up with your torso, opening your collarbones and lifting your sternum. Keep your neck long and your shoulders rolled back.
With every exhale, think of further deepening the lunge. Make sure your knee is over your ankle so that your shin is perpendicular to the floor.
Hold your lunge for 30 seconds to a minute, breathing deeply, then return to downward dog and repeat with the other leg.

