 A clumsy dog will inevitably create a mess in your house during bath time. Bathing your clumsy dog outdoors instead of inside is a great way to help minimize the damage done to your home.But make sure you only bathe your dog outside when the weather permits. If it is too cold or raining, you should probably forego this option.;
, It is important to brush your dog out before you give it a bath. This will help remove any loose fur and to get rid of any troublesome tangles in your dog’s hair.Brushing your clumsy dog beforehand will also help make bath time easier because you won’t have to fight with the tangles in your dog’s fur while they are

, If you are giving your dog a bath outside, make sure to do it safely. Your dog should be contained somehow so that they cannot run away. You would probably feel terrible if your dog was scared from the bath and ran away from home.You can try to bathe your dog in a fenced-in yard. Or you could tie your dog’s leash to something sturdy so it can’t get away.
 When washing your pet, it is important to follow some basic guidelines to help keep your pet safe and happy. You don’t want to do anything to unintentionally make your pet uncomfortable during bath time.Make sure you keep the water and the shampoo out of your pet’s eyes and ears. Exposure to these elements can sting your pet’s eyes and make them feel pain.
During the bath, use warm water instead of water that is too hot or too cold. These extreme temperatures could hurt your pet, but they will definitely cause discomfort.
Use right amount of shampoo. Using too much shampoo can cause excess suds that get into your pet’s eyes and ears more easily, or cause extra slippery surfaces that can be dangerous for your pet. Use 1-4 tablespoons of shampoo, depending on the size of your dog.
 Use the hose to get your dog’s fur damp with water. Pour some dog shampoo in your hand and begin lathering up your dog’s wet fur. Work it into the fur well, being careful to keep the shampoo out of your dog’s eyes and ears.After you are done lathering the shampoo, use the hose to gently rinse the soap suds out of your dog’s coat.
Be careful to keep a firm grip on your dog so it doesn’t get scared and jerk away.
 Since you are outside, let your dog shake the excess water out. And then towel dry your dog so that it will be dry and comfortable sooner. Gently rub the towel on your dog’s coat to help remove the extra water.

