 Tap the app’s icon from your phone’s home screen to open it.;
, Tap the “Request a Lyft” button from the app’s screen, and the nearest driver will arrive to pick you up.


You’ll also receive some basic information about the driver, including his or her name, the car they’re driving, and their contact number

, Take your phone and immediately contact the Lyft driver before he or she comes to pick you up.
 Let the driver know that you’re with your pet before they arrive so that they know what to expect and make needed adjustments.


If you are a service dog handler traveling with your legitimate service dog (one that performs trained tasks to mitigate your disability) you do not have to call the driver. You may choose to but, by federal law, you are not required to call ahead.
Drivers with medical conditions like allergies have logical reasons why they need to decline from giving you a ride. However, the law still protects service dog handlers and their dogs. If a driver must refuse you for medical reasons, they must notify Lyft immediately and Lyft must send another driver to you immediately.
Lyft abides to the American Disability Act and has a No-Discrimination policy, which covers people who have service animals. Drivers who decline to give a lift to people with service dogs will be banned and removed from the Lyft service.
 Once you’ve properly informed the Lyft driver of your companion, just wait for them to arrive and come pick you up on the designated location.
 In the US, federal law (The Americans with Disabilities Act or ADA) only protects people with legitimate Service Dogs. A Lyft driver is required to transport a service dog handler and their dog and only required to transport a service dog and handler.
 It is against the law and punishable by a large fine to falsely represent your pet or companion dog as a service dog. Companion dogs, therapy dogs and emotional support dogs are not service dogs. Although a service dog handler can, if they choose to, call Lyft to tell them they are traveling with their service dog they are not required to.

