 To turn him on, you have to show that you're up for hooking up in whatever way feels right. If you want to have sex in the same place and same position every time, then he won't be as turned on as he would be if you showed that you were up for anything. Here's how to be adventurous when you're having sex:


Make love in new places. Pick a new part of your home to make love, check into a hotel, or make love in some secluded or scandalous location. He will be turned on by your adventurous spirit.
Make love in new positions. Though your guy may love it if you're on top the whole time, he'll love it even more if you mix it up and try to have sex in a new position every time you get to the bedroom.
Get sexy in some water. Make love in the shower, or hook up in a pool or a hot tub. Your guy will be more turned on if you can be sexy in almost any scenario.
 If you want to turn on your guy, you should not only show that you're up for anything, but that you're up for anything any time. If you're only adventurous on designated hook up times, then it'll begin to feel like a routine. Here are some hot ways to be more spontaneous:


Hook up whenever you're in the mood, even if you're both just watching TV. Show him what you want and he'll follow you to the bedroom.
If you're out in public and really want to get it on, just whisper it in his ear and go somewhere more private.
Surprise him when he's waking up or getting into the shower. Guys are always open to the possibility of having sex.
 Guys love it if you're comfortable enough with yourself to be a little bit dirty. Whether you're talking dirty, or just doing something raunchy, he'll be turned on before you can rip off his shirt. Here's what to do:


Try some dirty talk in the bedroom. Tell him how much you like what he's doing to you and let him know what else you want.
Tell him your sexual fantasy, no matter how dirty it is. See if he can fulfill it for you.
Tie his hands to the bedposts and have your way with him. Take turns.
Go to the sex store together and find the sexiest lingerie possible as well as a few props. Bring them out whenever you feel like it.
 Any guy is guaranteed to be turned on if you mix things up with some role play or raunchy scenarios. Trying out different scenarios will not only spice up your sex life, but it will let have more fun and explore your bodies and desires in new ways. Here are some fun scenarios to try:


Pretend you're his boss and boss him around until he lets you do whatever you want. Switch roles.
Try having sex with almost all of your clothes on. Or have sex with just one person's clothes on.
Pretend you're in a big fight and have makeup sex.
Put on some raunchy costumes form the sex store and try some role play.
Dress up really formally and pretend that you're going out for a special occasion. Then take each others clothes off and go for it.
 Even when you're not having sex, sleeping with you should never be far from the guy's mind. Whether you're in a different state or sitting across the dinner table from him, you should always keep him turned on and wanting more. Here's how to do it:


Keep looking sexy. Whether you've been hooking up for months or just finished your second hook-up session, make sure to keep looking hot, showing some skin, and taking care of your hygiene so your man always wants more.
Make sure your man is thinking of sex when you're not around. Send him an occasional dirty text, have phone sex, or just call to remind him of something sexy that happened in bed the night before.
Let him know you want him. Tell him this whenever it feels right, even if it's at a moment when you can't possibly have him -- that will make him want you even more.

