 Involve yourself with friends, family, neighbors, co-workers, or even strangers in need. Strengthen your ties with loved ones and acquaintances to form a network that you can rely upon instead of feeling isolated and overwhelmed. At the same time, boost your sense of self-worth with the satisfaction that comes from being a reliable source of support for others. Simple steps that you can take based on your availability include:Making a point of using polite phrases such as “please” and “thank you.”
Asking people, “How are you?” as an actual question instead of a greeting.
Simple acts like holding doors and helping to carry heavy loads.
Regularly calling and planning visits or activities with friends and loved ones.
Offering your assistance with other people’s projects.
Volunteering your services for organizations like churches, hospitals, nursing homes, non-profits, and schools.
 Set aside time each day for some form of physical activity. Bolster your self-esteem by improving your physical health. Set simple, achievable goals for yourself (such as being able to run nonstop for 20 minutes in six weeks from now) to prove that you can overcome challenges: a skillset that you can then transfer to dealing with stress and anxiety. As an added benefit, some studies suggest that exercising can actually boost the bodily chemicals that make us feel more positive. Try one or more of the following:A daily routine of light exercises around the house, such as jumping jacks, push-ups, sit-ups, lunges, and pull-ups.
Getting out of the house to run, hike, bike, or swim and enjoy some alone-time.
Joining a gym, team sport, or running/biking/swimming club to connect with other people.
 Stick to a regular meal-schedule as best you can so that your stress or anxiety isn't made worse by hunger or low energy. Abstain from unrefined sugars and high glycemic carbs, which can affect your body chemistry by causing spikes and crashes in energy. Drink plenty of water, since dehydration can make the situation worse.Foods proven to combat stress and anxiety include: acai berries, asparagus, avocados, blueberries, chia seeds, dark chocolate, nuts, oranges, salmon, seaweed, spinach, sunflower seeds, whole grains, and yogurt.
Low to moderate caffeine habits may prove beneficial to those with mild to moderate stress and anxiety. However, those with higher levels should avoid it, since it may trigger or worsen attacks.
Avoid alcohol, nicotine, and other drugs.
 Maintain good sleep habits. Aim for seven to nine hours of straight sleep each day with a fixed bedtime. Avoid taking naps, which may make your seven-to-nine hours harder to achieve. Also avoid using your bed and bedroom for any activities other than sleeping. Condition your body to expect sleep when you get into bed. Things to avoid include:Taking stimulants such as caffeine and nicotine in the evening.
Watching TV or staring at a computer screen immediately before bedtime.
Exercising, working, or doing chores right before bed.
Keeping the lights and/or radio on.

