 To make a bed frame for your doll out of paper, you will need the following materials:10-12 pieces of paper
10-12 wooden dowels
Toothpicks
Fabric glue
A glue stick

, To make the dowels more aesthetically pleasing and smooth, you can roll the paper around the dowels. To do this, you will take a wooden dowel and place it at one end of a piece of paper. Then, roll the paper around the dowel, stopping every one to two rolls to apply glue with the glue stick to the paper so the paper stays in place on the dowel.Do this for all ten to twelve dowels. Wrap each dowel in at least one sheet of paper, gluing the paper to the dowel as you roll them in the paper.
You can make the paper tube thicker by gluing another layer of paper onto the tube. You may decide to create thicker tubes for the longer tubes on the bed frame so they are more durable.
 If you are making the bed for a larger doll, you may need to make a larger frame so she can fit on the bed. You should lay your doll on a flat surface and place the wrapped dowels around the doll in the shape of a bed. You can then determine if you need to combine or trim down the tubes to fit the doll.Cut the tubes with scissors, making sure you cut the ends evenly and smoothly.
Combine the tubes using toothpicks and fabric glue. Put fabric glue in one end of the tube and then insert a toothpick ½ inch into the tube. Then, apply fabric glue into the end of another tube and gently push the tube onto the toothpick until the two tubes come together.
 Now that you have your wrapped wooden dowels in the appropriate lengths, you can lay them out to form the bed frame. You should have two long dowels on either end of the frame and two to three shorter dowels going across the frame. You may want to double up on the dowels, parallel and horizontal, to make the frame stronger.Use a pencil to mark where the tubes will connect to make the frame. This will make it easier for you to put the frame together.
 Use the sharp edge of the scissors to make small holes where you have marked on the tubes. The holes should be just big enough to fit toothpicks.


Then, slide a toothpick into each hole. Secure the toothpicks with a dab of glue.
 Put glue into one end of the tube and slide the toothpick into the tube until the two tubes connect. Continue to do this for the rest of the tubes until you have made the bed frame.You should have a frame that consists of at least five to seven tubes total, one to two long tubes running vertical and three to five tubes running horizontal.
 If you would like to add a headboard and a footboard to your bed frame, you can do so with the remaining dowels.Lay out the design for the headboard and the footboard before you attach the tubes together. Use the toothpicks and the glue to secure the tubes. Then, attach the headboard and the footboard to each end of the bed frame. You will need to stand the headboard and footboard right side up to attach to them to the bed frame.
 Let the bed frame dry overnight and then add on other elements to the bed, like a mattress and pillows.

