 This will not always work, but it’s worth trying. If you need to take time off because of family obligations, or simply because you’re getting burnt out, talk to your supervisor and see if it might be possible to take some time off.It’s unlikely that most places will offer you paid time off, but you may be able to take time off if you can manage without a paycheck during that time.
You can ask for a chunk of time off, such as a week or two, or you can ask for a shorter work day or week.
Let your supervisor know that you’re requesting leave so that you can continue to be a productive employee. Say something like, “I know it would mean taking some time away from the office, but it would guarantee that I was able to fully commit once I came back, and that I’d have the energy to contribute 100% while I’m here.”

, When you're stressed out, it might be tempting to reach for comfort foods; however, these are often full of sugar, fat, and empty calories that can leave you feeling lethargic and out of control. Aim for high fiber foods and healthy carbohydrates to keep you going.Carbohydrates help the brain to produce serotonin, which can help you feel relaxed when you're stressed. Reach for healthy carbs like brown rice or sweet potatoes, rather than white flour.
Fruits and vegetables contain lots of fiber and make great snacks when you're on the go.
 Exercise is a great way to manage stress. It releases endorphins, which are hormones that make you feel good physically and emotionally. Aim for regular exercise that gets your heartrate up but doesn't leave you feeling fatigued or depleted.Choose an exercise method that you enjoy. If you find it unpleasant, it will just be another stressor in your life. Choose a sport or class that you find fun and interesting.
Consult with a doctor before taking up any kind of exercise program.
Ease into exercise slowly. Don't overdo it or go to extremes right away.
 Meditation is a great tool for reducing stress. You might not think you have time for it, but some techniques can take as little as a few minutes per day. Devotees of meditation often feel that the time they invest in meditation comes back to them many-fold in the energy it gives them to face the rest of their day.There are many different types of meditation. Find one that seems like a good fit for you.
You can fin guided meditations online. Your town may also have a meditation center or group where you can connect with other people interested in meditating.
If you practice a religion, there may be meditations based in that tradition that would feel good to you.

