 Throughout the show, Haley has had different hairstyles, but it always looks perfect. Every morning, or every other morning, depending on your hair type, start by washing your hair with a good brand such as Herbal Essences, Pantene, or Tresemme. Then, use a heat protecting product and blow dry. There are some heat protectants out there that are made specially for blow-drying. If you want, you can use more before you start styling it with heat.


For seasons 1 and 2, Haley almost always curls the ends of her hair, so wrap larger sections of hair around the curling wand for effortless looking curls. To save time, you can wash your hair before bed and put it into two buns on the sides of your head, or one on top of your head. When you take it out in the morning, it will already have soft curls.
In the current season, her hair is shoulder length. It is often curly, but sometimes straight. To achieve this, wash your hair and blow dry by scrunching with mousse. To save time, wash at night and put your hair in two french braids. For the straight look, straighten your hair, but not so it is pin straight.
Sometimes, she puts her bangs up by braiding them and pinning them back, or just twisting them. Once a week, use a hair mask. You can buy one, or you can make your own using avocado, olive oil, and honey mashed together.;
, Every morning, splash your face with warm water to open up your pores. Then, use a mild face wash to clean you face. Use a toner after this. Moisturize your face with something nice from brands like Clean & Clear, Neutrogena, or Proactive. Do this at night, too. Always remember to take your makeup off. Get an exfoliating scrub, and use it as often as the directions on the container tell you to. If you don't know how often to use it, do it twice a week. Also, use an acne medication if you have acne.
 Start by applying a BB cream. Then, put concealer under your eyes and on any blemishes. Blend it in using a brush or your finger. Finish your skin off by applying powder with a big, fluffy brush.


Apply a primer to your eyelids. A good one to use would be Urban Decay primer potion, but you can use any kind. Put a medium-brown shade of eye shadow above your eyelid in the crease and on the outer corner of you eye. Then, put white eye shadow on your brow bones and on the inner corners of your eyes. Put a shimmery gold shadow on the center of your eyelid. Haley also wears brown eyeliner on her outer corner and upper lashline. Don't forget brown/black mascara. Use white on your waterline for that big eye effect.
She has pale/nude lips so exfoliate and apply a good lip balm. Then use a nude lip gloss or lipstick.
Paint your nails! You can use dark colors like black, purple, or dark red.
Haley tends to have quite natural makeup, although she's been seen wearing a smoky eye look. Keep your makeup fresh, natural and flawless.
 You should definitely have good hygiene, whether you want to be like Haley or not. So, shower at least once a day, and wash your hair every day if you have thin or fine hair, or every other day if your hair is thick. Exfoliate your skin at least once a week. Moisturize your skin everyday right after you shower.
 Haley is always wearing a cardigan, so make that your signature piece! Wear lots of darker colors, like red, brown, dark blue, and purple. For clothes like hers, look for pieces at Forever 21, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Pacsun, and Wet Seal. Also, if you are younger, you can try wearing Uggs.
 Haley loves clothes, boys, and her friends. So, go shopping whenever you have the chance, and hang out with your friends. Also, get a boyfriend. You don't have to have one to be like Haley, but if a cute boy likes you, don't turn him down!

