 With a mortgage refinance (called a “refi”), you get a loan that pays off your current mortgage. Ideally, the new loan has a lower interest rate, which means your monthly payments will be lower.


There are many lenders willing to refinance your mortgage. You can start with your current mortgage lender and then check rates at any other bank where you do business.You can also search online for interest rates. Generally, your refi should lower your monthly interest rate by at least one percentage point, otherwise it probably isn’t worthwhile., You can also pay off your mortgage faster if you refinance a 30-year mortgage into something shorter, e.g., a 15- or 20-year mortgage. This type of refinance will reduce the total amount of interest that you pay.Your monthly payments might not be lower. For example, refinancing a 30-year mortgage at 4.5% with a 15-year mortgage at 3.5% will save you money in the long term. However, your monthly payment will be larger. Confirm that you can afford the monthly payment.
Nevertheless, you can certainly pay off a mortgage faster by refinancing with a shorter-term loan.
Use an online calculator to determine how much you will save by refinancing. For example, Zillow has an online calculator that is easy to use., You’ll need to show your lender financial information, so collect this ahead of time. Doing so will make the application process smoother:proof of income (such as two recent pay stubs or a profit-and-loss statement if self-employed)
current tax returns
tax forms, such as your W-2 or 1099s
proof of homeowner’s insurance
title insurance
recent credit report

information on your monthly debt load
documentation on all assets, such as stocks, bonds, real estate, savings accounts, and retirement accounts
an appraisal


, Lenders may pressure you to take out more than you need. For example, your home might be worth $140,000. However, the mortgage could be only $65,000. Some lenders will encourage you to take out the max, which is usually 90-95% of your home’s value for a conventional loan.In this example, you could borrow $126,000, which is much more than you need.


Going deeper into debt doesn’t benefit you. Yes, you might pay off your mortgage faster, but now you have a new debt.
 Make sure there aren’t hidden fees that will increase the cost of the refinance. For example, pay attention to the closing costs, which can substantially add to the amount you borrow.Some lenders might claim they won’t charge you for closing costs. However, the costs are really rolled into the loan. Read the fine print.
 A mortgage refinance will benefit you the most if you use the money saved to pay down principal. For example, your monthly mortgage payment might have dropped from $1,000 a month to $650. Contribute that extra $350 to the principal on your loan.
 You’ll pay this insurance if you financed more than 80% of your conventional mortgage. PMI costs roughly 0.05-1% of the loan amount—a meaningful sum. You should cancel this insurance and direct the amount to your principal.You can ask to remove the PMI once your loan-to-value ratio reaches 80%. And your lender is required to remove it once you reach a 78% ratio.

