 Your biceps, triceps, and forearms can all be targeted by specific exercises. Each of these areas, as well as your shoulders, need to be repetitively trained with increasingly challenging resistance exercises in order to have more visual definition. In sum, resistance exercises will also help you reduce your body fat generally, but will also contribute to the growth of lean, well-defined arm muscles.Don’t be concerned that you’ll develop large, muscular arms. You can do specific exercises that will lead to lean, toned muscle that will actually facilitate a decrease in the circumference of your arm despite an increase in strength and definition.
 While barbell exercises are better for building strength, dumbbells will better help you tone the specific muscles you’re working. Dumbbells also allow for some creative, dynamic exercises that can work your biceps, triceps, and shoulders in one routine.For each exercise, use the heaviest weight with which you can safely complete that specific exercise. Increase both the weight and the number of reps for each exercise whenever you are able to do so.
 Stand with feet shoulder-width apart and a dumbbell in each hand and your arms extended straight out to the sides of your body. Keep your upper arms parallel to the floor and bend your arms at the elbow with your palms facing towards you. Extend your arms straight upwards from your shoulders, keeping the palms face towards one another. Finally, bend your elbows again, this time lowering the weights slowly behind your head as far as you can comfortably reach. Do the reverse to return to starting position and do 15 to 25 reps., Since fat tends to deposit on the back of your upper arm, your triceps is the most important part of your arm to focus on. Further, any triceps exercises also work other parts of the arms and shoulders, leading to a more slender upper body in general.Diamond push-ups are the crème-de-la-crème for working the triceps. Hold your body horizontal on your toes and hands. Position your hands as close together while still being able to complete five push-ups. Try to get the point where your pointer fingers and thumbs can touch each other, forming a diamond!
Dips are another incredibly effective exercise to target and tone your triceps. Sit on the ground just in front of the bottom step of a stairway, with your legs outstretched in front of you and the back of your heels pushing downward. Reach back with your palms on either side, and lift your weight off the ground. Work your way up to doing this, but from the height of a chair – this will isolate your triceps even better.
 Toning your biceps is tricky, in part because you’ve got to work three different muscle groups to sculpt the front of your upper arm—the biceps, triceps, and forearm muscles. Most bicep exercises involve bending the elbow. The classic biceps workout is the chin-up, which involves pulling yourself up to a bar with your palms facing towards you. While your back and shoulders are engaged, your biceps also get the most strenuous workout., Perhaps the best example of a biceps exercise with dumbbells is the dumbbell curl. To perform this exercise, stand with knees slightly bent and feet shoulder width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, with arms hanging at your sides and your palms facing forward. Bend one arm at the elbow and curl the dumbbell almost to your shoulder. After lowering the dumbbell, repeat the move with your other arm.Keep your elbows near your sides while lifting and lowering the dumbbell.
Perform this exercise on an incline bench to increase the focus of the movement on your biceps.
 Simply add a twist of your wrist into the upward pull of a standard dumbbell curl so that the weight is positioned as though it is the head of hammer when it reaches your shoulder. This addition will include your forearms in the workout, and toning multiple parts of your arm in one workout.It’s easier to lose track of your posture with more dynamic movements. Remember to keep your head back and your spine straight. Squeeze your shoulder blades together to help stabilize your arms, and remember to keep your elbows against your sides.
 You need to add strength to your forearms, if only in order to keep up with the increasing weight and reps you’ll be able to do. Even simply walking around with weights in your hands and your arms hanging at your sides will give your forearms a decent workout as they have to maintain the grip.Step-up your forearm workout, and prepare yourself to be able to do more pull-ups, by performing a bar hang. Pull yourself half way up, so that your elbows are at 90 degrees, and hold the position as long as you can. You can even simply hang with your arms straight to develop initial forearm strength.
 There are countless different exercises that focus on your arms – learn a new one whenever one that you’ve been doing for a while becomes particularly easy to perform. This prevents your body from adapting to the workout, which can decrease the benefits from the exercise. Most importantly, you’ve got to work arm muscles frequently and consistently to see a significant change in their actual shape.Make sure to incorporate workouts with different grips to ensure you’re working all the specific muscles in the group that different exercises target.

