 Connecting a mixer without its own internal sound card is usually as simple as plugging the device in; they are normally actually referred to simply as "controllers" or "DJ controllers." However, if your device is one piece of hardware, with the decks and mixer all integrated into the same device, you could have a controller, not an actual "mixer." Some devices, like the Numark NS7-2, are integrated devices and have their own sound card, allowing them to be used as separate controllers (sound output from computer's sound card) and as mixers themselves (sound routed via USB to mixer, then out through RCA, or XLR jacks). This is a simple concept, do not be overwhelmed. In either case, the setup for a DJ controller is entirely straight-forward and will be dependent on the exact hardware you use.
 The process might be a little different depending on what you have, but it usually works along these lines:


Plug the device directly into your computer's USB port. Do not use a hub.
Find the device in your DJ software's "Controller," "Hardware," or "Settings" tab.
Click the device.
 With Mac, hardware devices can make use of pre-existing drivers on your computer, and no "installations" are usually required. If your controller is not recognized by your software, you may need to install a new "mapping" (list of reactions your computer gives to MIDI data sent by your controller) to get it working.


Usually, mass-marketed controllers are listed by brand and model in your DJ software, and you will be able to simply select it the first time you set up your software (like in Traktor), or you may have to learn how to download, or make, and then apply a third-party mapping to your device. This, while somewhat confusing for a first-timer, is usually straightforward, and there are many online resources to figure this out. Be sure to research what you want to do, and use YouTube as a resource. Remember, someone has already done what you are doing. Rely on your resources; the internet is your biggest one.
 To do this, connect a USB sound card, and select it as the output in your DJ hardware, and/or your computer's sound preferences window.


If you do not use a USB sound card, simply plug your speakers/headphones into your computers sound card (you will lose the ability to preview tracks this way).
 Most DJs like/need to be able to hear the track they are about to mix in before it is turned up in the speakers. To do this:


Connect your headphones to your computers headphone jack
Find "cue" or "monitor" or "preview" in your audio - routing page of your settings window.
Select "built-in/ Headphones" to route the cue to your headphones.
Now, tracks sent to the cue will play through the headphones, regardless of fader/crossfader position. Your hardware will almost always have a button which allows you to select which decks are in the cue. There is also usually a knob on the front of your controller, or in your software, enabling you to choose how much main vs. cue signal is sent to the headphones. This is called the cue mix. Be sure you set this properly or you will hear all cue, or all mains in your headphones.
 It takes practice to listen to two things at once.

