 There is a private company called VitalChek that is authorized by the US government to issue copies of vital records. Using the service may be more expensive than obtaining the record directly from the government office, but it is likely to be faster and possibly easier.


Visit the VitalChek website for more information.;
, An official certificate of every birth should be on file in the state where the event occurred. The Federal Government does not maintain files or indexes of these records. These records are filed permanently in a state health or vital statistics office. A list of state health and vital statistics offices can be found here., Many states have slightly different procedures for obtaining a replacement birth certificate.


There are sometimes different options that you can select. For example, in Alaska you can chose between a regular birth certificate and one that is embellished by the work of a local artist. In Alabama, you have the option of getting either a certified or uncertified birth certificate.
Also note that the fees vary from state to state. In Arkansas, the fee for a birth certificate is $12, while in California, the fee for a birth certificate is $25.
 Some states have an “informational” birth certificate with less information, which is available to a wider variety of people. Obtaining a certified birth certificate is usually restricted to the following parties:


The person named on the certificate.
That person’s mother, father, or legal guardian.
The husband or wife of person named on certificate.
The son or daughter of person named on certificate.
The sister or brother of person named on certificate.
The legal representative of an authorized person.
Some states also allow for registered genealogy groups or academics to access records.
 Note that many states do not offer this service online due to the availability of other services such as VitalChek. In a written request provide the following information:


Full name of person whose record is requested.
Sex.
Parents' names, including maiden name of mother.
Month, day, and year of birth.
Place of birth (city or town, county, and State; and name of hospital, if known).
Purpose for which copy is needed.
Relationship to person whose record is requested.
Day-time telephone number with area code.
Also, keep in mind that your state may have further identification requirements. They may require a copy of your social security card or a photo identification card.
 The waiting time for your new certificate will vary dramatically by state. If you have questions about the waiting time for your state, call the state office and ask.


Most state websites will offer an idea of what your waiting time could be.
 Keeping records was not in common practice until the end of the 19th century. Finding a birth certificate for someone who is over 100 years old may be difficult. You can check your individual state’s website for information about how to find these older records.

