 Respect the fact that everyone grows up with different priorities. Recognize how your personal history has led you to develop your own unique set. Think of how this shapes your view of other people. Then consider how someone else’s personal history could lead them to adopt their own unique set of priorities. Understand that they aren’t any less likable just because they hold different values. For instance:A tragedy in your family might have impressed upon you the importance of maintaining strong ties. However, someone who grew up without any such tragedy might be more inclined to let family ties weaken over an issue that you consider minor.
On the other hand, you might consider something like skipping school a rite of passage because you never suffered from it, while someone else might think of it as a major mistake because of the serious consequences that they faced afterward.
 Remember: no one is perfect, including you. Instead of faulting people for not sharing your values, recognize how their own mindset can be a good thing, even if it seems contrary to yours. Appreciate the positive results that come from their unique approach toward life. For example:Your approach toward work might be to dive into it headfirst and stick with it until it is done, while your colleague or study buddy may have a more relaxed mindset. Instead of faulting them for being too eager to take a break, embrace the benefits of taking one. Appreciate how your partner has led you to an experience that you would have otherwise skipped on your own.
Say that you and Person B share very similar opinions. However, yours are shaped by your faith in your religion, while Person B, an atheist, has arrived at them on their own. Instead of faulting them for their lack of faith, appreciate how they have arrived at the same core values without any help from above.
 Don’t assume that your actions always make your line of reasoning absolutely clear for others to understand. Remember that people may be as equally puzzled by why you do certain things as you are by their own choices. Recognize when your conduct might confuse, offend, or alienate others. Then consider ways to compensate and build a better understanding between you. For instance:Say you are an introvert and quiet by nature. Person B, on the other hand, is very open and talkative. Although you wouldn’t be offended by someone simply nodding hello in the morning instead of starting a conversation, understand that Person B might. To compensate, meet them halfway. Compliment their appearance, comment on the weather, or offer any other small form of chitchat to put them at ease.
Now say the opposite: you are very talkative and Person B is very quiet. While you know that you are trying to start a conversation in order to be friendly, recognize that they might feel bullied into interacting. Again, meet them halfway. Say hello, ask how their weekend was, and then leave it up to them to continue talking or back out.

