 You probably already recognize the 'triggers' (things said or done) that really set your parents off. If you recognize them, it may be easier for you to either avoid them or get out of the way in time to dodge abuse. One way to do this is to talk with a friend or journal about it so that you can identify contributing factors to their abuse.


For instance, if your mother always yells at you when she has been drinking, try to get out of the house as soon as you see her with a bottle.
If your father tries to diminish your accomplishments when you've achieved something, refrain from telling him about your successes. Instead, tell people who support you.
 Find areas (such as your bedroom) that act as safe havens. Find another place to hang, get stuff done, and spend your time, such as a library or a friend's house. Not only can you get support from your friends at this time, but you're also away from your parents' accusations and scorn.

Although it is smart to protect yourself from the abuse, you also need to recognize that it's not your fault if you do get caught in it. No matter what you say or do, it is no excuse for a parent to abuse you emotionally.
 Just because the abuse is not physical does mean it can't escalate. Develop a plan to keep yourself safe in the case that your parent's abuse turns physical and you think that your life is at risk.


A safety plan involves having a place to go that is secure, having someone to call for help, and knowing how to take legal action against your parent if it comes to that. You might sit down with another adult like your school counselor and put together a plan that helps you feel prepared in case of a crisis.A safety plan may also involve keeping your cell phone charged and nearby you at all times and your car keys on you.
 Healthy self-esteem is the best antidote for emotional abuse. Unfortunately, people who have been emotionally abused often have a negative view of themselves, and they also often find themselves in relationships with emotionally abusive people. To fight low self-esteem, spend time around friends, non-abusive family members, and other people who build you up instead of tearing you down.You can also build your self-esteem by participating in activities that you are good at. Take part in a sport or youth group at school or in your community. This will serve double-duty by making you feel better about yourself and getting you out of the house more.
 It’s your right to set boundaries in your relationships. If you feel safe doing so, sit down with your emotionally abusive parent and tell them which behaviors you’re comfortable with and which you’re not.When you explain your boundaries, decide what the consequences will be if your parent ignores them. Certain kinds of abusers may not respect your personal limits. If this happens to you, don’t feel guilty about following through with your consequences.It is important to follow through with your consequences because making empty threats will only undermine your credibility with the abuser.
For example, you might say, “Mom, if you come home drunk and start bullying me again, I will go and live with grandma. I want to stay with you, but your behavior frightens me.”

, No doubt about it – emotional abuse can generate a lot of stress, and sometimes it can cause long-term problems like PTSD and depression. Develop an arsenal to help you manage this stress with positive activities.


Healthy stress management habits like meditation, deep breathing, and yoga can help you feel calmer and more collected on a day-to-day basis. If your symptoms are severe, seeing a therapist can be a good way to learn how to manage your stress and other emotions., No matter what an emotionally abusive parent might have told you, you are a worthwhile person with good qualities. Don't listen to their insults and ridicule. You may have to think on this for a while, but it’s important for you to build up your self-esteem and pour love into yourself—especially if you are not getting this from a parent.


Consider what you like about yourself – are you a good listener? Generous? Intelligent? Focus on the things you like about yourself, and remind yourself that you are worthy of love, respect, and care.Be sure to engage in activities you are passionate about and/or good at to help boost your self-esteem and confidence.

