 Work should be an extension of who you are, not a chore you slog through every day. Finding your passion is not always easy, but that doesn't make it any less worth doing. This needs to be one of the guiding principles of your life if you want to make it better-- you only have one life to live, so spend it doing things you love.


Make a list of your favorite activities.
What is most important to you in life, friends, family, fulfillment, a good job? Plan around these important causes.
While everyone has to do things "just to survive," these jobs will be easier to get through if you are also working towards a long-term dream.
 Make a list of tangible, real goals and commit to achieving them. This gives you milestones to reach for and makes bettering your life an attainable adventure, not a series of confused stabs in the dark.


Goals can be big, like running your own company, or small, like exercising every day. Just make sure you know what you want to change before you start changing.
 Once you have goals it's time to make them a reality, one small step at a time. Draft a list of the things you need to do to make your dreams come true. For example, if you want to be a TV show writer, you might:


Learn how to write scripts.
Write and edit your first TV pilot.
Submit your pilot to contests and fellowships.
Move to LA to learn the industry.
Keep writing new pilots until one gets picked up.
 The only way to improve is to learn, so find time to teach yourself something new every day. Be humble enough to ask for advice or guidance from friends and experts as you grow as a person and a professional. Read/watch the news daily. Read a book. Learn a new word. Anything that makes you smarter than the day before is something to be proud of.


Even people happy with their jobs can benefit from continued education, as it makes you a better person with more insight and wisdom.
Consider night school or online classes if you want to change careers but can't afford to quit work just yet.
Listen more, talk less. You'll be surprised what people have to offer you.
 Work for the job you want, not the one you have. When your manager/Boss realizes that you are eager to learn, you will move up the ladder in no time. Do the best you can on any project or assignment you are given and be willing to help your coworkers when they need a hand. If you exude positive, hardworking vibes, someone will eventually notice.
 Crafting a happy, fulfilling future does not take place overnight. Some experts have estimated that it takes 10,000 hours to reach true mastery in any subject, which means you have to work hard to reach the future you want. But if you are truly happy doing something, the work required to get there should not feel like a chore.


Focus on your goals and the steps needed to reach them.
Celebrate little milestones on your way to your better future life.
Know that setbacks happen, but handling them positively will bring your closer to your goals.

