


You wanted to make just one track ? Well, Hardcore is certainly one of the hardest music genre, and thus, finding people who truly enjoy it, finding tutorials or label interested (this will come much later after you start producing) WILL be hard. Are you sure you want to become a Hardcore producer ?;
,


What is a DAW ? It's a music producing software; if you didn't know it then you will probably need a lot of time before actually producing tracks. Personally, I use FL Studio, but you can also try one of the various others, like Cubase, Ableton, Pro Tool, Reason, Logic... Keep in mind that some of them only work on PC, while some other only work on Mac. Some also work on both. Tip the name on a search engine, then go to the website and download a demo to get an idea of how it works. But keep in mind that if you illegally download the software, the music you'll make won't belong to you.



It may contain extremely useful tools that will make producing music easier and funnier, as well as giving more qualities to your tracks. Look for tutorials on YouTube and WikiHow.



These will help you create your sound, may it be the drums, the melody... Don't buy expensive one at first : If you are a beginner, why would you need hundreds of virtual instruments if you can't even understand one?

,


You'll want them to sound as "neutral" as possible : what does it mean ? Well, if you used your mobile phone speaker to make your music, you would try to make it sound as good as possible... on your mobile phone. Your track could be heard anywhere : In a club, in a car, in your room... and what sound awesome on your mobile phone speaker will sound like %#?! on your computer speakers.



This is a simple question, with a long list of answers. We'll go for the technical ones, which are the one that will interest us : Hardcore is a kind of powerful techno, with heavy kick and bass that usually resort to distortion. The tempo is usually between 150 and 200 BPM, although faster genre exist (Speedcore can be at 300 BPM and higher; Flashcore use ultra fast BPM and "kicks barrage"). Use the definition to make your tracks. What is the structure of a track ?

,


Try to make the perfect kick, the perfect melody... At first, don't try to make a track. I'm sure you won't follow this advice; but mastering the instruments before trying to play is a good idea.
 It doesn't have to be original, awesome or anything at first : You're just practicing, and this track might never get known by somebody other than you or the neighbors.
,,


Make it better. Proceed to next step.



Mixing isn't just what a DJ does at nightclub, this is was a sound designer does. If the guitarist of a band play too loud, you won't hear the voices, the other instruments, and the overall will sound like garbage. You will need to add effect, adjust volume to almost everything so the end result will sound good.
,


While this tutorial cover some of the basis, you will need to do your own research on the web. Go on dedicated forums, ask your questions, see how the other do this and that.
 Thus, some important things essential in studios aren't mentioned, like the need for reference speakers. If you seriously get in the music production, these will definitely helps. Having panels to avoid sound echoing and altering the sound you hear will help... If you already know how to make music.

