 Get a stack of index cards and write one word on each card. Your child can also write the words. Store the index cards in a shoebox. Make cards with words from stories that you read with your child. Vocabulary and spelling words from school are also good choices for the word box.Spread some of the words on the floor. Give silly commands about how your child should move to the cards, for example, “skip to the word ‘penguin’” or “crawl to the word ‘blue’.”
Ask your child to sort the words into different categories. For example, they can sort them into words for animals (dog, tiger, horse, etc.) or words that make them think about nighttime (stars, moon, sleep, etc.).
Give your child a stack of word cards. Ask them to match the words on the cards to objects in the house. You might let them tape the card to the object.
Play charades with the words in the box. Pull a word from the box and act it out while others try to guess the word.
 Give your child a pad of paper and a pencil when you go on errands. Have them write down words that you ask them to find. For example, you can ask them to find words beginning with the letter “M” or words with seven letters. Or ask them to write down specific things that you buy, like the fruits and vegetables in the grocery store.


Have your child read the list to you and help them correct spelling and pronunciation.
 You can find magnetic word kits at bookstores. Sometimes they have a theme. Use them to practice reading skills, or to create sentences, stories, and poems.


Have your child practice reading the words on the magnets.
Ask your child to sort the magnets into specific groups of words, for example, words that start with the same letters or words that rhyme.
Your child can create the groups and ask you to guess how they sorted the words.
Ask your child to create sentences with the words. You can try to see who can make the longest or silliest sentences.
Have your child write a short story or a poem with the words.
 Write a letter at the top of a piece of paper. Ask your child to draw or glue pictures of words that start with that letter on the paper. Help your child label the words for each picture. Make a page for every letter in the alphabet and bind them together into a book.


Your child can do all of the writing.
 Glue some pictures of food onto a sheet of paper. Help your child label all of the foods on the paper. Next ask them to decorate the paper like a restaurant menu. Play restaurant by asking your child to read the menu and pretend to order from it.You can make menus for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

