 Perform an intense workout half an hour before you need to take a shower. You’re much more likely to be in favor of a shower if you’re sweaty and uncomfortable. Think about how refreshed you’ll feel once you’re done, or at least how much worse you’ll feel (and what people will think) if you don’t wash off.Strenuous exercise dampens your clothes, makes your skin and hair a greasy mess and causes you to smell bad.
Taking a cold or lukewarm shower will help cool you off after a tough workout.
 If you have a business meeting, dinner plans or an important event to attend that you need to look your best for, let it get down to the wire so that you have to get in the shower before you can finish getting ready. The closer it gets to time to leave, the more necessary it will be for you to clean up, until you just don’t have a choice anymore.


Keep in mind that you might make a bad impression if other people can tell that you haven’t bathed.
Finding compelling reasons to get things done is often more motivating than just feeling like you should.
 Persuade a sibling or close friend to nag you about showering every chance they get. You can get them to ask “have you showered today?” or even scold you for your stubbornness so that you’ll feel guilty or embarrassed if you don’t get it done. Instruct your helper to be as intrusive and annoying as they need to be in order to push you. Eventually, you’ll be eager to rinse off just to shut them up.


If you’re really serious about getting a friend to help keep you accountable, hand over the money in your wallet and tell them not to give it back to you until you’ve showered.It can be tough to do what you need to do when you’re the only one watching, but bringing a respected elder or authority figure into the mix can compel you to shape up by causing you to fear the consequences of disappointing them.
 Schedule a series of alarms on your phone that will direct you to shower when they go off. If you tend to be forgetful, this will help remind you that you haven’t done it yet. If you’re just being stubborn, the alarms will serve as a stern, persistent voice demanding that you take care of business. Do you really want the alarms to win? Didn’t think so. Take a shower.


Make the alarms sporadic at first, then set subsequent alarms closer together as it gets closer to whatever time limit you’ve imposed on yourself (going to bed, getting ready for a date, etc.).
Alarm reminders can be a great solution if you tend to simply forget to shower.

