 You will need to program your body to wake up the same time every day. Even on days that you don’t need to get up for work or send the kids to school.Starting out you will need somebody to wake you up at the same time every day for about one week to set your physiological process, which is called the circadian rhythm. The circadian rhythm is a natural 24-hour cycle that regulates the body.
Decide how many of hours of sleep your body generally needs. This is important, because, in order for this to work, you have to go bed and wake up at the same time every day.
You will have to wean yourself away from having somebody else wake you up every day. Try to keep your schedule consistent so that you wake up at the same time. A good practice is to wake up every other day at the same time successfully before letting the other person go.
 Since the loss of one sense makes the other senses stronger, use them to your advantage for waking up every morning. Letting your mind wake up by responding to your other senses is a natural way to wake up.Sleep near an open window so that sunlight hits your face in the morning. You will have to position your bed so that the light hits your face around the time you want to wake up. This will require the periodic movement of your bed throughout the year.
The sleeping body is sensitive to temperature change so set the timer for your thermostat to turn on about an hour before wake-up time. The dramatic change in early morning temperature will arouse your body to awaken. Try to coordinate this with sunlight hitting your face.
If you drink coffee, let your nose wake you up. Set the coffee maker’s timer to begin making coffee a few minutes prior to wake-up time. The strong smell of coffee will wake you up.
You can always use the sensation of having to urinate to wake up naturally. Drink lots of water before going to bed and you will be sure to wake up punctually.
 Motivate or give yourself a reason to wake up in the morning. If you know you have to wake up for school at six o’clock in the morning, your body will release adrenocorticotropin in high concentrations to get your body awake. The body’s internal clock can be relatively accurate with some patience and practice.Being healthy is essential to accomplishing your goal of waking up. Your body will respond better to mental and physical cues when healthy as compared to a diet that makes you sleepy or groggy from lots of sugar and fat. Drinking too much caffeine can also disrupt the sleep cycle.
The sleep cycle repeats itself in ninety-minute intervals. Calculate how many hours and what time you want to wake up by using multiples of ninety. It is easier to wake up towards the end of the cycle than in the middle of it.
Another experimental method to try is visualizing your wake up time. Thinking to yourself “I will wake up at…” has shown that people were able to relative wake up around the time they visualized.

