 Fundraise! Fundraise!  In order to ensure that you have sufficient runway to effectively organize and implement a grassroots campaign, it's necessary to always raise finances throughout your campaign's duration.;
,   While on the surface level that may sound ominous, the reality is that even by assembling a few trustworthy friends that you can assign key roles and assignments to, you can easily assemble an all star group of campaign staffers dedicated to furthering your cause.
  Too often, campaigns engage in an off-the-cuff at-a-whim approach.  That's deadly for a grassroots level initiative.  Instead, create a game plan and a framework aka you will only operate following said standards.  Then you can implement a strategy while referencing a play or rule book to not stray off the beaten path.  This way you can outline a step-by-step approach of what you need to do and what numbers you're looking for to effectively execute your strategy.
  It's absolutely critical to appeal to others to recruit them into your cause.  You'll want to attract as many as possible via a Call to Action to volunteer for your campaign.That way you can call the troops and get the numbers necessary to execute your ground game.
 The greatest psychological mechanism and advantage you have at your disposal is in person contact.  Get your candidate and your volunteers in front of people.  Have a conversation.  Persuade voters as to why your cause, candidate and election is important.
  Or re-register them to vote as an Absentee Voter so that they can submit their ballot from the comfort of their own home.
  Don't wait until the last minute.  Shop around.  Find a platform that works for you.  And yes, you will probably end up using more than one platform because different software companies focus on different core competencies aka different areas of a political campaign.  Some may focus on volunteer organizing while others will focus on analytics and trend watching while others focus on mapping advertising relays.


You will probably end up with multiple platforms and that's OK.  But find a cost effective one that won't break the bank.  There's no reason to spend thousands - you can get outstanding technology with voter data for tens of dollars not thousands.  Ask for free trials and demos.  If someone says "no", then start asking questions.
  Whether it be canvassing, throwing block parties where the neighborhood can meet the candidate, or volunteering on the weekends, get your candidate and your volunteers in the community.  You must infiltrate your target or prospect voters.  People are more inclined to vote for those whom they know or have seen, than they would a name on slate card or mailer.
 On the week that Absentee Ballots are due through election day, you should be out canvassing, campaigning, persuading and meeting as many people that can vote for you as possible. Deliver your message in a clear and concise manner.  Make sure that it appeals and directly impacts in a positive way the community you're seeking your election in.  Remember, you are your campaign's greatest asset.  So go get 'em!

