 Doing a round off on a low beam (even with mats) can be challenging, so first, perfect it on a line on the floor. Here are some ways to check if your ready to try it on the low beam:

Make sure that your feet are both touching the line (not at the edge, rather center them somewhere around the middle).
Stick your landing consistently (in a row, and without mistakes).
Check to see if your hurdle is high enough. To do this, you could also hurdle against the wall, and see how high you jump; you should be able to jump half of your size (in your round off, more like two fifths).I f you don't want to do a hurdle, you definitely don't have to, unless your coach says to do so. This goes for any height of balance beam.
Make sure that your hands are on the line when you reach out for the round off.;
, Once you know that you can handle a low beam, find a low beam at your gym. Surround it with panel mats, stacked up to the height of the beam. If you're at home, you can stack pillows., Ensure that there is enough space to put your hand about 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5cm) before the edge of the panel mat., However, this time also move forwards on the hurdle. It's good to have a strong hurdle with "flight" (time in the air with no part of your body touching the beam), so if you're competing on this skill, the judges won't give you a deduction for no or less "flight"., Stretch out your hands, and slightly turn like a cartwheel/dive cartwheel., Make sure you've got straight legs, straight arms, and pointed toes., However, squeeze your thighs as tightly as you possibly can. Here are some drills that could help:

Handstand hop (multiple hops)
Front handspring over vault table, or a block.
 Get back onto your feet in under a second., Here are some tips to achieve this effectively:

Avoid wobbling––keep your feet still.
If you think your going to fall, just hop off, and get back on.
Put your hands in front of you to help keep your balance, and to prevent falling.
Try keeping one foot slightly in front of the other, so that you have more space for each foot.
Quickly finish, and move onto your next skill or try again.
 If you have perfecting a round off on the beam with mats, now's the time to get rid of those mats. Remember that you're still doing it on the low beam, so you'll be safe if you have actually mastered the previous part., Bend your knees slightly, but soon extend out of them., Do the hurdle as before, and make it high.,, Now is the tricky part: you have to land your feet on the beam, so keep your eyes on the beam., Then, hop/push out of it.,, Remember to land gracefully. Don't be afraid to land, it's better to try., The whole world is a little different on a four inch (10cm) wide, high beam. Think of it as a low beam, but know your safety falls for forwards, backwards, and sideways.

Make sure that you have mastered the steps in the previous part. The high beam can present a high chance of slipping, so be consistent (doing it over and over without mistakes on the low beam).
 If it's your first time, ask a coach to spot you. Do not attempt this without someone spotting you., Think about where your aim is for the hurdle., Keep your eyes on the beam, and your hands ready., Get ready to place your hands.,,,, Don't forget to smile!, It's worth it, it's also a great idea to just show your family; they'll be proud of you!