 First, know yourself. If you recognize that you are easily angered, be on the alert for the usual signs that warn you you're entering this state. You need to recognize that it is a reaction rather than a considered action, and in many cases, you may simply need to drop out of the chat room and come back later when you've regained your composure.

When you are tired, anxious, hungry or already angry about something else, you are more likely to be argumentative than at other times. If any of these states are an issue when you're in the chat room, think about taking a break and coming back later.
Competitiveness may set off a desire to react fast. If there seems to be an escalating discussion that appears to require a "win", this can cause out-of-control commenting that slides quickly into argumentation.
Be alert to feeling like you need to set someone else straight, punish another user or when you feel what has been said is unfair. Feeling any of these ways can lead you into arguing.
Notice when you feel you have a justified comment, but are at risk of using a mean or unfair way of relaying it. Cooling down may be needed before you can compose yourself and make your point factually.
 Do you even need to respond? Don't assume that responding is your default mode; saying nothing might be the better option. And if you do respond, reflect a little. Say your response out loud to gauge its worth: speak it out loud to yourself, to a pet, or towards the computer monitor instead of taking the time to type it out. If you can't think of any positive words, restrict yourself from typing anything.

Avoid name-calling or character assassination. Once you fall into this type of response, you are baited and the arguing can get very nasty. There is also a risk of saying something defamatory.
If you're worried that you regret what you're about to type, then your subconscious has already warned you. Any doubt means leave it out.
Remember that anything that goes online, stays online. For a very, very long time.
 There are various ways to respond should you choose to do so. These will depend on the context, how you feel about responding and what you intend by way of an end result. Some of the more common possibilities for responding include:

Neutral comments can work sometimes. For example, a simple "thank you for your concern" without further explanation shows that you will not be drawn into further discussion.
Simply make it clear that you've heard the other person. In some cases, this is sufficient. For example, "Thanks for sharing that. I wasn't aware that things were so tough for you."
If you are in a position to discuss the matter further off the public record, sometimes letting the person know that you're available for a private chat or email can resolve an issue. This can also allow others seeing the argument to pressure the challenger to accept such a resolution where this is appropriate. Only take this option if you feel strong enough to deal with the challenger in another forum.
Point out the bad behavior, never call the person bad. In some situations, pointing directly at the argumentative attitude can bring an end to it. For example, "I appreciate that you're passionate about this topic but that isn't an excuse for using insults."

, Sometimes "sorry" is all that is needed. You said something stupid, dopey, thoughtless or even outrageous. It happens sometimes. Apologize and move on. For example: "I'm sorry I said that. It was stupid of me." In most cases, avoid adding an excuse––it reduces the impact of your apology and can sound insincere.

"Sorry" can be used to acknowledge another's pain. So, you didn't actually cause the issue being vented about, but it can sometimes soothe the other person if you say something like "I'm sorry to hear that this has upset you. I wish it had been different for you."

, If something has been said that is factually incorrect, correct it, especially where the inaccuracy mars your reputation or the reputation of others/your company/your brand, etc. This is one time when not responding is risky. However, this type of response can be done in a very matter-of-fact way without disparaging the other person and it should consist of nothing more than the correction, leaving a firm record that you provided the right facts.