 To improve your balance in standing poses, you should ensure your body is aligned properly. Stacking your body so your shoulders and hips are in line with your feet will help you to maintain an even center of gravity and feel grounded.When you are in any standing poses, you should always begin with your feet hip distance apart and your toes spread wide on your mat. If you cannot spread your toes, bend down and use your fingers to manually push them apart so there is space between them. You confine your feet to shoes and socks all day, so they may not be used to stretching apart.
Note where your weight is distributed when you are standing straight. Make sure the weight is equal on your feet and avoid putting your full weight into your heels on into the balls of your feet. Try to lift the arches on your feet so your feet are active and the muscles in your feet are working.
From your feet, move up your body, activating each muscle. Make sure your leg muscles are activated, as well as your abdominal and core muscles. Try to tuck your tailbone towards the ground so your hips are square and level with your shoulders. Having even weight distribution and activated muscles when you are in standing postures will help you to maintain your center of gravity and feel you are on solid ground.
 When you are in balancing postures like Tree Pose and Big Toe Pose, your alignment is essential to maintaining your balance. You should make sure you have a firm grounding in your standing leg and your hips are level as you go into either pose. Putting weight in your standing leg will ensure you have a solid foundation in the pose.As well, when doing arm balance poses like Crow Pose and Four Limbed Staff Pose, it is very important that your alignment is correct. Rather than spread your toes apart, you should spread your fingers apart and make sure your weight is distributed evenly on your hands. You should press your palm to the ground so your hands are rooted in the ground. This will give you a solid foundation when you balance on your arms in yoga poses.
 Though you likely will not lose your balance easily in seated postures, you can deepen your yoga practice by making sure your foundation is strong when in seated postures like Seated Twist or Seated Forward Fold.Do this by connecting your sitz bones with the ground or with your mat. You will need to pull the flesh from under your butt and tilt your pelvis forward so you can feel your sitz bones on the ground. This will ensure you have the correct alignment when going into seated folds or twists and you do not have unequal weight distribution on either side of your body.

