 You'll want to use 3 parts glycerin to 1 part water. For example, with 1/2 cup water use 1 1/2 cups of glycerin. This is known as "fog juice."Liquid glycerin can usually be found in the pharmacy section of a convenient store or grocery store.
Make sure to use pure glycerin, rather than a synthetic variety. Pure glycerin is able to absorb water from the air, which is why it's used to create fog., Scented fog can bring an additional element to your party or theatrical event. Use 1/2 tsp (0.1 oz) of scent per 1 quart (1 L) of fog juice. The oils you use should be specifically labeled as "fragrance oils." Do not use essential oils. For a spooky circus themed scent, mix together equal parts anise oil and cotton candy oil.
Create a swampy scent by combining one part campfire oil with two parts rain oil and four parts rich potting soil oil.
Go for a crypt themed scent by combining one part dill pickle oil with two parts potting soil oil and two parts amber oil.
Theme your fog scent around the idea of a haunted hayride by combining 1 part tall grass oil with two parts cedar oil and two parts pumpkin oil.
 The purpose of the can is to hold a metal pie plate over the candle's flame. The holes will allow air inside the can so that the flame burns freely.Never use a plastic can, as it might release toxic chemicals if it's burned.
A coffee can, or a large soup can, works best.
 You'll want the funnel part of the bottle to funnel your glycerin fog. For best results, use sharp scissors or a razor blade to cut the top 5 to 6 inches (12.7 to 15.24 cm) of a plastic soda bottle.Keep the top and discard the rest of the bottle.
Be careful when using any sharp blade. Wearing protective gloves may help guard against accidental injury.
 Duct tape, or any strong household tape, will hold the funnel in place. A small pie tin, such as is used for a pot pie, will be sufficient for this project.The fog juice will rest against the metal of the pie tin inside the funnel to create the fog.
Check to make sure that the pie tin is centered on your can, so that it's unlikely to fall off once you've added fog juice.
 Ideally, you'll have a multi-wick candle that will create an even area of heat across the breadth of the pie tin. If you don't have a multi-wick candle (a candle with more than 1 wick), use several small tea light candles to achieve the same effect.If you do use tea light candles, make sure that the candles are closely bound together so that the heat is concentrated in the same general area.
Position the pie plate over the candle
Make sure that the bottom of the pie plate is near the flame but not close enough to touch it.
 Add anywhere from 1 tsp (5 ml) to 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of fog juice to the heated pie plate by pouring it into the opening of the bottle top.A little fog juice will go a long way. Resist the temptation to get carried away by pouring too much fog juice in at once.
You can add more fog juice as needed.
 The heated solution should quickly turn into fog, and the fog should burst out of the top of the bottle and flow into the room.For a interesting effect, shine colored light on the fog. If you want to create colored fog, the easiest and safest way to do this is by shining colored light directly on the fog as it flows out of the bottle top.
The clear droplets from the fog will reflect the colored light.

