 Most recycling programs accept all types of glass containers for food and drink.But a minority will only accept certain colors, and many have extra sorting guidelines. Look these up before you begin:


Search Earth911 in the US for detailed information.
Your local government website may have information on curbside recycling programs.
Look for printed labels on your curbside collection bins.
If you have no curbside collection, search online for recycling centers nearby. Contact them to ask about glass requirements.;
, Many recycling centers ask that you give food containers a quick rinse. You never need to scrub them spotless. Even if it's quite dirty, it will usually get used — but it will earn the recycling center less money.This saves roughly 1–2 US pints (950 ml) (0.5–1 liters) of water compared to making a new glass bottle. More importantly, the energy savings and reduced pollution far outweigh the cost of washing., Take off all plastic or metal bottle caps, foil wine collars, and other non-glass materials. One stray piece could ruin an entire batch, or limit how it can be used.


Paper labels are usually removed by the recycling center. Check your local guidelines if you are unsure.
Ceramics are not recyclable. A plate or flowerpot can ruin a whole batch of glass., Many recycling programs ask you to sort glass by color. Each color contains different ingredients with different qualities. Mixed-color glass batches are in low demand, since it's hard to predict their quality.Almost any program accepts clear and amber (brown) glass. Most accept green. A few accept blue.
Some areas have "single stream" recycling pickup, combining all types of glass, or even mixing them with metal and plastic. One study shows that this reduces the percentage of usable glass from 90% to 60%.Switch to a more effective program if possible.
 Recycled glass is crushed into "cullet," then reheated to fuse into a new object. The wrong type of glass can ruin an entire batch by melting or fusing at the wrong time. The following should never be recycled with ordinary glass containers:Drinking glasses and glass dishes
Frosted glass
Pyrex and other heat-resistant glass (cookware and laboratory equipment)
Window glass, mirrors, and windshields
Lightbulbs
Eyeglasses
Glass exposed to hazardous materials or biological contaminants (e.g. blood)
Broken glass (to protect workers)

