 Although you may be able to purchase the berries year-round, the fruit tends to taste best during its peak production time. When not in season, the berries may be shipped slightly under-ripe, which can ruin the taste.;
, They should be firm to the touch, bright red, and free of bruising or mold. Green berries will have little if any flavor. The berries should also have a brilliant sheen, which indicates that they are fresh. The stems, or caps, should be bright green and fully attached to the berries.


Strawberries tend to not ripen further once picked, although they may become darker and lose acidity. In order to achieve the best flavor, strawberries should be picked and purchased at their peak.
Medium-size strawberries are ideal as they tend to be more flavorful than the larger berries. Larger berries may be hollow in the inside and be infused with water, which can ruin the taste. Smaller berries may have a hard bottom that is full of seeds.
 Although it's not a true indicator, the most fragrant berries tend to be the freshest. You may also be able to smell if the berries are sour or full of mold.


Berries that are picked in your local area may be more fragrant than those at a larger grocery store. Locally grown berries usually are juicier and sweeter than those shipped from further distances because they don't have to deal with the added distance time.
 If the strawberries are prepackaged, make sure that the berries are not packed too tightly as this may cause the berries to be crushed. If the berries are stacked inside the packaging, check the berries on the bottom to make sure that the freshest berries aren't covering unripe ones. Avoid any containers that have mold, as this can indicate too much moisture. Mold also spreads quickly and can infect other berries.


If you're buying strawberries from a pick-your-own strawberry farm, make sure the berries were picked within 1 to 2 days. These berries are fresher than ones in a local grocery store and may spoil quicker. If berries are placed in a container that is more than 5 inches (12.7 cm) deep, the lower strawberries will bruise.
 This option is best if available, because then you can pick and purchase the berries at their peak and can avoid the pitfalls found when buying strawberries in a store.

