 If you're traveling to a country with high rates of malaria, it's important to take precautions. Malaria is preventable if you take the right medication before, during, and after exposure to dangerous mosquitoes. The following regions are high-risk:Africa
Central and South America
Parts of Caribbean Asia, Eastern Europe, and the South Pacific;
, If you are visiting one of these places, schedule an appointment with your doctor six weeks in advance of your trip.Start your trip planning early so you can start taking preventative medication before you set out on your journey.
As an alternative to your regular doctor, you may schedule an appointment at a travel clinic in your area., Talk to your doctor about where you are traveling. He or she can then provide a prescription for medication most effective against malaria in that area.


These medications may include Chloroquine phosphate, quinine sulfate, or tetracycline. The type of medicine differs according to where you're going, so it's important to mention every place you'll be.There is no vaccine for malaria. Instead, your doctor will prescribe the same type of medicine used to treat malaria. You'll take it the entire time you're at risk of exposure.
Make sure to discuss your other medications and health conditions. These could affect which prescription you're given. For example, you shouldn't take some malaria medicines while pregnant. Others shouldn't be used by people with certain psychiatric conditions.
Your doctor or travel clinic attendant should also check whether there are any other diseases that are a risk.
 The important thing to remember is to follow your prescription exactly. Malaria drugs are only effective when taken as indicated.


You need to start some pills at least two weeks in advance of your trip. Others can be started just one or two days beforehand. Some you'll need to take once a day, others several times per day.
If you must take a malaria pill once a day, take it at the same time every day.
Keep taking the pills for the entire time recommended by your doctor. In many cases you'll need to take the pills for a week or more after leaving the high-risk area. If you do not do this, you may still be at risk of contracting malaria.
Follow instructions to prevent harm from side effects. For example, some malaria pills (doxycycline) make you more prone to getting a sunburn. In this case, be sure to use sunscreen to protect your skin.Resistance to antimalarial medications is an increasing problem. Strains of the disease can become resistant if people overuse malaria pills, or if they do not finish the full course of medication.Take the full course as prescribed.