 Many low-cost airlines provide great pricing when you’re searching for flights, but then hit you with hidden fees when you're ready to pay. Search the airline’s website for possible hidden fees and read the fine print before you check out.Don’t click “buy now” to book your reservation until you’ve looked the page over carefully for any charges (like travel insurance) that are automatically tacked onto your total. Often you can opt out of these charges and save yourself some money.


Be aware of the airline’s cancellation policy – often there are fees associated with cancelling a flight.
If something looks too good to be true, it might be. If necessary, call the airline to confirm their fees.
 Budget airlines usually have very strict rules about baggage and breaking these rules can result in a significant amount of fees. Always weigh and measure your baggage before you leave for your flight – don’t try to guess or eyeball it. Make sure your baggage stays within the boundaries of these restrictions.Check their rules on how many pieces of luggage you are allowed to have, as well. Many budget airlines enforce a limit.
 The planes are older and the seats are usually smaller. You won’t have a lot of leg room. Low-cost airlines typically don’t provide complimentary food and beverages, wi-fi access or in-flight entertainment. Baggage rules are often very strict and can result in steep fees.


If you want to fly with a low-cost airline, you can’t expect the perks of a full-service flight.
 Before you make a purchase with an airline you are unfamiliar with, look into the airline’s safety record, record of maintenance issues, the frequency of on-time flights versus layovers and so on. There is more than one website out there dedicated to airline reviews and ratings. To explore an example of one of these sites, visit http://www.airlineratings.com.
 Testimonials and reviews will definitely let you know about any hidden fees that previous customers got stuck with, allowing you to avoid them more easily yourself. Keep in mind that reviews should be taken with a grain of salt.


However, look out for complaints that are repeated frequently by different customers – these grievances are most likely to be accurate.
Go to the airline's website and look for customer review/testimonial links. If you don't see anything like that, do a Google search for reviews on the airline you're interested in.

