 You can create an environment conducive to honesty by first choosing the right time to talk. Don’t want until very late at night or early in the morning to tell someone something that could upset them. Instead, tell them when you both have time to talk.


If this person is your spouse or parent, avoid doing so when they first arrive home. Give them some time to settle in before having a difficult conversation.
 Perhaps having a face to face conversation disclosing something bad that you did is a bit hard for you right now. This does not mean, however, that you should neglect to tell the truth. If you cannot have a face to face conversation, try writing a letter or sending an email until you can build up the courage., When others tell you uncomfortable truths, don’t blow up in anger with them for whatever wrong they have done. Approach the situation with calmness and patience. The same negative energy that you put in when you are honest is often what others will give back to you.This does not mean that you don’t have the right to be angry, but avoid expressing that anger is harmful ways. Don’t yell, curse, or repeatedly bring the issue up.
 Some people you will find may place impossible standards upon you. While this is still no reason to lie, know that many do not encourage the truth because their expectations are beyond reason. Avoid such people and find people who will love and respect you


For instance, perhaps you have a coworker who you are strictly friends with and your partner does not like it because they are overly jealous. If you know there is no flirtation and has never been a relationship between the two of you, don’t feel the need to lose this friend because your partner cannot control themselves.
 In addition to letting go of lying by omission, you should also work to keep any and all promises that you make to others. Avoid making promises that you may be unable to keep. After you have lied to people, they will not have much trust in you, and in order to build that back up, keep your word to others.

