 Animal Jam regularly releases promo codes that can be redeemed for diamonds, gems, and other cool gifts.When you log in to your Animal Jam account, select the I Have a Code to Enter box, and enter your code. You can also go directly to the Animal Jam code redemption page. Codes are changing all the time, and Animal Jam releases new ones every few weeks. To find the latest codes, try sites like:


Animal Jam World
Animal Jam Cheats and Codes
The Daily Explorer, the Animal Jam blog
;
, Animal Jam members get a free weekly diamond just for being members!To become a member you have to have a paid account, so be sure to talk to your parents about this.


Once a week, a box will pop up when you are logged in that says Member Gift, One Diamond. Simply click Ok to accept your diamond.
 When the Daily Spin pops up, click Spin for your chance to win diamonds, gems, or gifts. Make sure you are logged in to increase your bonus., Every couple weeks, Animal Jam releases new challenges for you to participate in. There are normally several winners per challenge, and you can usually win about five diamonds. The Diamond Challenges are posted on the Animal Jam blog, and they usually involve taking snapshots (through Jammer Central) of your animal or things you like.


To submit work to a Diamond Challenge, save your submission as a .jpg or .png file on your computer. Go to Jammer Central, and click on Submit Your Work. Then click the Plus Sign to find and upload your submission. Don’t forget to click Submit when you’re finished.
 Along with getting a free weekly diamond with your membership, buying a membership also comes with instant gem bonuses. Always talk to your parents before making any purchases. Different membership levels come with different perks, including:


A three-month membership will get you 10 diamonds.
A six-month membership will get you 25 diamonds.
A one-year membership will get you 60 diamonds.
 Animal Jam gift cards come with diamonds, so if anyone gives you one, you will also get free diamonds., If you don’t have enough diamonds for what you want and don’t have time to collect them through games, contests, and weekly gifts, you can buy them directly from Animal Jam Outfitters.


Diamonds come in packs of five, 10, and 25.
Remember to always consult a parent or guardian before making any online purchases.

