 It's best to wait until you've calmed down to have a conversation. If you're still very emotional, it can lead to an argument instead of a discussion. Do something you enjoy that calms you down, such as listening to music, doing art, or reading., Once you figure out what you're feeling, it's time to talk it out with your partner. Tell them what's making you feel jealous and why. Even if your jealousy is unfounded, it can help to talk about it with your partner.For instance, you can say, "I've been feeling jealous lately. Every time you go out with your friends from work, I can't help but feel jealous that you're not spending time with me. I want you to have your friends, and I know my feelings are unreasonable, but I felt like I needed to talk to you about it."

, Being direct means telling the person about your feelings, not trying to coax them into admitting they were doing something wrong. In other words, say, "I'm feeling jealous because of the way you interacted with that person," not, "You sure were over there awhile, huh?"The second option can quickly turn to sarcasm and hostility, leading to fights, not discussions.
 If you suspect your partner is cheating on you, your jealousy may have merit. You should bring up these concerns when you talk to your partner. It's important to clear the air, so that both of you are on the same page.You could say, "I feel like you've been spending a lot of time with lately. It's stirred up my jealousy, but it also makes me wonder if I have a good reason to be jealous. Are you having an affair?"

, Everybody is going to feel jealous at some point in their lives. The key is to not use that emotion to drive hostile actions in your relationship. If you act out in your relationship by lashing out at your partner or accusing them of hating you, that does more harm than just recognizing that you're feeling jealous.If you're feeling jealous, try to just acknowledge that you are having that emotion, and then let it go. Just by acknowledging it, you weaken its power.
 You may want to know for sure that your partner isn't interested in someone else. You could follow your partner to find out for sure. However, that breaks the trust you've built, which hurts your relationship. At some point, you just have to trust the commitment that your partner has given you.If you find you can't trust your partner, you may need to end the relationship with them.

