 To do this, make a pot of coffee but do so with a clean coffee pot, and an empty brew cage. Your store should have a pot set out for this function, but if you don't. Make sure to rinse it out thoroughly.
 This should be a large red bucket used solely for the purpose of making the tea., Obtain a 4-pound bag of sugar, usually Domino's, from the back and dump the contents into the bucket., Make sure the bucket is on a steady surface., Using a large metal whisk, stir until the sugar is completely dissolved into the water., Place a bag in the brew basket of the tea machine, place the bucket underneath, and hit brew., After the tea is done brewing use a metal scoop or cup to fill the bucket with ice until it reaches the fill line., Using the same metal whisk, stir until the majority of the ice mixes in., It is important to cover the bucket after, so nothing falls or flies in., Using the sticker machine or a handwritten label, mark what day/time the tea was made. Stick this on the top of the cap so it stays., It's ready to go as soon as it's done, but if not using it, keep it cold., This should be a large green bucket used solely for the purpose of making the tea., Place a bag in the brew basket of the tea machine, place the bucket underneath, and hit brew., After the tea is done brewing use a metal scoop or cup to fill the bucket with ice until it reaches the fill line., Using the same metal whisk, stir until a lot of the ice mixes in., It is important to cover the bucket after, so nothing falls or flies in., Using the sticker machine or a handwritten label, mark what day/time the tea was made. Stick this on the top of the cap so it stays., It's ready to go as soon as it done, but if not using it, keep it cold., Typically, this is a special Styrofoam cup unless the customer wants another one., If there are any special instructions, make sure to put a sticker on the cup or mark it., Using a metal scoop, fill until it hits the line., Fill the cup with tea, either sweet or unsweet using the dispenser, until it hits the fill line., Sometimes a customer will want lemons or flavors added to the tea. Do so now., Placing a cap over the drink, serve it to the drive-thru or counter., Usually, this is a special Styrofoam cup unless the customer wants another one., If there are any special instructions, make sure to put a sticker on the cup or mark it., Using a metal scoop, fill until it hits the line with ice., Fill the cup with tea, either sweet or unsweet using the dispenser, until it hits the fill line,, Using the pump, ensuring to go all the way down, pump two shots of either peach or strawberry into the cup.,, It's typically a small blue circular object with a hole in the middle (an orange bit filling said hole). With the larger hole over the top of the drink, lift the drink and tilt the drink all the way to the side, turning your hand palm up, while making sure to keep one hand on the top of the drink. Repeat at least 5 times.

If your store doesn't have the mixer, you can use a spoon and stir bottom to top 12 times ensuring you scrape the bottom. Or you can do this with your hands, but make sure you have a tight hold of the drink and the top.
 Sometimes a customer will add lemons, flavors, or sugar to the drink. Do so now.