 You need to be able to spin the wheels freely without the bike moving. The best way to to this is with a bike stand. If you don't have one, check if your local bike shop or outdoor store has a "maintenance night," where you pay a small fee to access to all of their tools for the night.


You can also turn the bike upside down, resting it on the seat and handlebars. If you do, however, know that you will have to reverse all of the following instructions.
 On the rear derailleur, this is the small gear furthest from the bike. On the front derailleur it is the small gear closest to the bike.


Shift the derailleur you are not working on to a gear somewhere in the middle.
 This is found at the end of the cable leading from your handlebars to your derailleur. A small bolt clamps the cable in place, holding it tight. Using an Alan key, unscrew the bolt to free the end of the cable.



Advanced Note: You'll notice that, if you pedal the bike, the chain will slide down to the lowest ring without your help. That is because derailleurs work by tightening the cable to hold the chain in place. Similarly, you can shift your bike manually by pulling the cable.
 In order to prevent your chain from slipping off, the derailleur is contained to the small area between the gears. There are two small screws which hold the derailleur in place, located right next to each other on the top (front derailleur) or back (rear derailleur) of the derailleur.


The screw on the left, often labeled with an "H," limits how high, or near the bike, the chain can go.
The screw on right, often labeled with an "L," limits how low, or away from the bike, the chain can go.
 The screws are simple to adjust -- if your chain is falling off the right side of the front derailleur, then tighten to the front right screw to limit it. Each screw corresponds to the side it adjusts, and tightening the screw (turning-clockwise) will limit the derailleur from going too far to that side.
 If the derailleur pushes too far the chain will fall off the gears and towards the wheel. Alternatively, it may not push far enough, and the chain will not get to all the gears. You can then adjust the limit screws to move the derailleur -- and you will actually see it moving.



Tighten the left screw if you the chain goes too far. This will keep the derailleur from moving too much to the left.

Loosen the left screw if you cannot shift into every gear. This will allow the derailleur to move farther in.
 With the chain on the smallest gear, tighten or loosen the left (H) limit screw so that the chain doesn't touch the derailleur plate.


Shoot for 2-3 millimeters of space on each side of the chain., Shift back down to the lowest gears and pull the cable tight by hand -- it does not need to be perfect, just taut -- then screw the cable back in place underneath the bolt on the derailleur you removed it from.


Often, you can see an indent in the cable indicating where it was bolted before.
 Make sure your bike can shift comfortably to and from every gear in the front and back, and use your cable adjusters to make changes where necessary.

