 It’s arguably the least dangerous if you just comply with the gunman’s demands if his or her demands, such as robbery, don’t threaten your life.


For example, if a mugger wants your car, your wallet, or your purse, let them have it. It’s not worth risking your life over.Try throwing the object (purse, car keys) behind them; they will go for the object and you can escape.
There have been situations where the person gives the attacker what they want, and the person is shot anyway. There is no surefire technique for a fast-flowing, dangerous situation like this.
 The best approach to defending yourself is to first eliminate the most immediate threat to you. If a gun is pointed at you, that’s clearly an immediate danger to you.You need to remove yourself from the line of fire. You can do this by redirecting the line of fire or moving yourself. Make your first movement small and undetectable. If you make a major move to twist or step out of the line of fire, you could actually trigger the attacker to fire the weapon.
Redirect with the hand. Use your hand to redirect the line of fire so that it travels across fewer vital areas. Move the weapon laterally across the shortest line possible. If the gun is pointed at your chest, move it to the left or right. You could also push the gun upward.
 This is one possibility, although it can be a very dangerous one because the gunman might shoot you.


If you try this technique, throw something – your wallet for example – in one direction while you run in another direction in order to distract the attacker. Run in a zigzag or other unpredictable pattern.Again, this is a very dangerous move. Then again, everything about the situation is dangerous. Simply complying with the demands might be the best bet. If the person hasn't seen you yet, such as in an active shooter situation, first run, then hide (by barricading yourself behind a door), then fight if you are found.
 Until or unless you are ready to make your move, make it clear to the gunman what you are about to do before you do it.


For example, say something like, “I’m going to reach into my pocket so I can get my wallet out to give it to you now” before you do it.
Study the gunman as you do this. Find something about him or her that is unique and will help police identify the gunman later.
 Let’s say you’re facing a determined attacker you know is there to kill you. This means the attacker’s motive isn’t robbery – it’s to kill, such as what was seen at past school shootings.


If possible, run away. Get out of the building or area.
If running becomes impossible, hide. Barricade yourself behind a door with your phone on silent. Make sure the door is well barricaded before you call emergency services.
If the attacker finds you, fight. Improvise weapons: chairs, laptops, textbooks, et cetera to throw at them or hit them with. This is best done in a group, but also works alone.The goal is to take down the shooter no matter what.
Band together with others before you do this. Grab the gunman’s weapon and twist it quickly away from your body. Keep gripping the gun as the gunman pulls it back away from you, and push your weight forward, then punch him in the face or throat very hard. Use your hand to grab the non-shooting end of the gun. Knee the killer in the groin. Or twist your hands like you are revving up a motorcycle engine, breaking the gunman’s finger inside the trigger guard.

