 The idea of purity is very important in the Shinto religion. Sickness, open wounds, and periods of mourning are believed to cause or spread impurity, so you should avoid going to shrines if you are suffering from one of these conditions.Shrines are especially popular during certain times of year, like Setsubun (lunar new year), Shogatsu (New Year’s Day), and Seigin-no-hi (Coming of Age Celebration).Shinto followers believe that certain right actions purify a person, improving luck and peace of mind, while wrong actions (like visiting a shrine when sick) create impurity.;
, You may notice many shrine visitors skip this first bow, but bowing signifies respect for this holy ground. The center line (Sei-chu) passing under and through gates is reserved for the gods, so you should walk along the sides instead.


Avoid taking pictures from the center line running under shrine gates. When you want a picture, step off to the side first.Most, though not all, shrine gates are painted with iconic orange and black paint. In Japanese, these gates are called “torii.”, When you arrive at a shrine on non-festival days, you should notice a solemn, serene mood. Avoid speaking loudly or making a spectacle of yourself to show proper respect for the gods and other shrine visitors as well.


Festivals can bring loud, joyful celebrations through towns right onto shrine grounds. On these days, you should still follow shrine rules, but feel free to participate in the celebratory atmosphere.All garbage should be thrown away in a proper receptacle or taken home for disposal later. Never leave behind garbage at a shrine.
The shrines and items contained inside are very old. Refrain from touching anything unless it is clearly indicated that touching is allowed.
 At most shrines, it’s usually alright to take pictures outside on the grounds, but many restrict photography inside the shrine itself. “No photography” areas are generally marked with signs.If you’re lucky enough to visit a shrine while a Shinto priest is performing a ceremony, refrain from taking any pictures, as this is considered very disrespectful., Keep your eyes peeled for cubby-like shoe lockers or for other shrine visitors taking off their shoes in a designated area. Some shrines require you to take your shoes off before entering the main building.Although in your home culture you might worry about your shoes being stolen, this is incredibly rare in Japan. Stealing would be considered a violation of the sacred atmosphere.
In addition to the cubbies, which are usually highly visible, in most cases there will be signs posted indicating where shoes are not allowed.

