 You want your hips movements to be fluid and seem easy.


Imagine that you are hula hooping. Move your hips as though you were trying to keep the hula hoop in place, and then slow this motion down slightly. If you want, use an actual hula hoop to practice moving your hips. This will help you to isolate the motion and become comfortable with it.
Keep your weight on the balls of your feet while you are dancing. Doing this will give you greater control over your hip movements.
Bend your knees slightly inward and roll to the insides of your feet. This gives you a larger range of hip motion.
Don’t forget to straighten your leg. When you are circling or swinging your hips, alternate which leg is bent and which is straight. This exaggerates your hip motions.
Change speeds. When you are moving your hips, focus on doing a few hip circles slowly and then a few at double speed. This will give a visual variety to your dancing.
Remember that hip movements are important for both men and women. Think about Elvis. He was one of the first people to popularize hip shaking as a new, sexy dance.If you want to get even raunchier and stand out, you can try popular sexy dances like twerking, which involves bending over to shake your hips and backside.;
, Even though sexy dancing emphasizes the body, you want to make sure your arms don’t look awkward or stiff and ruin the effect of your other movements.


Pick a position. For sexy dancing in a club setting, you should put your arms in one of four positions: above your head, behind your head, at the level of your chest, or by your side.
No matter which of these positions your arms are in, they should have a slight bend at the elbow.
If your hands are behind your head, you should bend your elbows more sharply and rest your hands on your hand.
Hold your hands in a relaxed, almost closed position. It should be like you are about to create a fist.
If you want to show off your chest, keep your arms slightly behind your body.
Gently move your arms back and forth to the music. This doesn’t have to be a drastic movement, just enough not to draw attention to them.
You can also periodically run your hands along the sides of your body to accentuate body rolls or sexily run them through your hair.
 Expression is the icing on the cake that makes your dancing truly sexy and appealing to others. Work on your facial expression by practicing with a large mirror.


Smile with your eyes.To see what this looks like, smile widely and then cover your mouth with your hand. Look in the mirror to study what your eyes look like. Make sure there is no tension in your forehead.
Also, lose the tension in your jaw. You want to hold your mouth slightly parted in a comfortable pout. The edges of your mouth should be just barely upturned.
As you are dancing, occasionally make eye contact with people you find attractive, and then after a few seconds, cast your eyes down and look away but keep dancing. This makes you seems mysterious and desirable.
Keep your head loose. Allow your neck to move to the music but don’t think you need to move it around too much.
 A large part of sexy dancing in public places is dancing with other people. As you are dancing, gauge how the other person is responding to you.


Move incrementally closer. Dance as if you are unaware of anything but your dancing, while moving closer to the person you want to dance with. Move one step at a time.
Try to make eye contact. If the person returns this contact or smiles at you, keep moving closer.
Begin to brush up against this person slightly as you are dancing. If they don’t move away, begin to grind against them more intentionally.
If you are behind your partner, lightly place your hands on their hips as you dance.
If you are grinding in front, keep your arms next to you or reach up behind you and put them around your partners neck.
 Dancing is a lot like a puzzle, a series of small moves that flow together to make something awesome. Have a few great puzzle pieces up your sleeve that you feel comfortable doing.


Focus on your assets. Think about which parts of your body you want to accentuate. For example, if you want to accentuate your rear, you’ll want to focus especially on large hip movements.
Practice your expression, and decide where you like to hold your arms when you dance.
 Even if it's not the kind of dancing you'll do at a party or a club, learning a specific kind of sexy ballroom dance will give you some moves you can transfer into other situations.More importantly, it'll give you a boost of confidence and coordination.


Some sexy dances include the tango, samba and salsa from Latin America or belly dancing, of Middle Eastern origins.
Use dance DVDs and online resources.This way, you can watch the routines and decide what you’d like to learn.
Take a class. When it comes to dancing, there’s nothing quite like dancing with an instructor to correct you. If you take a class, you will be able to practice your partnering skills with your peers.
If you want to take a class, try sites like Groupon, which often offers local discounts on class passes.Check the calendar sections of local community papers. Often, these will list free or inexpensive dance classes at local community centers, restaurants, or bars.
 When you’re learning how to dance sexily, music matters. Make yourself a list of songs with a good beat and sexy lyrics.Pick songs you love, and you’ll be more likely to stick to practicing.


Sexy songs can be either fast or slow in tempo.For club style music, listen for a steady, loud drum beat in the background of the music that makes you want to tap your foot. Listen to pop artists like Beyoncé or techno remixes.
For more sensual music, listen to jazz standards with vocals or R&B artists.
Listen for lyrics. Pick songs with a good beat, but also try to pick songs that have a romantic or sexual theme.
If you want to do a Latin style of dancing, listen to Spanish pop music. If you don’t speak Spanish, the foreign language can make it seem even more exotic.
If you don’t want to create your own mix, you can find premade club playlists on music platforms like Spotify or LastFM.
 Like any skill, becoming a good dancer takes consistency. Make it a habitual part of your every day routine.Start at a set time each day, and commit to spending 20 minutes dancing by yourself.
Make your playlist exactly 20 minutes long. That way, you’ll know when you’re done by the music, and you won’t have to time yourself.
Listening to the same playlist every time you practice can help make you more comfortable dancing sexily.
 Even when you’re practicing on your own, it’s difficult to get in a sexy mindset in a bland setting. Jazz up your space.Close your door, dim your lights, and light a few candles. Try stringing up some small twinkle lights to add ambiance. Swipe on some lipstick, if you want.
Use the best sound system you have. If you’re practicing in a place where people can hear, try using headphones and a small music player instead. You want the music to be loud but not blaring.
Get carried away. When you first begin to practice, don’t worry about specific moves or how you look. Just let yourself get carried away in the music. Closing your eyes at first can help you relax, forget where you are, and not worry about what you look like.
It is important to focus on losing your self-consciousness.This is the barrier that keeps most people from trying to dance. As you are dancing, try focus on the lyrics of each song. This will help keep away any negative self-talk by giving you something to focus on while you move.
Remember that you’re your biggest critic. If you work on letting go while you practice, it will be easier to let go in a social setting.
 If you feel great about your body, you’ll feel sexier, and you’ll be able to keep up on the dance floor.


Try doing workouts at home specifically designed to help you become a better dancer, like a ballet bar routine or a yoga class.
If you don’t have time for a full work out, try just doing a few squats, push ups, and sit ups right when you get up in the morning.
 Before you go out dancing, choose the right outfit. You want to wear something that accentuates your best features but doesn’t make you uncomfortable.


Choose a favorite outfit. It can be tempting to wear a new dress, skirt, or pants on a night out, but try to wear something you’ve worn a lot and know you’ll be comfortable in. You don’t want to be worrying about your clothes while you are dancing.
Wear black. Black is a great go-to color for anyone and any body type, whether you’re a man or a woman.It will make you feel put together and suave and will ease your self-consciousness.
You can dress it up with statement jewelry and bright shoes.
Ladies, consider wearing flats. If you love heels, wear them, but don’t feel like you have to. Cute flats can make the different between staying on the dance floor and sitting out dances.
If you’re a man, think about switching up your shoes. Instead of dress shoes, wear cool sneakers like Vans or Converse. They will be more comfortable and give you a casual, fun look.
 You want to look flawless and put together on your night out. As you are getting ready, allot more time than usual to take a shower and clean up.


Trim any facial hair.
Shave and moisturize, if you want.
Brush your hair, and style it. Keep it in place with some hair spray.
Put on a splash of your favorite cologne or perfume.
If you normally wear makeup, try a smoky eye or add a bold color to your lips.Remember, you want to look like a sexier version of yourself, not a completely different person.
 Having a bit of fun before you go dancing can help put you in the right mindset.


Listen to upbeat music that you love, and move while you get ready, even if it’s just dancing from your chair while you do your hair.
If you’re of legal age, have a drink. A drink or two before you go out can give you that little extra confidence boost you need to just let go and have fun.
 If you get ready to go out by yourself, it can be easy to get nervous about trying to be sexy.


Your friends will tell you how great you look, and give you tips on your outfit.
Having friends around will also help you to relax and just have a good time.
 If you're nervous about what people will think of you, consider just taking one friend and going to a place outside of your usual sphere so that the people you're dancing around are mostly people you don't know.


In a new crowd, no one will find it strange that you’re dancing sexily.
A change in setting can help you feel free to change up your style and let yourself go.
 As you dance, make eye contact with people you find attractive. If they approach you, get slightly closer to them.


If no one, asks you to dance, ask them. Even if you’re shy, you’ll be glad you did.Mirror the movements of the person you’re dancing with. Try to react to how they’re moving so that you are in sync with them.
Don’t be afraid to put your hands around their neck and dance up close and personal. However, if you don’t want to dance with someone, you can always say no thank you and move away.
 Good dancing rises from the heart.Let rhythm guide your movements.


If you don’t like a song or can’t hear the beat, don’t feel like you have to dance. You’ll feel more confident dancing to songs that you like.
 More than anything, relaxation is key to feeling––and looking––sexy on the dance floor. Slow down, relax, and let your body move to the music.
 When dancing, be aware of others around you. Most places may be packed but that shouldn't stop you from dancing sexily. Try not to bump into others unintentionally.


When you’re dancing with a partner, keep track of how they are dancing, and where their feet and arms are.
Try to slip your hands around your partner’s waist or neck.
 If you dance like yourself, you’re bound to look sexy. Above all, remember that you want to have a good time. Even if you feel a little awkward, smile. If you make a small mistake or trip, laugh out loud about it. The ability to laugh at yourself makes you sexier.


A happy face and genuine laughter also makes you much more approachable to people that might want to dance with you.
However, don’t go over the top. Be sincere in your dancing, and imitate if you want to. If you see someone across the dance floor dancing really well, feel free to try imitating some of their moves.

