 One sign that you have a problem with alcohol is that it’s started to affect areas of your life such as work or school, your personal relationships, or your health.A pattern of drinking that causes these issues is called “alcohol abuse,” and left to go on, it can turn into alcohol dependence, or alcoholism. Ways alcohol can impact your life include:


Not being able to fulfill responsibilities at school, work, or home
Feeling unable to do things you enjoy doing because of side effects (hangovers, black outs, etc.)
Drinking even when your friends don’t, or drinking to feel accepted
Increased feelings of anxiety or depression
Getting into unsafe situations because of alcohol (risky sex, driving while intoxicated, etc.)
Experiencing withdrawal symptoms after a binge episode, such as difficulty sleeping, nausea, vomiting, sweating, irritability, shakiness, anxiety, or depression;
, The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism defines binge drinking as a “pattern of drinking that brings blood alcohol concentration (BAC) levels to 0.08g/dL.”For men, this usually takes about 5 drinks (8 alcohol units) in 2 hours. For women, it usually takes 4 drinks (6 alcohol units) in 2 hours. Other warning signs of binge drinking include:You tend to drink quickly
You regularly drink more than the moderate consumption guidelines (1 drink/2-3 alcohol units per day for women, 2 drinks/3-4 alcohol units per day for men)
You drink to “get drunk”
You sometimes feel unable to control how much you drink, or you find it hard to stop drinking once you’ve startedYou drink more than you intended to, or you lose track of how much you’ve drunkYou have developed a tolerance for alcohol so you have to drink more than you once did to feel “buzzed”

, For many people, drinking is an all or nothing kind of deal: one drink is too many and 20 are never enough. If you’ve tried to cut back on your drinking and failed, or if you suspect that you’ll never be able to “just have one,” it might be better to channel your efforts into quitting altogether.


Alcohol abuse can become alcohol dependence, or alcoholism, especially if the abuse continues long-term.If you enjoy drinking socially and want to distance yourself from abusing alcohol, you can learn how to change your relationship with drinking so you can comfortably have a few without going overboard.
 Whether you think you simply need to cut back your alcohol consumption or eliminate it entirely, setting clear goals for yourself can help you. Keep these reasonable: remember, significant change doesn’t happen overnight.It can help to set these goals in stages, too.


If you’ve decided to cut back on alcohol consumption, set yourself days when you will drink, and set aside days when you won’t. For example: “I will drink only on Saturday night and Wednesday afternoon. The other days I won’t drink.”
Make sure to set a limit on the number of drinks you will have, too. Write it down on a little card and keep it in your wallet or purse. For example: “On Saturday night, I will have no more than 3 beers. On Wednesday afternoon, I will have one cocktail.”
If you want to quit drinking altogether, set a deadline for yourself. For example: “By July 31, I will not be drinking any alcohol.”
If you’ve been a heavy drinker, be aware that stopping “cold turkey” can produce dangerous side effects. Withdrawal symptoms include anxiety, depression, irritability, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, insomnia, sweating, shakiness, headache, loss of appetite, hallucinations, confusion, seizures, fever, and agitation.“Tapering off” your alcohol use may be easier for you to maintain as you work toward your “no-alcohol” deadline.Some studies suggest that drinking a little every day (no more than 1 drink) may reduce your likelihood of bingeing., If you believe your drinking is a problem, you should speak with your healthcare provider. Your doctor can help you determine what will be the safest way for you to reduce or stop your drinking. S/he can also refer you to an alcohol specialist, such as a counselor or psychiatrist, if you decide that would be helpful. Before you see your doctor, put together some information:How often and how much you drink. Be honest; it isn’t your doctor’s job to judge you, and s/he can’t help you unless you are honest about your habits.
Any symptoms you experience, such as headache, nausea, depression, etc.
Personal information, such as any major stresses or life events (e.g., divorce, starting college, a new job, etc).
Medications, supplements, and vitamins you’re taking.
 As uncomfortable as the truth might be, if you’re struggling with your drinking and suspect you might need to quit, it’s important that you tell your close friends, family, and loved ones that you need to make a change. Surrounding yourself with supporting friends and loved ones will help keep you accountable and be a good first step in admitting that you've got a problem you need to work on.Tell your drinking friends that you're worried about your fun developing into a more serious problem. Emphasize that you aren’t judging anyone or asking anyone else to change their behavior. Ask them for their support, and express that you still want to socialize -- you just won’t be drinking (or drinking as much). For example: “I’m not liking some of the effects of my drinking. It’s interfering with my life in ways I don’t want, so I’m going to cut back for awhile. This decision is just for me. I still want to hang out with you guys; I’ll just have a Coke instead of a cocktail.”
If other people in your family also drink alcohol, consider whether having alcohol in your house would be an insurmountable temptation. If so, discuss your options with your loved ones. It may be necessary to completely remove alcohol from your home, especially if your goal is to completely stop drinking. If you convey the importance of this issue to your loved ones, they’ll probably be very supportive of whatever helps you.If your drinking feels more serious, ask your friends and loved ones to socialize with you in places that do not serve alcohol. Hanging out with friends in a bar if you really want a drink can be too much pressure.
 If you drink with the intention of becoming very drunk on a regular basis, it's important to confront the causes of that desire, so you can start healing yourself and avoiding temptations. What makes you want to drink? Does a particular event, person, or emotion make you want to get drunk?Peer pressure is a common trigger for binge-drinking, especially among younger people. About 90% of the alcohol consumed by people under the age of 21, for example, happens during binge-drinking.It can be tempting to drink to “fit in,” or to keep up with hard-partying friends. Friends who do not have a problem with their drinking (or who don’t recognize that they do have a problem) may pressure you to have “just one drink.” If your friends continue to binge-drink around you or pressure you to drink with them, you may need to stop socializing with them.Stress leads many people to drink. If you struggle with looking to alcohol to escape stresses of home life, or relationships, or of work, you might need to take serious steps to relax and find other more productive ways to channel that stress and control your emotions, rather than looking to drink for relief.
Boredom can cause lots of people to drink. If you're drinking alone on Friday nights not because you're depressed but because you can't think of anything else to do, or if you're constantly drinking to liven up regular activities like going to the grocery store, filling your time with more healthy and productive activities will become important.
 It may sound corny, but many of these questions can be tough to answer if you're a regular drinker and frustrated with yourself. Drinkers are often also in denial, and it's hard to figure out what makes you drink. Making a point of writing regularly about your drinking habits, though, can reveal information about you that you might not have been able to uncover just by thinking about it.


The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism has an “Urge Tracker” form that can help you record your urges, how you responded, and what you plan to do next time.
Think back to the last time you binged and write about what went on that day. What do you remember about the evening? What led up to it? What did you do the next day? How did you feel?
Keep track of how many times you drink over the course of a week. When did you want to drink? When did you think about drinking? Why did you want to drink? Stay focused on keeping track of your impulses so you can learn more about how you think.
You can also find mobile apps, such as the MyDrinkAware app, that will help you track your alcohol consumption. These can be helpful for when you’re out and about.

