 Try to schedule a weekly phone call or video chat with your mom, no matter how busy you are with your job, your relationship, or your schooling. Having a scheduled weekly call will ensure you both talk to each other about your week and keep in touch on a current basis.
 Seeing your mom in person on a weekly or bi-monthly basis, can help you both stay connected to each other. Though she may lives far from you, making the effort to see her face to face and spend time with her will show her that you care and are interested in maintaining a relationship with her.
 Open the lines of communication between you and your mother by making an effort to ask your mother about how she is and how her day went. This is especially important if you live with your mom, as you can easily check in with her at the end of the day. If you know she had a difficult meeting that day or a busy schedule at home, take the time to pull her aside and ask her how she is doing. This small question can show your mother that you care about her well-being and want to try to maintain an open relationship with her.It may help to get conversation going between you and your mother if you ask open ended questions about specific events, such as, “How did your meeting at work go?” or “How was your day at home?” These questions require more than a yes or no answer and can lead to longer and more in depth conversations.
You should also respond to your mother if she asks you how your day went or how you are feeling. Avoid brushing off her question or providing a one word answer. Instead, maintain eye contact with your mother and respond to her in a conversational way, providing details about the events of the day.
 While it may be tempting to hide your emotions and feelings about what is going on in your life from your mother, doing so will only put more distance between you. Instead, try to share any difficult feelings or emotions you may be dealing with, from conflicts at work to challenges in your love life.

You may seek your mother out for advice or guidance on an issue in your love life, with a friend, or at work, as a way to bond with her. If she knows your romantic partner well, for example, she may be able to offer sound advice on how to work out a problem you are having in your relationship. Or, she may be able to relate to a workplace issue you’re experiencing and give you advice based on her experiences in the workplace.
Asking your mother for advice and guidance on problems you may be having will also show her that you respect her opinion and value her advice. She will take it a sign of respect and the two of you will likely grow closer.
 Part of the bonding process with your mother is also being there for her when she needs it and being a good listener for her. This becomes more important as you get older and you and your mother are establishing an adult to adult relationship. Though your mother will always be your parent, it’s important to remember that she is also a person like any other and she also has struggles and difficulties in her life. Being an active listener for her will help you to grow closer to her and create an adult bond with her.Active listening means viewing conversations with your mother as ways to get to know her better and learn from her. You can do this by allowing your mother to talk and listen to her without interruption. Use visual cues like head nodding, eye contact, and a relaxed pose to show her you are engaged in what she is saying and focused on her.
Once your mother finishes speaking, you should repeat back what she said to you in your own words, focusing on the key points of what she said to you. You can phrase this as, “What I hear you saying is…” or “I think you meant…” If she confirms that you heard her properly, you can then offer her advice or comment on what she has told you.
 If you live with your mom, you should show her that you can be a responsible adult by doing all your assigned chores and completing any other household responsibilities. This could be cleaning your room, cleaning your bathroom, doing your laundry, and doing yard work. You may also be responsible for cooking dinner one night of the week so your mom has a night off, or taking care of your siblings while your mom goes out for the night. Follow through on your household commitments and be a responsible member of the house.


Doing your chores and fulfilling your responsibilities will put you in your mother's good books, making her more willing to bond with you and see you as someone she can talk to and respect. This can improve your relationship with her and show her that you can be trustworthy as her child and as a person.

