 Spending some quality time with a pet can help you relieve the symptoms of stress. Pets offer uncomplicated love, routine, and physical activity and touch that can be a soothing experience for many stressed-out people. Even if you think you're not able to take care of a pet right now, or that a pet may add stress to your life, research reveals that owning pets, particularly dogs, can help boost hormone levels, lower blood pressure, and increase endorphins in the brain.It is important to consider the practicals, and pets may not be for everyone. Make sure you can afford the financial and time commitment to raise a pet the right way. If you'll be constantly worried about a pet, it's maybe not the best choice for a de-stresser.
 Massage therapy is a proven stress-reducer, helping to improve blood-flow and trigger the release of oxytocin in the brain, which has a calming effect. If you schedule yourself a stress-reduction massage once or twice a month, it'll give you something to look forward to and offer you a great way to treat yourself when the appointment rolls around., Progressive muscle relaxation is an easy, stylized way of getting your body physically relaxed by contracting and releasing your muscles in a particular order, usually starting with the feet and working your way up. You can even do it from a seated position, which means you can do it at work, while you're working, to keep yourself from over-stressing.


To practice this, squeeze each muscle for a count of ten, as hard as you can, then release the muscle, feeling the tension leave your body, breathing deeply for ten seconds.
Start with one foot, then the other, then alternate each calf muscle, thigh, abs, chest, and arm muscles, ending on your face. Try to only tense the muscle you're working, not any others.
 If the thought of "practicing meditation" turns you off, there are several different techniques that allow you to slow down and be present, reducing stress, without having to invest in some kind of alternative philosophy.Try practicing regular breathing meditation sessions. Vipassana meditation is sort of like a combination of progressive muscle relaxation and deep breathing, in which you sit and focus on the sensations in the body, very closely, feeling yourself breathe in and breathe out.Try visualization meditation. Visualization meditation is about–you guessed it–visualizing a relaxing location, eyes closed, and exploring the relaxing landscape you encounter, focusing on as many distinct sensations as possible. Hear, feel, smell, and taste your visualizations., Yep, it's a real thing. The therapeutic benefits of laughter include and increase in various immune system antibodies, helping to decrease stress hormones and level of epinephrine levels in the brain.Point being, when you laugh, you feel better and less stressed.


Cue up your favorite funny movie, or subscribe to a funny YouTube channel that you know can give you a quick laugh. Take 15 minutes in the middle of a stressful day to watch something funny, and you'll be much better off.
Laughter therapy itself involves forced laughter. Even though you might feel like a crazy person (who cares?!), try forcing a couple of hard, heavy laughs and see how you feel. You might even start laughing for real, if you feel foolish enough.
 Splitting your time between work responsibilities and other meditative tasks that you enjoy can help you to decompress after you've done stressful work throughout the day. If you don't have much to do in the evenings but watch TV, try picking up a hobby that can occupy some of your time a little more actively. Try out digging into any of the following immersive hobbies:


Chess
Watch birds
Guitar
Metal detection
Start a collection
Be a gamer
Comic books

