 There are two forms of vitamin D. Vitamin D2, also known as Ergocalciferol, is a plant-derived form that is added to milk, juice, and cereals. Vitamin D3, also known as cholecalciferol, is generally considered a better form because it is the form your body produces when it is exposed to sunlight. It is also found in animal products.


Vitamin D2 is safe for vegans and vegetarians since it is plant derived.Vitamin D3 is not, however, because these supplements are derived from the fat from lamb's wool.;
, The general recommended daily amount for vitamin D vary depending on your age, though men and women need the same amount at the same age. The daily recommended dose for each age group is:Infants from birth to 12 months need 400 IU (10 mcg)
Those who are one to 70 years old need 600 IU (15 mcg)
Individuals over 70 years old need 800 IU (20 mcg)
Women who are breastfeeding or pregnant need 600 IU (15 mcg)
Remember that those that are deficient in Vitamin D3 are more likely to need higher doses to build levels up. Once they are consistently having good D3 blood readings, they may be able to switch to a lower maintenance dose.
 Although your body needs a certain amount of vitamin D each day, you should take more than that as a supplement. This is because your body will not absorb all of the vitamin D from the supplement each time you take it, so you should have a dose larger than the amount you need each day.


Most doctors currently recommend 1000 IU of vitamin D3 per day to ensure that enough vitamin D is absorbed.
The Linus Pauling Institute, one of the leading research centers in vitamins, minerals, and nutrients, recommends 2000 IU of Vitamin D3 a day.If you have certain conditions that might benefit from vitamin D3, your doctor may suggest a higher dosage. Always follow your doctor's instructions when it comes to increased or decreased dosage., You can buy pure vitamin D3 supplements as well as multivitamins with vitamin D3 in them. However, these multivitamins generally have low levels, so you may be better off taking it as a separate supplement. Most supplement capsules are 1000 IU each, but some can be as low as 400 IU. Pay attention to the kind you get. Take one to three daily, depending on the dosage per capsule.


It is recommended that you take your vitamin D3 with a meal., Once you have been taking vitamin D for awhile, you should have your serum levels tested. This will ensure that you have the right levels vitamin D in your system. Ask your doctor to perform this test as your yearly checkup or during your next visit. Your levels should be at least 50 nmol/L.


Your levels may still be low after taking supplements for awhile. Your doctor may increase your supplement dose to help increase your levels. He or she may also check for issues that might be blocking your absorption of vitamin D3.
This testing should occur at least once a year.