 Before you set your slow cooker up for self-cleaning, you must take a few steps to prepare. First, you must rinse any food residue out of your slow cooker with warm water. If there are any large chunks of food attached to your slow cooker, scrape them away as you rinse., Now it is time for you to gather your self-cleaning ingredients. You are going to need white vinegar, baking soda, and a ½ cup (120 ml) measuring cup., Finally, prepare your slow cooker by filling it with warm water. If there is a line of food residue, be sure to fill your slow cooker above this line., Now that you’ve done a bit of prep work, it is time to let your slow cooker clean itself. Begin this process by adding 1 cup (240 ml) of distilled white vinegar for a 6 quart slow cooker (or ½ cup for a 3 quart) to the warm water in your slow cooker., Next, add your baking soda. It is important to add this very slowly! Add a little bit at a time, let the bubbles die down, and then add a bit more. You will add a total of 1 cup (240 ml) for a 6 quart slow cooker (or ½ cup for a 3 quart). In other words, you will add equal parts vinegar and baking soda.Vinegar and baking soda are naturally abrasive, so these products make excellent cleansers.
 Now, close the lid, plug in your slow cooker, and set it to its lowest setting. (If your slow cooker has only one setting, that is fine.) Avoid using the "high" setting, as this can cause the vinegar and baking soda to bubble over., Leave your slow cooker to self-clean for at least three (or up to eight) hours. If your slow cooker has lots of built up grime, it is a good idea to leave it overnight., After a few hours (or as long as overnight), turn off and unplug your slow cooker. Be careful, as it will be very hot. Allow your slow cooker to cool down for 30-45 minutes., Once your slow cooker has cooled, carefully empty the liquid into the sink. Now rinse your slow cooker with warm water once again., After this self-cleaning process, any gunk and food residue should easily wipe clean. Use a sponge and hot soapy water to remove any final traces of food and/or vinegar and baking soda. After this, your slow cooker is ready to use!