 It is important that your cat stays hydrated during the hot summer months. Change its water every day and make sure that it has access to that water at all times.If your cat is spending a lot of time outside, you should put a fresh bowl of water outside for it, as well as a bowl inside. A cat spending the day outside needs a guaranteed source of water in order to stay hydrated.
If the day is especially hot, put a few ice cubes in your cat's water bowl at the beginning of the day. This will keep the water cooler throughout the day.;
, If your home is especially warm, make a game out of cooling your cat down. Put a few ice cubes on the floor and let your cat play with them. If you have an active cat, it will enjoy the game and get cooled down at the same time.


Different cats will have vastly different reactions to ice. Some will ignore it, some will play with it, some will lick it, and some will probably even lay on it. It's fun to see what your cat will do!
You can also give your cat a cool treat by freezing its favorite wet food in a ice tray or small plastic cup and then giving it to the cat in its food bowl. The cat will need to work a little harder to eat its food but the frozen food will cool the cat down in the process.
 Cats that are old or that are ill will have a harder time regulating their body temperature than cats that are young and healthy. Because of this, you will need to be especially careful about keeping an old or unhealthy cat cool in the summer.


Cats that are overweight may also have a hard time getting rid of excess heat, as their additional weight interferes with the regulation of their body temperature.You should be more concerned about keeping them cool than you would be for a skinny cat.
 It is especially important to keep a cat inside while there is an extreme heat advisory. In extreme temperatures, your cat will have a hard time finding anywhere outside that it cool enough to avoid heatstroke, in addition to having a hard time finding sources of water.Make sure that your cat doesn't have any way of escaping the house.
 While it's not a good idea to shave your cat, as its hair actually helps to regulate its body temperature, removing your cat's excess fur is a good idea.Give your cat a good brush so that its thick undercoat is removed regularly.


Spending the time to brush your cat also allows you to inspect your cat's body for injuries or infections, such as fleas or ticks.
 It is never a good idea to leave any pet in a sealed car, especially on a warm summer day. Temperatures can climb rapidly in the summer and the temperature in a sealed car can grow to a temperature that threatens your cat's life very quickly. If you are traveling in a car with a cat, make sure that the car is cool and that the cat is out of the direct sunlight.

