 Singer-songwriters, solo concert vocalists, and other performers who sing by themselves are usually intimate, personal artists. Your goal as a singer is to make the audience feel like they're alone in a room with you, getting to see a deeply personal and affected side of yourself.


Where can you growl a line angrily, or falter sadly over a heartbroken line? How can you sing the lyrics in a unique, personal way.
A good strategy is to think about each song as if it is the first time you've ever sung it. If you were speaking the lyrics to a close friend, how would they make your behave?
While he has a band behind him, check out Eric Clapton's performance on "Unplugged," especially the song "Tears in Heaven," for well-emoted singing.
 Luciano Pavarotti has one of the most expressive and well-acted performances around, using big gestures and emotional facial expressions to truly embody his songs. This is especially important for his songs, which are in a variety of languages that the audience may need cues to understand, but any singer can learn from his facial expressions and powerful yet personalized posture.


Even if you're playing an instrument, you can use your arms to spur on the audience or add drama, using bigger movements than necessary and putting a little theatricality into your play.
 When you're playing alone you have much more room for improvisation and personality. The most obvious example is the tempo, which you get to set by yourself without worrying if a band will follow. If you're feeling high energy, push the speed a bit. If the song requires something more thoughtful and contemplative, slow things down a bit. Similarly, your singing and playing volume can be adjusted to add nuance to your singing performance -- louder for expressive, big emotions and quieter for contemplative sections.


This is just as important within songs, as you can modulate tempo and volume to create tension and suspense while you play. Doing so is called "dynamics.", What you say is up to you, but a good rule of thumb is to keep it short and sweet. Don't be afraid to cycle the same stories and comments in, especially if they go well with one audience. Some ideas of things to say include:


Stories about the song's inspiration or writing process
Comments on the location, venue, or event.
A personal anecdote from your day or week.
Questions or comments on people in the audience.
Thanks and gratitude for coming and enjoying your music.
 Make a point to face, sing to, and look at every section of the room. A good way to do this is to just create a simple pattern, such as turning back and forth, but as you get better you'll find more natural ways to pull it off. Use your eyes to bring as many audience members into your world as possible, and don't be afraid to look right at people.


The easiest way to scan the audience is to look right over the top of the heads of people in the middle seats, turning right and left from there., The best way to act naturally on stage is to just keep doing it. The more you get in front of people and start playing, the more second-nature the entire thing becomes, allowing you to express more and more of your personality while you play. Instead of putting on airs or playing a character you're not comfortable as, just focus on playing the very best song that you can. More times than not your expression and body language will naturally follow suit., Watching and listening to your old performances is the best way to get the audience's perspective, and to see where certain sections could use improvement. When watching yourself, try not to be too critical, as it is easy to beat yourself up for small mistakes. Instead, pay attention to the audience. What gets the biggest claps, where do people seem a little bored, and how long does it take them to get into the mood of each song?

