 Even abusive relationships can seem wonderful, even “perfect,” at the beginning. The abusive partner may be attentive and demonstrate his/her love in extravagant ways. You may hope that you can get the relationship back to this idealized state by staying, but this is extremely unlikely.Abusers often go through a “honeymoon period” early in the relationship. They may appear to be the ideal partner. You may feel as though you are the center of his/her world, or that s/he is “too good to be true.” The abuser will slowly condition you to accept his/her abusive behavior as signs of “love” for you.
Physical abuse rarely happens in isolation from other abuses. Abusers use a variety of abusive techniques, from physical violence to emotional, sexual, and psychological abuse, to force their victims to accept their control.
 There are many types of physical abuse. Physical violence is more than just hitting, choking, or kicking you. All of the following are types of physical violence:Denying you the right to meet basic needs, such as food and sleep
Destroying property or breaking things
Physically keeping you from leaving the house, going to the hospital, or calling emergency services
Threatening you with a weapon
Kicking you out of the house or the car
Driving aggressively or dangerously while you are in the car
Physically abusing your children
Leaving you alone or abandoning you in strange or dangerous places

, If your partner throws or breaks things when s/he’s angry or harms you, this is a sign that s/he needs counseling. It is also a sign that violence within the relationship could escalate later.Healthy relationships do not use yelling, hitting, choking, or breaking things as a way to express anger, even when couples fight.Remember: you have a right not to feel afraid in your relationship.
 Another way abusers control their partners is by controlling their access to healthcare, especially sexual healthcare.This is a form of physical abuse because you have the right to determine how you care for your own body. The following are some signs of abuse in this area:


Your partner comes with you to your doctor and does not let you speak. S/he attempts to answer all the questions for you. S/he may not let you see the doctor by yourself.Your partner does not allow you to seek medical attention.Your partner requires you to do things that damage your health, such as use drugs or alcohol.Your partner controls your access to and use of birth control.Your partner does not use safer sex practices.Your partner controls your decisions about pregnancy and/or abortion.