 The Vans Authentic is the classic canvas-and-rubber low-top shoe that most people are casually familiar with, even if they may not know it. These shoes, which bear a passing resemblance to Converse's classic Chuck Taylors and come in a wide variety of colors, are highly versatile. Authentics will look good with almost any casual outfit, so feel free to experiment!Pairs well with: Jeans, t-shirts, hoodies, printed long-sleeve shirts, skirts, vintage wear.







Style tip: Match the color of your Authentics to the clothes on your upper body for a deliberate, put-together look.





;
, Slip-ons are all about ease. With no laces to bother with, a pair of slip-ons can come on (and off) in seconds, making them perfect for when you're on the go. Slip-ons aren't just a high-class version of slippers, however — just like Authentics, they look good with virtually any casual outfit.



Pairs well with: Jeans, t-shirts, shorts, sweats, PJs, yoga pants, skirts, denim cut-offs, skinny jeans.







Style tip: Keep a pair of slip-ons by the door for convenience's sake — this way, you'll look good even when you have to rush out of the house at a moment's notice.
 Vans' "C&L" (or "canvas and leather") line of shoes looks just like ordinary Authentics, but with real leather trim along the top of the tongue and heel. This minor change makes a world of difference, giving the shoes an air of class similar to what you'd get from a nice pair of topsiders or yacht shoes. Though these shoes look good everywhere, they're best with outfits that are just a little more formal than you might ordinarily wear with Vans.



Pairs well with: Fitted jeans, blazers, semi-formal button-ups, sweaters, semi-formal skirts and dresses.

Style tip: For the best possible look, take care of your leather. If it gets dirty, clean it gently with a damp cloth. If it gets wet, allow it to dry slowly at room temperature (drying too fast can cause it to crack.) If it gets too dry, rub a little leather care cream into it., Vans has a wide range of low-tops made from canvas with a printed pattern on it. These patterns can range from well-known designs like camouflage and floral prints to more unconventional designs like bandana patterns, starry nebulae, and much more. Though the best outfit for each shoe depends on what the pattern is, in general, these shoes are best for giving yourself a "hipster" or "indie" look, as they tend to be popular with the young "in-the-know" crowd.



Pairs well with: Skinny jeans, chinos, band tees, flat-billed baseball caps, "punk" wear, "hip hop" wear, fake glasses, weird haircuts.







Style tip: The variety of patterns available for purchase are constantly changing, so check online for the latest deals and limited-edition items. For instance, for the 2014 holiday season, Vans released a limited-edition shoe patterned with the artwork from ska-punk band Sublime's album 40 oz. To Freedom in honor of the band.