 Most of the anticonvulsants used in dogs are either ineffective, or toxic, to cats. However, phenobarbital has been shown to be effective and safe. The medication works to keep your cat from experiencing seizures.Phenobarbital is available as a tablet or syrup, and is generally administered two, or in some cases three, times a day.
The starting dose of phenobarbital is 1 to 2mg per kg, twice a day. Thus, an average-sized cat requires 1.7 milliliters (0.06  fl oz) of 15 mg/ml phenobarbital elixir twice a day.
Some cats seem to break phenobarbital down unusually quickly, in which case dosing three times a day is advised.
 Clusters, or groups of seizures, come about because the first seizure creates a pathway in the brain that makes it easier for another one to follow along behind the first. Diazepam works by slowing down brain activity so that it is less reactive, making it more difficult for the electrical activity associated with a seizure to build.After a seizure, the easiest way to administer diazepam is as a rectal suppository, or insertion, where it is rapidly absorbed across your cat’s rectal mucosa. The dose per cat is one 5 mg dosing syringe.
 The immediate side effects include sedation, and increased appetite and thirst. The sedation should wear off after a few days as your cat’s body acclimatizes to the new medication.


If the sedation does not wear off in a few days time, call your vet right away.
 Phenobarbital is deactivated by the liver and should never be given to cats with liver disease. This is because if your cat’s body has a reduced capacity to metabolize phenobarbital, the drug could build up in your cat’s system and become toxic. If your cat is experiencing this, he may seem overly sedated, have difficulty walking, or act like he has been drugged.Diazepam is considered controversial because in rare cases the drug can trigger fatal liver failure. This is an idiosyncratic reaction, which is another way of saying scientists haven't got to the bottom of why it happens.

