






To create a new iMovie project, go to the "File" tab located along the top menu pane of the iMovie window. Select "New Project"; this will bring up a dialog box prompting you to name your project. Type in a name for your project in the "Project Name" field then select the "Aspect Ratio" option you want to create your iMovie project in. Click "Create."







, This will bring up a window displaying all of your still images in the bottom right hand corner of the iMovie window. The drop-down menu at the top of this display window allows you to sort through you photos by displaying through options such as "Last 12 Months," "Events," "Photo Albums," by date, by photo program, or by viewing all the photos in your computer's library. You can also search for specific images by using the search field located at the bottom of the photo display window.
 To drag more than 1 image at a time, click on an image, then hold down the "Shift" key on you computer's keyboard and either using your keyboard's arrows to highlight more than 1 image or click on each image you want to add simultaneously.
 If you have selected more than 1 image to add, all of the highlighted images will drag at the same time.
 If you are placing still images in specific spots within your iMovie project, be sure to drag and drop them where you want them to play within your other iMovie images or clips. These images will now display in the preview screen to the right of the timeline screen and are ready for editing.
 An icon including a tropical picture with a camera in front of it designates the iPhoto program.



 ;
, To select multiple still images to add, hold down the "Shift" key on your keyboard while clicking on the specific images you want to add.
, These images you have added will now show up in your clip timeline as well as display in the preview screen directly to the right of the timeline window. You can now edit and add effects to your still image iMovie project with the iMovie program features.

