 If you don't have a brown suit yet, you may be wondering what shade of brown would work best for you. If you have dark hair and/or a dark or ruddy complexion, a darker shade of brown will complement your features. That said, a light brown or tan suit is better for professional use, especially in warmer climates.Dark brown suits are better if you like to incorporate color into your outfits.
Lighter browns will go better with neutral features of an outfit, as well as pastel colors.;
, In terms of fabric, wool is best. It is natural and durable. It also breathes well, looks great, and can be woven into many different weights and textures.The best type of wool will be labeled "worsted" and/or "high-twist."
Cotton is an acceptable material for men's suit as well, especially if you live in a warmer climate. Go for a cotton suit with a bit of lycra woven in for added stretch and color retention.
 Crisp, clean white or a light shade of blue are the best colors for a button down shirt beneath a brown suit. For a bit more formal look, go with white. Light blue, meanwhile, balances many lighter shades of brown very well.Beige and tweed can also be considered variations of light brown. As such, suits and jackets of these colors will also look best with light blue or white shirts.
 If your suit is on the darker end of the brown spectrum, you have a bit more flexibility regarding the color of your shirt. For instance, consider a light brown or a bold jewel tone, such as emerald, ruby, blue, or purple.White is still the best option for more formal events, and ivory can look great with especially dark brown tones.
 Reds, oranges, and softer yellows compliment many browns, especially lighter and moderate browns. A muted red or burnt orange tie on a light blue shirt beneath a mid brown suit is a classic, reliable look., For the most formal way to wear a brown suit, wear a black tie on a white shirt. Thin black ties will look especially good. If you want to go with a white shirt but don’t need to be particularly formal, you have more freedom to experiment with lively, patterned ties.You can even get away with a jolt of bright color on a tie that is paired with a brown suit and white shirt. For instance, a blue or green tie can brighten up an otherwise neutral look.
 If you’re wearing a brown suit but don’t need a tie, you have lots of options regarding a shirt. Stripes and gingham patterns, especially with reds, oranges, or purples will work well as long as they’re complimented with a dash of confidence.A plaid that incorporates greens and/or blues can work well too.

