 Her family will like someone who looks mature and put together. Don't wear jeans that hang to the floor. That looks cheap. Even though it may sound really stupid, do your hair, because ratty hair is unprofessional. Be you, but be clean cut.;
, The words "Sir" and "Ma'am" may seem outdated, but they are very useful for having the appearance of class and charisma. Also, ALWAYS use "Please" and "Thank you". Depending on the mother, "Miss" may be more appropriate- its connotation is younger and more vivacious.
 If you do they probably won't want you dating their daughter It is something that may be fine in the future, but is not respectful to begin with.
 They need to know the real you!

, Try not to be too nervous. Most families are not really gunning for you - they realize their daughter has feelings for you and believe it or not, they want to like you (who wants to believe their daughter is in love with some lowlife?), so just take a deep breath and remember that you're there for your girl.
 Avoid using slang, and most especially, do not swear or use insulting or derogatory language in their home.
 When your hand is grasp, grasp their hand warmly, not to too tight, and definitely not too limp. Look them right in the eye and say, "It's so nice to meet you finally." It will make a nice impression.
 It can be, "this is a nice home," or "What a beautiful scarf, Mrs. Cruz."

, Similarly, don't keep checking your watch or phone for the time - the last thing you want is for them to think you are counting the minutes until you can get away.
 It's fine to talk about your work, your hobbies, your family. But be humble (without being overly self-deprecating) and show an interest in their activities and livelihoods - what they say to you will be far more important than what you say to them if they feel you are interested in them. They will tend to like you better if you show an interest in the things they are interested in - just like anyone will.
 Though this was mentioned before, it's is one of the key essentials. If you're a funny guy, mix a joke or two in the conversation. If you are musically incline, mention an instrument you play, or a group you think they'd like.
 Treat her parents with respect. If you respect them , you get on their good side. If you respect their daughter in front of them, they'll see that you are indeed a good fellow, and will like you more.
 It will not only show them that you have common ground with them, but your girlfriend will love that fact that you and her parents have something in common. It'll be something calming, soothing, and sweet.

