 Wear disposable latex gloves to protect your hands from contact with the feces. Get a plastic bag so that you can drop soiled items dirt into. The goal is to avoid spreading the mess anywhere else in the house.
 You want to get to it before it dries onto the surface. This is best done by mopping up using disposable kitchen paper, or by using old towels which can be thrown away afterwards.
 If there is fecal matter caught in the carpet, try using the side of a butter knife or cake slice lifter in a sideways stroking motion to try and encourage the matter to the surface and pick it free.


This should be done before you introduce any cleaners to the surface.
 Once the bulk of the "spill' is gone, press down gently onto it with a paper towel, or other type of disposable towel, to mop up as much moisture as possible. Be sure to avoid excessive amounts of pressure, as this can push the debris deeper into the carpet.


Then spritz the area with cold water and blot again, repeating until all visible signs of the feces are gone. The goal is to rinse the area without fully drenching the area with water, as this could drive the stain further down into the carpet.
Try to avoid rubbing the carpet where possible. This can damage the fibers, thus altering the texture and appearance.
 If you have a wet-dry carpet cleaner run that over the area. The cleaner will soak the area in carpet shampoo and suck it out again. Be sure to spend plenty of time concentrating on sucking up the soiled shampoo, so that you remove as much of the soiled water as possible.


Repeat this several times for maximum benefit.
If you do not own a wet-dry carpet cleaner then consider hiring one or employing a professional carpet cleaning company to do there best. However, be aware that diarrhea can and does stain, so if you cannot get the carpet cleaned swiftly, (before it dries fully) then consider using these alternative methods by hand.



Spray the area with this solution and then soak up the excess.
To clean the solution out of the carpet spray the carpet with clean water and then blot it up as you did with the solution.
The benefit of this method is that it is good at removing odor, so even if the carpet is marked there is a reduced risk of odor attracting the dog back.
Test any cleaner on your carpet before using it. Test the color-fastness of the carpet in a discrete spot, where you won't notice too badly if the color does run. , You can sprinkle bicarbonate of soda into the carpet, then rinse with water. You can also use diluted vinegar to clean up the mess.

This cleaning solution is approximately one to one mix of white vinegar and water. So to 1 pint of white vinegar add 1 pint of water in a bowl. Soak the area with the mix and then blot. Repeat as many times as needed.

An alternative cleaning solution that has a strong deodorizing properties can be made by mixing 16 fluid ounces of hydrogen peroxide with 1 teaspoon of dish-washing liquid and 1 tablespoon of baking soda. Work this into the stain and leave it to soak in for 5 minutes. Absorb the excess with paper towel. Then use fresh water to rinse the area and gently mop up the excess with absorbent material.
As a final step you can sprinkle the area with bicarbonate soda and let it sit for an hour or so. This will pick up any lingering scents. Simply use your vacuum to pick up the bicarbonate soda when it is done.

