 If your baby has ringworm, your doctor will more than likely suggest an over-the-counter antifungal cream. This will help to kill the fungus causing the rash. Common brands of creams include Lamisil, Micatin, and Lotrimin. You can spread the cream over the rash. Make sure to spread at least one inch beyond the edge of the rash spot.Use the cream twice a day. Make sure to keep using the cream for a week after the rash has cleared up or until your doctor tells you to stop. It usually takes two to three weeks to completely clear up.
Make sure to wear gloves when you apply the cream. This will minimize your chance of catching ringworm or spreading it to other family members.
If you don't wear gloves, wash your hands thoroughly before and after applying the cream — including under the nails.
You may also use antifungal lotions or powders.
 Scalp ringworm can be a lot more difficult to get rid of than ringworm on other parts of the body. If your baby has ringworm on the scalp, your doctor will probably prescribe something stronger than over-the-counter creams. The child will usually be prescribed an oral antifungal, which may be administered for four to eight weeks.The doctor will probably also give you a special shampoo to wash your baby’s hair with to help get rid of the fungus and reduce contagiousness.
 Garlic has antifungal properties that can help treat the fungus responsible for ringworm. You can make a paste with crushed, raw garlic to spread over the rash. Crush two cloves of garlic and mix it with a carrier oil, like almond oil. Spread this paste onto the rash. Let it sit for 10 minutes before washing it off with warm water.You can do this two times a day.
You can also use garlic oil. Add two to three drops of garlic oil to four tablespoons of almond oil. Apply the mixture on the rash. Leave for 10 minutes, and then rinse with warm water. You can do this two times a day.
Make sure to test any paste or oil mixture on a small patch of your baby’s skin before using it. Your baby’s skin may too sensitive for the garlic.
Make sure that you consult your doctor before using any natural, at-home remedies.
 Coconut oil has antifungal properties which can help to kill the fungus responsible for ringworm. Make sure to use coconut oil that is unrefined and not hydrogenated. You can spread the coconut oil over the ringworm and leave overnight.You can apply coconut oil once every day.

