 Find a set of stairs that are not too steep and that are 30 or more steps high. Start off by running up one flight of stairs, then walk down one. Next, run up two flights and walk down one. Finally, run up three flights and walk down one, completing the circuit. Complete the whole circuit as many times as possible in 20 minutes.


If you are having a hard time finding stairs, check the local high school stadium or local sports field. Bleachers are great for this workout.If you find yourself unsteady, use the handrail just to be safe.
Make sure there are no other people on the stairs. You don't want to hit them and it will also make you unstable.
This is a great cardio exercise as well as beneficial for your legs. The more your heart rate is up, the more fat and calories you will burn. Do this exercise for longer periods of time to increase intensity and burn more calories.;
, To do this, stand with feet shoulder width apart, toes out. Step out to the right side, squatting down until your knees are at 90 degrees. Stand back up, bringing your foot back to your starting position. Do the same on the left side to complete an entire rep. Do 15 reps.


To add extra weight and work your arms as well, try holding one 3 to 10 pound weight in each hand.
 Get on your hands and knees with your back straight, arms shoulder width apart, and your legs hip width apart. With your leg still bent at 90 degrees, lift one leg, pushing your heel to the ceiling until your thigh is almost parallel to the floor. Hold for 3 seconds, squeezing your leg and butt muscles. Lower your leg until the knee is back on the floor. Do 2-3 sets of 20 reps with each leg.


Your movements should be controlled and slow and your back straight. You work your muscles harder this way but you don't risk injury., Stand with your legs hip width apart with your feet, knees, and hips in perfect alignment. Pushing on the balls of your feet, raise your heels. Hold for 2 seconds, making sure to keep your ankles from turning out or twisting. Return to start. Do 3 sets of 30.


You can hold hand weights or a kettlebell to add weight to your lifts.
To intensify the lift, stand on a stair, a phone book, or other small, stable surface with your heels hanging slightly over the side. Raise up like normal, but when you come back down, drop your heels lower to make a deeper stretch., With your feet hip-width apart, slowly lower into a squat, keeping your knees over your toes. Slowly stand and lift one leg far out to the side. Bring it back down into standing position. Do 2-3 sets of 20 reps on each leg.To add intensity, you can add a resistance band around your ankles. This will engage your muscles when you are in your squat and add weight and intensity to your leg lift.
 Stand with your legs slightly bent with a 3-10 pound weight in each hand. Bend at the waist until upper body is parallel to floor; letting weights travel down your thighs, keeping your back straight, and your knees slightly bent. Reverse the movement, including the weights, back up thighs as you clench your thigh muscles. Repeat 20 times.


Unlike the squat, you keep your legs straight with only a slight bend in the knee. Make sure you don't lock your knees in order to prevent injury and discomfort.
You can also do this exercise with a barbell if you want more weight. When bending over, gently slide the barbell down and up your thighs as you complete the movement., Stand with legs shoulder width apart. Bending down in a lunge, step your right leg diagonally behind you toward the left side in a curtsy, bending your left leg 90 degrees. Bend your right arm up with your hand by your face and hold your left arm down beside you for balance. As you stand back up, move your right leg back to center, setting it down. Go straight into the next lunge, starting the next rep.Do this exercise slowly at first while you get used to the movements. You can easily lose your balance or twist a muscle.
Switch sides each time you lunge with a small hop in between to add a cardio portion to this exercise.
To increase intensity, pause in your lunge for a few counts or, after the lunge, bring your knee up towards your chest instead of standing straight., Stand with your legs together and your hands by your side. Jump your legs out and raise your arms, just like a typical jumping jack. When you jump back in, bend down and touch your toes, engaging your leg muscles. Do reps for 30 to 50 seconds.This exercise is a great cardio workout as well. Try to increase your time as you get stronger.
 Start standing on one foot. Jump on that foot from side to side, holding your arms at 90 degree angles beside you for balance. Do this for 30 to 50 seconds on one side, rest for a minute, and then do it on the other.


You can start off jumping at a slow pace until you get the hang of it, but try to increase your speed and your time for a better cardio workout and muscle training.Make sure you engage your leg muscle for the best stability.

