 If you know the title of the book you want, use this as your search term. If you don't, try entering the author's name or specific keywords — things that describe what the book is about.


For example, if you're looking for the Hunger Games novels but you can't remember their titles, you might try searching for "dystopia teen" or similar keywords.;
, When you search for books, you'll get a page of results that Google thinks match your search terms. Scroll down the page to see the different books available.


If you don't see the book you're looking for, you may need to adjust your search terms and try again.
 This will load the book's preview page. Here, you'll often be able to read some (but usually not all) of the book's pages by scrolling down on the right side of the screen.
 On the left side of the screen, you'll see a few options for getting the book you're looking at. In the top left will be an orange button allowing you to get a copy of the ebook. Below this, you'll see a link that says "Get this book in print." Click this link.


Clicking this link will display a list of the online stores where print versions of this book can be bought (e.g., Amazon.com, Barnes&noble.com, etc.) Click any one of these options to proceed to the seller's website. If the list of sellers is too long to display, click the "All sellers" link to see the rest.
 You can also see if the book is available in libraries near you by clicking the "Find in a library" link. This will take you to the Worldcat.org page for the book, which, among other things, lists library availability. Scroll down on the book's page to see libraries near you that carry the book.


Note that this feature doesn't always perfectly, so you may need to enter your search terms again on Worldcat.org.
 Once you click on the link for the online seller you want to use, you'll be transferred to a new site where you can buy the book. Every online seller is a little different, so the exact sequence of clicks you'll need to make will vary from site to site, but the process is usually self-explanatory.


Generally, you'll want to click the book's title once you transfer to the new site, then click the "add to cart" or similar option on the book's page. Finally, click the "proceed to checkout" option and enter your payment and shipping information as directed. You will usually need to sign up for a free account with the seller to buy your book.
See our guide to buying items on Amazon for step-by-step directions for using one of the internet's most popular retailers to buy your book.

