 Learning new skills can help you out of future predicaments or impress your friends! You can try skills that capture your interest, or you can try to learn skills that are related to each other to build mastery in that area. Some suggestions for you to consider are:


Sleight of hand

Draw/paint

Juggle
Marksmanship
Fish
Martial arts
Poi
Car maintenance
Stained glass;
, Hobbies can be any activity that you do regularly for fun. A hobby can be done on your own or with others who share your interest, which can be anything from gardening to collecting moths. Some classic hobbies, like stamp collecting, might seem old fashioned, but you never know when an old or new hobby might make your time more meaningful and fun.



Origami can help you transform scrap paper into animals, shapes, ninja stars and more.

Become a puzzle master and test the strength of your mind. Try your hand at jigsaw puzzles, mechanical puzzles like a Rubik's Cube, or solve a chess puzzle.

Check out bug collecting. Entomology has been fascinating children and adults for hundreds of years.

Try creative writing or poetry. Picking up a pen and paper, you might find that filling the paper makes your time pass more pleasantly.

Take up hiking and explore your local area. Look for short cuts that you might use in the future. Take pictures with your cell phone of any cool sights and share them later with your friends or family.

Become the next crypto-expert, and learn the secrets of cryptography. Cryptography is the systematic practice of writing or breaking codes.

Pursue astronomy with a telescope and peer at the mysteries of our universe.
 This is a great way for you to delve into an area of interest while exercising or going for a walk. Podcasts can also make tedious tasks, like laundry or picking up, a lot more tolerable.
 Though you might thing of reading as a school-only exercise, reading is a proven way of relaxing.What could be better than exploring a world of your own imagining?



Speed reading is a skill you will never regret learning.
Check out comic books and graphic novels. Since the late '80s, artists have pushed the boundaries of comics to include themes more thought provoking and true to life.Even though it's a comic book, you might find you identify deeply with characters you read about, and the artistry that brings them to life.
Put on your sleuth's hat and pick up a mystery! You can watch Sherlock Holmes on TV, certainly, but you can join Sherlock Holmes in solving a mystery in a book.
Look to the future and indulge in a sci-fi adventure. These don't have to be your typical romp through outer space -- you might travel through time, or down a wormhole to another dimension eerily similar to your own.
Read biographies of people you admire and public figures you identify with. This can give you insight to their lives, and also some insight into your own.
 If you don't have a pet, you can always ask your neighbor if they might let you take their pup for a walk around the park. Taking dog for a walk has many benefits, including decreasing stress and an increased sense of well-being.Spending some time with a fuzzy companion can add some pep to your after school routine.
 Your working memory functions better when you go for a walk, which helps with reasoning, making your walk an ideal moment to puzzle out any problems you might have.Walking has many benefits for your health and mood, and walking in nature has been shown to reduce stress.