 Wash 2 ripe Haas avocados and use a sharp knife to cut them in half. Remove the pit from each avocado and use the knife to score the flesh of the avocados. Scoop out the flesh and cut it into rough pieces. Put the avocado into a blender.The avocados should be slightly soft to the touch. If you pop off the small stem, the flesh underneath should be green, not dark.
 Wash 1 small onion, 1 small green bell pepper, 1 medium jalapeno, a handful of cilantro, and a handful of parsley. Use a sharp knife to carefully cut the onion into four large pieces and put them in the blender. Trim off the stems from the bell pepper and jalapeno. Wash out the seeds to remove them and chop the peppers into rough pieces. Place the peppers in the blender. You'll also need to chop enough herbs to get:1/2 cup (15 g) of packed cilantro leaves
1/4 cup (5 g) of packed parsley leaves

, Put the chopped herbs in the blender. Measure out 1/4 cup (60 ml) of white vinegar, 1 tablespoon of lime juice, and 2 medium cloves of garlic and add them to the blender.Wait to add the salt and pepper until the salsa is blended. This will give you a chance to taste the salsa and adjust the seasonings right before you serve it.
 Put the lid on the blender and pulse the ingredients, so the produce is diced. Stop every once in a while to scrape down the sides of the blender with a rubber spatula. If large chunks of produce are blocking the blender blades, you may need to remove the blender from the base and carefully move the produce.If your blender isn't very powerful, consider cutting the produce into smaller pieces. This will help the blender combine the salsa.
 Put the lid back on the blender, but leave the feed tube open. Turn the blender on and slowly pour in 1/3 cup (78 ml) of olive oil. Blend the creamy avocado salsa until the salsa is smooth. Take the lid off and taste the salsa. Stir in salt and pepper according to your preference.Adding the olive oil while the blender runs will emulsify the salsa. This will prevent the oil from separating as it sits.

