 Computers, televisions, cell phones, and other devices can make it harder for you to wind down and fall asleep. These devices can also affect the quality of your sleep.Try to turn off all of these devices at least 30 minutes before you plan to go to bed.


Avoid watching television in bed, reading in bed, or doing anything else that might activate your mind. Your bedroom activities should be limited to sleep and sex.
Another strategy to use for your computer is using software that adjusts the light on your computer based upon the time of day.
 Dimming the lights in your bedroom will help to send the signal to your brain and body that it is time for sleep. Make sure that the lights in your home are turned down low about 30 minutes before bedtime.


It is best to make your room as dark as possible when you go to sleep, but you can have a dim light if needed. Try plugging in a night light or using a flameless candle to provide some soothing dim light in your bedroom.
If your room gets a lot of light from outside sources, then you can try using light blocking curtains or wear a sleep mask., Music can help you to relax and start to drift off to sleep as well. If you have a hard time sleeping with music playing, then you might enjoy some white noise instead, such as some rain sounds or the sound of ocean waves crashing on a beach.


A fan or air purifier will also provide you with some soothing white noise.
White noise helps to raise the sound threshold so that you will not be startled awake by normal ambient noises, such as a passing car or barking dog., A cool temperature is best for sleeping. Before you go to bed, adjust the temperature in your bedroom so that it is somewhat cool, around 60 to 67°F (15.5 to 19.4°C).You can experiment within this range to see what works best for you.


If your bedroom gets hot in the summer, you can use a fan or air conditioning unit to cool down your room.
 Your pinched nerve pain might have you feeling anxious and stressed and this can make it hard to fall asleep. To help yourself relax, try using a relaxation aid. Some good choices include:



Deep breathing. Taking slow deep breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth may also make it easier for you to fall asleep and stay asleep.

Progressive muscle relaxation. Progressive muscle relaxation is where you gradually tense and release your muscles, starting with your toes and moving up to the top of your head. This exercise can help you to feel calmer and prepare you for a good night’s sleep.Herbal tea. Sipping a cup of herbal tea before bedtime may also help you fall asleep. Some good choices include chamomile, peppermint, rooibos, and herbal blends that have been specially formulated to promote rest and relaxation.

