 The ideal way to get DHA into your system is through natural means, but if you are unable to consume enough DHA naturally, a dietary supplement can help. Your physician knows your personal medical history, so he or she will be able to make a more precise recommendation concerning supplement type and dosage.


This is especially true if you are at risk for a medical condition that DHA and other omega-3 fatty acids can help treat. This may include heart disease, high triglycerides, rheumatoid arthritis, depression, asthma, ADHD, Alzheimer’s disease, and dementia.Some medical conditions may make omega-3 supplements unsafe. For instance, if you have a bleeding condition or take a medication that may increase bleeding (blood thinners and some NSAIDs), omega-3 fats can further increase bleeding., Many fish oil supplements contain both DHA and EPA. They make a suitable alternative if you do not eat fish, are vegetarian or have an allergy to seafood. For most healthy adults, taking 3000 to 4000 mg of fish oil per day is safe and appropriate.Always check the label for exact dosage instructions.
The exact amount of DHA and EPA in each capsule will vary by brand, so check the label to determine how much DHA is included. This information should be listed on the nutrition fact panel on the container.
Fish oil supplements are not recommended for infants and small children due to the EPA they contain. This EPA can negatively impact the balance between DHA and EPA during early developmental stages., Algae-based supplements only contain DHA and do not contain EPA or ALA (alpha linoleic acid). These types of supplements are appropriate for those following a vegan or vegetarian diet or have seafood allergies.


For most healthy adults, taking about 200 mg of algae oil daily is safe and appropriate.The amount of DHA is almost exactly the same as the total dosage for most algae supplements.
 Although your body can convert some ALA (alpha linoleic acid) into DHA, it's not a very efficient process.It's not likely that you can consume enough ALA to meet the minimum recommendations for EPA or DHA.


If trying to increase the amount of DHA you consume, avoid purchasing or consuming ALA based supplements or relying on foods high in ALA to meet your daily DHA needs.
Foods high in ALA include: walnuts, flaxseeds, canola oil and chia seeds.ALA supplements include walnut or flaxseed oil and do not contain DHA.

