 If your dog is hungry or left out in the yard all day every day, she will probably bark. No amount of training or behavioral techniques will subdue her need for food and comfort. Make sure your dog always has plenty of cool, clean water to drink any time she needs it, two to three nutritious meals each day, and access to the inside of your home.
 Sometimes barking is your dog's way of indicating to you that she is injured or sick. If there is a chance that your dog might have some medical problem or injury, you should take her to see a vet as soon as possible., Teaching your dog the "quiet" command is an excellent training technique. It will be useful for any kind of problem barking, though it may be the only option for certain behavioral problems like territorial alarm barking.Any time your dog starts barking unnecessarily, hold up a treat to distract her from the perceived intruder.Once your dog has stopped barking, say the word "quiet" and give her the treat.Gradually lengthen the duration of time she must be quiet before getting the treat. Eventually, she should reach a point where simply saying the word "quiet" without showing her a treat will elicit a silent response., Exercise is a great way to curb problem behavior, including excessive barking. Whether your dog is anxious, territorial, or simply bored, getting a good workout will probably help reduce the frequency and intensity of her problem barking.Depending on your dog's age and physical abilities, you can exercise her in a number of ways. Long walks are good for older dogs, while younger dogs might enjoy going jogging with you, chasing a ball for a game of fetch, playing tug-of-war, or other interactive toys., If your dog has barking problems whenever she sees or hears something outside, a simple solution might be to block her access to seeing or hearing that trigger. If she stands at the window and barks, try putting up curtains or blinds so she can't see passing people or animals. If the sounds she hears outside tend to set her off, try leaving a radio on during the day to distract her and muffle the sounds outside your home., There are many different types of dog behavior specialists, each with their own unique qualifications. No matter what kind of expert you choose, you should always check the person's qualifications and look for recommendations or reviews online. If you can't find an expert online, ask your vet for recommendations on an expert who can help your dog with her unique needs.Trainers are often certified, but not always. Trainers may also go by other titles, such as behavior counselor, pet therapist, and pet psychologist.Certified Professional Dog Trainers (CPDTs) are certified by an independent organization. In order to become certified, a prospective CPDT must complete a rigorous hands-on training program, pass a standardized test, and provide letters of recommendation.Behaviorists may have a number of different types of titles, but essentially any kind of behaviorist must have earned a master's degree or a PhD in animal behavior. Typically a behaviorist with a doctoral degree will be called a Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist (CAAB), while a behaviorist with a master's degree will be called an Associate Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist (ACAAB)., Bark deterrents like anti-bark collars are very unpleasant for dogs, and should only be used as a last resort when no other method has worked. Some people oppose bark collars because of the perception that these bark deterrents are punishment devices. Training works much better than punishment devices, and training will of course provide the best long-term solutions to behavioral problems, but if training hasn't worked for your dog and your landlord has threatened eviction or police intervention, you may need to resort to a bark collar.Citronella collars deliver a small, short blast of citronella every time the dog barks. These types of collars have been shown to be at least as effective as electronic collars, and do not risk causing any pain or real discomfort to the dog.Ultrasonic bark collars deliver an ultrasonic noise that only dogs can hear. It is unpleasant for the dog, but does not cause any real pain.Shock collars are similar to citronella and ultrasonic collars, but instead deliver a brief electric shock to the dog's neck. These collars typically have a number of different settings to change how intense the shock is, and if using one of these collars it is best to use the lowest setting possible to prevent injury to the dog. Again, these should only be used as an absolute last resort.