 There will always be differences between you and your mate and these can usually be more extreme than in typical relationships. There will be differences in lifestyle, career, behaviors, and friends. The best thing you can do is understand these differences instead of getting emotional. Learn how to meet him halfway and understand when things don’t go your way.When you find yourself getting emotional, put yourself in his shoes. Being able to feel empathy will limit your need to be right and will instead strengthen your love.For example, imagine you want to go out to a rock concert on a Tuesday night but he opts out due to work. Understand that he has different priorities and that he doesn’t love you any less because of his response., In every relationship there will come a time when your mate will be down and out and your job will be to support him. Even though he may be facing problems that you may not understand, you should still be there to show him that when he breaks down, you will always be there to lift him up.Sometimes just being there to listen is a big help. Give him time and space to speak and listen without judgment.
Avoid false or empty reassurance such as “everything is going to be okay.” Instead, offer genuine words of encouragement only if he is willing to hear them., Sometimes older men tend to settle into a certain lifestyle to the point that it becomes boring and routine. Try to inspire him to do more and to be more. Usually it is the older man who motivates the younger female to achieve her dreams, but break that stereotype by encouraging him to do more with his life.


For example, encourage him to take the guitar lessons he always wanted or tell him about a new venture you’re taking on. , Instead of allowing differences to create conflict in your relationship, realize that differences can be a learning opportunity. With age comes completely different life experiences. Embrace them by teaching each other new and interesting things.When disagreements do arise, remind yourself to walk in his shoes. Just as you would respect a foreigner’s culture, you should also learn to respect your mate’s opinions and experiences.
 Learning to be good-natured and tolerant are great skills to learn. Your relationship will always present difficulties: whether it’s his busy work schedule or your frustration with new situations. Instead of getting overly emotional and throwing in the towel, be patient and attempt to work through problems.Learn to sit in your discomfort. Sometimes you will be angry, sad, or upset but instead of acting on your emotions, remember that your feelings are uncomfortable, not intolerable.When you recognize your feelings, learn to talk yourself out of them. Say things like, “I don’t like this feeling but I can manage it” or “This is what happens to me when I’m bothered, but I can handle it.”
Once the initial emotion passes you can effectively communicate concerns with your mate.

