 Spring and Autumn are definitely to be recommended as they are the most temperate months. However, if you do end up in Beijing in the summer, a parasol, a fan, and plenty of bottled water are all essential, and if you visit in the winter, plenty of layers and foil-wrapped, baked sweet-potatoes from the street vendors to warm your hands are a must!;
,


As long as you are sensible then you can stay safe and still have fun. Just don't get hoodwinked by the minority that see foreign visitors as an easy target!

, A bag with a zip and a fold-over flap is invaluable in keeping your stuff safe from pickpockets, plus a bit of vigilance on your part!

, Particularly in the tourist areas you will come across people with very good English who claim to be visiting from other provinces. They will invite you to visit somewhere with them. Make an excuse, or simply say no; however you do it, make sure you get out of it - definitely do not say yes! Whilst they may just be wishing to chat with you, the chances are that really they want your money. They will lead you to a tea-house (or some such thing), order a full tea ceremony and then feign shock when the bill arrives, insisting it doesn't cost nearly as much in their province and they're truly surprised before demanding that you pay as they cannot afford it. Often the shop-owners are parties to this little trick, and so many a poor soul has lost out on their RMB this way! Beware!

, Most are kind and helpful, but be aware at the tourist spots that there are those who seem a little too eager to chat.
 This can be very useful. Focus on key phrases so that you can ask basic questions and understand the answers, and be sure to remember how to say thank you!


People appreciate someone who has taken the time to learn at least a little of their language, and it's great in a city where it's easy to get lost if you're able to ask how to get home.
Speaking Chinese is also useful when shopping, though not essential. Still, a little bargaining in Chinese rather than English might just give you the edge, and the lower price!

, Don't lose your nerve - you learn quickly that the asking prices are usually wildly disproportionate to the actual cost. If you give your price and stick to it, even if you have to walk away, it's likely that you'll be chased down soon after with your offer accepted. Shopping is fun in Beijing and you can make some amazing savings as long as you stay strong!

, Avoid sensitive issues when talking, smile when you talk, and bear in mind that it is a land of ceremonies. Err on the side of caution and behave more formally than you would at home to refrain from unintentionally causing offense. A particular faux pas where Europeans and the British are concerned is exaggerated arm movements when talking - keep those hands folded! To fit in with local custom, ladies should wear clothes with a higher neckline too, so as not to cause a scandal.
 Beijingers are used to people from all over the world flying in these days and are generally very welcoming. Above all, enjoy the experience, make the most of it and have fun!

