 Bernese mountain dogs have special dietary needs. Since they are so large, these dogs need a dog food that is high-quality and provides a balance of nutrients. Look for dog foods that have real ingredients instead of fillers. The first three or four ingredients should be meat and vegetables. Meat by products and wheat should be farther down on the list.


If you are unsure of what to feed your dog, ask your vet or the breeder you get your dog from.
Bernese mountain dogs will live long, happy lives with these foods. However, look out for food sensitivity or intolerance in relation to certain ingredients. This can cause your dog to vomit, have diarrhea, or experience skin irritation.If this happens, see your vet to help determine what is causing the issue.;
, If you are unsure of certain foods, you may want to make your own dog food or put your Bernese mountain dog on a raw diet. This may be a good choice, but you will have to work with an animal nutritionist to make sure your dog is getting a balanced diet. This is important since your Bernese mountain dog, as well as all dogs, need certain nutrients to be healthy, just like humans.


Ask for a referral from your vet for a trusted and qualified animal nutritionist. There are also many online sources that describe the different homemade foods you can make., To avoid over or under feeding your dog, follow the suggested food amount on your pet's dog food. This will be a considerable amount since Bernese mountain dogs are so large, so make sure your dog is getting the right amount. To decrease this risk, feed your dog the recommended amount every day and avoid feeding her too many treats or table scraps.


Consider giving your pet natural treats, such a baby carrots or unsalted canned green beans., There are certain foods that can harm, and in some cases kill, your dog. This is because your dog's body cannot process certain foods, which is why the foods cause problems. Keep these away from your Bernese mountain dog, which can be more difficult since she can easily access counters and even low shelves. Keep these products in closed shelves that she cannot reach. These foods include:


Chocolate
Avocados
Grapes and raisins
Certain nuts
Alcohol
Onions, garlic and chives
Yeast dough
Sugar free foods, Although Bernese mountain dogs are large dogs, they can still be overweight. This may be hard to spot since they are already so big, but you should always be aware of your dog's weight. The recommended healthy weight for a female Bernese mountain dog is 100 pounds and 110 pounds or a little over for a male dog.


Your Bernese mountain dog is considered overweight if she weight 10 to 20% more than her ideal weight. This is around 110 to 120 pounds.
Anything more than 20% in weight is considered obese. Obesity can greatly decrease her lifespan and cause many health problems., Dogs need a constant supply of fresh and clean water to help them digest their food. Since Bernese mountain dogs are so large, she will likely drink more than a smaller dog, so keep a close watch on the water levels to ensure she has plenty.


You should also clean the water bowl every so often with dish soap and water, then rinse and dry it. This will cut down on any possibility of algae or bacteria that may grow in the bowl if not cleaned properly.

