 Because the parasite infection damages the lymph system, the most common symptom is lymphedema – fluid buildup and swelling. This usually occurs in the leg or legs, but can also occur in one or both arms, breasts, and the genitalia.Lymphedema will make the affected area feel puffy, heavy, and swollen; sometimes pressing the skin will leave a small dent due to the fluid buildup. If you experience lymphedema, you should absolutely see your doctor; you can also try to minimize symptoms by:Elevating and exercising the swollen limb to improve the movement of fluids.
Washing the affected area with soap and water daily to avoid skin infections.
Using antibacterial or antifungal cream as needed, and properly disinfecting any wounds. Washing, disinfecting and using fungal creams are meant to reduce infection of the affected leg. The swelling decreases circulation to the skin, so there is more risk for infection.;
, With a poorly functioning lymphatic system it’s also harder for your body to fight infections. Bacteria can more frequently infect the skin, especially the damaged skin of areas suffering from lymphedema. Over time this causes hardening and thickening of the skin, known as elephantiasis.You can’t really prevent lymphedema, but you can try to prevent elephantiasis by warding off skin infections.Keep your skin clean and dry as much as possible and use antibacterial soap on affected areas. Wash your hands regularly. Keep any wounds or cuts in the skin clean and covered until they heal.
 Men infected with LF may experience swelling in the scrotum. This is also due to fluid buildup, and is called a hydrocele.Sometimes hydroceles can resolve on their own after several months.However, with a poorly functioning lymph system, it likely requires surgical treatment., A rare disorder that can be caused by lymphatic filariasis is called pulmonary tropical eosinophilia syndrome. This is a pulmonary disorder (i.e. it affects the lungs), and can cause a persistent cough, shortness of breath, and wheezing or gasping for breath.Those infected usually live in Asia. If you experience these breathing symptoms and have spent time in tropical climates, get tested for LF.
Pulmonary tropical eosinophilia syndrome can be diagnosed with a blood test. Blood will show high levels of eosinophils, a certain type of blood cell that increases when your body is exposed to allergens or parasites. You will also have high levels of immunoglobulin E (IgE) and antifilarial antibodies., You are at the highest risk for infection if you spend a significant time (months to years) in a tropical or sub-tropical area where the disease is common (or endemic).The disease is present in over 73 countries in Asia, Africa, the Western Pacific, and some tropical areas of the Caribbean and South America (Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Guyana, and Brazil).Tourists visiting these areas for short times have a low risk of infection, but it’s still best to take preventative measures and be aware of symptoms., The majority of people infected with lymphatic filariasis will never develop symptoms. However, a small number of those infected may start to have symptoms after being infected for years.Even if you haven’t lived in an endemic area for years, always consider lymphatic filariasis as a possible cause of symptoms associated with lymphatic dysfunction and severe swelling.


Because there are other more common causes of lymphedema, it is important to tell your doctor if you have traveled to endemic areas. Your doctor is unlikely to consider filariasis without you sharing your travel history.
 An infection with lymphatic filariasis will show up on a blood test if a doctor has the equipment to look for the worms under a microscope. The worms are sometimes nocturnal and only circulate in the blood at night, so the blood test has to occur from blood taken at nighttime.However, because symptoms might not occur until years after infection, some patients with LF will have a negative blood test. Other methods of diagnosing LF use blood serum to look for antibodies to the worms, which can be more accurate.