 This includes both the planting depth of the plant as well as the container it is planted in.


A container that is dark-colored inside is the best. It will make your water garden appear deeper, as well as discourage algae.<ref.http://www.apartmenttherapy.com/container-water-120737</ref>

, Plan on having some rooted, floating plants, as well as marginal plants and submerged/oxygenating plants. This will give your water garden some variety. How many plants you have will depend on how much space you have in your container. Do not overcrowd your container; no more than one-half of the water's surface should be covered by floating plants.Rooted, floating plants include water lilies and lotuses.
Marginal plants, include water iris and dwarf papyrus.
Submerged (oxygenating) plants include anacharis and hornwort.
Floating plants include duckweed, fairy moss, and water hyacinth.
 Fill a cheap, plastic pot two-thirds of the way with heavy, clay loam/garden soil. Place the plant in the center of the soil, and top it off with a ½ -to ¾- inch (1.27 to 1.91 centimeters) layer of pea-sized pebbles or gravel. These pebbles will help anchor the plant and prevent the soil from leaking out.Do not use plain gardening soil; it is too light.
If you bought your plants already potted at a nursery, then you can skip this step because they already come potted.
Be careful; some plants are "floaters" and do not need to be planted!

, Keep the plants in their pots; this will allow you to rearrange your water garden at any time. How deep you plant everything will depend on the individual plant's needs; read the care label to find how deep you should plant it. Some plants need to be 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) under water while others need to be 12 to 18 inches (30.48 to 45.72 centimeters) under water.Use bricks to elevate shallow-water plants to the correct level.
Save the floating plants until after you add the water.
Don't overcrowd your planter. Remember, no more than half of the water's surface should be filled with plants.
 If you are using tap water, let it sit for 48 hours so that the chlorine can evaporate. You can also buy special de-chlorinating at the nursery.<ref.http://www.apartmenttherapy.com/container-water-120737</ref> Also, pay attention to the water temperature. Some plants like warmer waters while others prefer cooler. If the water is too cold, the plants will go dormant.


Most plants will do fine at 50°F (10°C), but some need at least 70°F (22°C).If you are using floating plants, now is the time to plop them in.
 Make sure that they get at least 6 hours of sunlight each day. You will also want to add extra water to the container every few days as the water evaporates.<ref.http://www.apartmenttherapy.com/container-water-120737</ref> Lastly, don't forget to give your plants some aquatic plant food and fertilizing tablets. If you live in a cool climate, you will need to overwinter your plants. You can do this by:Take the individual pots out of the water container.
Remove any dead or rotting leaves.
Place each pot in a plastic bag.
Store in a cool, dark place. Make sure that the temperatures stay at 50°F (10°C).
Replant everything in spring.

