 If your child does not meet an important milestone in speech development, take them to the doctor and have their hearing checked. Poor hearing often leads to poor speech development because the child is not able to hear and then reproduce normal speech. No matter the cause of the speech delay, your child’s doctor will be able to recommend next steps.The older your child is when they are diagnosed as having a speech delay, the less likely they are to catch up to their peers’ level of speech capabilities., If your child seems to not be as far along in their use of speech as another child, that’s okay. They will probably catch up. The child you’re comparing your own child to might be advanced in their own capabilities and learning. The rate at which your own child learns and uses speech depend on a number of factors, including:how much speech the child hears
what type of speech the child hears
what sort of reception the child gets when they attempt speech

, For instance, if your child is babbling and you don’t say something in “reply,” your child might decide to stop practicing their primitive attempts at communication. This could lead to speech delays later., Even before your child is old enough to understand or appreciate a story, you should read to them. As you read along, you might show them pictures in the book you’re reading. Make a point of reading to your child every night.By two or three years old, your child will like to hear the same story over and over., Talk to your child about what they are doing and what you’re doing. For instance, if your child is petting the dog, you might say, “Wow, I see you’re petting the dog. That’s very nice of you.” Talk to your child about past, present, and future events. For instance, say, “Tomorrow, we’ll go to the park. Won’t that be fun?”, Play with your child so you can use words that describe the imaginative actions that your child engages in. For instance, you might say, “Wow, are you building a castle? Is there a princess in the castle?” Arrange for your child to play with other children of the same or similar age so they can practice conversing together., Increase the number and variety of words that you use in conversation with your child as they grow older. Start using longer, more complex sentences as your child begins to understand more words in order to help them build their language skills., If you are bilingual, you should feel free to use both your native and your second language around the house. A second language will give them the opportunity to test and play with the two different grammars and vocabulary sets. This keeps the gears of their brain’s language center tuning.Don’t worry about confusing your child – growing up with two languages will be natural for them and they’ll be able to understand how the languages are different from one another as they grow older.
 Speech-language therapy is a therapeutic intervention in which your child spends regularly scheduled time with a speech therapist. The speech therapist will help your child develop their lagging language skills.Your child’s doctor will be able to recommend a speech-language therapist.
The speech-language therapist will likely provide you with training to help your child develop their speech skills at home.
Your child will benefit most from speech-language therapy that lasts longer than eight weeks.

