 Heat up a deep-dished pot that has a lid. Add a small amount of fat to the bottom, such as olive oil.After the fat heats up, add your pre-seasoned meat to the sizzling oil. After the meat is a deep brown on all sides, remove it until you are ready to move on to prevent over-cooking.If you want to add vegetables to the mix, now is the time to do it.Try diced carrots, celery, garlic, or zucchini. When cutting to the appropriate size, think small, bite-sized pieces.
 Deglazing is adding a liquid while the pan is still hot to get any meaty bits previously stuck to the pan, floating in the liquid. Deglazing is generally done with wine or stock, or a combination of both.After your liquid is adding, keep scraping the bottom of the pan to pull up the caramelized bits of meat.Wine is often used in deglazing due to its high acidity. The acidity helps break down the proteins found within the meat, adding to the tenderness. It also provides extra depth in flavor.If you aren’t a wine expert, a pinot noir is a solid choice to use for deglazing.If you’d prefer to have alcohol-free dining, use a base of broth with apple cider vinegar added. The vinegar gives the acidity as the wine and the broth will provide a positive flavor., Top off the pot with any last minute vegetables and your steak. The pot can remain on your stove top or be moved to the oven. The objective is to get the liquid boiling, then lower the temperature to have it down to a simmer.It is ideal to have the pot approximately half full, so that most of your steak is covered with liquid. If necessary, add more of your liquid at any point of the cooking stage.Letting the liquid run down will result in a dry meal.
 Check the liquid levels frequently to keep it topped at optimum levels. Don’t allow the liquid to move past a simmer. By keeping the steak braising at a lower temperature over a longer period of time, you will have a perfectly moist steak.Braising may take up to three hours. By the time your steak is done, it should be fork-tender. If you continue to cook your steak past it’s fork-tenderness, you may experience overcooked meat that is tough.,