 The first thing you’ll need to do is to decide what sort of videos you are going to sell. Options range from producing your own videos to reselling videos. Consider:


A type of video you’re familiar with. For instance, if you’re an expert on 1960s and 1970s indie films, consider specializing in them.
Creating your own videos of some sort. Perhaps you’re a budding filmmaker or a graphics designer. Use your talents to create a video that others will want to see. For instance, if you’re in film school and are interested in horror movies, try to film that new zombie movie or short film that will get the whole internet chatting.;
, Market research is extremely important when selling videos online. After all, you’ll want to sell videos that you’ll be able to profit off of. Without market research, you might wind up with a product no one wants.


Take a look at what type of videos are in demand. Check out websites like The Numbers.com to see what genres gross the most money. If you notice that children's cartoons don't sell well, don't invest in them.
If you’re reselling videos, think about how much you’ll have to pay for the videos and how much you’ll be able to sell them for. The difference between the two will be your income.
Before filming your own video or short film, take a look to see if others are having success promoting similar videos or films. Visit websites like YouTube to see what types of short films gain the most views. There are a wide array of websites that specialize in streaming indie movies and short films., Without having the videos in your position--digitally or physically--you won't be able to start your business. Ultimately, you need to have your product ready to distribute before you can make any money.


If you’re reselling DVDs, videotapes, or similar products, make sure you buy enough so that you’ll have product to distribute when someone makes a purchase from you. Beware, though, don’t invest in a product you won’t be able to sell.
If you’re going to offer the video as a download, make sure it’s in a downloadable format that is accessible to as many people as possible., Perhaps the most important decision you’ll need to make is about where you’ll sell your videos. There are a wide variety of ways to sell your videos, so choosing between them might take some time. Consider:


Creating your own website.
Online marketplaces like Amazon or EBay.
Specialty distributors. If your content falls under some sort of specialty niche, you might do best with a specialty distributor.
Service-providing website. These websites will offer to sell your videos for you. However, you need to be smart to pick out the best. Have a keen look at various services providing websites, spend considerable amounts of time evaluating the offers, and then make a choice., Depending on what platform you’ll sell your videos, you need to decide on a way to accept payment. Your payment method, and its ease of use, will be critical to your new business, so make sure to pick flexible options that most people can access. Consider:


PayPal as a way of accepting payment. Your customers can transfer money to your account or send it to you with a credit card.
Services like eBill. These types of services will link your customers to their website where they can use credit cards to pay for your videos. You’ll be charged a fee for each transaction.
Always consider the fees that your payment method charges you or your customer., Your delivery method is another important problem you’ll have to solve before you start selling your videos. Fortunately, there are a wide variety of traditional and nontraditional delivery methods available to people who sell videos online.


Consider shipping with FedEx, UPS, or USPS. You may be able to get discounted shipping rates if you ship high volume.
Look into third party businesses that will ship your videos for you. There are a variety of services, including Amazon.com, that will ship your product for you.
Think about offering your videos in a downloadable format. This may be the easiest and most cost effective way of doing business, as you won't need to actively manage an inventory of physical videos., You also need to determine what you’re going to sell your videos for. Make sure that the material you have is quality, substantial, watchable, and will bring you good money. This is important, because if your video is not quality and you price it too high, you won’t make any money at all. On the flip side, if you sell your product too cheaply, you lose a lot of potential income.


Browse the internet to find out if the videos you are intending to sell are already there.
Estimating the price of the videos will give you an edge while making a bargain.
Make sure your prices are competitive with other online retailers who offer similar products.
Do some calculations as to what your net profit will be after everything is factored in. Include the cost of any third-party distributor, payment charges, shipping charges, and everything else., Managing your inventory and content will be one of the most time-consuming aspects of your online video business. This is because you'll need to make sure that you always have product to ship or upload to your customers. If you don't, your customers won't have a positive and seamless experience, and you'll lose business.


If you ship copies of your video, make sure you always have several weeks’ supply, depending on the lead-time you need to acquire more. If you burn copies of a DVD yourself, make sure you have plenty of time to burn more if your DVD starts selling a lot.
If you create your own videos, make sure you’re always creating and offering more for download or to ship., Delivering your videos to your customer in a timely and efficient manner is perhaps the most important thing you’ll need to do. This is because customers will ultimately want the product they paid for as quickly as possible.


If you ship your videos, make sure to ship them in a timely fashion. Consider shipping them no more than 1 to 3 days after you’ve received the order. In addition, make sure to always use the method of shipping your customer paid for. If they paid for express delivery, ship their order express. Cutting corners will lose you customers.
If you allow customers to download your video, make sure your upload and download speeds are quick. In addition, make sure videos that people download from you have not been corrupted in during the transfer process., Another important element of selling your videos is offering support and service for your customers. By offering quality customer service, you’ll build a reliable customer base who will most likely tell others about the positive experience they had purchasing videos from you.


Try following up with your customers with an email several days or a week after the order is complete.
Provider your customers with a satisfaction survey for them to fill out.
If a customer has any problem with your product, rectify the situation immediately. If this means reshipping the product at no cost, you should do so.