 Almost every pet and puppy store that sells puppies receives their dogs from a puppy mill. Buying these dogs, even to rescue them from the store, will encourage mills to keep breeding dogs in abusive conditions.


Some pet stores may advertise their puppies as coming from USDA breeders, but this does not mean that the puppies came from humane conditions. Stores that sell puppies from USDA breeders are actually more likely to buy from puppy mills.Some pet stores will hold adoption events by bringing in dogs from local shelters. Verify with your local shelter that these dogs do indeed come from them before adopting at one of these events.
Puppies sold online also often come from puppy mills.;
, Animal shelters and rescues are the best place to adopt dogs in need of a home. Many will even adopt out puppies or younger abandoned dogs. By adopting dogs from shelters, you make room for more dogs to have homes.Check out your local Humane Society or Society for the Protection of Animals (SPCA) for adoptions.
Your county or municipality may run an animal shelter where you can adopt animals. These will often post adoptable dogs or puppies on their website. They may even have special events where they waive the adoption fees.
If you’re looking for a specific breed, research a rescue that works with that particular breed. For example, if you want a greyhound, look for a greyhound rescue.
 If you want to purchase a purebred puppy, find a local breeder yourself, and visit their kennel. This is the only way to guarantee that they are a humane breeder and not a puppy mill.When adopting from a breeder, check out the living situation of the puppies. Make sure that they have clean bedding and that they are free to roam during the day.
Examine both the puppies and their mother carefully for any signs of disease or malnutrition.
Just because a puppy has papers from a kennel club does not mean that they were bred responsibly. Always check the kennel for yourself.
 Many puppy mills will sell a puppy as young as six weeks.A reputable breeder will never remove the puppy from its litter before eight weeks of age, and some will wait until up to twelve weeks. To make sure your puppy is old enough to leave the litter, you should try to check its age.


Ask for documentation that the dog has received their eight week vaccinations.This should be signed by a veterinarian, who you can call to authenticate the records. This will prove both that the puppy is healthy and that they are the right age.
Eight week old puppies will be running around, and their eyes will be fully open. They should be fully weaned off their mother’s milk and capable of eating solid foods. They will sleep about 18 to 20 hours a day, but when they are awake, they will be active.

