 Sleeping is one of the most effective ways to help your body heal when you are sick. When you are healthy, you need about 7-8 hours of sleep per night. Aim to get at least a couple of extra hours when you are sick. Sleep can help your body repair itself.If you have a cough or cold, it can be difficult to sleep. Try propping yourself up and sleeping at an angle. You'll breathe more easily, which will help you rest.
Try sleeping alone. When you are sick, you might toss and turn more. Ask your partner to move to the guest room for the night. You need your space, and the extra peace and quiet will help you get the rest you need.
 When you are sick, your body is using more water than usual. For example, if you have a fever, you might be sweating out part of your water supply. If you have diarrhea or are vomiting, you are also losing fluids. Your body will have a hard time healing if you don't replenish your lost fluid. Make sure to increase hydration when you are sick.Water is a great choice, but sometimes other fluids taste or feel better when you are sick. You could try some hot tea with ginger, for example, to settle an upset stomach.
Juice and warm soups are also great for staying hydrated.
 Healthy foods can help your body heal when you are sick. Eating something that tastes good can also boost your mood. Eat nutritious foods when you are sick. If someone else can do the cooking, even better.Chicken soup can actually make you feel better. Not only will the broth keep you hydrated, but the warmth can reduce congestion.
Honey is an excellent way to soothe a sore throat. Try adding some to tea or yogurt.
Spicy foods can help loosen up the mucus that causes congestion. It is also a good choice for taste buds that are dull from a stuffy nose. Try eating a Mexican soup or some spicy tomato juice.
It's important to eat even if your stomach is upset. If nothing sounds appetizing, try to at least eat some crackers. The starch will help soak up the extra stomach acid your body is producing.
 Medicines can work wonders on many different illnesses. Whether you have a prescription from your doctor or an over the counter pill, taking the proper medication can ease your symptoms and speed your recovery. Make sure to only take the prescribed dosages for any medication.Talk to your pharmacist. He is an excellent resource if you are overwhelmed by the amount of cold, flu, and allergy medications that are available. Ask him to recommend a trusted brand.
Choose a medication that will treat your symptoms. For example, if you have a cough that is keeping you awake at night, look for a medication that also combats sleeplessness.
Take a pain killer. Being sick often comes with aches and pains. Try taking ibuprofen or aspirin to ease the pain and lower your fever. However, keep in mind that aspirin is not recommended for children because of the risk of Reye Syndrome.Consult your doctor if you have any allergies or other medical conditions that might cause a reaction to medications. It is important to check because some cold and flu medications can raise high blood pressure even more. Some medications may also make lung conditions worse.
 If you don't want to try medication, there are many simple home remedies you can use to cure a lot of common ailments. For example, if you are suffering from a sore throat, try gargling with salt water. Simply dissolve a teaspoon of salt into 8 ounces of warm water and swish/gargle in your mouth and throat for several seconds.If you are nauseous, ginger is an effective natural remedy. Try adding some fresh grated ginger root to your hot tea. Or snack on some ginger snaps and wash it down with ginger ale.Add moisture to the air. Try using a vaporizer or humidifier in your home. The moist air can help relieve congestion.
A heating pad can relieve symptoms of several illnesses. If your stomach is cramping, place heat on your abdomen. If you have swollen glands, such as with mononucleosis, try placing a warm wrap around your neck.

