 Expect most if not all bats to be made of wood. However, don’t treat all wood as the same. Favor willow over pine unless you’re a very casual player, since pine tends to be cheapest because it has less spring when it comes into contact with the ball. With willow bats, choose between:English willow, which is regarded as the best material because it’s the most springy. Because of this, it tends to be the most expensive. These bats are ideal for serious competitive players.
Kashmir willow, which is less springy than English willow, but more so than pine. It is also highly durable, which makes it a good in-between choice. It is also ideal for beginners and power hitters.
 Inspect the face of each blade. Count the number of grain lines you see running from top to bottom. View these as an indicator of the bat’s playability and durability. Expect some trade-off between the two, with more grains equalling better performance but less longevity, and vice versa. Favor bats with six to ten grain lines. Additionally:Favor bats with consistent spacing in between each pair of grain lines.
Make sure the grain’s profile on the back of your bat matches the profile on its face.
 First, make sure the handle is centered with the blade. Then hold the bat by its handle. Make sure it’s thin enough for you to hold comfortably and securely. Favor bats with rubber grips over the handle for extra control.Additionally, consider handles that have been reinforced with titanium, which adds more power and control.Off-centered handles will make the blade’s weight feel awkward and uneven in your grip.
Bare handles are more prone to twisting and slipping in your hands, especially when you sweat.
 Make sure the bat doesn't show signs of splitting along the grain. Also inspect the face and edges for any nicks, dents, or other surface flaws. Expect these to interfere with the ball's normal action if struck at these points.This should certainly be done before you purchase a bat, as well as before each use.

