 Sadly, most women wear incorrect bra sizes because they've never been appropriately measured. The right bra should sit snugly beneath your breasts and cup all of the tissue closely, as well as making it easier for you to stand up straight. Measure your bra size yourself, or go in for a free professional fitting at a department store. (Don't feel shy about being professionally fitted––usually the ladies who do fittings are chosen for their warm and accepting demeanor. Remember, she's probably seen it all.)


A bra that is too big, will look lumpy.
Ditto for stuffing tissue or other things into your bra. Don't do it, it will look funny. If you want to put something into your bra, try one of the other methods below.
 Once you've been properly sized, check that you're putting on your bra in a way that will achieve maximum lift and comfort. Slip the straps over your arms, facing forward, so that the unhooked clasps are at your back. Bend over so that all of your breast tissue falls forward, and maneuver the bra over your breasts. Still bent over, reach back and clasp the bra. Adjust the band and straps as necessary.
 There are many options available, so the best way to work out what gives you your desired effect is to go and try lots of different types on. The following types of bras are the best for women wanting bigger breasts:


Push-up bras are designed to push your breasts up (as the name implies), and move the breasts closer together, creating more cleavage. They push the breasts up using padding usually made of foam. The best known brand for making push-up bras is Wonderbra. However, most lingerie stores supply some variety of push-up bra.
Padded bras, like push-up bras, contain foam padding in the cups. They are designed to give fuller-looking breasts to small-chested women, but don't lift them or create extra cleavage.
Gel, air or water padded bras are the same as padded bras but are designed to look and move more naturally, and to give a more noticeable enhancement. The only downside to these is that they often cost more money. Also, air padded bras often need the padding replaced as the air leaks out.
Many women report good success from the Chicken Fillet silicone bra insert.

