 There are a lot of different tools you can use to make cultured butter.Be sure to have the following ready:


1 measuring cup
1 large glass jar with a lid. A 64 ounce Mason jar works well.
1 clean kitchen cloth
1 rubber band
1 spoon
1 spatula
1 whisk or 1 food processor
Several large clean bowls (You can use 1 bowl, but you'll have to wash it frequently.)
1 strainer,
1 cheesecloth
1 role of wax paper;
, Since culturing butter takes a while, you’ll want to find a place where you can leave your materials out. You’ll also want to have ready access to a sink, especially if you don’t have several clean bowls to use. Make sure your space is clean. The culturing process is delicate. You don't want any dust or dirt to make it into your butter.
 At several points in the process, you’ll need to remove ingredients from or temporarily store your butter in a refrigerator. Have one nearby to make it easier on yourself.
 Making cultured butter can be done cleanly, but it is possible that you might splash some buttermilk or get some butter on your clothes.
 The most common recipe for cultured butter requires that you combine 4 cups of heavy cream with 1/3 cup of high quality, whole-milk yogurt, buttermilk, or crème fraîche.


For the best results, use yogurt without any preservatives or gums in it.
The yogurt, buttermilk, and crème fraîche is what has live cultures in it. This is what allows the culture process to take place.
 After you’ve put all the ingredients into your jar, replace the lid and shake. Alternatively, you could use your spoon to mix the ingredients.
 In order for the culture process to happen more efficiently, it will need air. You don’t want dirt or dust to get into the mix. That is why you should use a dish towel. The towel will allow air in while keeping unwanted dust particles out. Secure a rubber band around the towel over the opening of the jar so the towel won't slip off accidentally.
 Cultured cream requires several hours to actually “culture.” The dairy product goes through the fermentation process. This gives the substance its tangy taste. This process also restores many of the good bacteria often found in dairy that is lost during the pasteurization process. It also helps to break down milk proteins like casein that are hard for some people to digest.
 The cream should be 3-4 times thicker than the original consistency. For better results, place the original lid back on the container and place in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 hours. The colder temperature will stop the culturing process, will help seal in the flavor, and will make it easier to churn., If you choose to use a food processor, that is fine. If you do so, make sure that you cover the top of the bowl. Once the food processor or electric mixer begins working its magic, it is possible that the cream will spray out of the bowl. Otherwise, get your whisk ready., With an electric mixer, this should only take 5 minutes or so. If doing it by hand, it could take up to 10 minutes to get the cream nice and thick. It should look a lot like whipped cream at the beginning. As you whisk, it will start to become firmer and more yellow.
 Place a large bowl on the table. Put a strainer over it with a piece of cheesecloth inside the strainer. Now pour your mixture onto the cheesecloth. The liquid will drain through the cheesecloth and the strainer and end up in the bowl.Just like you would do with spaghetti, shift the strainer back and forth. Take a spoon and stir the left over butter, pushing more and more liquid out of it.Pick up the cheesecloth filled with butter, and squeeze it to remove more liquid. It should look like a buttery sponge at this point.
 Place the butter in a clean bowl. Pour 1/3 cup ice water over the butter. The cold water will force the butter to contract, further removing any remaining buttermilk. Then pour out the milky liquid. Do this several times until you have a nearly perfect lump of dry butter.
 Many people like salted butter. If you do, add about 1/4 teaspoon of sea salt to the butter and then mix thoroughly. This should be enough salt. Any more and you will overpower the natural taste of the butter.For flavor, you can also add several other ingredients at this stage. Consider adding a couple of squirts of lemon, a dash of chili powder, or some fresh basil. Think about other flavors you like and consider adding them to your cultured butter. Remember that a little goes a long way. You don't want to overpower the flavor of your cultured butter.
 Plop it down on a piece of wax paper. With your spatula and a little flour (to help reduce the stickiness of the butter), shape it into a cylinder. Really, you can shape it however you’d like. Store bought butter normally comes in this shape, because it is easier to cut off small slices for buttering bread or cooking with., The colder temperatures in the refrigerator will help solidify the butter further. Keeping it in the refrigerator will also help it stay fresh longer.
 Use it as a garnish on your dishes. Add to breads, rices, salads, and other foods that could use a little butter. Never eat by itself.

