 Fire starters help get your fire going more quickly, plus these add a nice scent to your home. Start by placing scented items in paper cupcake liners, such as cinnamon sticks, pine cones, rosemary, bay leaves, and cloves. Use a piece of cotton lint, and center it in the middle of the liners. You can let it hang over the edge; it doesn't need to be perfectly centered. Finally, pour in melted beeswax or soy wax. Let it cool, and you've got scented fire starters in your fireplace.You can also simply add a drop of cinnamon essential oil per log in the fire before you light it up., Mulled wine is a warming winter drink. Add four cups (0.94 liters) of apple juice, a bottle of red wine (750 milliliters), 1/4 cup (59 milliliters) of honey, the zest and juice of an orange, and your choice of spices to a pot. You can use 2 cinnamon sticks, 4 whole cloves, and 3 star anise. Bring to a low simmer, and let it heat for about 10 minutes before serving. This mixture will create an enticing smell, as well as make a great drink for guests.You can also do all apple juice if kids are enjoying the drink, too., Sew up scraps of fabric into small bags, and then stuff them with the scraps leftover from your Christmas tree trimmings. Some tree lots may let you pick up trimmings for free if you don't have a fresh tree. Sew the trimmings into the bags, and place them around your house for a fresh scent., Garlands are lovely to look at, and if you do them properly, you can add a hint of Christmas to the air. Start by slicing apples and oranges. Then, make a thick dough out of cinnamon, cloves, and applesauce. Roll it out, and cut out shapes with cookie cutters. Bake the fruit and "cookies" on a low heat (250 degrees Fahrenheit) in the oven until they dry out (or use a dehydrator). String them up together.Alternatively, you can use this same method to make a homemade potpourri. That is, make the dried fruits as you did above. Mix them with whole, dried spices like cinnamon sticks, cloves, and star anise to make a homemade potpourri., You can pick up pine cones that are already scented from your local craft store. Alternatively, you can find your own pine cones and scent them yourself. All you need to do is spritz them with a bit of cinnamon essential oil or spray. Place the pine cones around your home in small groups., Also called pomanders, these beauties have been used since the Middle Ages. All you need to do is poke holes in oranges or grapefruit with a toothpick or skewer. Poke a whole clove into each hole, and use the completed fruit to decorate your home.