 What kind of list are you going to write down? Perhaps you want to make a list of the kinds of fruit your pet parakeet, Ricky, likes.So, introduce this idea in the first half of the sentence: “My parakeet Ricky likes the following types of fruit.”;
, So your sentence will now look like this: “My parakeet Ricky likes the following types of fruit:”

, Remember to always put commas between each item, and before the “and.” The comma before the “and” is called an oxford comma and its use is debatable.But for our examples, we are going to use it.


Your completed sentence should look like this: “My parakeet Ricky likes the following types of fruit: strawberries, kiwis, and pineapple.”

, For instance, you can rearrange this sentence so it looks like this: “My parakeet Ricky likes strawberries, kiwis, and pineapple.”


In the sentence without a colon, the pieces of fruit become the direct objects of the verb, and complete the sentence.
But, you wouldn’t just say “My parakeet Ricky likes.” by itself because it doesn’t make sense alone and is not a complete sentence., In our example, “My parakeet likes the following types of fruit.” can work as a complete sentence, though not a very detailed one.


Whatever information follows the colon does not need to be a full sentence. So, make sure you always have a whole idea before using a colon.
 For example, you may begin your sentence this way: “John favors sweet snacks over salty ones.”

, It will now look like this: “John favors sweet snacks over salty ones:”

, So the example sentence will look like this:“John favors sweet snacks over salty ones: he likes pie, cake, and cookies.”


Notice how this independent clause is a completion of the first part of the sentence.
 It can simply be a phrase or a word, such as: “John made himself a snack: chocolate chip cookies.”, For example: “Mary Rogers makes the case for ice cream this way:”


Now, the reader is aware that May Rogers is the one who is going to be quoted.
 The example will now look like this: “Mary Rogers makes the case for ice cream this way:”

, For our example, we are using single quotes but in your paper or writing, you will use double quotes.


The final sentence will now look like this: “Mary Rogers makes the case for ice cream this way: ‘Ice cream is a delightful snack that is creamy and delicious.’”

, Semi-colons are meant to join two related independent clauses. Colons, on the other hand, show that what follows after the colon is an extension of the beginning of the sentence.


Also, unlike semi-colons, the second part of the sentence does not have to be an independent clause with colons.
Just remember, you always need to use a full sentence before a colon.

