 Let stagnant water stream from the barrel. After most of the water has escaped, the barrel should be light enough to safely move. If the barrel is found to still be too heavy, acquire further assistance in moving the barrel throughout the remaining steps.;
, Separate the barrel from its original location, removing any gutters or funnels used to direct water. If any obstructions are present in any of the barrel’s openings, clear them away.
 Drain any remaining stagnant water from the barrel. Decaying material (such as leaves and dirt) will also flow out with the water. At this time, identifying if any animals are present in the barrel would be advised.
 Keeping the barrel on the ground, rinse the inside with water and remove decaying materials. Use a hooked coat hanger to pull out and dislodge sludge from the barrel openings. Upon finishing the removal of foreign material, dispose of the material into a designated yard waste receptacle.
 Within the five-gallon bucket, mix dish soap and water until suds are clearly visible. Fill bucket two-thirds of the way.
 Keeping the bottom end of the barrel up, sponge and clean off the outside of the container.
 Flip the barrel to its upright position. Using a flashlight, investigate the insides of the container. It will most likely still be very dirty with sludge and hardened sediment.
 Insert the broom head through one of the openings of the barrel. Allow it to fall to the bottom. If your barrel does not have an opening large enough for a broom head, instead stuff a sponge or mop head into the barrel and move it around with the broomstick.
 Screw the broomstick into the broom head inside of the barrel. Add the remaining cleaning solution into the barrel and scrub the inside thoroughly.
 Unscrew the broomstick from the broom head and remove the shaft. Dump the cleaning and dirt solution back into the five-gallon bucket. If the barrel is too heavy, acquire assistance to avoid self-harm. Once empty, feed the broom head out through one of the openings of the barrel. Dispose of the contents of the five-gallon bucket into a sink or proper wastewater manageable receptacle.
 If the barrel appears to be satisfactorily clean, leave it to dry.
 Inspect the outside of the barrel for holes or any damage that would allow leaks to occur. If found, prepare to patch the area.
 Using sandpaper (coarse grade preferred) roughen the area around the hole or crack. The scratches will create a greater surface area in which the patch and sealant will cure.
 Place the thin plastic sheet over the damaged area, and secure it with the adhesive drywall patch. Using a waterproofing sealant and plastic spatula, pad sealant around the patch.
 Store the barrel in a cool, dry place and allow sealant to cure (depending on the type of sealant used, this process will take between 6 to 24 hours).
 After cleaning and sealing of damage has completed, replace the barrel to its original location so that normal water collection may continue.

