 Hippos are territorial and become aggressive when they feel threatened, so respect their space. Keep on their good side by giving them a wide berth when you spot them in the water. Do not attempt to travel down waterways that are choked with numerous hippos..


A hippo’s “yawn” is actually a warning sign that you are approaching too near.;
, As a defensive tactic, hippos prefer to stick to areas where the water is deep enough for them to fully submerge. If a hippo is forced to occupy shallow water due to drought or territorial disputes with other hippos, it will feel vulnerable and lash out with little provocation. Consider these hippos to be the most dangerous in the water, and give them an even wider berth accordingly.In ideal waters, a hippo will keep as much of its body underwater as possible during the day to prevent overheating. Only the top of its head and back will break the surface so it can breathe., Hippos are herbivores and do not regard humans as prey.However, they become belligerent when startled.Do not attempt to slip by them unnoticed. When you spot a hippo, announce your presence while you are still well away from it. Beat the side of your boat with your hand or strike the water’s surface a few times with a paddle.Continue slapping your boat or the water when you see a hippo go underwater. Allow it to track the sound of your progress so it knows where not to surface. Expect it to remain underwater for as long as six minutes.Use a paddle or a similar long object to strike the water, since crocodiles often occupy the same waterways as hippos.
 If a hippo opens its mouth in a “yawn” as you approach, reverse course immediately. Recognize that the hippo is showing off its teeth to scare you off. Back your boat away and put as much distance between the two of you as possible. Maximize the distance that it has to cover in order to reach you, since hippos’ charges are very brief while in the water.Should the worst happen and the hippo strikes your boat, remember that the issue is territory. Flee the area in any direction except for where you first saw the hippo, and it should lose interest in you.

