 If you're at the start of your exercise routine, you'll need to warm up with some dynamic stretching and basic mobility exercises before attempting the Double Heisman. Try doing jumping jacks, jogging in place, or rotating shoulder circles for one to five minutes., Keep your legs slightly bent at the knees, parallel to one another, and shoulder-width apart. Tighten your core, but leave your arms loosely hanging at your sides.


This is your starting position.
 Lean your body to the left while raising your right knee up toward your core muscles. Simultaneously bend your left arm at the elbow, with your fingers pointing toward your chin. Bring your right knee as close to your bent left elbow as comfortably possible.


Your full weight should be on your left leg and your right arm should point down toward the outside of your right leg.
Note that this part of the exercise is the same as the standard Heisman. Since the Double Heisman is essentially an advanced version of the Heisman, it's best to learn the standard version before moving onto this one.
 Drop your right foot back to the ground, then quickly take three shuffling steps to your right. You should not move forward or back, and your feet should not cross over one another.As you shuffle, keep your arms loose and down at your sides.
Note that you can change the number of steps to customize this exercise. Fewer steps will be less of a workout, while more steps will create a more intense workout.
 At the end of your shuffle, hop up on your right foot, bending your right elbow and bringing your left knee up to meet it at your chest. Keep your left arm down at your side.


The transition to this step should also be similar to the original Heisman exercise, including the jump involved with switching feet.
Your body should be a mirror image of your pre-shuffle pose.
 Bring your left foot back to the ground and shuffle back to the left, returning to your original placement. As before, you should only move to the side, and not backward or forward.
 Switch back and forth between your right and left feet, shuffling in between and repeating the full movement, for 30 seconds to one minute.


It's best to start slow and work up to faster speeds to avoid unnecessary strain. You can also add steps or increase the amount of time spent on this exercise for a slightly harder workout.

