 Write down the different amenities and services you want to offer and the audience you wish to cater to. Visit other Internet cafés in your area and in other cities to help form your ideas.


Speak with the owners of other Internet cafés and ask about the advantages and disadvantages of this type of business.;
, Investigate the area in which you hope to open your café. Look specifically at the demand for an Internet café and competitors in the area. Make a rough estimate of how much money you will require as an initial investment for computer equipment, furniture, software and amenities.


You can find prices for equipment, furniture and software on the Internet, in catalogues or in office supply stores.
Do not choose an area where residents have a high income level, as chances are people have their own computers at home. You also do not want to locate near a library where people can use computers for free.
 Enumerate every detail for your Internet café from computers that you will need to purchase to long-term operational costs. Incorporate the results from your previous market research and explain how your café will stay profitable over time. Your business plan should include the following elements:


Your business concept: The focus here is on describing your business and the market for your café.
Market research: Market research is critical, as it describes the nature of the market you are entering into. Identify who your major competitors are, who your target market is, and the preferences and needs of your target market.
A marketing plan: This should describe how you plan on addressing the needs of your market, how you will communicate with customers, and how you will advertise your café.
An operations plan: This will describe your operations on a day to day basis. It would include, for example, a timeline, hours the café will be open, and the people and equipment required.
A financial plan: This would outline how you will finance your business, what your expected costs are, and five-year projections as to your revenue.
Make sure to make your business plan clear and understandable and be able to explain it to anyone, especially those who do not know the technical jargon.

