 You should spend time with it on a daily basis, which prevents your hamster from becoming bored and allows it to bond with you. Swapping the toys in its cage is a good way to freshen up its routine and allow it to participate in different activities. You could also place it in its wheel and help push it, encouraging it to exercise. To give it some time out of the cage, gently pick it up and allow it to climb over you, but make sure you are in an enclosed area that prevents it from escaping.;
, On a daily basis, make sure to change the water in its bottle to prevent bacteria from forming or the nozzle from clogging. You should also empty out its bowl of old food and replace it, as it could be spoiled. Be sure that you give your hamster a variety of grains or seeds to choose from, as they'll be able to tell which ones their body needs. Fresh vegetables rinsed with water - such as romaine lettuce and carrots - are also good ways to keep it full and happy. Occasional treats are also recommended, as they'll excite your hamster and give it something new to enjoy. Maintaining a healthy, balanced diet will boost your hamster's health and ensure that it's receiving the proper nutrients. You should keep an eye on its weight to make sure you aren't feeding it too much or too little.
 While your pet may keep itself clean, it still requires some help in maintaining its soft fur. You should brush it once every two to four weeks, using either a pet comb or a clean toothbrush. This is a good chance to bond with your hamster and show that you care for it. You can reward it with a treat during or after the session to encourage good behavior.
 Even if it may not understand your words, it finds the sound of your voice reassuring and will help it grow closer to you. By speaking to it in a soft, soothing tone, you can help it feel at ease with you. Spend some time telling it about your day or talking about different topics. To please your hamster even more and encourage it to relax, you can pet it during your quiet moments with it. If you have no time to sit quietly with it, you can still speak to it as you go about your routine.
 To boost your hamster's happiness, it's best to make its home as comfortable as possible. A large cage - perhaps with plastic tubes - is ideal, as it allows your hamster plenty of space to run around. You should line the floor with soft, absorbent bedding and give your pet places to hide (ex: a small hutch or box) so that it can have privacy or rest. Make sure to provide a running wheel so that your pet can exercise and work off energy. To make it even happier, you can also give your hamster chew toys and extra accessories, such as a hammock. All of this will help keep your pet occupied throughout the day or night.
 Hamsters love to remain clean, as they keep their sleeping and toilet area separate and do their best to groom themselves. However, understand that cleaning their cage too frequently or rarely can cause your pet's happiness to deteriorate. It's best to keep a regular cleaning schedule so that your hamster can become accustomed to it. Every day, you can remove soiled bedding and old food from the cage. Once a week, you should scrub the cage and change the bedding. This helps maintain a clean environment and allows your hamster to remain happy and healthy.

Note that hamsters have a tendency to remove food from their bowls and hoard it. You should check for any food that it might be hiding, as it could be spoiled and potentially harm your pet.
 This is extremely important and will help boost your hamster's health, as well as keep its weight in check. You should encourage your hamster to use its running wheel every day, but letting it out of the cage is also a good idea. You can place it in a hamster ball and allow it to roam throughout the house, but make sure to follow it so that it doesn't get into trouble. Giving your pet toys to interact with is also good because it can exercise its body and mind. Hamster tubes are also an excellent way to encourage your hamster to move around.

