 A good author reads a lot of books, a good athlete watches other athletes, so good lyricists listens to good lyrics.;
, Most "insightful" songs are good, because we can relate to the feeling, more than to the situation. This is what makes a great song. When you hear a song that says something like "On that bench at the park where we had our first date, I touched your cheek, every unsaid word, and every ungiven hug, every forgotten kiss stared at me through your teary, green eyes" it feels more insightful than "We broke up on a bench, you cried and I felt bad". They´re pretty much saying the same thing, but the first one places the listener on the bench, and lets the listener figure out the feelings. Go for that.
 Examples include a divorce, or a breakup with you girlfriend. It can be anything, but a better song relates to people.
 If this is the first time you write a song, start by forgetting about rhymes, music and all that. Start by your raw honest feelings. How do you feel? Why do you feel that way? Which moments exactly broke your heart, or lit it up? it doesn't matter if you end up with 17 pages about one topic. The more the better.
 It doesn't matter if you think other people won't know what you're talking about; just pick your favorite lines.
 A verse is a part of the song were you write what ever you want. You do not repeat this part of the song. but you can on the bridge, a part of the song near the end of the song. for example, on AC/DC's Highway to Hell, "living easy, lovin' free, season ticket on a one way ride..." is the first verse.


For the verses, find the "defining moments". Looks, touches, words, anything that hurt you, and elaborate on that. Relate each of them to the feelings you had. Were you feeling lonely? Did she kiss you on the cheek and silently implied that it was over? Did she look at you as if he felt sorry for you making you angry? Did he put his hands on your waist, just barely touching your skin with his index finger slightly moving under your shirt, and were you excited? Focus on those elements for the verses.
 You don't have to, but usually it sounds better. It doesn't even have to technically rhyme, it can just sound good together.
 The chorus is the part that repeats itself throughout parts of the song. Such as, AC/DC's Highway to Hell, "I'm in my highway to hell..." would be the chorus.


If it's possible to make a chorus out of your favorite line, you're halfway there. Let's say, you are upset that the guy you love likes another girl, and after 10 pages of ranting, you reread, and stop at a phrase that says "Why do you want her?" It doesn't matter if it´s not too original, but the point is, it caught your attention, and that's what you need, it doesn't matter if it has little meaning to others, you have to choose the phrase that resumes the whole rant to you. Elaborate on that. And this time, do pay some attention to rhyming and versing. Count your syllables. Try to make most lines have the same number of syllables. If you can't work with one phrase, search your notes for more. If it's still difficult, forget the rhyming and counting; just be honest.
 The second verse is like the first verse but with different lyrics. You still have to rhyme and everything, but it's different, such as AC/DC's Highway to Hell, "No stop signs, speed limit, nobody's gonna slow me down..." would be the second verse.
 you say the exact same thing as you did in the last chorus. Such as, AC/DC's Highway to Hell, "I'm in my highway to hell..." would be the chorus.
 The bridge can be totally different from the rest of the song. Some times it can be a simple solo, like Highway to Hell, or it can have lyrics too. It can be creative, or it can repeat a verse or chorus previously in you song.
 you want to repeat the chorus you said before, Such as, AC/DC's Highway to Hell, "I'm in my highway to hell..." would be the chorus.
 Don't focus on what you wrote, just play with different sounds and chords. Eventually, a sound will come out that will give you the same feeling that you got when you found "the phrase" in your writings. Go for that sound, but be willing to let it go if it feels odd.
 Be willing to modify them to match the music.
 It's time to add harmonies, solos, bridges and anything you feel may be missing.


It´s okay if you need to ask a more experienced friend for help, but don't let others throw away the basic feeling you have. Be willing to take suggestions, but keep it honest.

