 You and your pals prefer to live online and want to share the day with others who perhaps could not attend? Create a guestbook blog that can be posted to Facebook, Instagram or Twitter for the rest of your friends to see.


Establish your guestbook blog on WordPress. Visit the WordPress website and follow the directions to set up a blog. Consider a name that characterizes your event.
Designate an area for the “guestbook” blog to be housed. Like with a traditional guestbook you may need a table or podium but instead of the book you’ll need to have a laptop for guest entries.
Create a card with a few instructions so your non-tech savvy guests can still participate.
Be sure you have a power source to back up your laptop (and you won’t have to constantly be checking to make sure the laptop battery doesn't expire).;
, Taken from the notion of writing well wishes with lipstick on the bathroom mirror. Ideal for a bachelorette party or shower.


Purchase an in expensive mirror from the bed and bath store. Consider the number of guests that will be attending the party to determine the mirror size.
Buy several tubes of lipstick in a variety of colors. You could even pick up a few funky colors like green or blue lipstick so guests can add a special splash of color.
Stand mirror in a designated area and fill a nearby bowl with lipstick tubes. Include a small sign telling guests what to do.
 Let your guests say it out loud by spray painting their name and well wishes on a large board at your party. Fun for a teen party or a casual bar mitzvah, the graffiti board can be transformed into a work of art for your teen’s room after the event is over.


Purchase a large piece of plywood from the local hardware store. Consider having the edges sanded down to avoid giving your guests splinters if they run their hand over the board.
Paint the background of the board. A hot pint background might be fun for your teen girl or you could paint the background black and give your guests neon colors for their message.
Purchase dozens of spray paint cans. Depending on the number of guests, you may want to purchase two to three cans per two or three guests. Also, paint pens should be included for a more intricate design.
 This guestbook could work in nearly every setting providing a unique approach to the typical guestbook.


Purchase a small mailbox from the local toy, hobby or hardware store. Depending upon your event, you could find an adorable children’s play mailbox at a toy store or a crafty mailbox from the craft store.
Create small notecards and envelopes for guests to complete. Make sure the cards fit through the mailbox slot and provide enough room for messages.
Set up a small sign or adorable chalkboard with instructions on what to do. Include a small bowl of pens so guests can easily write messages.
 This activity may be fun for a children’s party or an event where guests are not dressed to the nines. Adults may not be as inclined to put ink on their thumb to sign a guest book but kids would love it.


Purchase an empty journal or bound book with white pages from the local bookstore. This will be your guest book so look for a book that provides your guests with enough room to express themselves.
Buy several ink pads, colored pens, stickers, glitter and glue sticks. Gather as many craft supplies to allow your guests’ imagination to run wild.
Create a sample of what you want on the guestbook table. Design your own thumbprint people with a message to use as a sample. Prop your design on a small easel that is on display next to the guest book. Have bowls of pens, ink pads and craft supplies on hand for easy access.
 Photo booths are a fun way to record the mood and feeling at your event. Ask guests to paste their photo and well wishes in a book after they’ve been striking a pose in the booth.


Rent a photo booth from a local vendor for your event. Photo booth rental prices may vary so obtain up to three quotes from reputable vendors before making a decision.
Set up a table next to the photo booth at your event and include a large, bound book with empty pages, glue sticks and pens.
Post a small note that asks guests to leave a photo and a message inside the blank book.

