 Fish are coldblooded, so their activity depends on the temperature of the water around them.They are inactive when it is cold, and when it is very hot they retreat to deeper waters to stay cool. Because fish eat bugs and/or little fish that eat bugs, they are most active when bugs are most active. When the air is warm and thick with mosquitos, fishing will be good.;
, Like all animals, fish come out in greater numbers during particular times of year. This will of course vary based on where you live and what sort of fish you hope to catch, but there are some general guidelines to keep in mind.Spring – Fish bite on and off during this season. You will have better luck later in the season, and later in the day, when things get a little warmer. Fish can’t do much eating on spring mornings, because the bugs aren’t out much yet, so your best bet is to take advantage of their feeding time at dusk. At this time of year winds will push the warmer, food-filled surface water toward the shore, so try to position yourself downwind along the shoreline.Summer – This is a good season for fishing if you avoid the hottest times of day. The fish will be biting well just before sunup and just after sundown, when food is abundant. Mid-day, when the sun is at its zenith, the fish will retreat to cooler, deeper water.Fall – This can be an inconsistent time, but when the fishing is good, it is really good. They will likely not bite much in the morning and early afternoon. Toward the end of the day, however, the water will be warm from hours of sunlight, and the fish will be driven to eat more than usual because of the impending food shortage that winter brings. Dusk is therefore an excellent time for fishing.Winter – For obvious reasons, not the best time for fishing. Unless you are ice fishing, which is a different thing entirely, you should leave your fishing rod in storage during this season.
 It is best to fish when the tide is rising or falling, as this change causes prey to move en-mass, and thus makes a great time for coastal fish to feed. Fishing will be much harder during low or high tide, when there is less water movement.To find out what time high and low tides are in your area, just Google "tide chart" and the name of the town you're in.
If you are fishing during a high tide, look for a shallow area.
If you are fishing during a low tide, look for a mud bank near a slough (an area with a depression in the bottom).

