 Your infant will most likely not get the milk that he needs if you do not choose the correct nipple shield. Factors to keep in mind include:


As there are different breasts and nipple sizes, the breastfeeding nipple shield also comes in a variety of sizes to fit most women. The breastfeeding nipple shield is shaped like a breast and is transparent. In choosing the proper size, the nipple shield should mimic the mother’s nipple.
To determine the correct size, place the nipple shield directly on top of your breast and make sure that your nipple can fit into the shield’s cup area. The nipple shield should feel like a part of the breast.
 The nipple shield should not be loose, and the length of the nipple shield should be longer than the area of the breast it is attaching to.


If the length of the nipple shield is long, it can cause unpleasant consequences for your infant such as gagging or difficulties in attachment. This is because the excess nipple shield might topple down on your infant’s face during feeding, making it hard for your child to get any milk.
 As there are many brands of nipple shields out on the market, you should try different ones if you are concerned that one brand may cause you to have an allergic reaction.


Common allergies include rubber, soft latex, or silicone. Make sure that you are not allergic to any of these, or that the nipple does not contain these materials if you are allergic to them.
 Once a breastfeeding nipple shield has been chosen, the next step is to fit and place the shield properly before starting breastfeeding.


Put a couple of drops of breast milk, or express, into the nipple shield’s cup area. Doing this ensures that there is breast milk coming out of your breast. Doing this also helps to make sure that the milk can pass through the holes of the nipple shield.
 After checking for the patency of the breastfeeding nipple shield, place the lower half of the nipple shield under your nipple and areola area.


After this, pull the other half of the nipple shield up, crossing your nipple to the top part of the areola, making sure that the nipple is in the center of the shield. By doing this, you can make sure that the whole area covered is sealed, maximizing breast milk transfer and preventing chafing.
Keep in mind that most nipple shields will still allow your infant’s face, nose and chin to touch your skin.

