 Many photographs can be found at Google Images, and realistic gear and clothing were worn in film recreations after the war.
 Here are some examples of standard gear these warriors carried.





 Wooden replica Thompson

Rifle, either a Thompson 45 cal fully automatic rifle or an M-1 Garand rifle.




 Carved wooden Colt

Sidearm, a 45 cal. Colt Model 1911 semiautomatic pistol




 musette bag with rope

Mussette bag, containing survival gear, rations, ammo, rope, and other items the soldier chose.
Map bag, containing maps, compass, light, and spare ammo.
Knife, often a Ka-Bar army issue battle knife.




 Canteen hanging from pistol belt

Canteen, holding one quart of drinking water.
Ammo belt




 Inert Pineapple grenade

Grenades
Parachute pack, with one main chute, and one emergency chute.




 M-1C steel pot helmet with chinstrap, netting and first aid kit.

Helmet, usually covered with cotton webbing and often with torn burlap to help camouflage it.
First aid kit, attached to the webbing on the soldier's helmet.
Trousers with web gear belt.
Jacket
Camo face paint




 Folding entrenching tool for digging fox holes

Folding entrenching tool (shovel)

, Original gear is difficult to find, since over 50 years have passed since the invasion., Use exact searching words to find an item, or at least narrow your choices down., Ask the vendors there if they have resources to provide either vintage or reproduction gear and clothing. Many flea market vendors do not display all the items they may have in inventory due to the space limitations in this setting, and some create specialized contact lists to find items a buyer may be looking for., Use exact keywords here, as well, to narrow your search. An example would be to search World War 2 U.S. Army Paratrooper Uniforms rather than just Uniforms, Military Uniforms, or Paratroopers Uniforms.
 Possibly the best for this content would be the National D-Day Museum in New Orleans, Louisiana, where mannequins are dressed in original gear from World War 2. They also sell helmets, helmet covers, mussette bags, clickers (Cricket sounders), and other items in their gift shop, as well as many illustrated books and videos of the invasion., You may also add a burlap helmet scrim to the net., Your map pouch would contain maps and a compass, and other items. The M38 field/musette bag will contain personal items like clean underwear, and rations, extra ammo and grenades, flashlight, rain poncho, other items., From this, you will hang your entrenching tool, pistol holster, fighting knife or M3 trench knife (which may also be holstered on your leg or boot), and canteen. You may include M43 combat suspenders to help support the load. You may also want to wear an M-1 ammunition belt., You can buy a reproduction M-1 Garrand or Thompson submachine gun and 1911 Colt pistol, along with grenades. If you are handy with tools, you may create your own reproduction guns.