 Knowing what you are going to say before you say it will make everything so much easier when you have ‘the talk’ about becoming more than just friends. You will feel more confident and relaxed because you aren’t trying to figure out exactly what to say to ask them out.Get in your mirror and practice what you will say when you ask your friend out or practice with another friend that you trust.
If you are really nervous, then write down what you want to say and refer to your script when you are practicing.
 You can start the conversation with your friend by talking about your friendship and what it means to you.Also, mention funny times you have been through to keep the conversation light. If you start the conversation this way, your friend will be able to understand why you want to be more than friends.


Talking about the friendship also puts the image of you two having fun in your friend’s mind. This will make it easier for them to think about becoming more than friends.
If you haven’t known each other long, you might say, “We’ve become good friends in the short time that we have known each other. I have really enjoyed the time we spend around each other.”
If you have been friends for a while, you could say, “We’ve been friends for a long time and been through a lot together, like that time we jumped off the balcony.”

, Let your friend know that you want to become more than friends, but you don’t want to lose the friendship you have developed.Doing this will take some of the pressure off of your friend and make it more comfortable for them to explore dating you.


Explain that if they say they don’t want to be more than friends, you will be disappointed but you still want to have a friendship.
You might say, “I value our friendship and don’t want to lose you as a friend. Even if we don’t date, I would still like to be friends.”
You could also try saying, “I’d like to give dating a try with you, but if it doesn’t work, I still want to be friends.”

, You may need to let your friend know how you being bisexual will (or won’t) play a role in becoming more than friends. Explaining how your sexual orientation might impact you guys dating will help your friend figure out if they want to be more than friends.


Tell your friend that being bisexual doesn’t mean you can’t be faithful or that the relationship would just be a fling.
You might say, “Even though I am bisexual, it doesn’t mean my feelings for you are shallow or that I just want a hook-up.”

, So, take a deep breath, look them in the eyes, and make the move from friends to more than friends.


Try saying, “I want to see how it would be if we were more than friends. Why don’t we go out on a trial date?”
You could also say, “I know you haven’t been in a same-sex relationship before, but I’d like to give it a try with you.”
The thought of becoming more than friends and the idea of trying a different type of relationship may be overwhelming at first. If needed, give your friend a little time to think about it.

