 Soccer is a relatively simple game, rules wise. The objective is to score more goals than the other team by putting the ball in their net. Each team has 11 players working together to move the ball and defend against attacks, but they cannot use their arms or hands to do so. The key rules to know include:


Each team has one goalie, who is allowed to use his/her hands to defend their goal, but only in the boxes around their goal.
A goal is scored when the entire ball crosses the entire goal line and is within the frame of the goal.
While light contact is accepted, a team of 3 referees is on the field to enforce the rules and make sure the players are attempting to attack the ball, not the other team.;
, One of the first things that confuses new soccer watchers is the clock. Unlike most other sports, the clock doesn't count down to zero, it counts up to 90:00. The game is broken into two even 45-minute halves with a 10-15 minute break in the middle. The clock also never stops, and the game only ends with the referee blows the final whistle (usually 2-3 times in a row).


This is so the game doesn't stop unexpectedly. Soccer is all about flow, and if the clock was being constantly stopped, started, and checked like in football/basketball then the game would take forever.
The game doesn't stop right at the 45' or 90' mark. Rather, the referee adds "stoppage time" to account for when the ball was out of bounds, a goal was scored, subs were made, etc. This means the actual game might stop at the 93-minute mark. Most TV broadcasts will show you how many extra minutes are being added in the corner of the screen as halftime or the end approaches.
 A soccer pitch is a simple rectangle. There are a few extra marks, but the essential ones are all intuitive and easy to read.



The Center Circle is where play begins. The ball is placed in the center middle of the field and the starting team gets to pass it. The other team cannot enter the circle until the ball has been touched.

The Goal Box Also known as the penalty box or the 18-yard box, this is the rectangle on either end of the field in front of the goals. The goalie can only use their hands in this area.

The Touch Lines are the long sides of the field. If the ball crosses over this line completely than the last team to touch the ball gives it to the other team for a throw-in.

The Goal Lines The two end lines of the field. If the ball crosses this line and is within the fame of the goal, it is a goal. If it crosses the line, but not in the goal, then it is a goal kick or corner kick, depending on who touched the ball last.
 A foul is when a player makes illegal contact with another player on the other team by hitting, tripping, or kicking them. However, there is a lot of physical contact that is never called. Figuring out what is a foul and what isn't is one of the most difficult exercises in soccer, because there are few clear cut "infractions" to call like in football or basketball. The best way to remember a foul is to ask yourself -- did the player "play the ball," meaning did they make contact with the ball, or did they "play the player," by pushing/hitting/tripping the other player to win possession? FIFA defines the type of fouls as:


Kicking, or attempting to kick, the other player.
Tripping, or attempting
Jumping/charging at someone
Striking, or attempting
Punching, or attempting
Tackling
Spitting
Holding.
Handling the ball., This rule gives a lot of people consternation, but it is actually pretty straightforward. It simply states that a player cannot receive the ball from a teammate if they are behind the last defender. It is easiest to see with an example--


USA Attacker Alex Morgan runs past the defender, leaving just her and the goalie between herself and the goal.
Alex's teammate Megan Rapinoe who is in front of the defender Alex just ran by, passes Alex the ball. Alex is offside, and the referee blows the whistle to stop the game.
This rule is only complicated because of the speed of play, and several important tweaks to the rule. Still, they are straightforward:

If Alex does not touch or play the ball,' but is still in an offside position, she is not offside.

If Megan passes the ball, and Alex runs into an offside position to get it, she is not offside.' What matters is where she is when the ball is passed, not where she gets it.
If Alex and Megan are on their defensive half of the field, then they cannot ever be offside.

You can be offside on a shot or missed pass, too, if you get the ball before anyone else touches it. You cannot be offside if the other team passes or shoots the ball., If there is a foul or someone is offside, then play is restarted by a free kick awarded to the opposite team. No person on the other team can be within 10 yards of the ball before it is kicked, at which point normal play resumes.


If the ball goes out over the sides of the field it is restarted by a throw-in, which must be done with both hands, over the head.
If an attacker misses the goal and it crosses the end line, the goalie gets a free kick from their goal. If a defender kicks the ball out over their own end line the offensive team gets a free kick from the corner of the field., A yellow card is basically a warning, telling the player that their foul was careless, reckless, or excessive. A red card is far more serious, as it means the player is immediately ejected from the game and their team is forced to play with one less player for the rest of the game.


Two yellow cards in the same game, for the same player, always leads to an automatic red card.
Some infractions, like violent play, intentionally fouling or using your hand to stop and obvious goal, and swearing or threatening the referee, are automatic red cards.