 Being the scapegoat to others can translate to being the victim of emotional bullying. Years of being picked on and manipulated by others has likely shifted your identity of who you are as a person. In order to stop being an easy target, you must admit to what’s happening and acknowledge the pain it causes.For instance, being the scapegoat may have caused you to experience anxiety, depression, self-doubt, relationship turmoil, and even addiction.
Think about the true impact being the scapegoat has on your life. Be honest with yourself about the negative consequences. It may help to journal about it. Cry, if you need to. Or, lean on a supportive friend.;
, As hard as it may be to swallow, you have to accept that you are being scapegoated by others because you allow yourself to be. A major step towards overcoming scapegoating is to stop playing into the victim mentality. Just because others are trying to make you the victim, you don’t have to see yourself as one.


Develop a new story of who you are that doesn’t involve being a victim. For instance, when something negative happens in your life, resist the temptation to connect it to people not failing to support you. This takes the control away from you and gives it to them. Instead look for some aspect of the problem in which you had control and brainstorm a solution from there., You are stuck in the scapegoat role because you are harboring negative feelings about others and yourself. Strive for forgiveness and you may be able to finally release the negative emotions that have been keeping you as the scapegoat.Forgiveness doesn’t mean you aren’t holding others responsible for scapegoating, but letting go of the pain so you can move on. You can forgive yourself and others through rituals.
Light a candle and do several minutes of deep breathing. Bring to mind the pain you feel from the scapegoating. Picture the sensations and feelings you have attached to being the scapegoat (e.g. shame, anger, guilt, resentment, etc.). Write down all the thoughts and feelings you have. Imagine the negativity falling away from you. Take several more deep breaths. Blow out the candle as a symbol of letting go of the negativity for good.

