 Think about why you are considering closing the credit card. It may have higher fees than other cards, be specific to a store you don't shop at any more, or may be simply go unused. Whatever the reason, make sure that you want to close this card. Closing a credit card account can be a somewhat trying process and can have a temporary, negative effect on your credit score, so don't take these decisions lightly.


Also be sure not to close all of your credit cards. In theory, this would limit your ability to go into debt, but certain situations call for immediately available credit. You will want to have a sound financial plan, and a large emergency fund in place to avoid debt and high-interest loans. You don't want to have to take out a high-interest loan when you could have used your card.;
, If you are looking to narrow down your credit card collection, close those cards with higher interest rates first. It makes sense to keep those cards with good benefits, but paying exorbitant interest rates when you have the choice not to is a bad idea. The same is true of credit cards with high fees. Identify these cards and cut them out first., Even when a credit card has been closed, the account information will remain on your credit report for quite some time after. Due to specific credit reporting laws, a credit card account in good standing (paid at least minimum amount, no missed payments, etc.) will stay on your report for ten years, while a negative report will stay for seven years., Closing a credit card account can affect your credit score in a number of ways. The effects of doing so are generally not seriously harmful to a person's credit; however, they can cause a brief decrease in your credit score in some cases. Keep in mind that closing a card will never improve your score. Closing a card can affect your score in the following ways:Reducing your account variation. Credit agencies use a metric that measures how many credit sources you have and their variety (mortgage, car loan, credit card, etc.). Closing a credit card has the potential to decrease this measurement.
Reducing the average account age. Another measurement used by credit agencies measures how long you have held certain accounts. If you choose to close an older credit card, the average age of your accounts may decrease, causing a dip in your credit score.
Reducing your credit utilization rate. Finally, reporting agencies use a metric called "credit utilization rate" that measures how much credit you have vs. how much you use. A lower rate is favorable, but closing a card may significantly increase it. This is a very important factor in determining your credit score, so think about the effect this might have., As previously mentioned, closing a credit card can lead to temporary dip in your credit score. If you planning to make a large purchase, like a car or house, in the near term, think about waiting to close your credit card after you make that purchase. Your temporarily-lower credit score could make your large purchase even more expensive by securing you a higher interest rate on the loan., Never try to close a credit card if you still owe money on it. If you want to get rid of a card, stop using it and pay it off before you close the account. You can do this the same way you usually pay your credit card bill. This can be online or by writing a check for the amount owed and mailing it with a copy of your bill to your credit card company., Before closing your card, check online or call in to your lender to check if you have any outstanding rewards balances on your card. You don't want to forgo any potential cash or travel rewards. In some cases, however, this may be unavoidable as rewards may be limited to a certain time of year or value threshold that you haven't yet reached. Take advantage of these rewards if possible, then move on to the next step., You may have to wait on hold for a bit, but this is by far the best way to confirm with a person that your credit card is indeed closed. Tell the company customer service representative that you need to close your card, and be prepared for his attempt to stall you and try to convince you to keep your card. Hold fast, though, and stick to your original intention.The customer service number for your lender is also available on your bill and online., Record your contact with the credit card company. Most companies will give you a service or call number. Write this in addition to the time and date that you spoke to the customer service representative. For extra insurance, record the representative's name and employee number (this is also fairly standard)., Your credit card company may try to provide you with an offer to get you to stay. Remember, if an offer sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Stick to your guns about closing your account, if that's what you want to do.


Alternately, you can try bargaining with your provider for lower interest rates and fees. In some cases they may agree to these terms to keep you as a customer., This is as much for your own records as it is for making sure the account is closed. Sending a letter will finalize the closure of your account and give you a legal written and dated record of your action should anything go wrong with the closure of your account. If you really want to guarantee full legality, send the letter by certified mail and hold on to the receipt you will receive upon paying the certified postage.


In your letter, request written confirmation that the account is closed. Make sure to also include your information, like your name, phone number, and address.
You may also want to include proof of payment from when you paid off your remaining account balance. Do so by including a cancelled copy of the check.You can also request that your credit report say that your card was closed "at the consumer's request." This will make the situation clear to future lenders., Make a copy of the letter and keep it in a safe place. By doing so you will have complete and reasonable proof that you closed your credit card account. Also be sure to hold onto the certified mail receipt. This will help prove that the credit card company received your letter.
 Follow up a few weeks later to make sure that your account is indeed closed. Companies may occasionally make mistakes and fail to close your account. The closing process can take up to a month, so don't worry if it isn't closed after a few weeks. If your account has not been closed after a month, though, it's time to take action.Once closure is confirmed, cut up your credit card to finalize the closure.You can check whether or not an account has been closed by obtaining a copy of your credit report., Check your credit report a month after you first called to have your card closed. If the card is still active, it is is time to take further action. First, try calling your credit card company again and writing another letter. Wait for a response. If this fails, you can file a dispute through a credit reporting agency (either Experian, TransUnion, or Equifax). Each agency's website has clear instructions on how to do so. If your account is still open after this, you can file a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at http://www.consumerfinance.gov/Complaint/.