 Certain types of fabric will shrink with heat, while others will not. For example, cotton and wool will shrink when you wash them with hot water.Your shirt might also have some specific instructions on the label about how to wash it to avoid shrinking.


For example, the tag might specify a water temperature, such as warm or cool. By washing the garment in the opposite temperature, you may be able to shrink the garment.;
, Allow the shirt to soak in the water for about five minutes and then remove it and wring it out. However, keep in mind that if the shirt is any color other than white, then soaking it in hot water may pull out some of the color.The hotter the water, the more the shirt will shrink, so use the temperature that seems appropriate to you.
To get the water even hotter, boil a pot of water and pour it into the sink.
If you want to wash the shirt as well as shrinking it, place a teaspoonful of laundry detergent in the sink. However, you will need to rinse the shirt in a separate tub or sink full of water after.
If you are worried about affecting the color of the shirt, then you can also try soaking the shirt in cool or lukewarm water and then hang it up in a warm place to dry, such as near a heater.
 After you wring out the shirt, lay the shirt flat on a drying rack and let it air dry. If you don't have a drying rack, lay the shirt flat on top of a dry, absorbent towel.


Don't hang the shirt to dry. This will cause the shirt to stretch in the shoulder area.
When the first side of the shirt is dry, flip it over and let the second side finish drying.
Try placing the shirt in a warm place to help it dry faster and shrink up a bit more., If soaking and air drying the shirt did not shrink it enough for your needs, then you can also try washing the shirt in a washing machine on hot. To do this, select the "whites" setting so that the washer uses hot water to rinse the shirt.


If you're concerned about fading the color of your shirt, then you can add a cup of vinegar to the machine to preserve the color.
The process of agitating the shirt may also help to shrink the shirt, so if you're concerned about adding heat to your shirt, you can use the "permanent press" setting or cold water instead of hot water.
 Drying your shirt in the dryer may also help to shrink it a bit more.If your shirt is has not shrunk as much as you want it to after washing and air drying it, then try placing it the dryer on high heat.


Use the "gentle dry" setting if you're concerned about how the fabric will hold up.
Use the "permanent press" or "regular dry" setting if you want to dry the shirt as fast as possible.

