 Background information in the industry, type of fashion, corporate culture and where the company is headed is essential. Focus your resume on this information, giving priority to experience and education that support it.;
, First, establish that you have the qualifications to do the job. Then, underline any qualifications, keywords and accomplishments you should address in your resume.


The fashion industry is well-known for making its professionals climb up the employment ladder. It is good to raise the bar for yourself, but applying for a senior position before you are an assistant is unlikely to get you hired.
 A surprising number of people forget to include this information. You can also split your information between top and bottom, if it fits your format better.
 This 2 to 5 sentence section describes who you are, where you want to go and what you have done so far. Focus on your professional goals, rather than your personal ones.


For example, Merchandise assistant with 3 years of experience producing accessories. Talented and efficient professional with the ability to manage projects independently and problem-solve. Looking for a position with room for growth to senior merchandiser.
 Highlight any accomplishments at the bottom, but keep it short. If you know the company has a connection to a former profession, you may want to put "supervising professor" at the bottom and go into more detail in the cover letter.
 Use both internships and jobs in subsections leading to when you graduated from school. If you do not have extensive work experience, focus on your accomplishments and skills gained during internships and editorial work, like blogging.
 Most people fill their work experience sections with skills they have gained, but they should be focusing on promotions, increases in efficiency and sales and increased responsibility. Use specific numbers, project names and times to support your experience.


If possible, allow the accomplishments to show off your skills and your hard work. For example, "Created Facebook marketing initiative that increased sales by 43 percent." This accomplishment shows that you know how to do social media marketing, but also shows you proved your worth to the company.
 Action verbs are more descriptive than "was," "made," or "had." The following are some excellent verbs to use in fashion resumes:


Contracted, developed, executed, improved, supervised, produced, purchased, operated, prepared, arranged, negotiated, promoted, adapted, critiqued, systematized, organized, solved, operated, trained, designed, illustrated, planned, originated, shaped, researched, budgeted, assessed, represented, expedited, wrote, founded, solicited and modified.
 If you are a member of any professional fashion organizations or you have created your own fashion site, place this on the bottom under your education section. It should be short, naming the organization and your involvement.


For example, "www.thefashionpassion.com, Founder 2005" or "Council of Fashion Designers of America, Member since 2008."

, Once your information is on the page, edit it down. Look for extraneous words or job explanations that can be condensed.


Make sure to use a popular professional font, such as Times New Roman, and no less than 11-point font. Hiring managers can be in their 20s or in their 60s, and you want everyone to be able to read your font.
 If possible, ask other people to proof or edit it, because they may find things that you did not see. All formatting, spelling and contact information should be reviewed for accuracy.
 Keep an online version, but always print out a few copies to have on hand.

