 Begin to try and accept who you are just the way you are. Self-acceptance has many benefits including an overall happier attitude as well as an increased ability to embrace your flaws and let them go.Begin to practice self acceptance by trying these tips.


Let go of rating or labeling yourself. This includes assigning qualities like having no sense of humor or a bad sense of humor.In the evening write down three things you accept and are grateful for that day about yourself; including imperfections, failures, or flaws.;
, If you don't have a sense of humor, that's okay; it doesn't make you a bad person or mean there's something wrong with you. In accepting yourself, allow compassion for the fact that there may be other reasons you find humor to be difficult for you. Having these occur does not make you any less of a valuable individual or, again, mean something is "wrong." Consider the following possibilities:


Your culture can have an affect on your sense of humor. Consider the culture you come from and speak to others in your family or culture about humor.Autistic people may have quirky senses of humor, and tell jokes that are unusual, or not tell jokes at all. Your disability doesn't make you broken, just unique.
Having a brain injury, or functioning issues — especially to the right hemisphere — can affect your ability to have a sense of humor., You might sometimes feel like you are the only one who isn't witty or funny, but remind yourself that everyone is different, with different strengths and weaknesses. Though it may seem that the dominant culture likes and accepts humor, it's totally okay that some people don't — don't like it, don't get it, don't think it's funny. There are over seven billion people in the world, and not all of them have a sense of humor.


If you are not very funny yourself, but you do find some things funny, try to accept that you are part of the audience — the lucky people who get to laugh — and not being the comedian is okay.
Consider, too, that everyone has his role to play. While the funny people in our lives serve a great purpose, so do serious people. A serious person may be the rock for his friends when times are tough or they need to talk about difficult subjects or decisions.
Think about the things you are good at — your talents and strengths. Maybe you're not very funny, but you're driven and focused. These are valuable traits, too.
 Accepting yourself is easier when you are surrounded by others who accept you for who you are.You can identify these people by how you feel around them. If you feel good about yourself and inspired by them, then you are around the right people.Try to avoid anyone who tries to change you or tell you how you "should" be. Be yourself and the accepting people will find you.
 If you are struggling with accepting yourself or the qualities you do or do not posses, then it may be a good time to talk to someone about it. Talk to a trusted family member or friend. Make sure it is someone who accepts you and believes in you, just the way you are.If you find that speaking to friends or family is not working, consider seeing a counselor or a therapist.

