 If your cat seemed well but was running a fever, after 24 hours take her to the vet. If she was off-color and running a fever, don't wait that long. Extended high-grade fevers can be a sign of more serious health issues. Your vet can perform examinations and tests to help determine the cause of the fever.Be sure to tell your vet your cat’s recent history. Information to provide could include travel history, contact with other animals, recent vaccinations or other treatments, allergies, and anything else that you believe may be the cause of your cat’s fever.A fever can happen for a number of reasons, including:Bacterial, viral, or fungal infections
Physical trauma
Auto-immune disease
Necrotic tissue
Tumors or cancers


The cause of the fever will determine the treatment. Your veterinarian will need to perform tests to determine the cause of your cat’s fever. Common tests include bloodwork and urinalysis., If your cat’s fever is caused by a bacterial infection, the underlying infection must be treated. Usually giving antibiotics would be enough to reduce a fever. While antibiotics are generally safe for a cat with a fever, do not self medicate. Always ensure that the vet has checked and prescribed antibiotics for your cat. Antibiotics are often specific to one strain of bacteria and may not be effective for others. Your vet can recommend the best treatment for your cat.The most common and safe antibiotics usually prescribed by vets are:Ampicillin and Amoxicillin (20mg/kg body weight). Both are available in suspension form and can be bought in "human" pharmacies.
Marbofloxacin (2 mg/kg) is available in tablet form; however, it can be very hard to dose because of its small tablet size.
Doxycycline (5 mg/kg) is available in paste form, and a preparation made for pets can be bought upon prescription of a veterinarian. This preparation is Vibravet, and it comes with a plastic syringe doser to ensure correct administration.
In giving antibiotics the duration of medication should always be one week (seven days). Always give the full course of antibiotics, even if your cat appears to be feeling better. Shortening it may cause re-infection and antibiotic resistance., Also known as Metacam, this is a useful anti-fever drug that is safe for cats. It is approved for use in many countries. It should not be used except under veterinary direction. The recommended maintenance dose is 0.05 mg/kg daily of feline meloxicam, with or after food. A 5 kg (11 lb) cat will need 0.5 ml of cat Metacam.It should be noted that meloxicam is formulated in two strengths: for dogs (1.5 mg/ml) and for cats (0.5 mg/ml). It's imperative you give your cat the proper form of this medication to avoid an overdose.
Meloxicam should only be used in well-hydrated cats. Dehydrated cats may well have impaired renal function. The additional decrease in blood supply to the kidney may cause kidney failure.
 Tolfenamic acid, or Tolfedine, is an NSAID anti-fever drug. Tolfenamic acid comes in 6 mg tablets. The correct dose for Tolfedine is one tablet (6 mg tablet) for three to five days for every 1.5 kg (3.3 lb) bodyweight once a day.Tolfenamic acid is not FDA registered and is not a first choice pain killer for cats. It is therefore used relatively rarely and only under veterinary supervision when other drugs have failed to work.
An average cat with a bodyweight of 4.5 kilograms (9.9 lb) would need around three tablets of this medication to be given in a day.
 Aspirin is not the anti-fever drug of choice for cats. It can cause dehydration, vomiting, and other severe symptoms. Aspirin can be used in a cat with extreme caution if recommended by your vet. Give only the recommended dosage.The recommended dose for a cat is 2.5 mg/kg (5 mg/lb) every 48 – 72 hours. Use pediatric aspirin, which usually is available in 50mg or 75mg tablets. This will facilitate smaller doses.
Give your cat food and water with aspirin. Giving your cat aspirin on an empty stomach may make your cat feel ill.
Once absorbed across the stomach lining, aspirin is broken down to salicylic acid. However, cats lack the enzyme necessary to break down salicylic acid. Salicylic acid levels in your cat’s body will remain high for prolonged periods. High and/or additional doses rapidly lead to toxicity. Thus it is incredibly important to monitor the dosages you're administering.
 Reducing fever in cats is different from other animals because of their physiology. Cats lack an enzyme in the liver called glucuronyl transferase. This means that they cannot break down many medicines that are safe for humans. In many cases, even medicines that are safe for dogs are not safe for cats.Do not give your cat any medications intended for humans unless they have been specifically prescribed by your veterinarian. Doing so can harm or even kill your cat.