 Humans tend to be hardwired to notice and remember the negatives more often than the positive things. Teach your child to balance this tendency by intentionally steering them toward noticing positive things. Ask your child, “What made you smile today?” Start a journal with your child in which they write down the good things that happened that day, and share it before they go to bed.Go on a happiness scavenger hunt and point out things that bring happiness and joy. Perhaps your child sees a flower or a cloud that they like or picks up a neat stone.;
, If your child is upset about something, practice finding something positive in the situation.Help your child to see things from a more positive perspective, then ask your child to come up with a bright side.


For example, if your child is sick and has to stay home from school, look at the positives of staying in their pajamas or getting to watch television during the day.
 If your child is having a problem, allow them space to do some problem solving. Instead of jumping in and solving the problem for your child, give them the tools to do so on their own by teaching them an efficient process. Ask your child questions that help them do the following: define the problem, generate ideas, evaluate and select ideas, and implement solutions.For example, if your child is struggling to write an essay, help them define the problem. You might ask questions like, "Do you not understand the assignment?", "Are you unable to focus?", "Are you having trouble understanding the material?", and so on to figure out the true root of the problem.
Help your child come up with different ways they might tackle the problem. If they don't understand the material, what steps can they take to fix this? Talking to the teacher, working with a tutor, discussing with a classmate, or finding other resources that discuss and break down the material are all possible solutions. Have your child write down all the possibilities.
Go through each possible solution with your child and evaluate whether or not they will be helpful. Talking to the teacher or working with a tutor might not be options if the essay is due the next day, but calling a classmate, finding supporting resources, or even discussing the material with you are all possible solutions. Let your child choose whichever solution seems best.
The final step is for your child to implement the solution. This means calling their classmate to discuss the material or going online or to the library to read different scholarly interpretations of the material.
Teaching your child this step-by-step process will help them make effective, thoughtful decisions in the future.
 Optimism and hope are closely tied, and teaching your child to be hopeful can help build an optimistic mindset. Some of the essential elements of hope include having goals, agency, and social support. Talk to your children about their wants and needs, and help them use their problem-solving skills to see how they have agency in their own lives — that is, that they have the ability to shape their futures and make things happen for themselves. Remind your child that you are there to support and help them, and that they can depend on you to help them reach their goals.For instance, if your child wants an expensive toy, brainstorm with them about ways they could save up for that toy (other than you buying it for them). At first, they might feel that thee is no way to get the toy unless you get it for them. But remind them that they have the agency to save for the toy themselves. You might tell them you will support their goal by giving them chores to do around the house to earn an allowance.
Or maybe your child is taking swimming lessons and wants to move up to the next level. Discuss how they might improve enough to do that — by practicing, going to all their lessons, etc. Offer to support them by taking them to the pool to practice.
 Be optimistic in your parenting style to help your child approach situations more positively.For example, instead of saying, “You don’t allow enough time to get ready in the morning and that’s why you’re always late,” say, “I’ve noticed that when you get up early and give yourself time in the morning, you seem to get off to school no problem.”


If your child has left a mess yet again, say, “It can be nice to have a clean space so that you have room to do the things you enjoy.”

, Part of optimism is facing difficult situations and feeling like they can be overcome. Relate to your own child’s experience by telling something about your own life. If your child struggles with math, say, “You know, I had a hard time with math when I was in school, too. I remember it being really hard. Then I realized that I could do it, it just took some practice, and I’d have to work extra hard.”You can also use examples from movies such as “The Karate Kid” or “The Lion King.”

, If you catch yourself saying, “I’m such a…” statements, know that your children are listening and hear you put yourself down. You may notice your children saying similar things and begin to discourage themselves with negative talk!If you put yourself down, start adjusting your own vocabulary.


For example, if you say, “I’m so clumsy!” or, “I’m just a bad cook,” stop or adjust these statements. You can say instead, “Sometimes I don’t watch where I’m going” or “I’m still learning to make good meals for dinner.”

, If your child is upset about a low grade, don’t upset them further by getting angry or upset about the failure. Instead, handle the situation calmly. Consider your child’s feelings and use the moment to help your child reflect on the experience. Even if you are disappointed, respond optimistically to your child.For example, say, “I know you’re upset about your spelling test. You’ve done well in the past, and I bet you’ll do great again. This was just a low week.”

, If your child experiences failure, remind them that it’s not life-changing. A bad science grade doesn’t mean that they’re bad at science, and a bad soccer game doesn’t mean they should quit soccer. If your child is frustrated with a setback or failure, remind them that it’s not forever and that they’ll be okay.For example, if your child doesn’t make the team, say, “I’m sorry you didn’t make the team, I know you wanted to play. I know you are upset, but the good news is that you can try out again in one month, or you can try a different sport.”

, If your child is upset (“I can’t believe I did so bad on the test! I’m the dumbest kid in the class.”), listen without interruption and empathize with your child’s feelings. When your child has finished detailing their frustrations, use questions to help challenge the negative beliefs. Questions can help your child realize that they didn’t do everything wrong or that they have other chances to do better.If your child is down on their soccer game or painting, ask, “What was one thing you did well?” If your child did poorly on a test, ask, “What’s one thing you can do to improve for the next test?”

, It's hard to stay optimistic if you can't prioritize, de-stress, or allow yourself a break to enjoy life. Emphasize the importance of eating well, getting enough rest, maintaining hygiene, staying active, and taking breaks — all essential parts of self-care. Your child's life should not be scheduled down to the minute; make sure they have time every day to relax and do something fun.Help your child learn to prioritize when they are overwhelmed. Let them know that it's okay to say "no" sometimes, especially when they have a lot on their plate.
Listen to your child's fears and anxieties. Do not dismiss them as silly, unrealistic, or childish. Let them express their worries and reassure them in no uncertain terms: "I will always take care of you," "I will always listen to you," etc.
 Starting from a young age, allow your child to do things for themselves. While it may be quicker for you tie your child’s shoes or sort the laundry, have your children experience success in these tasks by doing them by themselves. You may need to guide or loosely help, but don’t do the task for them. Make sure to acknowledge their success.For example, have your child put away toys, set the table, or get the mail. Then, praise your child for their success. Say, “Wow, you did it! Good job. You’re really helping the family.”

, If your child believes that they can achieve something, they are more likely to give a new experience a chance.Every success your child experiences helps to build confidence and opens the doors to experience more success in new adventures. If your child is unsure of something, help them to reflect on past successes.


For example, if your child fears an entry to the science fair, ask, “What other projects have you worked on? Did they turn out okay? Why would this project be any different?”

, If your child does something well, praise the effort that helped the child to accomplish that task. For example, if your child does well with gymnastics, say, “You trained really hard and put a lot of effort into your gymnastics. It really paid off, and as you keep working hard, you’ll continue to move up.”Focus more on the effort and less on the outcome.If your child wins an award, acknowledge the reward and say, “You worked really hard and it’s nice to see how hard work turns out.”

