 Put a 6 quart (5.6 l) pan on the stovetop, then turn the heat to low. Wait a few minutes for the pan to warm. Use a heavy-bottomed pan as opposed to a light-weight pan to ensure even heating., After the pan has heated for a few minutes, stir in the brown sugar, granulated sugar, maple syrup and the corn syrup into the pan. Stir the ingredients so that they mix and combine., Stir the ingredients in the pan continuously, using a heat-proof spatula to scrape the sides and bottom of the pan to prevent the mixture from sticking. Keep stirring for about fifteen minutes until the sugar has dissolved completely.You will be able to tell when the sugar has dissolved because the sugar granules will slowly melt away and the mixture will become smooth.
 After you see that the sugar has dissolved, turn the heat up to medium. Keep cooking, stirring occasionally, and check the heat every few minutes with a candy thermometer.Use the heat-proof spatula and a wet pastry brush to brush the sides of the pan and ensure that the maple mixture doesn’t stick.
If the maple mixture ever looks like it is going to bubble over, reduce the heat slightly.
 Keep checking the temperature of the maple mixture every few minutes. When it reaches 240 degrees F (115.5 C), about 10-15 minutes, take the pan off the heat and pour the mixture into the bowl of a standing mixer or another large bowl., Roughly chop the chilled butter into chunks, then add it into the bowl along with the vanilla. Do not stir the butter and vanilla into the maple mixture immediately; instead, let them sit and use the candy thermometer to measure the temperature. Let the mixture cool to 110 degrees F (43.3 C), about 1 to 1 ½ hours., After the mixture has reached 110 degrees F (43.3 C), start to stir, either using your standing mixer on high speed, or by vigorously stirring by hand. Keep mixing until the mixture becomes thick and lightens to a pale beige color, about 10 minutes if you are using a mixer and about 15 minutes if mixing by hand. Then chop and stir in the walnuts., Use foil or parchment paper to line a 9-inch square pan, then rub a stick of butter on the foil or paper to grease it. Pour the fudge mixture into the pan, scraping the sides with a spatula to get out all the fudge. Place the pan in the refrigerator until the fudge is firm, at least two hours.You can keep the fudge in the fridge up to one day if you want it particularly firm.
 Lift the fudge out of the pan by the foil or parchment paper. Cut it with a sharp knife into squares, then serve. If not serving immediately, store the uncut fudge in a sealed container in the refrigerator.Uncut fudge that is wrapped with saran wrap and put in a sealed container can last up to one month. Cut fudge stored in a sealed container lasts around one week.

