 It is important to get some rest for the test. If you can, try going to sleep a little earlier than you usually do. This will help make sure you are well rested before the big day. Don't stay up late and go to sleep at four o' clock in the morning! It will make you have less energy, making it harder to concentrate.;
, The morning meal is the most important one of the day, and it is crucial that you consume something of nutritional value before you head off to school. Try to eat some protein by making some scrambled eggs and toast. Eat a banana to get some potassium. Use good judgment; too, go for the whole wheat toast with jelly instead of the junk cereal with tons of sugar.
 Most standardized tests call for a scientific calculator, or better yet, a graphing calculator. You don't need a pencil or a ruler; those are provided for you. Also, think about the personal items you may need. Ask if you are allowed to bring a small snack, like a granola bar or an apple. If so, take advantage of this and bring something small to eat to keep you awake.
 Gum can stimulate your senses and keep you awake and focused. Just make sure you don't chew with your mouth open. Don't do this is if your district is against chewing gum.
 Most standardized tests are taken during spring, and it might get a little hot in your testing room. The last thing you want is to be uncomfortable. For example, if you wear a heavy sweater, chances are that you are going to be extremely tired because of the heat. You can also consider wearing bright colors, which will keep you looking positive and feeling energetic. This may sound silly, but if you wear brighter colors, people will react to you more positively, and you'll be able to feed off of their positive energy.
 Don't get discouraged if you can't figure out a problem; just skip it and come back to it later. Complete open-ended questions to the best of your ability, and read and reread the directions. Go back and check your answers when you get to the end of the test because you probably aren't completely finished. Don't over think things; the directions are probably simpler than you think! Most importantly of all, take your time. Utilize extra time if it is available. Even though you hear this a lot, it is very important! Relax! Standardized tests are not a big deal; just do your best and your efforts will show when you get your grades back.
 The fact is, you should already know everything you need to know by the day before the test. If you have to cram the night before, then you won't do as well you could have if you had studied more in the weeks leading up to the exam. Studying too much the night before can actually make you do worse, because you'll start stressing out if you forget a problem or you may even start panicking if you feel like you've realized there's a concept you don't know at the last minute. To keep your mind tough and relaxed at the same time, make sure you're adequately prepared during the days leading up to the exam and take it easy the night before.
 Along with not studying the night before, you should avoid cramming in the morning before you head to the exam. You won't learn anything new in that short amount of time, and all you'll be doing is weakening your mind by doubting yourself.
 Smile at your friends before the exam. Give a close friend or a parent a hug. Even shake out your arms and legs to loosen yourself up. Just acting positive can go a long way in making you feel more mentally alert and ready to tackle any challenges that you may find on the test.
 If you see a problem you've never seen before, don't let yourself implode and start freaking out. Instead, skip the problem, work on some problems you know until you feel more confident, and return to the tough problem later if you have time. If you spend all your time on this one problem you're not sure you know how to do, you're bound to get frustrated and will keep yourself from earning the points you can earn.
 Sure, you may feel like it's the end of the world when you're facing a standardized test and feel like you don't really know what you're doing, but it's never as bad as you think it is. For one thing, it's likely that you're just second guessing yourself and that you're doing much better than you think. For another, no one test is ever going to have that big of an impact on your life, especially not in middle school. So when you feel yourself losing mental strength, just remember to take it easy. Though this may sound easier said than done, you can definitely do it if you put your mind to it.

