 Laundry that’s piled up on the floor can start to take on a musty odor, and this can make the entire room smell.What's worse, wet laundry can be a breeding ground for mold. Collect laundry from all over the house, separate it into loads, and wash it in the washing machine.


To ensure you kill mold and other bacteria on clothes, use a hot water cycle to wash the clothes.
To dry your laundry, you can either tumble dry it, or hang it to dry if the weather is nice.
Always check care labels before laundering or tumble drying any garments.;
, You spend about a third of your life in your bed, so it’s no wonder that sheets, blankets, and pillow cases can start to smell up a room after a while. To remove these odors, strip the pillow cases, sheets, and other washable linens and covers from the bed, and wash them in the washing machine.


When the bedding is clean, dry it in the dryer or on a line before making the bed again.
 Kitchen and bathroom sinks and drains can be home to mold, mildew, clogs, and other things that can cause bad smells in your house. To clean the drain, pour 1 cup (220 g) of baking soda down the drain. Pour 2 cups (470 ml) of white vinegar down the drain after the baking soda. Let the mixture foam and bubble for about 30 minutes.When the baking soda and vinegar mixture has had time to bubble its way through the drain, rinse the drain with a kettle-full of boiling hot water.
 Toilets are another household fixture that can house mold, mildew, bacteria, and other stink-sources. Pour 1 cup (235 ml) of vinegar into the bowl. Spray down the outside of the bowl and seat with vinegar as well. Let the vinegar stand for five minutes. Scrub the inside of the bowl with the toilet brush, and wipe the outside of the bowl and the seat with rags or paper towels.Flush the toilet to get rid of any particles that may have been scrubbed loose from the bowl.
 Mold has a particular smell that can permeate your entire home. It’s important for your health and the smell of your home to deal with any mold problems, such as in the shower, on tiles, in sinks, or in other damp areas of the house. To kill mold:Combine 1 cup (235 ml) of bleach and 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water in a bucket
Put on protective rubber gloves
Open the windows to increase air flow
Dip a stiff-bristled brush into the cleaning solution
Scrub affected areas with the brush
Dip the brush back into the solution regularly as you scrub
Rinse the area with a damp sponge

, Dirty carpets and furniture can harbor bad smells that make your living areas stink. To remove dust and smelly particles, vacuum all the carpets in the house with a wide brush attachment. To remove dusty and musty smells from furniture, vacuum all upholstered furniture using an upholstery attachment.


For the best results, use a vacuum that’s outfitted with a HEPA filter, as this will prevent dust and other fine particles from floating back into the air., The garbage is one of the worst offenders that cause stinky rooms, especially kitchen garbage that house food and other wet waste. When your kitchen smells, start by tying up the garbage and taking it outside or to the garage., Before putting a fresh bag into the empty garbage can, give the can itself a good cleaning to remove any spills or particles that could cause lingering smells. To clean the garbage can:Put on rubber gloves
Remove large pieces of food
Rinse the can in the bathtub or outside with a garden hose
Wipe the inside dry with rags or paper towels
Spray the inside with a generous amount of all-purpose cleaner and disinfectant
Let the cleaner sit for five minutes
Scrub the can with a stiff-bristled brush
Rinse the can
Dry the can with rags or paper towels
Put in a new garbage bag

, Any appliance that comes in contact with food can be a source of smells in your house, especially if there have been recent spills. If you're not sure where the smell is coming from, clean all your food-related appliances, including:Garbage disposal
Refrigerator
Oven
Microwave

, As much as you love your dog, it’s possible that your pup is bringing some bad smells into the house. To eliminate this odor source, give your dog a bath in a tub or sink with pet shampoo, take a trip to the groomers, or visit a pet bath station at the local pet store.


Throw your dog’s bed into the washing machine and clean it as well to get rid of any lingering odors., Fresh air is one of the greatest ways to get rid of bad smells in the house, because the smells can be carried out of the open windows and replaced with clean air. In spring, summer, and fall, open a few windows throughout the house. To create a breeze, open windows that are on opposite sides of the house.


In winter when it’s not possible to keep the windows open, open a window for just a minute to let in some fresh air., Fans are great for boosting the refreshing power of clean air. When you have the windows open, turn on ceiling and standing fans in the house to help create a bigger breeze and get the air moving.
 Sunlight contains ultra-violet rays, which have the power to kill things like smell-causing mold and bacteria. No matter what time of year it is, open the curtains and drapes throughout the house on a sunny day and let the UV rays in.


Sunlight can be an effective odor killer for carpets, furniture, pet areas, pillows and cushions, and other household items that can smell., Baking soda is one of the most popular deodorizers around, because it’s effective and cheap. To absorb smells around the house, sprinkle some baking soda into a couple of small dishes or plates and distribute them around the house. The baking soda will absorb odors from the rooms and get rid of bad smells.To further deodorize household items, sprinkle baking soda over things like carpets, furniture, mattresses, and other possible odor sources. Leave the baking soda for 30 minutes, and then vacuum it up.
 Vinegar is also an effective deodorizer that you can use to absorb bad smells around the house. Fill a few small bowls with vinegar and place the bowls in smelly areas around the house, such as:Musty basements
Bathrooms
Kitchens
Bedrooms

, Charcoal is similarly a powerful odor absorber that can be used in many rooms and inside appliances to deodorize.Be sure to use pure charcoal and not something that contains lighter fluid. Place a few pieces of charcoal on plates and distribute them around the house. You can put them in:


Closets
Refrigerator and freezer
Living areas

, Certain houseplants are known to clean the air, and they may help to control odors in the house as well. Houseplants you can grow around the house for air-purification include:Snake plants
English ivy
Lady palms
Dracaena

, Fabric softener sheets make your clothes smell great, and they can do the same for the air in your house.To use these as an air freshener, place sheets in smelly areas around the house, such as in:


Shoe closets
Garbage cans
Wet basements
Areas where mold has been

, When you boil water in the kitchen, the water particles evaporate and get carried around the house. You can turn this into a potent air freshener by adding your favorite herbs, spices, and citrus rinds to a pot, filling it with water, and boiling it on the stove with the lid off for a couple of hours. Ingredients you can use in the simmer pot include:Lemon peels
Cinnamon sticks
Allspice
Basil
Ginger
Cranberries
Orange peels
Cloves
Bay leaf

, Commercial air fresheners are specifically designed to make the air in your house smell clean and wonderful. These devices often contain chemicals that mask bad odors, plus fragrances that make the air smell nice. Air fresheners come in a variety of forms, including:Sprays
Diffusers
Gels
Waxes

, Incense comes in many forms and in many different smells. To burn incense sticks, place the skinny end of the stick into an incense holder. Light the opposite end of the stick until the tip begins to glow, and then blow out the flame. As the incense burns it will release sweet-smelling smoke that will make the air smell great.


To distribute the smell throughout the entire house, set up a fan on the opposite side of the room to the incense. This will produce air to blow the smoke throughout the house, but not too much breeze that ashes blow everywhere.
Never leave incense unattended, as it does produce heat and can cause fires.

