 Use a shampoo that is made for wavy to curly hair. Choosing a shampoo that is made for another hair type, like straight hair, won’t give your hair the proper care it needs. Look for shampoos that specifically say they are made for a wavy hair texture and will add bounce and/or definition to the waves. Do not use too much shampoo or shampoo too often. While shampooing, focus on your scalp and use a quarter-sized amount. Depending on how oily or dry your hair is, wash once every other day or once every few days.Consider any problems you’ve had with your hair before buying a shampoo. If you have trouble with frizz, look for a brand that helps with frizz.;
, Along with buying a shampoo made for wavy hair, you should use a conditioner based on your hair type as well. If you find a shampoo you like, try to find the conditioner that is paired with it. If there isn’t a conditioner that is meant to be bought with the shampoo, then look for a product that says it is for wavy hair. Make sure to use conditioner every time you wash. Only apply the conditioner to the mid-shaft through the ends of your hair.Conditioners made for curly hair can work for wavy hair as well.
If you are concerned about the ingredients in your conditioner, like alcohol that can dry hair out, look for an organic conditioner.
 Hot showers feel great, but they are not good for your hair. Warm water is good to use to allow the shampoo and conditioner to work into the hair, but finishing your shower with warm or hot water can dry it out. Even if you start with a warm shower, end with a cold one. A cold shower will close the cuticles and help seal in the moisture from the shampoo and conditioner.If you really can’t take or end with a cold shower, use one cup of apple cider vinegar mixed with two cups of water and pour it over your wet hair. This will remove build-up from products and dandruff from your scalp.
 If you do not plan to style your hair after washing it, then put in buns before bed to help maintain waves. Towel dry your hair, apply a styling mousse, and then put your hair in four twisted buns. This will help you maintain soft curls for the morning., Don't use a hairdryer to dry hair if possible. Instead, let it dry naturally. The heat from a hair dryer can cause damage to hair and leave the waves looking poofy. If using a hair dryer is unavoidable, use a diffuser and put it on a low heat setting., A comb can cause breakage to your hair, especially if it is used too soon in the styling product. First, use your fingers to detangle hair. Then, you can use a wide-tooth comb to tackle any knots that you were not able to untangle with your fingers. Start combing at the ends of your hair and work up to your roots, rather than starting at the roots.Do not use a brush. A brush can cause breakage and ruin the shape of your waves.
Comb your hair while you are still in the shower if you can’t avoid combing it altogether.
 Use a mousse or other styling product to control frizz and maintain waves. Divide your hair into at least four sections before applying product. The smaller sections allow you to coat every strand of hair. While applying the product, scrunch your hair, squeeze it for a few seconds, and then let it go., Try to minimize using a hair straightener or curling iron. Your hair will be healthier if you allow it to dry on its own and stay wavy. Excessive use of heat will damage hair and cause your waves to look frizzy. If you do use a heat styling tool, then use a heat protectant product before straightening or curling your hair.Heat protectant products typically come in spray and cream form.
 Complete your styling routine with an oil to seal in moisture and add shine. Look for a lightweight oil that won’t weigh your hair down, like Argan oil. Only use a small amount. The size of dime should be enough, depending on the length of your hair. Apply the product from mid-shaft through the ends of your hair., Use a deep conditioner once a week to give your hair extra moisture and protection. Deep conditioning gives your hair more a more intense conditioning than your usual, everyday conditioner, and it should not be used as often. A deep conditioner can repair damage, add shine, and protect your hair from pollutants and harsh UV Rays. Apply the product from the mid-shaft to the end of your hair, leave in for five to thirty minutes, and rinse thoroughly.The product should say that it’s a deep conditioner or mask that is not meant for daily use.
The amount of time you leave the conditioner on your hair depends on the instructions on the label of the product, and the amount of damage to your hair.
 Using a lot of product can cause build-up in your hair, which can leave hair looking dull and limp. Buy and clarifying shampoo and use it once a week to get rid of dirt and oil in the hair. The instructions for use depends on the product, but typically you should massage and lather into hair and then rinse thoroughly., Avoid chemical processes, like dyeing hair and using chemical relaxers. Chemical processes damage the hair, and it can be hard to recover from that kind of damage. Use an organic hair dye if you do decide to dye your hair. And if chemicals can’t be avoided completely, make sure to deep condition before and after the process.Henna is an example of a natural hair dye.
 Heat usage, combing, and brushing causes split ends. Not getting rid of these split ends can cause the ends to split ends even more, which leads to unhealthy hair that will probably need a dramatic hair cut later on to fix. Trim your hair every six to eight weeks to keep your hair healthy and long.