 In order to manage the pain, it's recommended that you go for soft foods until your gums are less sore. This can also make it easier to chew slower and softer, preventing pain associated with biting too hard. Soft foods are easier to chew and less likely to get lodged between your teeth.Go for foods like mashed potatoes, yogurt, and hot cereal. Instead of eating raw fruits and veggies, try making a smoothie by mixing some of your favorite fruits and vegetables in a blender along with some juice.
As time goes by, you may feel less discomfort and be able to eat harder foods. Soft foods can help in the first few days as you're getting used to the feeling of separators.;
, Before you begin eating, it can help to cut food into small bits. Chewing can feel awkward and painful when you're first starting out with separators. Preparing small, bite-sized food can lessen the work for your teeth.Cut harder fruits and veggies, like apples and carrots, into tiny portions before eating. Do not try to bite into a whole apple on its own, or any other hard fruit.
You should remove meat from the bone before eating. It will be difficult to eat something like ribs or chicken wings from the bone with separators. You should also cut up meat into small bits before eating to make it easier to chew.
 It can be hard to get used to eating with separators as they often cause discomfort. It's a good idea to chew gently. Biting down hard can increase discomfort and pain, especially early on. When eating with separators, take small bites and chew your food slowly and softly., Vegetables are an essential part of a healthy diet, but can be difficult to eat when adjusting to separators. As soft foods are generally better to eat, it's a good idea to steam or cook hard vegetables before eating. Go for steamed broccoli or cooked carrots as a side dish over raw varieties., After you eat, it can be tempting to pick at your teeth. At first, separators may feel awkward and can easily be mistaken for food caught between the teeth. Try to resist the urge to pick. Using your finger or a toothpick to pick at your teeth can cause a separator to fall out.In order to help resist the temptation to pick, try to avoid foods, like popcorn and raspberries, that often get caught in your teeth. Stay away from these kinds of snacks until you're used to your separators.

