 If possible, start searching for a job before summer begins, as job searches can take a long time. Starting early will also set you ahead of your peers who are also looking for summer jobs.


Consider starting your job search in late winter or early spring, as most company’s will begin accepting summer job applications around that time.
 Some countries may have legal restrictions for students who are hoping to work. In particular, if you are younger than 18 years old, there is a chance that you will have to obtain working papers (ie. employment and age certificates) that will make it legal for you to start working.


Talk to your guidance counselor at your school about whether or not you need working papers.
If you are in the United States, you can also contact the State Department of Labor to find out more about working papers and if you need them or not.
 Many companies will ask for references along with your resume when you apply for a job. References are people who write down notes that vouch for your character and work ethic that you then submit to your interviewers. Prepare a separate document for your references—do not add them to your resume.Good people to ask for a written reference include:


Teachers.
Academic advisors.
Coaches.
Volunteer leaders.
 When applying for jobs, you should try to apply to positions that will help you to achieve one of your goals or hone a desired skill. Interviewers can often tell if you are passionate or excited about a position.
 When you have a large network of professionals, you are likely to find a job more quickly than people who do not know anyone in their field. To expand your network and find out if anyone you know knows of available jobs, talk to teachers, former employers, friends, parents, and coaches.Talk to these people about any job openings they might know of, or if they have recommendations about who you should talk to or what companies you should look into.
 There are many websites out there that list job openings. You can search these websites for jobs in the field you are interested in. In fact, there are even websites where you can search for summer jobs. You can also look for part-time job sites if you are hoping to work in the summer while also getting to make the most of your summer vacation.


Websites like SimplyHired and Indeed list summer and part-time jobs.
 Most companies will allow you to apply online. Each company will require different information from you. Be prepared to fill out an extended online job application on top of sending off your:


Resume or CV.
Cover letter explaining why you want the job and why you would be a perfect fit for it.
References.
Samples of your work (ie. writing samples, photography work, etc.).

