 On the Apple devices, this icon looks like a talk bubble from a comic strip. On the Samsung Galaxy and some other phones, the icon looks like an open envelope.
;
, On the iPhone, an icon appears in the top right corner of the Messages menu that looks like a pencil being put to a tablet. This will open the new message window. On other phones, you may select "Create New Message" from a menu.
 You can either message a contact from your Contacts List, or you can message a new phone number you haven't added into your contacts list yet. You can also select more than one person to message.


If you start typing the name of the person you want to message, the phone should provide a list of options you can browse through and select from. This will automatically enter their phone number in the "To" field.
Alternatively, you can also select someone from your Contacts List to start messaging. When you click on their name in the list, simply select "Send Message" from the list of available options and the phone will open the correct window.
If you've already messaged with someone previously, your existing or open conversations should pop up as soon as you select "Messages" from the main menu. Scroll through the list and select the conversation you'd like to reopen. 


, When you select the blinking cursor in the messaging field, your keyboard should pop up. Use the keyboard to type out the message you'd like to send.



Alternatively, you can select the Microphone icon near the keyboard on the iPhone to send a voice-activated message. After you select this icon, speak the message you'd like to send as clearly as possible. The phone won't add punctuation to the message, but this is an effective way to send messages if you can't or don't want to type.
Check for error corrections. If you misspell something while you're typing, some phone models will try to guess what you were trying to type and provide an alternative. If you want to use the substitute word, add a space and the word will be added automatically. If you don't want to use the word, hit the X on the suggested alternative.
 When your message is finished, simply click send. Most smart phones will display your conversation with comic-book style "talk bubbles" that correspond to you and the person you're texting with. That way, you can look back over most of the conversation or refer to it later.


The iPhone and other smartphones will display ellipses in a talk bubble when the other person is typing. It can take a few seconds for the message to arrive, so if you see this icon, you can wait until the person isn't typing to respond. This helps the conversation flow more smoothly. 


, Select the Camera icon to the left of the message field on an Apple product, or select "Send Picture" under your messaging options on another phone to send a picture message. You can either select a photo that you've already taken on your phone, or take a new photo to send. Once you've selected the photo, click "Use" and "Send."


Alternatively, you can select a photo from your Photo Album. Under the options, you can select "Messages" and then select a contact to send the picture to.
 Familiarizing yourself with your text messaging options under the phones Settings tab can help you make texting more user-friendly and fun. You can customize your notification settings, including whether or not you want your phone to vibrate or make a particular sound when you receive or send text messages.


Under your text settings (Go to Settings and then Texting) you can toggle between On/Off for "Send Read Receipts." This notifies the person you're messaging with that you've opened the conversation once they've sent the text. This is useful when you're texting time-sensitive things like driving directions, or when you're trying to text someone on the down-low. They don't need to respond with "ok" if you already know they've seen the message.

