 List the roles that will be assigned for this project. Describe the responsibilities and necessary skills for each role. At minimum, include a project manager to enact changes on a day-to-day level, and a project sponsor to track overall progress and make high-level change management decisions.


For broad projects in a large organization, you may need to divide the project management role among several people with specialized knowledge.
 Software projects typically include a Change Control Board, made up of representatives from each stakeholder group. This board approves change requests instead of the project manager, and communicates the decisions to stakeholders.This approach works well for projects with many stakeholders, and projects which may need frequent reevaluation of the scope and baseline goals.
 Once someone on the project team identifies a step forward, how does it go from idea to reality? Describe this process here, as agreed upon by the team. Here's an example:Team member fills out a Change Request form and sends it to the project manager.
Project manager enters form into the Change Request Log, and updates this log as requests are implemented or rejected.
Manager assigns team members to write a more specific plan, and to estimate the effort required.
Project manager sends plan to project sponsor for approval or rejection.
Change is implemented. Stakeholders are informed of progress frequently.
 The following data should be included with every change request, and entered in the change log:Date of change request
Change request number, assigned by project manager
Title and description
Submitter name, email, and phone number
Priority (High, Medium, or Low). Urgent change management plans may require specific deadlines.Product and version number (for software projects)

, The change log must also track decisions and implementation. Besides the information copied from the change request form, you'll need space for the following:Mark of approval or rejection
Signature of the person approving or rejecting the request
Change implementation deadline
Change completion date

, In addition to the day-to-day change log, the project may benefit from a record of major decisions. This record may make it easier to track long term projects, or projects that undergo leadership changes. This record can also guide communication with clients or senior management. For each change in deadlines, project scope or requirements, priority levels, or strategy, include the following information:Who made the decision
When the decision was made
A summary of the reasons behind the decision, and the process used to reach it. Attach any documents related to this process.

