 To make a mold for your candle wax, you can use the bottom half of a milk or juice carton. Cut the top half of the carton away with scissors, and then clean the carton thoroughly. Allow it to dry before using it as a mold.


You will need to punch a small hole in the bottom of the carton. Push a nail through the center of the carton bottom to form the hole; the wick will be threaded through this hole to keep it in place.
Spray the inside of your mold thoroughly with candle mold release. This product, which is available at craft stores, will prevent the mold from sticking and tearing away pieces of the candle wax when the candle is complete.;
, Cut a piece of candle wick that is a bit longer than the depth of your candle mold. You will need to position it so that it runs tautly down through the center of the candle while the wax cools around it.


Start by threading the candle wick through the hole in the bottom of the mold. Use a piece of tape to cover the hole and secure the excess wick in place.
Tie the other end of the wick around a chopstick or skewer stick. You should be able to lay this chopstick across the top of the candle mold with the wick held completely taut and straight.
 To prevent it from burning, the candle wax must be melted using the gentle, indirect heat from a double boiler. If you do not have a double boiler, you can easily set one up using a few pieces of kitchen equipment.


Fill a medium-sized saucepan with a shallow layer of water. Place the saucepan onto the stove and bring the water to a boil. When the water is boiling, reduce the heat just enough so that the water maintains a continuous but relatively low boil.
Place a large metal mixing bowl over the saucepan. The bottom of the bowl should not touch the water. You can now melt the wax in the mixing bowl without any risk of burning it.
 For a medium-sized pillar candle, you'll need about 1 pound (450 g) of candle wax, which can be purchased at a craft store in either pellet or block form. If you bought your wax in a large block, chop it into smaller pieces with a knife before melting it.


Place all of the candle wax into the double boiler. Stir it using a wooden spoon, scraping the bottom of the mixing bowl to prevent any wax from sticking and congealing onto the bowl.
The wax is finished melting when it is completely liquid and clear in color. At this point the wax will be around 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius).
 A small amount of coffee-scented fragrance oil can now be added and stirred into the melted wax. Brown candle coloring is optional, but can be added to give the candle an appearance to match its coffee scent.


Fragrance oil can be purchased at many craft stores. If you cannot find coffee-scented oil in your local craft store, you may have to purchase the oil online from a candle-making supply retailer.
The amounts of fragrance oil and color that you add will depend on your own preferences regarding the intensity of the candle's scent and color. Refer to the manufacturer's directions for guidelines on how much to add.
 Wearing oven mitts or thick gloves for protection, gently and slowly pour the melted wax from the mixing bowl into your candle mold. A slow pour will help minimize air bubbles that will mar the appearance of the finished coffee candle. Leave a small amount of space between the wax and the top of your mold to avoid spills.
 Candle wax should take about 12 hours to dry completely, but may take longer in high temperatures. When the wax looks and feels dry, remove the tape at the bottom of the mold and tap the bottom to loosen the candle from the carton.
 When the candle has been removed from the mold, untie the wick from the chopstick. Trim the wick so that it is flush with the bottom of the candle and extends about half an inch (1 cm) from the top of the candle.

