 Before you do any office yoga poses, especially those you can do seated in a chair, make sure you're sitting with good posture. Move to the edge of your chair so that your feet can rest flat on the floor.Generally you want to sit in a stable chair rather than a chair with wheels, if at all possible. If no non-wheeled chair is available, lock or block your wheels if you can so the chair won't roll.
Keep a neutral back and roll your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades are falling down your back in line with your spine.;
, The wrist stretch is particularly good for releasing tension if you have to type a lot at work. Doing wrist stretches periodically throughout the day can help reduce the risk of developing carpal tunnel syndrome.Extend your arms in front of you so that your wrists are over your desk or table. Bend your hand upward so that your fingers reach upwards towards you. Try to flatten your palms as much as possible.
Hold the stretch, breathing deeply. Make sure your shoulders aren't hunched over and your shoulder blades are flowing down your back in line with your spine.
Repeat the stretch as needed, either relaxing and stretching several times. You can do this stretch periodically throughout the day whenever your wrists feel tight or tense.
 If you find you hold a lot of tension in your shoulders, the seated cow pose can help open them up. This is especially helpful if you have the tendency to hunch over your desk or computer.Lift one arm overhead and bend it at the elbow so that your hand drops behind your head. Reach your other arm up from behind and below until you can clasp the fingers of your top hand.
Pull until you feel a good stretch in your chest and shoulders. Hold the stretch for a few seconds, breathing deeply. Then release and repeat with the other side.
 Yogic neck stretches can provide a gentle counter-stretch for the muscles that often get contracted or tightened when you're hunched over a computer, or stressed out at work.You can do these stretches sitting or standing, so they are perfect for any office environment. If you're sitting, check your posture and make sure both feet are flat on the floor.
On an exhale, drop your head to the left. Inhale back to center, then exhale and drop your head to the right. You can reach your arm overhead and use it to gently push your head in the direction of the stretch. Use the arm below your head when you're stretching.
 The sitting reed pose gives your spine a good stretch and helps improve your posture, especially when you're seated at a desk all day. Start by moving to the edge of your chair so your feet are flat on the floor.Put your hands together in front of your chest with your fingers interlaced and breathe deeply for a few seconds to connect with your breath.
On an inhale, stretch your arms over your head and towards the ceiling, keeping your fingers interlaced. Keep your back neutral and your shoulders rolled back with your shoulder blades dropping down your back – don't hunch your shoulders up around your ears.
On an exhale, lean to the left until you feel a stretch. With the next inhale, rise back up to center, then lean to the right with the next exhale. Inhale back to center. Repeat for 10 to 20 breath cycles.
 When you're actually sitting in a chair, your leg muscles aren't active or engaged. Simulating sitting in a chair with chair pose releases tension and increases circulation to your lower body.Since this is a standing pose, you need to make sure you have enough space. This pose is appropriate in an open office environment, but if you work in a cubicle you might find you don't have enough room. Try to find an empty conference room.
Come to a standing pose and breathe deeply two or three times, or as long as it takes you to connect your mind with your breath. On an inhale, lift your arms overhead. As you exhale, bend your knees as if you are going to sit in a chair.
Ideally, you will lower until your thighs are parallel to the floor. However, you shouldn't go any more deeply into chair pose than you can without pain or discomfort.
Press your palms together in front of your chest and breathe deeply. Hold the pose for 8 to 10 slow breaths before returning to a standing position.
 The sitting eagle pose may be difficult for you if you have tight hips or significant lower back pain, but over time it can help ease the symptoms associated with sciatica and other lower back problems.Sit on the edge of your chair with your feet flat on the floor. Cross one leg over the other, bending your knee, so that your ankle is sitting on the opposite knee.
Lean forward until you feel a stretch in your hips and buttocks. If you can fold all the way forward so that your forehead rests on your leg, do so – but don't lean forward any further than you can without pain or discomfort.
Hold the pose for a few breath cycles, breathing deeply, then lower your leg and repeat on the other side.

