 You may not want to go through formalized volunteering. Instead, you can volunteer to help those elderly individuals you know. Many elderly people experience loneliness or simply want to share their experiences in life. Taking some time to visit with an elderly family member, friend, or neighbor is a great way to volunteer to help the elderly.Go to the person’s home and do activities you both enjoy. You could watch a movie or TV show, do crossword puzzles, play board games, or even just sit and talk.
Take the person to a café, the movies, or another place if they are able. This helps get the person out of their house while spending some quality time with you. Even a walk around the neighborhood is an enjoyable way to volunteer your time.
 Many older adults do not get proper nutrition and develop malnutrition.One way to cheer up your elderly loved ones, friends, and neighbors is to cook them a meal or meals that they can enjoy. This not only helps the person get proper nutrition and brings them joy, but may also help financially.Ask the person what types of food they like. Cook them healthy alternatives to ensure they get proper nutrition.Bring healthy snacks and desserts for the person to enjoy.
Consider cooking at the person’s house and staying to enjoy a meal together. This provides the person some company and vital nutrition.
 Many seniors continue to live at home as they age. They may need a handyman to help with things around the house. This gives you the opportunity to not only volunteer to help the person, but may also provide some welcome company. Some things you can do to help an elderly individual around the house include:Cleaning
Fixing little things
Tending to the garden and raking leaves
Shoveling the driveway in winter

, Some seniors no longer have the ability to drive. Volunteering to drive an elderly individual to appointments, shopping, or just to take in local sites can help them get much needed services, leave the house, and have a bit of company and enjoyment.Schedule a set time every week to drive a senior or seniors to places they need. Consider taking the person out for lunch for some extra quality time.
Offer to run errands for the person if they are unable to leave the house or a senior living community. They may need prescriptions, groceries, or just want a meal from a local restaurant.

