 Cloth diapers can be made from different types of cotton fabric: flannel, birdseye, and gauze. Each of these fabrics has different characteristics which has a bearing on both the absorbency of the diapers as well as how comfortable the diapers are.;
, There are several companies that sell pin-on cloth diapers for older children, teenagers, and adults.
 If they're too tight the diapers will be uncomfortable, if they're too loose the diapers will leak.


One company that sells pin-on cloth diapers for older children and teenagers has the weight range that these diapers will fit listed on their website and another company has just the waist sizes listed. If you're not sure you've got an appropriate fit or you have any additional questions call the company and ask to speak to a customer service representative. Like the saying goes, "Measure twice, cut once."

, Unlike disposable diapers, cloth diapers do not have a waterproof outer layer. As a result, you need to cover the diapers with a pair of waterproof pants. Plastic pants (also known as vinyl pants,vinyl being a type of plastic) are generally considered to be the best type of pants to cover cloth diapers with - they're usually the most durable, they tend to be the least expensive type of waterproof pants, and they have excellent wicking capabilities (meaning how well liquid is dispersed).


Some people also call plastic pants "rubber pants" even though they actually mean plastic pants.The terminology "rubber pants" is incorrect. Before the advent of plastic pants in the fifties "rubber pants" were the only style of waterproof pants available to cover baby diapers. The term "rubber pants" became widely used in the vernacular as a generic term for waterproof pants. Some people also use the term "rubber sheets" even though they mean vinyl or plastic sheets
There are two styles of plastic pants: pull-on and snap-on style. The snap on style are usually more expensive. The snap-on style plastic pants are generally used for individuals who are non-ambulatory (cannot walk). For most people the pull-on style plastic pants will work just fine.
Unfortunately pin-on cloth diapers and plastic pants designed to fit older children, teenagers, and adults are not found in retail stores and must be ordered online. You can find some references to help in bedwetting blogs onlineThe blog mentioned in the "Sources and Citations" section of this article lists websites of companies that sell plastic pants and safety pin style diapers for older children, teenagers, and adults that wet the bed.
 These include a diaper pail if the parents decide to wash the diapers in one load, diaper pins (which are safety pins designed specifically to fasten cloth diapers - these can be purchased at places such as Walmart, Target, as well as places on line that sell adult and baby cloth diapers), diaper rash ointment, baby powder, and baby wipes. Amazon is one place that sells various incontinence supplies including diaper pins.

