 Approach the left side of the basket with a dribble. Get close enough to have easy access to the basket so you can launch into your lay up from a few feet away. Don't get so close that you end up directly under the basket.









If you're right-handed, the left-handed lay up may also be referred to as a reverse lay up, since it's the reverse of your standard lay up. If you're left-handed, the right-handed lay up is the reverse.
It's difficult to do a lay up with your opposite hand, but it's completely worth the time and effort it takes to learn how to do it. If you're approaching the basket from the left side, there's no way you'll be able to cross in front of the goal and do a right-handed lay up. You'll have a much better chance of scoring if you know how to sink one from the left.
 When you're just a few feet from the basket, start your lay up footwork by taking a step toward the basket with your left foot. Give the ball one last hard dribble just to the outside of your left foot.
 As soon as your right foot lands, use it to jump in the direction of the basket. Your body should be moving toward the basket, but don't bend forward. Ideally, you'll be positioned close enough to the basket that you can jump straight up to take your shot. As you jump, bring the ball out of the dribble and position it close to your chest to prepare for the shot.
 As you jump, imagine a string attached to your left arm and your left leg. Move them at the same time as you shoot, as though someone were pulling upward on the string. Your left knee should be bent and pointed toward the basket while your left arm moves up to shoot the ball.









When you're doing a lay up, the shooting technique is slightly different from that of a regular shot. Instead of using your right hand to steady the ball, you want to shoot the ball using only your left hand. This gives you more reach, and since you're so close to the basket that it's difficult to miss the shot, you don't really need your right hand to steady the ball.
As you shoot, slightly rotate your wrist inward to give the ball a little bit of spin, rather than snapping your wrist forward as you would for a regular shot. The gentle spin will keep it from hammering off the rim or backboard with too much force.
 For a left-handed lay up, the ball should tap the backboard slightly to the left of the center of the square. When you hit that spot, you'll sink the shot every time, since the backboard absorbs the ball's impact and helps it drop right down through the net.








It's better to aim for the backboard instead of trying to just tip the ball over the rim. The backboard allows more room for error, but if you hit the inside or outside rim, the ball could bounce right out.
 The lay up is a fundamental basketball move that will become second nature after you practice it enough. You should get to the point where your body remembers what to do and you don't have to think about which foot to put forward and which one to jump off: you just do it. Do lay ups as part of every basketball practice.









As you practice, you'll start to get a good sense for how fast to approach the basket and from what distance to begin your lay up footwork and launch into a jump.
Work on doing lay ups while you're being defended or off of a long pass.

