 Scientists believe that happiness is to a certain extent determined by genetics. Some people are just born to be happier and more optimistic than others. If your happiness set point is a bit lower than other people you know, recognize that you aren't doing anything wrong., But even if you have a genetic predisposition toward unhappiness, you can still increase your happiness levels by avoiding negative thoughts and cultivating positive ones. It takes some work, but it can be done.Be optimistic and hopeful about your plan to create more happiness in your life.
 Expressing your thanks for good things in your life will allow you to appreciate your life more and feel more happiness.Whether you are thankful for something large or small, expressing your gratitude will show you just how lucky you are.


Consider creating a gratitude journal to help start you on your path to feeling more thankful. This will help you pay attention to the wonderful events and people in your life., One of the greatest harms to happiness is holding on to painful memories and emotions.Even if people have hurt you badly, try to forgive them: not just so that they feel better, but so that you can let go of pain that is disrupting your path to creating more happiness. Think about how painful experiences allow you to grow and mature, and come to terms with your past., While we are all tempted to vent about our negative emotions, talking about our positive emotions might be even more important to creating long-lasting happiness.When you feel happy, tell someone or write it down in a journal. When you are excited, pleased, or proud, feel free to tell the world. This will help retrain your brain to focus on positive thoughts and feelings.
 Meditating for 20 minutes or more a day can make you kinder, more relaxed, and can train your brain to be happier.You can meditate on your own or as part of a group. Take some time to find a relaxing place, quiet your mind, and let go of negative thoughts and energy. You will not only be happier in the short term but will also build a pathway for future happiness and peace.

