 If you are experiencing a difficult working relationship, call a close friend or family member to vent. Your friend may be able to offer some perspective on your experience. It will also help to get the experience off your chest., You should avoid chatting about the person you dislike behind their back. If you gossip about them, you may end up gaining a reputation as someone who is judgmental or mean. If you feel a desire to have your opinion about this individual confirmed by others, talk to friends or family members who have no relationship to your workplace., If you find yourself frustrated because the person you dislike is not meeting your basic needs at the workplace, try telling them in a direct and constructive tone. They may not know how to meet your expectations, so give them some directions:


If they have an annoying trait such as a loud or obnoxious voice, you might try saying: “It would really help me if you were able to use a calm tone of voice in the meeting this week. Sometimes you have a loud voice and I find it a bit unnecessary, so if you can just tone it down a bit, it would really help me. Thanks so much.”
If they have an annoying problem with staying on time, you might try telling them: “I really need to get home on time today. If you don’t mind, can we start the meeting on time this week so I can get home to my family. We have an important evening that I do not want to miss.”

, It may be the case that the individual you dislike is exhibiting poor behavior because they have never had constructive feedback about it. If you give them good, constructive feedback, they may be able to adjust their behavior in a positive way.If they have a tendency to interrupt you and others at meetings, you might try saying: “I’ve noticed you have a tendency to interrupt myself and others at our weekly meetings. I know you don’t mean to do this. However, it makes it difficult for people to finish what they are saying and can disrupt our conversations. It would be really great if you could work on your listening skills and try not to disrupt myself or others at our meetings.”

, Try to create friendly atmosphere in your interactions with them. When they come into the office in the morning, greet them with a friendly “Hello” or “Good morning!” When they leave the workplace in the evening, remember to say “Good evening, see you tomorrow!”, If you have disliked them for a long time because of their behavior in the past, you may find it useful to forgive them. Although you may or may not feel they are deserving of forgiveness, it can be a real burden on you if you hold onto your anger or otherwise avoid forgiving them. Find a moment to forgive them or, at the very least, forgive them in private.Take them aside after a meeting and tell them you forgive them.
If you feel unable to forgive them, try practicing in front of a mirror.
 Tell them you want to grab a coffee and ask when they are free. At your coffee meeting, tell them you feel there has been some tension in your working relationship and that you want to talk about it.If it is an old relationship, try saying: “I know things have been difficult in the past, but let’s try to put that aside for the time being and really focus on getting this project right. I think we could try staying on schedule more often and really attending to client needs. What are some things you think might help?”
If it is a new working relationship, you might try telling them: “I feel we have gotten off on the wrong foot. Can we try things a little differently from here on in? I think it would be help if we avoided talking over one another and really listened to each other’s perspectives on everything.”

