 A good way to make yourself cough up when you have a wet cough is through controlled coughing. Start seated in a comfortable place with both feet on the floor. Cross your arms over across your abdomen, breathing in slowly through your nose. Lean forward and press your arms against your abdomen. Cough two to three times in sharp, short bursts. The second and third cough should loosen the phlegm enough to cough it out. Spit it out.


Breathe in again through your nose so the mucus will not move back down your throat.
Rest a moment, then repeat the process if you still have mucus., Start sitting down with your chin slightly raised. Breathe in slowly using your diaphragm instead of your chest. Hold your breath for two to three seconds, then let it out in a sharp burst of air through your mouth. Repeat two to three times, then breath normally for a few breaths. Make yourself cough once you feel enough phlegm build up in the back of your throat.


It usually takes three to five cycles of huff breathing to clear enough mucus.
The stronger the breath, the more mucus you will push out.
Don't overtire yourself., Chest physical therapy is a method helpful for everyone from children to adults that loosens mucus stuck to the lungs. This requires a partner, so get someone to help you. Start with the congested person lying down with her chest raised about 45 degrees. Using a cupped hand, gently tap your hand on the area between the nipple and collarbone on the left side of the chest. Continue to tap your hand, using gentle but firm pressure, for two minutes. Repeat on the same area on the right side of the chest. To help clear the rest of your lungs, repeat the cupped hand tapping on:


Over the shoulder blade on the left and right side of the back, after moving to a seated position leaning over a pillow in your lap
On the front sides on the left and right while lying flat on the back
On the sides on the left and right, while alternating lying on both sides with the arms over the head
On the upper back above the edge of the ribs on both sides, while lying flat on the stomach
You will cough during and for up to two hours after CPT. This is common and lets you know it's working.This technique is often used with children and adult with cystic fibrosis.

