 One simple strategy to ensure that you do not go outside of your budget is to offer your child a set amount of money and stick to it. Find an amount of money that you are willing to pay and then offer that to your child. This will help you maintain your boundaries and ensure that you do not end up dipping into your savings.For example, if you have saved $10,000 for your child’s wedding, offer them that money up front and let them do what they want with it.
 You can also offer to pay for certain things during the wedding, like food, alcohol or music. Find the things that you want to contribute and that are in your budget. This will help you set clear boundaries and keep you from going over budget.Avoid contributing things that your child does not want. If you suggest hiring a live jazz band and your child shoots it down, do not hire the band and look for another option.
You can even help your child with the wedding planning by offering to take responsibility for something that they are not interested in. For example, if your kid and their partner are not terribly interested in the floral arrangements, you can offer to take care of the flowers for them.
 If your finances are tight but you have a nice property, you might offer to let your child have the wedding and reception there. Hold the ceremony in your large backyard or let the young couple have their reception there. This could save your child thousands of dollars., If you are footing the bill for your child’s wedding, you may want to suggest various methods for saving money on the wedding ceremony and reception. For example, you might suggest that they get married on a Friday or in the winter in order to save money on a venue. Tactfully let your child know about these money-saving ideas so that the wedding does not go over budget.This strategy works best if you have already set a fixed budget for the wedding. Your child might become a little exasperated with you if you give them a blank check for wedding expenses and then begin suggesting ways of cutting back.

