 Gently wrap a soft tape measure around the base of your dog's neck, directly where its collar would usually sit. Slide two fingers beneath the tape measure and adjust the tape as needed. Make a note of this measurement.


Alternatively, you can measure the length of your dog's collar instead of the dog's neck as long as its collar fits well.
Dog collar sizes range from extra small through extra small, depending on neck circumference:Extra small: 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 cm)
Small: 10 to 14 inches (25 to 36 cm)
Medium: 14 to 20 inches (36 to 51 cm)
Large: 18 to 26 inches (46 to 66 cm)
Extra large: 22 to 30 inches (56 to 76 cm)

;
, The dimensions of this rectangle will need to vary depending on the size of the dog. You'll end up folding this rectangle by its width, so the final width of the bow tie will be about half the width of this initial rectangle.


For extra small and small dogs, cut out a 4-inch by 9-inch (10-cm by 23-cm) rectangle.
For medium dogs, cut out a 6-inch by 11-inch (15-cm by 28-cm) rectangle.
For large and extra large dogs, cut out an 8-inch by 14-inch (20-cm by 36-cm) rectangle.
 The size of this strip will also vary by the size of the dog. Its width should be about four times the size of your desired finished width for the bow center, and its length should be about the same size as the width of the bow body rectangle.


For extra small and small dogs, cut out a 2-inch by 4-inch (5-cm by 10-cm) strip.
For medium dogs, cut out a 3-inch by 6-inch (8-cm by 15-cm) strip.
For large and extra large dogs, cut out a 4-inch by 8-inch (10-cm by 20-cm) strip.
 Take the measured neck circumference of your dog and add a seam allowance of 1 inch (2.5) to the length, plus another 2 to 3 inches (5 to 8 cm) for flexibility. Vary the width of the strip by the size of the dog.


For extra small and small dogs, make the strip 2 inches (5 cm) wide.
For medium dogs, make the strip 3 inches (8 cm) wide.
For large and extra large dogs, make the strip 4 inches (10 cm) wide.
 Fold the bow body fabric in half crosswise, with the right sides facing in and facing each other. Use an iron to press the folded edge flat.


Note that the width of the body should be halved during this step, but the length should not be affected.
If desired, you can pin the open edges together to help hold them in place while you sew. This may not be necessary if the folded edge is securely pressed, however.
 Using a sewing machine, sew a straight stitch over the lengthwise edge of the body rectangle and along one width/short edge, working with 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance for each. Leave the other short edge open.


You can hand sew the edges together, if desired, using a backstitch or similarly durable stitch.
If you don't want to utilize any sewing skills, you could use durable fabric glue. Note that the final bow tie won't be as durable as a sewn version, though, and you'll need to wait for the glue to dry before proceeding to the next step.
 Fold the open edge in by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) around, then top stitch it closed by machine or by hand.


If the top stitching is very visible, consider adding a row of top stitching along the opposite width edge of the bow to balance out the appearance. Doing so is not strictly necessary, however.
As before, you could perform the same step using fabric glue for a no-sew alternative.
 Iron the entire bow body flat, concentrating on the four edges.


This step is more important than it may seem. If you don't press the edges flat now, the bow tie can bunch up unevenly and won't look as sharp when placed around your dog's neck.
Temporarily set aside the bow body after pressing it.
 With the right sides facing out, fold the lengthwise edges in toward the center of the strip. Then, fold the strip in half down its lengthwise center, hiding the raw edges inside the fold.


The length of the strip should be unaffected, but the width should be reduced to a quarter of its original size.
Press the folded edges of the fabric after making each fold to flatten the material and hold the folds in place.
 Machine sew or hand sew down the lengthwise edge of the folded center strip, keeping the stitching as close to the open edge as possible.


You can use a straight machine stitch for this, or opt for a more decorative top stitch if desired. Choose a durable backstitch or hidden top stitch if sewing the strip by hand.
Apply fabric glue to the open edge for a no-sew alternative. Let the glue dry before continuing.
 Pinch the lengthwise center of the bow body together, then wrap the center strip around the pinched center to hold it in place. Pin the center strip ends together behind the bow body.


You can vary the tightness of the pinch by personal preference, but a tighter pinched center will create a more defined bow shape. As a general guideline, you should try to reduce the center width of the bow body to about half of the original width.
Note that you may not need the entire length of the center strip. Simply wrap as much of the strip as needed around the center of the bow to hold it in place, and allow the excess edges to hang off toward the back.
 Machine stitch or hand stitch the center strip together just behind the pinched body of the bow. Trim down any excess material from the center strip to approximately 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).


Before stitching the center closed, make sure that you can fit one finger between the bow center and the body of the bow. You'll need to slide the bow onto the collar portion using this center strip, so there needs to be some extra space. For that reason, you should also avoid stitching the center strip to the body of the bow.
 Carefully turn the bow center strip around the center of the bow body, continuing until the raw edge of the center strip is hidden beneath and facing the bow body.


Note that the seam edge of the center will be the back of the bow and the smooth edge will be the front.
Set the finished bow aside until you're ready to assemble the collar.
 Use an iron to press the folds flat.


Note that each fold should only be about 1/4 inch (6 mm). If you make the folds much larger than that, the final band may become too tight around your dog's neck.
 Fold the long edges of the band strip in toward the center until they nearly meet. Then, fold the strip in half along the same lengthwise center, hiding the raw edges inside.


Press the folded edges after making each fold to hold them in place.
This step should reduce the width of the band to a quarter of its original size.
Note that the folded width edges should also be hidden inside this “tube” of material, as well.
 Using a machine or sewing by hand, top stitch the tube of material closed along the entire open length and both open widths.


You can use a straight stitch, decorative stitch, or any other suitable top stitch for this part of the project. Similarly, you can also use fabric glue for a no-sew alternative.
Place the top stitching as close to the open edges as possible.
 Wrap the band around your dog's neck. The ends should overlap by about 2 inches (5 cm), and you should be able to comfortably slide two fingers in between the band and your dog's neck.



Test the band again. When you wrap it around your dog's neck, both Velcro halves should meet and secure the band comfortably around your dog's neck. Reposition the Velcro as needed to get the correct fit.
You can also use sew-on Velcro instead of the self-adhesive kind, or place a few supportive rows of stitching along the Velcro to give it added durability.
 Slip the center loop of the bow over the end of the band. Slide the bow down the band until it rests at the center point of the band.


Ideally, there should be enough space between the center loop and the bow body for the bow tie to slide over the band without difficulty. If there isn't enough space, however, you could tie the bow tie onto the band using thread or ribbon.
If desired, you could stitch or glue the bow tie to the band to secure it. Leaving it loose gives you the option to adjust it later, though.
 Wrap the finished bow tie collar around your dog's neck and fasten it in place using the Velcro. Check the fit once more the make sure that it isn't too tight, then stand back and admire your work.

