 A multi-cell battery is when you connect multiple batteries together. In this case, you will link multiple lemon batteries together. To make a multi-cell lemon battery you will need four copper pennies, four galvanized nails, four lemons, a knife, 15 inches of copper wire, wire cutters, a ruler, and a voltmeter. Any lemon will do, but a lemon with a thinner rind will make a better battery.


Adult supervision is strongly recommended, particularly when using the knife.
Clean the penny with a light detergent to maintain a clean working surface.If you have one, a lobster claw will do.
Galvanized nails have a zinc coating that is important to this experimentand can be found at a local hardware or home improvement store.
Aluminum foil can be substituted for the nail if you don’t have one.
You can link as many lemons together as you’d like to increase the voltage.
 Gently roll each lemon across a tabletop, applying a small amount of downward pressure. Squeezing the lemons in this way releases the juices inside the lemon needed for the battery to work.









The acidity of the juice in a lemon makes it ideal for this sort of chemical reaction. The molecules in the juice will carry the electric current between the two metal ends of the battery., Adult supervision is recommended for this step. Measure out 3-inch pieces of wire and snip them using the wire cutters. They don’t have to be exactly 3 inches, you just need enough wire to wrap around a penny and a nail.
 You are going to make copper-wrapped nail and penny pairs. Take a bit of wire and wrap it a few times around the penny and then take the other end and wrap it around the top of the nail. The penny and nail will be inserted into separate lemons so be sure to leave enough space (about 1.5 inches) between them.








Ensure the wire is wrapped tightly around each piece. The battery will not function as well without proper contact between each connection.
You should have three penny and nail pairs when you are finished.
 The battery will begin with a single copper-wrapped penny and end with a single copper-wrapped nail. Just as you did before, take a piece of wire and wrap it a few times around a penny. Using a separate piece of wire, wrap that a few times around the top of the nail.Again, wrap the wire tightly around each piece to make good connections.
 The slit should be large enough to insert the copper penny about halfway into the lemon. Adult supervision is recommended for this step. The penny needs to stay firmly in place so make sure the slit isn’t too large., Line up all four of your lemons and choose one to be the first and one to be the last. Stick the copper-wrapped penny into the slit you cut into the top of the first lemon in the chain. Insert the copper-wrapped nail into the last lemon in the chain.


It is not super important that all of your lemons stay lined up as long as the single penny and nail are stuck into separate lemons.
 Each lemon will ultimately have one penny and one nail sticking out of it. The first lemon in the chain will already have a penny, so stick the nail end of a pair into the first lemon. The second lemon will get the penny from that pair. The second lemon will also get the nail from the second pair of copper-wrapped pennies and nails.Continue alternating between pennies and nails until you reach the last lemon which will already have a single copper-wrapped nail.
Be careful not to have the nail and penny touch within each lemon. If they touch, the battery will short and you won’t get any voltage.
 Using the end clips of the voltmeter, attach one clip to the copper wire attached to the nail and the other clip to the copper wire attached to the penny. You should see an increase in the voltage reading on the voltmeter. If the voltmeter is reading a negative value, simply switch the clips between the nail and the penny and it should change to a positive voltage.








If the voltage is very low, try moving the nails closer to the pennies in each lemon and make sure all of the wires are in contact with each penny and nail.

