 Women should have a pelvic exam as part of their yearly physical. Your doctor will be able to check for any signs of illness during your visit. This is the time to ask any questions or discuss any concerns or symptoms you may be having.You should not douche, use a tampon, have sex, or use any medicine or cream in your vagina two days before your visit.The exam should not take more than 10 minutes.
If you are sexually active, you should ask your doctor to screen you for sexually transmitted infections(STIs). Many people do not experience symptoms when they have some STIs such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, and HPV.Yearly screening will help with identifying and treating these infections before they have any lasting effects.
You should use condoms if you are sexually active. This can prevent your partner from passing a STI to you. You should still get tested regularly even if you use condoms.
 You should wear underwear that keeps your genital area dry and does not hold moisture. Cotton is the preferred fabric. You should also avoid wearing tight fitting clothing because it can trap heat and moisture around your genital area. If you work out or go swimming, you should change out of your wet clothes as soon as possible.When you are on your period, you should change your tampons and pads regularly.
Make sure your non-cotton underwear, leggings, workout gear, and pantyhose have a cotton panel in the crotch area , Your vagina is a self-cleaning organ. You should not do anything that may upset the natural balance if your vagina because it can lead to an infection.Wash the area around your vagina with plain, unscented soaps and rinse with plenty of water.You should not douche, use feminine sprays, or scented tampons. These can upset the natural bacterial balance of your vagina and cause irritation. Remember your vagina is self-cleaning.
 Foods live and active cultures can help keep the right pH balance in your vagina. Probiotics is another common term for these cultures. Good sources of probiotics are yogurt, kimchi, sauerkraut, and miso. Make sure your yogurt label says "contains live and active cultures."Eating one cup of yogurt a day is adequate.
 When you use the bathroom, make sure you wipe from front to back. Wiping from back to front will spread yeast and bacteria from your anus to your vagina or your urinary tract.Spreading bacteria through improper wiping can cause bacterial vaginosis or a yeast infection.

