 This will make a difference as to the money you spend on your equipment:


For fun: Visit a large sports store, hardware store or even a pharmacy or supermarket. You're looking for a set that has already been put together for you, in a carry-case with a zip. These sets do not cost much and contain everything you will need for taking with you to parks, etc. They should consist of at least 2 badminton racquets, several shuttlecocks, a foldaway net with folding (telescopic) plastic or metallic poles with guy ropes that hold up the net.

For competition: Go to a qualified sports store or sports specialist for competition badminton equipment. To put a kit together, purchase at least the following:

2 badminton racquets. Racquets should be around $40-$100. Professional racquets will be more expensive than those used just for fun but they'll be of much higher quality. Buy at least two, in case one needs to be retired for repair, as frequently happens, or you need to loan one.
4 - 6 shuttlecocks. 4 - At least 2 packs of feather shuttlecocks. The shuttlecocks will be available separately, often packaged like tennis balls. They should be of high quality (Yonex, Victor, BK, etc.). There are also synthetic nylon plastic versions that last longer and withstand the forceful hitting. The heads should be made from cork, not plastic. (If you compete, you should not have to bring your own shuttlecocks but that depends on your club.)
Net. Unless you have to bring your own net, you shouldn't need your own net, as the indoor court usually provides this. If you do want your own net, be aware that the strongest nets have metallic poles (telescopic for easy packing) and guy ropes for pulling them taut. Also, ask if the net is for all-weather, so that it can withstand both sun and rain damage if you're playing on an outdoors court.
Pre-measured boundary. If you're not going to a court already set up for badminton, consider purchasing a pre-measured boundary which you can lay down over the floor of the place you're playing at. Ask at the sports store or specialist.

;
, If you're playing professionally, wear suitable sports clothing. Tennis gear is great, as is gear worn for playing ball games. There must be sufficient flexibility and comfort in your clothing as badminton is a very physical sport requiring you to dash around the court a lot. Suitable shoes include gym shoes and sneakers, as long as they are supportive and have soft soles.
 If you buy your items separately, ask if the store also sells a badminton case for carrying everything in. This will make transporting your gear a lot easier and you'll be less likely to lose anything.


If you play for fun only, buy the Yonex or Victor ones for their excellent quality.

