 You want to give yourself a make-able putt if a tournament is on the line. Aim towards the hole and try to hit your shot onto the upslope because they are easier putts to make opposed to downhill putts. This should become something you naturally do when you approach greens.;
, You should start to do this as soon as you get to the green. Give yourself enough time to know exactly what the putt will do and how hard you will have to hit it. The harder you hit it, the less the ball will break.
 Bring a wet towel to the green and wipe of all the mud on the ball. Also you should make sure there is no fertilizer or dirt on your putter because that could mess up your putt. If there is bring a towel and wipe it off.
 You should know exactly where you want to hit the ball before you address the ball. Speed should be the last thing you worry about. Use the line on your putter to help you line up the ball to where you want to hit it.
 If you need to take a towel or a hat and wipe off the sand or dirt that would stop your ball from going in the hole.
 Take a few deep breaths because you do not want to be tense when you hit the putt. If you have tense shoulders you could mess up your stroke.
 Aim the line on your putter where you want to hit the ball. Keep in mind the harder you hit the ball the less break there will be and vise versa. Once you figure out where you're going to hit the ball figure out how hard you need to hit it for the ball to go in the hole.
 Your ball should be aligned towards your front foot to help the ball roll smoother. If it helps you can use the line on the side of your ball to aim the ball where you want to hit it prior to hitting the ball. If you want to draw a line on the side of your ball with a sharpie.
 Keep your head down to help hit the ball exactly how you want to. If you want to hit the ball harder bring your putter farther back. You should not just simply swing harder at the ball because it is not as consistent.
 Give a little fist pump and there you have it, you just made the putt to win the tournament. Now all you have to do is go sign you scorecard. You just won the tournament, all because you made that last putt on the last hole.

