 It looks as thought it has been bleached, so don't worry too much if your hair isn't naturally blonde. You don't have to dye your hair, blonde highlights are fine. Nicole's hair is straight but sometimes it looks like she has curled it but so it looks wavy not really curly so you can curl your hair but not all the time. Nicole usually leaves her hair out but she is also occasionally seen with it in a bun or in a ponytail. Her hair is also quite shiny so look for products that help make your hair look shiny.;
, Nicole uses foundation, eyeshadow (usually a peachy pink or for a more dramatic look, dark brown/black), lipgloss (usually a light pink), blush (usually a dark rose), mascara (black) and eyeliner (quite dramatic on the bottom and top and a black color)also if you have acne use something to treat it.
 Gold waistcoats, dark skinny jeans, silver heels, pink miniskirts with matching leggings, sparkly scarves, anything you have seen her wearing. Maybe try creating your own style. A casual outfit for Nicole usually consists of a white or coloured top combined with something as simple as a denim mini skirt. To make the look stand out more, Nicole uses simple accessories, such as a headscarf or, her signature item: oversized sunglasses! Although living in a small town, Nicole is a sophisticated city-girl at heart, and that means she is always prepared to dress up for more formal occasions. A nice and elegant look can easily be created by wearing a black, silk-inspired top with a white or otherwise lightly coloured skirt.
, The last thing to add in order to copy Nicole's elegant Hollywood style, is a black purse, and voila, you're good to go! Take notes while watching the show and look in google images and eventually you will get the idea of her style. Also if you see something she's wearing that you really like write it down and while your shopping if you see a look-a-like of it buy it.
 At least 15 sit ups a day will be enough. If you begin feeling tired, or suffer pain from exercising, you can stop.
 Try to figure out the difference and balance of being independent and being a loner.
 Honestly, have you ever seen her wearing baggy sweatpants and an old grey t-shirt? No! She always wears perfect, well fitting girly clothes (as mentioned before).
 There is no point in doing this all if you are not enjoying it! If you feel it's not really you, just be yourself again.
, Soak up the Aussie sun on the beach in a bright coloured bikini. Nicole has been seen in a bright yellow and a hot pink bikini. Make sure you have a toned stomach though.

