


Pass a written and vision examination.
Understand that this step applies to first-time drivers as well as to drivers who have moved to Alabama from out of state and have had their license expired for a year or more.
Realize that this type of license--with a "Y" restriction--allows the holder to operate a vehicle only when a licensed driver is in the passenger seat. This license is valid for 4 years.
Hold this learners license or permit for 6 months before taking the driver license examination.;
,


Note that drivers over 18 who have been licensed before are not required to take a driver's education course but can do so on a voluntary basis.



You can download a .pdf file of the driver manual by accessing the Alabama Department of Public Safety website at www.dps.state.al.us.
Click on "Driver License" in the left-hand column, then "Click here" under the Manuals heading.
Select "Driver Manual" to download the file.
If you do not have Internet access, you may pick up a copy of the manual at your local driver license office.



Bring your Social Security card, 2 forms of identification, and payment for the test and driver license fees.
Make sure that 1 of your 2 forms of identification is a photo ID.
Present proof of car insurance and ownership of a car that has or can pass inspection if you plan to take the driving test after passing the written exam. Note that age restrictions apply for those who wish to take the driving test on the same day as the written test.
You must pass the written test to continue with the process of obtaining your license.



Call the office or schedule online through the Alabama Department of Public Safety website.
Bring a licensed driver and proof of car registration and insurance. You will use your own vehicle for the driving test.
Note that the examiner will make sure that the car is functioning properly and will check mirrors, lights, directional signals, horn, and brakes.
Pass the driving test. If you fail with few mistakes, you may take the test again in a week or less; failing the test with several mistakes may result in waiting a few weeks to retake the test.
,,


You should contact your local driver license office if you do not receive your driver's license within 30 days of passing the necessary exams.

