 Colonoscopy is the best technology available for determining whether cancerous or precancerous growths called polyps are present in the colon. Early detection can enable patients to get the treatment they need to prevent growths from advancing to the next stage. The American Cancer Society recommends that people over age 50 should have a colonoscopy every 10 years.Those who are at increased risk of getting colon cancer should have the test done more frequently. This includes people in the following categories:


Those with a personal history of colon cancer or polyps.
Those with a family history of colon cancer.
Those with a personal history of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or Crohn's disease.
Those with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer (HNPCC).;
, The procedure begins with a rectal exam, during which the physician will feel around the anal and rectal area. A long, thin probe called a colonoscope is then inserted into the colon through the anus. The probe has a tiny camera on the end that can provide images of the colon, revealing the presence of polyps or other growths.


In order to ensure the camera can provide clear images of the colon, it must be empty during the procedure. This means the patient must not eat solid foods the day before and day of the procedure.
The patient is often given medicine to help them relax during the procedure. Many don't remember the procedure once they wake up. It usually lasts about 30 minutes., When you first meet with your doctor to discuss your colonoscopy, you will be given instructions as to how to prepare your body for the test. You'll be told not to eat solid foods and instructed on how much liquid you should drink, and when. Following these instructions is very important to ensure that your colon is clean on the day of the procedure. If it isn't, the camera won't be able to get a clear view of your colon - which might mean you'll have to do it all over again on a different day.


Even having a snack could end up meaning your test will have to get cancelled. It will be tough to fast the day before the test, but it will definitely pay off in the end when your test is over and done with quickly.
It might help to prepare yourself a week in advance by eating lightly leading up to the day before the exam.
 There are certain medications that patients have to stop taking one or more days before the exam. It's very important to be up front with your doctor about what medications you're on before you prepare for the test. In some cases you will need to stay on your medication anyway, but in other cases your doctor might advise you to stop taking them for a few days. Nutritional supplements can also interfere with the test. Talk with your doctor if you're taking any of the following medicines or supplements:


Anti-inflammatory medication
Blood thinner medications
Aspirin
Diabetes medicine
Blood pressure medication
Fish oil supplements

, Colonoscopies are normally schedule in the morning. Clear your schedule so you have time to prepare for undergo the test. Since your doctor will likely give you medicine to relax you, you may be too drowsy to drive home from the test, so consider asking someone to drive you home. You may want to take the entire day off of work, or at least schedule in an hour or two to rest.
 This is the only type of liquid or food you can consume the day before your colonoscopy. A liquid is deemed "clear" if you can see through it to read a newspaper. Clear liquids include the following:


Water
Apple juice without pulp
Tea or coffee without milk
Clear chicken or vegetable broth
Soda
Clear sports drinks
Flavored gelatin
Popsicles
Hard candy
Honey

, Any liquids containing pulp or dairy and almost all solid foods should be avoided. Don't eat or drink the following:


Orange juice, pineapple juice or any other juice you can't see through
Dairy products like milk or milk shakes, cheese, etc.
Smoothies
Soups with chunks of food
Grains
Meat
Vegetables
Fruit

, Breakfast, lunch and dinner the day before the procedure should each be composed of at least 4 8-10 ounce glasses of clear liquids.


You could have a glass of coffee without milk, a glass of apple juice and two glasses of water for breakfast.
You could have a glass of sports drink, a glass of clear broth and two glasses of water for lunch.
You could snack on clear hard candy, popsicles or jello.
You could have a glass of tea, a glass of vegetable broth and two glasses of water for dinner.
 Your doctor should have given you a prep medication that you should begin taking at 6:00 pm the day before the test. The prep medication will help to clear your colon for the following day. Sometimes doctors prescribe split prep medication, which means that half should be taken in the evening and half the same day of the test. Follow your doctor's instructions and the instructions on the prep medication packaging. After taking the prep, your stool should begin looking like the clear liquids you've been consuming - that's how you know it's working.


If your stool still looks brown and murky, the prep medication has not yet taken effect.
If it's tan or orange and clear, it's starting to work.
Your bowel prep is complete and you're ready to go when your stool looks clear and yellowish, like urine.
 Do not eat solids the morning of the test. Stick to water, apple juice, tea, or black coffee in the morning.
 If your doctor ordered a 2-part prep, you'll need to take the second part the morning of the test. Be sure to follow the instructions carefully.
 Drink 2 8-10 ounce sports drinks right before going to the test, then report for your scheduled colonoscopy.
 You're free to eat whatever you want for the rest of the day.

