 Find and unscrew the screws that attach the blades to the rest of the clippers. On most hair clipper models, there are two screws at the base of the blade. Once these are removed, gently detach the blades and any pieces holding them in place.


If the bottom blade does not pop out easily, use a pair of tweezers to pull it off the base.
Take note of how the pieces fit together, and how the blades are positioned in relation to each other, to make reassembly easier.;
, Cleaning your hair clippers may already make them much easier to use, and allows you to sharpen them evenly and without mess. Use a wire brush, steel wool, or toothbrush to remove the hair stuck in the blades.
 If your blades have any visible rust, or if brushing doesn't remove all the gunk on them, you can use blade wash or another blade cleaning product to break it down.Soak the blades in a small bowl of this for a couple minutes, or dip a cotton ball in it and scrub the blade to remove heavy rust buildup.









Some people report success with isopropyl alcohol, although you may need to find a strong, 90% alcohol solution.Weaker isopropyl alcohol might not work.
 Wipe the sides of the blades thoroughly with a clean towel to dry it and to remove the last particles of dust and debris. If you still see spots of rust, use the cleaning solution again.









If the rust is difficult to remove by scrubbing, you may need to replace the blade.
 It's possible your hair clippers only needed cleaning, especially if they are a self-sharpening model. Reassemble the clippers, turn them on for a few minutes so the blades scrape imperfections off each other, then try them on hair. If they are still dull or snagging hairs, move on to the sharpening instructions in the next section.


For best results, apply a couple drops of hair oil before testing. (This is recommended after every second or third session.)

, Place the base of the blade in the slit of a magnetic holder, so the sharp edge of the blade extends past the magnet edge. This will make it easier to sharpen the blade without cutting yourself or dropping the blade.


A strong, flat magnet may work instead. Sharpen slowly if using this device, to prevent the blade from falling off the magnet and potentially nicking you.
Sharpen both blades using the steps below, one at a time.
 Also called whetstones or sharpening stones, these are available at some home improvement and hardware stores. Using a 4000 grit surface, angle the blade at about a 30–45º angle, and move it forward (only) across the stone five to ten times, until it looks shiny and even.Wipe away the ground-off metal powder onto a dry towel.Turn the blade over and repeat for the other edge.










If you are using a ceramic blade, you'll need a diamond sharpening stone instead. Read the label carefully, and don't confuse sharpening stones made from ceramic with sharpening stones that can sharpen ceramic.
 Your blade should now look quite even, but to create a sharper, fine edge, follow up the initial sharpening with a fine honing stone, about 8000 grit.As before, move each side of the blade five to ten times across the stone, moving forward only. Wipe the blade off on a towel.
 Make sure that you have the blades facing the direction they were originally facing, and spaced at close to the original distance apart. Screw the blades in tightly.
 This step is recommended after every two or three uses, but especially after the blades have just been sharpened. Add a few drops of oil to the blades, to prevent overheating and reduce friction that can wear down the blade.









While an alternate light, penetrating oil can work instead, avoid heavy, dark oils which can clog the blades.You might want to check with a barber or online before using a new oil for the first time.
 Turn the clippers on and let the blades rub together for a couple minutes. This will hone the blades further. Your clippers should now be ready to use on hair, hopefully with a noticeably sharper, easier to use cutting edge.

