 Depending on your location and time of year, it may be difficult to find perfect branches and twigs. Ideally, you want them to be dry and easily accessible. Dead branches and twigs are easier to work with because they are more flexible. Choose a strong thick piece to use as the trunk of the jewelry tree and a thicker log for your base.Choose your twigs and branches that have character. It’s okay if there are slight imperfections because you can shape your trunk and branches later.
 Use a miter saw or handsaw to cut a 1.5 inch disk from your log. The disk will support your trunk and act as base for stability as you place your jewelry., Use a handsaw or limb pruner to cut your trunk to your desired height. You want a trunk that’s about 22 inches tall for a thick base. Cut off any unsightly imperfections and trim down any extra branches on your trunk., Using a drill bit that is the same diameter as your trunk, drill a hole about ⅔ of the way into the disk. Use a spade bit to drill a hole about the same width of the branch that you are using as the trunk of your jewelry tree.The spade bit should have slightly poked through the bottom of the base but make sure that the rest of the bit does not.
Test that the trunk fits fare enough into the base that it is stable. Continue drilling carefully if it still needs more room.
 Insert the trunk into the base disk and turn it upside down. You should see the hole in which the tip of your spade bit came through. Use a small drill bit, slightly smaller than 2 inches, to drill a hole through the bottom of the disk and into the bottom of the trunk, about ½ - ¾ inches.Make sure to keep the trunk inserted in the base until you are finished drilling.
 Turn your bamboo bowl upside down and drill through the center with the same drill bit you used to drill the hole in your trunk, slightly smaller than two inches. Create a countersink hole large enough for the head of the screw by using a slightly larger drill bit to drill into the bowl but not deep enough that you drill through it.Use tape to mark off how deep you want to drill your countersink hole.
 Use a dollop of Gorilla glue to glue the trunk branch into the disk base. Only use enough glue to fit neatly into the large hole of the disk base. Allow the glue to sit for an hour and harden., Once the branch has been securely glued into the base disk, turn it over and place some Gorilla Glue at the center and around the edges of the base disk and set it at the bottom of the bamboo bowl., Insert your two inch wood screw at the bottom of the bowl and thread it through the disk base and the trunk branch using hole that you drilled earlier. Secure the branch as you gently tighten the screw snugly inside the countersink hole., Let the trunk’s natural shape dictate where your should attach your branches and what directions they should sprout. Choose branches that are sturdy and that have character.Match drill bits with the width of the new branches and drill holes into the trunk. Drop a bit of Gorilla Glue into the holes and add your branches.You may also attach your new branches using twine for are more artful look. Cut a long piece of twine and secure your new branches onto the trunk. Wrap each branch tightly but make sure to switch directions to secure the branches. Tie a knot at the end of the twine and Gorilla glue the end of the twine neatly., Keep the branches in place with other loose branches or scraps as the glue dries. Make sure to check on your grafted branches as the glue dries so that they don’t shift or fall., Clean off any bits of dirt or debris once the glue has dried. Store larger pieces of jewelry, like bracelets or bangles, in the bamboo bowl. Display necklaces and earings on the trunk and grafted branches.