 Your hands should be roughly evenly spaced -- if the ball was a clock, your right hand would be at 3:00 and your left at 9:00. It can help to shift them back a bit, too, so your thumbs are almost touching in the back of the ball. This helps you get a bit more leverage on the throw.


Throw-ins only occur when the whole ball passes over one of the sidelines. You must throw the ball from the point where it left the field.;
, Both feet must be behind or on the sideline, and touching the ground, for a legal throw. Separate your feet and point your toes to the field, setting them up however you're comfortable. If you want to try a running throw, stand a few feet behind the sideline so that you can run up to the line without crossing it. Some players like to keep their feet together, while others like one foot in front of the other.


Remember that your feet cannot cross the line when throwing the ball in -- this is an infraction that can cost your team the ball., Many players try to throw exclusively with their arms, but most of the power should come from your back and shoulders, as well as the momentum from your running start. Think of your body like a catapult being pulled back -- your feet are still firmly planted, but your spine becomes a loaded spring. Do this right before you're ready to actually throw the ball.


For now, just work on arching as much as is comfortable. Work on getting proper form first, then throwing the ball further later. A light bend is enough to start learning with.
 A legal throw in must travel "from behind and over his head."Referees might be a touch lenient here for a quick throw, but you must, at least, start with the ball held above your head.


You will likely get called for an infraction if you start a throw from your forehead, or further forward. This can happen accidentally on quick throws.
 Bring your arms up and forward so that your hands and the ball travel directly over your head. At the same time, bring your arched back forward like a spring and (if performing a running throw) drag the toe of your back foot on the ground. Extend your arms fully and release the ball from just behind the head. Remember to keep your head up and facing straight after the ball is released so you don't just throw the ball to the ground.


Your release point depends on how far the throw needs to go. For big throws, let go as you pass over your head. For shorter passes, hold onto the ball until you cross your forehead or so.
You cannot spin the ball with one hand. The ball must leave both hands evenly though most referees are okay as long as you don't intentionally spin the ball., You cannot touch your own throw-in until another player (on either team) has touched it. So get back out there to help move the ball into scoring position. If, on the other hand, you accidentally threw the ball to your opponent, you can make up for it by running out to try to steal the ball back. Always follow up your throw by getting back in the game and back in position, ready for play to resume.
 The rules for throws are not super difficult, but you should be mindful of them with every throw. Even the pros sometimes step over the line and get caught, but it is no less embarrassing when you do it in a game. A legal throw-in must have all of the following elements:


You are facing the field of play
Both of your feet are on or behind the line and are at least touching the ground.
You use two hands with even pressure (cannot spin the ball)
The ball comes from behind and over your head.
You cannot score directly off a throw-in.