


There should be enough water to completely submerge the chicken. If 3 cups (750 ml) are not enough, add more.;
, Place one minced clove of garlic and half of the chopped onion in the saucepan with the chicken and water.
 Set the ingredients on the stove over high heat. Let the water reach a rolling boil.
 Once the water begins to boil, reduce the heat to low and allow the chicken to simmer for 20 to 30 minutes.


The chicken must be completely cooked though by the end of this step. Check for doneness by cutting the thickest piece open. If you see any pink, cook the chicken longer. If no traces of pink remain, you can stop cooking the chicken.
 Remove the chicken from the saucepan and set it aside on a clean platter or bowl. Allow it to cool to room temperature.


Do not dump the cooking liquid yet. You will use some of it later on in the recipe.
You may, however, wish to strain the onion and garlic from the liquid by pouring the contents of the saucepan through a colander. You only need the liquid broth, not the solid ingredients.
 Use your fingers or two forks to shred the chicken into rough pieces.


Keep the shredded chicken on the platter and set it aside for the time being. You will not use it immediately, but you will need it again shortly.
 Place the chopped tomatoes and 1/2 cup (125 ml) of the reserved chicken broth in medium saucepan. Place the saucepan on the stove over medium heat.
 Once the mixture starts to simmer, start the clock. Let the tomatoes simmer in the broth until they are soft and cooked through.


The tomatoes should be mushy at this point, but they should not be soft enough to completely fall apart.
 Use a slotted spoon to remove the tomatoes and transfer them to a blender. Blend them on a medium speed until they turn into a smooth sauce.


You could use a food processor instead of a blender, if desired.
If the sauce is too thick for your liking, you can add another 1/4 cup to 1/2 cup (60 to 125 ml) of the reserved chicken broth or water to help thin it out. Blend thoroughly after making the addition.
 Pour the vegetable oil in a large, deep skillet and set the skillet on the stove over medium heat.


Give the oil a minute or so to warm up. It should be hot and notably thin, but it should not be allowed to start smoking.
 Dump the remaining chopped onion into the hot oil. Stir fry for 3 to 5 minutes, or until it becomes soft and translucent.


Stir the onion frequently as it cooks to prevent it from burning.
 Add the second minced garlic clove to the skillet with the onion. Stir fry the mixture for an additional 1 minute.


Both the onion and garlic should lightly brown during this time. The entire mixture should become notably fragrant, as well.
As before, you need to stir the onion and garlic frequently to prevent them from burning. Garlic can burn quickly, so you need to pay close attention.
 Pour the pureed tomato sauce into the skillet with the onion and garlic. Stir well, distributing the onion and garlic throughout.


Allow the sauce to heat up to a slight simmer, then proceed with the next step.
 Stir the chipotle peppers in adobe sauce, oregano, salt, and pepper into the sauce currently simmering in the skillet.


The chipotle chiles and adobo sauce are what give this dish heat. If you want to produce a milder flavor, only add a portion of the can instead of adding the entire thing.
 Reduce the heat to medium-low and let the sauce continue to simmer for another 10 minutes to thoroughly combine the flavors.


The color of the sauce should also change into a deep red color during this time.
Consider keeping the lid partially on the skillet during this time. The steam should be allowed to vent, but keeping the lid tilted on top of the pan can help prevent the sauce from splattering out as it simmers.
 Add the shredded chicken to the sauce, mixing it in so that all of the chicken is evenly coated. Heat through.The chicken should absorb most of the liquid in the sauce during this time. The final mixture should be moist, but not watery.
This step completes the actual tinga de pollo, but you still need to prepare the tostadas if you want to serve this dish in the traditional way.
 Pour enough vegetable oil into a large skillet to fill 1/4 inch (6 mm) of the bottom. Heat the oil on the stove over medium-high heat.


Let the oil heat up for 1 or 2 minutes. It should be very hot, but not quite smoking.
Note that you can save time by simply using packaged tostada shells instead of using corn tortillas. If using tostada shells, skip the frying and draining steps and move directly onto the assembling steps.
 Add one corn tortilla to the hot oil and fry it for 20 to 40 seconds on each side.Use tongs to turn the tortilla halfway through the frying process.
The entire tortilla should be crisp and golden in color when ready.
 Use tongs to remove the tortilla from the hot oil. Transfer it to a plate lined with clean paper towels and let the excess oil drain off.


You will need to repeat the frying and draining process for each tortilla, working with one at a time.
 Place one tostada onto your serving plate and add a dollop of crema Mexicana or sour cream. Spread the cream evenly over the surface of the shell.


If you do not like the taste of sour cream, you can skip this step.
Another option is to spread a dollop of refried beans over the surface of the shell instead of or alongside the cream.
 Spoon on a generous helping of the prepared tinga de pollo.


You can leave the chicken piled in a mound in the center of the tortilla, or you could spread it evenly over the surface of the tortilla.
 Arrange a few avocado slices on top of the chicken. Sprinkle the entire thing with shredded lettuce, crumbled Cotija cheese, and a spoonful of salsa.


You can skip these ingredients or substitute them for other garnishes as desired. These toppings are common and recommended, but not strictly necessary.
 The tinga de pollo is now prepared and the tostadas are now assembled. Eat the dish while it is still hot.

