 Another way you can live a life of purpose is to work on having a more simplified approach to your day to day habits. Simplify your daily routine so you are less distracted or stressed on a daily basis. This may mean only checking social media one to two times a day instead of ten. Or this may mean letting go of a few commitments in your day so you can put your energies into things you are passionate about.You can start by removing one distracting thing from your day. For example, perhaps you only check your social media in the late morning instead of first thing in bed. Or perhaps you cancel a work meeting because it ends up taking up too much of your productive time at work.
Remove more and more distracting things from your daily routine over time. Eventually, you should have a more simplified daily routine, which will help you feel you are living with purpose and not just going through the motions.
 You can also have a more balanced life by devoting equal time to your work and to your life outside of work. Try not to have an imbalance, where you work long hours and neglect your personal relationships or connections with others. Doing this can lead to stress, anxiety, and a feeling of being purposeless or empty. Instead, work on having a healthy balance so you can more fulfilled.


For example, you may try splitting your time equally on your career or your schooling and on your relationships. Commit quality time to your romantic relationships or your relationships with your family so you do not feel imbalanced or isolated from others.
Remember that it is important to spend time with other people, but it is also important to make time for you. Be sure to schedule in time for you to be alone as well.
 It can be tempting to try to think too far into the future or to stress about the unknown. Avoid doing this and try to enjoy the moment at hand. Focus on savoring what you are doing in the now so you can enjoy it and remember it later. This can give your life more purpose, especially on a day to day basis.A big part of living in the moment is appreciating the things you already have. Though you may wish you had more money or more success, acknowledge all that you have accomplished thus far and be grateful for all that you have done. This can help you feel your life has purpose right now, and that this purpose will only grow as you take on more challenges or goals.

