 When canning asparagus, it is recommended that you find the freshest ones in order to retain their nutrients as best as possible. Despite the popular belief, canned vegetables can contain as much nutrients and vitamins as fresh ones. Therefore, it is best to find fresh asparagus that are the most nutritious.;
, Once you have found the freshest ones, prepare them for the canning process by washing them under cold water. As you do so, you can break off the spears and toss away the tough base ends. By the time you are finished, you should have a pile of tender ends, ready to be cut and canned., You have the option of cutting them into different sizes (ex: one-inch or whole), depending on your preference. Once you have finished slicing them, you can either cook the asparagus pieces or leave them fresh before canning them.
 Be sure to pack the asparagus together as tightly as possible in order to save space. This will also discourage them from floating up from the canning liquid and becoming spoiled. Leave approximately an one inch gap from the top of the jars.


You have the option of leaving the slices raw or cooking them. If you prefer to cook them, leave the asparagus in boiling water for two minutes before packing them in the jars.
 Place about a teaspoon of salt for each quart jar that you have. Although this step is optional, it is recommended, as it enhances the taste of the asparagus.
 Once you have packed the asparagus in the jars, pour in boiling water until it is about an inch from the top. This will serve as the canning liquid, which helps prevent the asparagus from becoming spoiled.
 Tightly screw the lid on to prevent air from entering.
 Cook for about thirty minutes, or follow your pressure cooker's provided instructions. This will kill botulism bacteria and reduce the risk of botulism spores surviving and endangering your health.
 Once they have completed their time in pressure cooker, carefully remove them and allow them to naturally cool down to room temperature. Afterwards, they can be stored in a cool place below 30ʡC (86ʡF). Be sure that you label the jars. Note that the asparagus can last for up to seven months, depending on the condition of the vegetables when you first obtained them.

