 Oral cervicofacial actinomycosis is the most common form of actinomycosis, constituting 50-70 percent of all cases.It is usually the result of poor dental hygiene, so it is important that you maintain your tooth and gum health. This will help prevent the development of any infections in your mouth due to gum disease and tooth decay, as well as limit the chances of infection if you are injured or have oral surgery.Brush your teeth twice a day.
Floss daily.
Regularly replace your toothbrush.
Visit your dentist on a regular basis. It is recommended that you visit your dentist twice a year for regular checkups.
Other predisposing factors include dental caries and extractions, gingivitis and gingival trauma, infection during teething, diabetes, malnutrition, immunosuppression, and neoplasia or radiation. Treating the underlying condition (i.e. Diabetes) may help in the treatment of actinomyces infection.;
, Certain cases of thoracic and abdominal actinomycosis are caused by the ingestion or inhalation of foreign objects. Infections of the chest and lungs are typically caused by breathing infected fluid, generally saliva, into the lungs. In the abdomen, it is usually the result of having swallowed a foreign object (animal bone, coin, or other small item) that then causes a wound or infection in the intestines. In order to avoid getting actinomycosis in this way, try not to inhale the bodily fluids or other people or swallow anything your body will not be able to digest.If you have a long-term drug and alcohol problem, you are at higher risk of the infection because intoxication makes it easier to ingestion or inhale foreign objects. Plus, drug and alcohol abuse weakens your immune system., If you have appendicitis and your appendix bursts, abdominal actinomycosis can often develop if the intestines are damaged by the infected bile or during surgery. Actinomycosis can also develop in the head and neck as the result of an ear infection or tonsillitis. Be sure to visit a doctor if you develop any of these infections and follow their recommendations. This will help you avoid developing a secondary infection of actinomycosis., Pelvic actinomycosis is the rarest manifestation of the infection, accounting for only 10 percent of all cases. It usually only occurs when an IUD is left in the uterine wall longer than the manufacturer recommends. In order to avoid this infection, follow your doctor’s instructions about properly maintaining your IUD and, if an infection develops, have the IUD removed.Some IUDs can only stay uterus for only a few years. Others can stay attached for almost a decade. Check with your health care provider to make sure you know when to have your IUD removed.