 Dahlias require many small parts, and thusly need a lot of felt. Make sure that you have several full-sized strips of fabric to do this project. Use any color you would like for the flowers, and use shades of green to create matching leaves.
 The dahlias will have three layers of petals, so you will need to cut three sections of felt in differing sizes. Cut 16 rectangles measuring ½ inch x 2 inches (5.1 cm), cut 10 rectangles measuring ½ inch by 1½ inches, and 7 rectangle measuring ½ inch x 1 inch (2.5 cm). You will also need a circular base measuring 3 inches (7.6 cm) across.
 To form the shape of a dahlia petal, draw an oblong diamond shape onto each rectangle. Have two points in the center across the length, and add two more points ⅓ of the way from the top across the width. Cut these shapes out.
 Use your scissors to sculpt each petal into the correct form. Round the edges of the two points nearest to the top of the diamond, and cut ¼ of the way up the petal straight across to create a horizontal base. You will now be left with a shape reminiscent of the Pope’s hat.
 At the base of each petal, add a dab of hot glue and fold the sides in till they meet at the center. This will leave the top part of the petal open, while creating a rolled edge and pleat down the center of the bottom of the petal. Do this for all of the petal forms.
 Add the largest petals to your circular base by adding a dab of glue to the back (near the bottom) and sticking it to the base about ¼ of an inch from the edge. Work your way around until all your petals are glued.
 Use the medium sized petals to create the second layer for your dahlia. Put a small dab of glue to the back of the petal, and stick them ¼ of an inch below the base of the first layer.
 Use the smallest petals last, and glue them in a final row ¼ of an inch below the base of the second level of petals. You will be left with an open center on the felt circle.
 Add a pretty button, bead, brooch, or bit of colored felt with glue to the center of the dahlias to finish them off. Additionally, you can choose to glue or stitch on some green felt leaves to the bottom of the flower. You’re done!