 Open your Internet browser, type in www.Yahoo.com on the address bar, and hit "Enter." This will bring you to the Yahoo home page.;
, This is at the top-left corner of the screen in a list, as well as at the top-right corner, as shown in the picture. Clicking on this icon will direct you to the log-in screen.
 The new screen will ask you to enter your Yahoo ID and password. On the right side of the screen are two boxes that ask for this information. Click on each box individually and enter your information.


Click on the purple Sign In button right below your password to access your account.
 Click on the gear icon located at the top-right side of the screen. After clicking, a menu will drop down. Choose "Settings" from the options in the menu.


A white settings box will load on your screen. Along the left side of the box is a list of different settings menus.
 This will be the second one down on this list.


Clicking this option will change the settings to the right of the list. You will now be able to edit your e-mail writing settings on Yahoo.
 This has two check boxes:


The first option lets you save a copy of every email you send in a folder.
The second option will automatically add new recipients to your contact list.
You can edit these by checking/unchecking the appropriate box by clicking on it.
 This will let you choose whether a preview to any link you posts will pop up inside of the e-mail.


This is also a check box that you can select or deselect by clicking on it.
 The next email writing option you can edit is the font. The title of this setting is “Default rich text font.” To the right of this are two different font settings you can tweak:


Font style
Font size
You can click each box and make a drop-down menu appear, and then click the option you want from the list to continue.
 The final option you can edit is your signature. This is also a drop-down box. There are three options to choose from:


Don’t use a signature
Show a plain text signature
Show a rich text signature
If you click on the text signature, a box will appear below it. You can click on the box and type the signature you want to appear at the bottom of your e-mails.
 Once you are sure you have everything edited, look through each setting to make sure they are exactly how you want.
 Once you are satisfied, click on the green Save button on the bottom of the screen to confirm your changes.