 The Bureau of Primary Health Care is part of a program that federally funds free or low-cost health care options. Many of these programs offer dental care in addition to other health care needs.


You can find the nearest office to you using the website “Find a Health Center”

You can also contact the Health Resources and Services Administration by phone at 1–888–275–4772, In the United States there are three major federally funded programs that are designed to provide insurance to certain age groups. Learn more about the following programs to see which one is right for you:Medicare is offered to individuals over the age of 65 or if you have certain medical conditions.
Medicaid is available to both families and individuals. Applying for Medicaid will have different requirements depending on which State you live in.
CHIP is a program designed for those under the age of 19. Most often dental insurance is covered by CHIP in addition to standard health insurance.
 The Affordable Care Act, or ACA, is a legislative act that extends the coverage of the Medicaid program. The ACA aims to make health care affordable and accessible to millions of Americans. Check to see if you are eligible for the benefits provided by the ACA to help lower the cost of dental care.Enrolment into the ACA will depend largely on your income level and the size of your household.
You can find a chart that explains the income and household size requirements at "healthcare.gov"


, Find your local branch of the United Way organization as they may be able to direct you to dental services in your area that are low-cost or possibly free. United Way is a non-profit that makes use of volunteers and donations to help bring health care to those who need it.You can locate your nearest United Way branch at “unitedway.org”


, Try asking your local or state health department about dental programs in your area. These programs may provide free or low-cost dental care to you as well as other financial aid programs designed for health care.You may be able to locate your local office by calling 2–1–1.
 If you are able to, you may wish to enroll in a dental insurance plan. Some of these plans may already be included in your health insurance policy while others may be stand-alone policies. Either type of plan can help reduce the cost of dental work.Some plans have high monthly payments but will charge you less when you have dental work done.
Other plans have low monthly payments but require you to pay more when receiving any dental work.
Insurers must offer dental care plans to children under 18 years of age.

