 During winter, the number of tourists in Yellowstone drops from 3,000,000 to 140,000, resulting in much easier access to all of the sites and amenities that the Park offers. Although the temperatures in northern Wyoming can dip well below freezing, the beautiful views and quiet, uncrowded environment will more than compensate.Call ahead before you visit the Park: roads often close in winter due to snowfall or icy conditions, so you may need to incorporate these closures into your daily plans.
Other Parks in the western U.S. will see a similar decline in tourists during the winter. Look into visiting Rocky Mountain National Park, Yosemite National Park, Arches National Park, Badlands National Park, or Olympic National Park.
 Caribbean islands near Florida—including Barbados—can be a great off-season travel destination. Many tourists from colder climates choose to visit the balmy Caribbean during the summer months, so if you visit in the winter, you’ll be confronted with fewer crowds, although you may encounter rainy weather and high humidity. Caribbean travel destinations offer beaches, hiking, resorts, and festivals.The Caribbean experiences hurricane season most seriously in August, September, and October, so you may want to avoid those months for weather-based reasons. In addition, many hotels and restaurants shut down during the worst weeks of hurricane season.
Barbados can still draw crowds during winter, so if you’re planning to eat at any of the fine-dining establishments on the island, you may want to make reservations in advance., Portugal has mild, relatively pleasant winters, and this season is also its off-season for tourist travel. The region has a lot to offer if you’re interested in beach activities—despite the cold weather, the beaches will be relatively empty, and present great opportunities for surfing, sailing, and strolls along the beach.Portugal has nearly 950 kilometers (590 miles) of shoreline, so it shouldn’t be a challenge to find a tourist-free stretch of beach on which to spend your vacation.

