 If you’re starting your own blog, you can use a free or paid version of a blogging platform such as Wordpress or Blogger. Another option is to purchase a domain name and hosting package and set it up yourself, which may require more technical knowledge such as uploading files to an FTP site. A couple of things to consider when selecting a platform are ease of use and search engine friendliness.Read online reviews of any blogging platform or domain/hosting company beforehand. It will be helpful to read comparisons of different choices that include pricing and features (such as compatibility with beginners vs. advanced users). Choose an outlet that is well suited to your budget and level of technical expertise.
When choosing platforms and themes, look into any plugins you may want to use, if applicable. Find out when the themes and plugins were last updated and read their reviews. You don’t want to go with a theme or plugin that will bog down your webpage loading times or use up too many resources through your web hosting.
 Your content should be well organized, with your pages easily accessible through your site navigation. You should have a “Contact” and/or “About” page with a description of yourself. You can make your logo online or you can hire a professional to design one for you. If you hire a professional, make sure they understand exactly what you want.
 Add your website to beauty blog directories. You may want to join forums where you can discuss tips and tricks with other bloggers. Get active on social networks, such as joining relevant Facebook groups and commenting on your contacts’ content. Online professional networks such as LinkedIn are also great places to meet and keep in touch with business contacts.Comment on other people’s blogs. You can join a website like Bloglovin.com to keep track of the blogs you follow.
Viewing and interacting with other beauty blogs will not only help to spread the word about your blog and promote your content, but can also serve to inspire you!

, Create a business page for your blog on social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. Focus most of your time on your actual blog, and think of social media as an extension of that. Don’t worry about doing too much brand-building on your social media pages; use your posts to reinforce the tone of your brand and to direct readers over to your blog.Keep your social networking sites somewhere on your website so people can easily access them.
Provide links back to your blog on your social media profile pages.
 Make sure that you are writing and posting new content to your blog frequently. Aim for at least a couple of posts per week, ideally four to five times per week.However often you decide to post, try to make it into a routine so that you don’t end up tapering off in frequency.In order to secure a decent ranking with search engines, each blog post should be at least 300 words long.