 If you’d much rather avoid drunken conversations and being the one to usher stumbling friends to safety, you could opt to spend the evening at home. However, being at home doesn’t mean you can’t participate in the excitement. There are tons of ways to plan a fun night with a group of friends who also choose to avoid alcohol.


Consider organizing a goal-setting or vision board party where you and a group of close pals set your intentions for the following year. Binge-watch some favorite TV shows or have a movie marathon. Snuggle up with your significant other by the fireplace. Coordinate a game night or poker night. The possibilities are endless!;
, Are you itching to trot the globe in the new year? Start early and tick off an interesting new location to bring in the new year. In a foreign locale, you won’t completely have your bearings about where everything is located, so you are less likely to have the urge to get intoxicated.


Book a hotel in a neighboring city or dust off your passport and fly to another country to celebrate., Wine tastings, cocktail parties and other alcohol-centered gatherings in bars may be fun, but it’s so much harder to stick to your vow in these settings. If a friend or coworker extends an invitation, politely decline.You might say, “I have other plans,” or “I don’t plan on drinking this NYE. Thanks for the invite, though.”

, Ease your own tension and prevent awkwardness by planning what you’ll say if offered a drink. A simple “No thanks, I have something,” could work if you already have a non-alcoholic beverage in hand. Raise your hand to indicate your fake booze and keep partying.


Even better: tell people in advance. Breaking the ice before you’re put in a tempting situation sends the message that you already have clear intentions of staying sober. That way if you’re asked, you can simply remind them, “Remember, I told you I’m staying sober this year!”, The temptation to imbibe lessens when you know you have to hit the time clock in the morning. If it’s possible for you to work on the first day of the new year, sign up. This gives you an automatic excuse to decline drinks—and duck out of celebrations early, if you’re so inclined.