 This will prevent your dehumidifier from running constantly throughout the day and night, which can potentially decrease the lifespan of your dehumidifier.;
, If you place the dehumidifier against a wall or large piece of furniture, the dehumidifier may have to work harder in order to function effectively.


Verify that your dehumidifier sits in an area with at least 12 inches (30.48 cm) of free space around each of its air vents to allow for proper air circulation.
 When you run your dehumidifier at any other time, your appliance will most likely run continuously and have very little impact on the overall air quality of your living space.


Monitor humidity levels by reviewing the humidistat built into your dehumidifier, or by purchasing a separate humidistat reader for your home or office.
 This can prevent any dust, mold, or mildew from collecting or growing on the filter, which can decrease the overall efficiency of the dehumidifier.


Consult the user manual or with the manufacturer of your dehumidifier to determine the exact steps for replacing the filter or performing filter maintenance.
 The air that passes through the coils will often contain dust and fungal spores that affect the performance of your dehumidifier.


Turn off your dehumidifier, then unplug it from the electrical outlet.
Use a vacuum attachment to remove dust from the coils, or mist the coils with water from a spray bottle, then wipe the coils down using a soft cloth.
 In temperatures below 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18.33 degrees Celsius), frost can sometimes build up on the coils. If frost is left undetected or remedied, the efficiency of your dehumidifier will significantly decrease.


Turn the dehumidifier completely off if frost exists on the coils, then wait for the ice to melt and for the room temperature to increase before using the dehumidifier again.
 The water collected from the air will often become moldy or stale, and can negatively affect the efficiency of your dehumidifier.
 This will allow the pressure in the appliance to equalize fully, which can result in the prolonged life of your dehumidifier.

