 They will need to be protected from late-season pruning more than younger trees. Use a 14-foot ladder that is very sturdy. , This is in late winter between February and April. During this time, the tree stores energy in the roots and trunk, so pruning the branches is unlikely to cause damage.


Apple trees develop their buds for the coming year in the summer.
 Healing these branches will take energy from the tree that can be used for fruit production. Use hand shears for small branches, lopping shears for medium branches and a manual saw for large branches.
 Don’t lop off the top of the tree. Plan to take it down to an 18-foot height over the course of three to four years to ensure it will have a long life.
 This is a small, stump like edge of the branch that extends from the tree or another branch. Pruning cuts that have a collar will heal much more quickly than those that are flush with the trunk or branch.
 Then, top the main scaffold limb at 16 feet (4.9m). Follow up the second year by cutting long shoots that grow off of your previous cuts.


Prune just above the crotch if you want to make a few drastic cuts and train the tree. Use a sloping cut. This may be necessary if there is almost no new growth within reach from the ladder.
 As you prune over the course of three years, more wood will grow at a low level thanks to increased sunlight. It will eventually replace fruiting wood that is lost at the top.
 Leave an upright shoot at the end of each branch. This will give you an abundance of fruiting wood.
 County extension agents can instruct you on local businesses that offer this service. The ideal pH for an apple tree is 6.2 to 6.5.If your tree is the ideal pH, don’t fertilize it. Plan to fertilize only if the leaves are pale and the tree shows weak growth.
 If they grow more than eight inches annually, apply one pound of sulfate of potash for every five bushels that were harvested the preceding year. If they grew less than eight inches, apply one pound of 10-10-10 fertilizer in early May.


10-10-10 fertilizer is 10 percent nitrogen, 10 percent phosphorus and 10 percent potassium.
Apply the sulfate of potash in early spring, just after growth begins.
Spread the fertilizer over the ground to the edge of the spread of the branches. #*Make sure it is an even layer.
Never fertilize after July 1.
 If so, you can apply one cup of borax every three to four years.
 You want to avoid using lawn or weed killing products around the base of the apple trees as well.
 Although leaf mold is a useful compost for gardens, it can lead to leaf-borne illnesses and mouse boring problems in your apple tree.,, Water every few weeks if your climate doesn’t provide much water.


You may need to provide about 5.4 inches (13.7cm) of water every 21 days.
 The water must reach the roots that are three feet (0.9m) below the soil. Most people water infrequently, but for thirty minutes to an hour at a time.
 The roots extend to where the branches stop.

