 While you may just be looking for a fling or a one night stand, it's important to remember that the girls you're looking at are people, too. Just because a girl is flirting with you doesn't mean she doesn't have a right to say no to whatever you want to do with her.;
, A good majority of the people are drunk, especially in the night, and this is one of the reasons that makes kissing and hookups easier. However, it's common sense to not to go for girls that are too drunk or high, since she has trouble making decisions in this state.


If she isn't sober, she may:

Not walk properly.
Mumble or slur her words to the point where she's hard to understand.
Sit quietly at the side of the sidewalk or bar, or even be asleep.


Although it may be easier to get a girl who's under the influence of drugs or alcohol, it's not only short-sighted and shows a lack of character, but also illegal. A girl who is under the influence is unable to give consent to making out or anything further, and engaging in sexual activities with anyone under the influence is legally considered rape or sexual assault.
This doesn't mean you can't approach any girl who's under the influence for any reason; just don't approach her with sexual intent, which includes actions such as kissing or making out. You can talk to girls under the influence, as long as you don't take advantage of them being under the influence.
 Flirting is fun, playful, and you can usually tell that the girl is comfortable because she'll be laughing and smiling. However, harassment is continuing to advance on her sexually when she's getting more and more uncomfortable with you. Hints could be like pulling away when you try to touch, not playing along with your sexual humor, not talking much, looking away, making negative facial expressions, and so forth. If that's the case, leave her alone and approach other girls.


Not everything is a sign that she's totally uncomfortable with you - for example, when she's not comfortable with your physical escalation but is still talking to you. These hints indicate that you should tread slowly and carefully.
 Different people have different personalities, social conditioning and sexual boundaries. Some people are more open about meeting new people and some may not be. Don't take it personally when they reject you or don't show interest.


Avoid getting angry when the girl sets boundaries; you don't want to take the phrase "bad with rejection" to serious extremes. Nobody has the right to force anyone else into doing something they don't want to do.

