 A weight tape is marked in pounds instead of inches. It's made of soft, strong cloth. A weight tape estimates a horse's weight by measuring it's heart girth. The weight tape is best used for occasions where you don't need an exact weight.You can buy a weight tape from catalogs, but many feed dealers give them away for free. Tapes are an easy way to provide advertising for the dealer.
Weight tapes are sometimes printed on both sides. One side will list pounds, the other side will list the number of "hands". This side isn't necessary for the purpose of weighing a horse.
A weight tape provides a less accurate weight estimate than an ordinary tape measure. It may be as much as 100-200 pounds away from the horse's actual weight. If you need a more precise measurement, e.g. for a strong dewormer, consider using a tape measure instead.;
, Make sure the horse's head is relaxed, and that you have your weight tape with you.If the horse's head isn't relaxed, talk to him gently and wait until he relaxes. It's important that his head relax to get a more accurate weight.
You should also be relaxed. Take several deep breaths, and center yourself before starting to measure the horse.
Try to do this on a calm day, without much wind. Wind will make your task more difficult.
 Hold the tape end marked zero. Drape the weigh tape over the horse's back just behind his withers, or the small hump at the base of the neck.If the tape gets twisted, your reading won't be accurate. Be careful to smooth it down with your hands if it twists.
If your horse is young or easily spooked, having this tape draped across his back may provoke a nervous reaction. Stay calm, and stop moving the tape until the horse calms.
 You want the tape to be snug but not tight. Hold the tape beside the end of the tape in your hand (marked "zero").It's usually easier to hold the "zero" end of the tape still next to the horse's body while you pull the measuring tape up over it.
A helper can make this task a lot easier, especially if your horse is easily spooked.
 This is your horse's weight. For best results, repeat this process several times. Because your horse's body expands and contracts as he breathes, your measurement will be slightly different each time. Make sure your thumbs or fingers aren't beneath the tape when you read the measurement.
Weigh your horses regularly, to ensure best nutrition and health.

