 Before you can get the man of your dreams, you need to know what you are looking for. Take some time and write down the qualities that you are looking for. These qualities can include character traits, education level, occupation, values, physical traits, etc.Go through your list and separate your wants from your needs. For example, you may want a man that is 6'2" that is kind and has a good sense of humor. Being kind and having a good sense of humor are more of a need. While having a very tall man is something you want, but is not a trait that will keep you from having a successful relationship.
You can also talk with your friends and family that know you well. They can help you identify essential qualities that your potential partner should have.
This list may change and evolve over time. Continue to revise the list based on where you are in life.
 Knowing your deal breakers will help you weed out men who are not quite what you are looking for. Think of the things that you absolutely cannot deal with and are not willing to compromise on. Deal breakers are different for each person. By understanding yourself and the type of man you want, you will be able to know your limits. Ask yourself some questions to help you decide.What things are you immediately turned off by?
How do you spend your time and money? If you are frugal and like to save a lot of money, a man who is a frivolous spender may be a deal breaker.
What behaviors (e.g. lying, bad hygiene, laziness) are not acceptable for you to engage in? These may also be unacceptable for your man.
What qualities do you value the most in your friends and family members? Exhibiting the opposite of these qualities may be a deal breaker for you. For example, if you value a laid back personality, someone who is extremely uptight may not work for you.
 Your past relationships can provide great insight and prepare you for your next relationship. Past relationships include both your romantic relationships and familial relationships. You may carry patterns and behaviors from these relationships into your new relationships. These behaviors can be both good and bad. Write down the good things that you would like to have going forward and the things that you want to leave behind.


Think about how you handle conflict and problem solve in your relationships.
How do you express anger?
How did you deal with unmet expectations within a relationship?

