 During the days, the average temperature is between 81 and 88 and at nights, the average temperature can range between 68 and 75. August is the hottest month, while January is the coolest. Bags should be packed with loose clothing; jeans are a good suggestion for those cool nights.;
, Maps are another great suggestion since some of the best things about Hawaii are hidden, for example hiking trails and beaches.
 ABC Stores, Walmart, and Longs Drugs have some of the best clothing apparel and items to take back with you. But, be aware that if you do buy polyester, flower-print clothing, you will stick out like a sore thumb.



If you wear prescription goggles and want to go snorkeling, bring those with you too, so you can see all the colorful fish there!







, You'll want to write your own, depending on just what you plan to do in Hawaii, but here are some ideas:

5-6 casual t-shirts and tank tops. Make sure these go with your shorts!
3-4 pairs of comfortable shorts. Pack a variety of shorts, but they should be comfortable. Be aware, when you are packing your clothes, that this list is meant to be mixed and matched. Stick with simple blue denim, white, and black shorts, and be wary of patterns.
1 pair of jeans. Only one pair of jeans is really necessary. These are for dinners and outdoor activities like horseback riding.
2 casual blouses or shirts. This one was obviously geared towards the ladies. If you're a man, opt instead for polo shirts, or button-ups. Steer away from suits and ties. A very slim amount of dining facilities in Hawaii require a strictly formal dress code.
2-3 bathing suits. This one is important, especially if you plan on spending time near the water. Three bathing suits is ideal, but a minimum of two is perfectly okay. This way, you can alternate drying them. Make sure you place one suit in your carry-on bag, just in case you have some slight luggage complication. Even if you are a guy, do not skip out on this suggestion. Putting on a cold, damp swimsuit is never fun.
2 suit cover-ups. This one is especially a must if you plan on shopping shortly after spending a day at the beach. Make one of the cover ups a full coverage (sheer is fine) cover up. For ladies, a sarong is great. These can tie around the waist and serve as a cute, bohemian cover up, and serve multiple functions.
2-3 sundresses/skirts. Ladies, these are very cute when done right. Maxi dresses and maxi skirts are wonderful tropical destination attires. Be wary when selecting these dresses and skirts. Sea breezes can be quite strong along the coast, and short dresses/skirts when not tight/form fitting, are quite likely to blow up and over, which may cause for an embarrassing situation. Sundresses can also double as swimsuit cover ups.
1 nice outfit for semi-formal outings. It's perfectly fine to have one well put together dressy outfit for nights out. Girls, think casual dresses and wedges/flats/dress sandals. Guys, think button up with khakis and a pair of flip flops.
1-2 pajama combinations. Opt for leggings/sweatpants with normal T-shirts. These can double as comfortable and casual outfits for the airport.
5 pairs of socks. Self-explanatory. You may want to add a few to this number and always keep an extra pair or two in your day bag- Socks are easily soiled, and damp/wet socks are annoying, and are very likely to irk you if you are required to walk around in them.
8 pairs of underwear. Alternate the styles to fit your outfits. For example, T-backs and seamless styles are far more suitable for spandex like clothing.
5 bras. Neutral colors and versatile styles are best. Nude, black, white. Racerback, sports bra, strapless, etc.
2 active outfits if you plan on rigorous outdoor activity. Opt for breathable, fast drying materials. If you plan on working out, pack yourself some spandex shorts, yoga pants, etc. Don't forget compression shorts and other necessities.

