 After completing the "Badlands" mission, your character can now freely use the in-game camera. You can collect it at the 2nd floor of CJ's house at Grove Street.


The "Badlands" mission is the mission just right after "End of the Line," the last mission in Los Santos.
If you ever lose your camera due to being arrested or injured, you can grab it again in the same location.;
, This is not a requirement, but it will help you get from place to place much quicker. Trying to find all of these on foot or using a scooter would take forever!


A helicopter or plane might cover more ground, but you'll have a harder time maneuvering through the city's gigantic buildings.
 These snapshots are only available within San Fierro! It's located at the west side of the in-game map. All of the snapshots can be found once San Fierro is unlocked.
 Look for a circular violet icon with a movie film camera inside. These are located along scenic spots. Aim your camera directly at the icon and snap away!


The icon must be inside the viewfinder to count. You'll get a confirmation message if you get the shot correctly. If the snapshot icon is too far away, you may need to zoom in for it to register, or get physically closer.The icon is not visible unless you are looking through the camera. Use the glow to help find the location of the icon when not using the camera.
 Move from block to block in a grid pattern to ensure that you search every possible location. Backtracking can cost you a lot of time.


To take a snapshot of the Easter Basin Naval Station without triggering the five-star response, approach by boat and keep your distance, approaching just enough to allow the snapshot.
 You'll have an easier time finding the icons if you go at night. Between the times 00:00 and 05:00 in-game, a bright glow will appear around the snapshot icons, making it much easier to pick them out against the dark background.
 For an easier time, find a map of all the snapshot locations. Load the map on your phone or print it out so that you can easily reference it while playing the game..


Some websites have interactive maps that show you more information and images about the snapshot locations.