 Don't just go to the first one you see. Find out how much they pay, when they will be open and how many papers you will have to deliver on a daily basis.;
, Sign your name up so even if you don't get one immediately, you'll get one eventually.
 If not, your parent or guardian should give their permission if applicable.
 Learn the easiest and quickest way around all the homes and businesses you need to deliver to. Ensure you know which street, lanes and roads are where because being lost is one of the worst things that can happen. Ensure you deliver on time because if you're late, you might not get as much pay.
 If the houses are all next to each other then don't bother, unless you want to. However it goes quicker with a bike.
 If you had to be there at 7:00 a.m. get up at 6:00 to 6:15. Have something to eat before you go. Something like a banana and a glass of water. This gives you enough energy and hydration to keep you going.
 If it's cold, wear a warm coat or suitable jacket. This is the most important thing. Make sure it is waterproof. The worst thing that can happen is that you get soaked to the bone or covered in snow.
 It will mostly be cold and dark, unless it is between March and September. Put lights on your bike, it's the law, and carry a torch. Keep your bike in full working order and cycle safely.
 You may look silly but you'd be bloody terrified going down a busy road when cars don't expect you to be there and they can't see you. It's really not worth the risk. And besides, who's going to know? Put on suitable shoes too. You may have a long walk. If it's icy, try to wear shoes or boots that give you some grip. Remember pavements and drives won't be gritted.
 It's dark, often, you are alone, and possibly wandering around isolated farm houses or down unlit driveways. Have a mobile phone with you if possible. Don't accept lifts back home from strangers, or cups of tea from customers you don't know, however cold it is. Make sure that you are usually finished and home around the same time so people know to look for you if you are delayed, if your bike got a puncture for example.
 Say good morning. It might help you earn a tip at Christmas.
 The papers are heavy with supplements and you'll probably need to take your time and split the round into two bags. That only really matters if you have a seven day round. Week days are the lightest.

