 This is to ensure your safety before you attempt flying. Even if you are confident you are dreaming, other conditions (like being high on drugs or sick with a very high fever) can induce a lucid dream-like state, so you need to be sure you're dreaming. Float up in the air or put one hand through a solid object before proceeding. As long as you can do this, you know you're dreaming and can move on.
Reality checks also have the added benefit of increasing your lucidity. The more you are able to control smaller behaviors, the more likely you will be to do bigger things like flying, which takes more mental focus., Before flying, enjoy the landscape of the dream by bounce around, increasing your height with each bound. This gives you a safety net because your height is not that great.Don't focus on the feeling of landing when you come down, just on the feelings of going up. Keep increasing the height and distance that you bounce., While experienced lucid dreamers can often just float up into the air and start flying, one easy way for the beginner is to jump off something high. This will force your mind to decide that you can fly rather than fall.


If you have the ability and control, you can design your dreamscape with mountains or cliffs. Otherwise, you will have to explore your dreamscape to find a suitable place.
 If you're on a cliff, run towards the edge. If you're on a flat surface, you can still make it work; start running in a straight line, like an airplane taking off.


When you reach the edge or decide you are ready, jump into flight like Superman. It helps to make it seem as realistic as possible, so put your arms out and point your toes behind you.
 Lucid dreaming is a lot like meditation and requires concentration and focus to keep it up. To keep yourself in flight, focus on the feeling of the air in your hair and the sensations of flying.


If you start to lose altitude, aim your body up and surge upwards, imagining a rocket propulsion coming from your toes.
 Once you are steady, looking down at how high you are and how tiny everything below you is can be very enjoyable as long as you're not afraid of heights!


If you are afraid of heights, you have a couple of options: you can try to construct a version of yourself who is not afraid of heights (which can be helpful in overcoming your fear in real life), or you can fly just above the ground, sort of like hovering.
 If you do begin to fall, remind yourself that nothing you are seeing is real. It doesn't matter if you fall.


Sometimes, having this conscious thought is enough to steady your flight and help you stop falling.

