 In order to start off with your drawing, you need a basis of where to start. The skeletal sketch is what allows you to create a basis for your girl's pose. How do you want her to be posing? Is she posing simply, and maybe just doing something simple like throwing a peace sign? Or is she going all-out and looking like an action girl?
, A head is usually slightly oval-shaped, but many people have different bone structure. Jawlines will also vary, but a girl's jawline is often fairly round., Your girl needs something to wear her clothes on, right? Sketch around the skeleton frame to create the body, and try to make it proportional. Female bodies are generally more curvy and less angular than male bodies, which is a fairly important part of making the body look less masculine. Look up reference photos, if needed.

Don't be afraid to try drawing different body types. Not every girl has a thin, hourglass-shaped body. Your girl doesn't have to be thin and hourglass-shaped to rock that crop top and pair of shorts!

, Again, follow the skeleton frame and try to make it look proportional.

You can try sketching the girl's feet, too, if you want to try drawing her shoes as well. No-heeled or slightly-heeled strappy sandals would look cool with her outfit. Or if she's at the beach, or simply a non-conventional kind of girl, maybe she's barefoot!

, Obviously, you'll need to draw the eyes, nose, and mouth. However, a big thing that people forget are the eyebrows, so be sure not to forget these. Additionally, your girl doesn't have to have a completely spotless face; why not give her some freckles, birthmarks, moles, scars, or even acne? Nobody's face is picture-perfect; in fact, making her face imperfect may make her seem more realistic., Chances are, you don't want your girl to be bald or have a void where her hair should be. Consider drawing different types of realistic hair; curly, wavy, straight, thick, fine, styled, long, short, or more can be used for the appearance of your girl's hair. And who needs to be realistic all of the time? Maybe try anime hair, where it's unusually (or unrealistically) styled, artificially colored, or just plain weird!, For a lot of people, the crop top is what gets them stuck; however, it's fairly simple. All you need to do is draw a shirt. Then, sketch a horizontal line halfway down the shirt. This will be where the shirt is cropped.

Crop tops, like all other shirts, do not form themselves exactly to a person's body. They are not the equivalent of clothing suction cups, and therefore, should not be drawn so that they fit to every curve of the girl's breasts or arms.
Many crop tops have different designs; some are strapless or have spaghetti straps, while others have sleeves that vary in length. The material of the top can vary, and some tops may have additional decorations, such as frills, layers, patterns, or so forth. Don't be afraid to get creative!

, Below the horizontal line you sketched, erase the extra sketch lines. Then, "round" the line a bit so that the shirt looks natural, since the ends of shirts don't form into a single solid line., If you don't know how to draw pants, draw rectangles around the legs. Don't worry about how they look; just make sure that they cover her thighs, at the least. Afterwards, on the upper parts of the pants, sketch two horizontal lines on the pants. These will be the shorts., Below the horizontal lines you sketched, erase the extra sketch lines on the pants. Afterwards, "round" the lines into curves., If you've chosen to draw shoes on your girl, now's the time to do so. There are many types of shoes you can draw, from flip-flops to heels to sneakers to sandals. Most shoes are somewhat oval-shaped to match the wearer's foot.

Closed-toed, one-piece shoes, such as sneakers, are simpler to draw than open-toed shoes or sandals.
 You can use a pen to darken the lines of the final outcome, if you wish., Use whatever colors you'd like and color in your drawing. Coloring it isn't a necessity, but it's a nice touch!