 Take notice of Cosette. How does she speak? Try to adapt your way of speech to emulate Cosette's. Cosette takes a gentle and respectful tone with her "father," Jean Valjean. She addresses him as "papa." Don't change what you call your father or male guardian if you already call him something else, but do try to address your parent(s) or guardian(s) respectfully.;
, Cosette is described as a "burst of light" by Marius. She is a ray of hope in the darkness, a paragon of virtue and purity. Growing up in a convent, Cosette was raised a Christian. If you are not Christian, don't pretend to be. Substitute God with your parents and respect them instead! Cosette is demure and lady-like, so copy this to the extent you can or want to. She is hopeful and content, so try to keep an optimistic view on life. Cosette is a polite young lady, respectful of others. She is curious and wistful. She is joyfully naive and very intelligent. She has a heart full of love and is a true romantic!

, Cosette is a sheltered and innocent girl, so to keep this innocence you may want to consider spending more time with adults and those who will protect you. Perhaps try to limit your exposure to anything crude or sexual. Stay honest and loving to any partners you have.
 Show them you love them through actions and affection towards them. Follow the family rules and stay out of trouble as much as you can. If you wish you could do little things to show them how much you care, such as write them a poem or make them a little card. Remember their birthday and go all out for mother's/father's day. Be obedient, but share your feelings and viewpoints with them. Communicate with them if you disagree with something they have said/done, but do so in a polite and respectful manner. Do not throw a temper tantrum or scream and shout as Cosette would not do that. However, remember you should not have to put up with cruelty towards you from adults - Cosette may have had to deal with the Thénardiers, but that doesn't mean you have to!

, Cosette is famed for her black dress with the white lace collar, so you could buy this. If you want to modernize it you can buy a knee-length one and you could style it with leggings or black jeans. For those of you who want the full Cosette look, dress like a 1832 female. Cosette is also famed for her long tresses, so try a longer hairstyle if you want. Her hair colour in the novel is dark chestnut brown, and in he musical/movie it is blond, but don't worry if yours is different. Embrace your natural hair colour, shape and style, or you could try dying it.
 Cosette likes to read. She also loved to play with her dolls as a young girl and she sings. Practise your singing! If you cannot sing, perhaps you could dance or learn an instrument. Try out some old-fashioned hobbies, such as baking, gardening (Cosette loves her garden), or jewellery-making. If you do not enjoy any of these, it doesn't matter too much so long as you embrace what you love.
 Respect your partner and treat them equally and lovingly.
 That sarcastic comment that has entered your mind, is it REALLY worth voicing? If you have nothing nice to say, say nothing. Do not give insincere compliments. Do not talk back to adults, they are your elders and should therefore be respected! Consider the consequences of your words. How will this affect those around you? Will it affect them in a positive or negative way? Be as nice, kind and well-meaning as you can be.
 You may wish to go with the more feminine uniform if you like (for instance wearing a skirt instead of trousers), although this is obviously not mandatory. You could add a nice headband or a single ring to add a touch of femininity.
 Avoid mixing with the "bad" crowd. Always do as you are told. Remember to remain demure and polite. If someone hits you, you should stand up for yourself, but never hit them back or act impolite. Be as respectful to your classmates as you would be towards anyone else.
 Do not give into temptation, boredom, or peer pressure.
 She'd listen to a lot of classical music and soft lyrical songs, but would avoid anything vulgar and sexual. Also listen to some of the Les Miserables Broadway soundtrack; this can offer greater insight into Cosette's character.

