 Uber perks are available to Uber drivers. You'll need to sign up to become an Uber driver and complete the onboarding process to qualify for local perks.
 The local perk options vary depending on the city you drive in., If the website does not load your current city, click the Your City link at the top of the screen. Type in the name of your city and click it in the results., You'll see the perks available in your city displayed on the page. Scroll down to view them all.

Not all cities have perks available.
Perks vary from city to city.
Some perks may require you to get a card from your local Uber Greenlight facility.
 Each perk will usually have a link underneath where you can view more details, shop online, or find locations., If local automotive services offer Uber driver perks, they'll be displayed on the Automotive Perks map. Click a location on the right side of the map to view the offer that is available., Beneath the Automotive Perks map, you'll see the Food, Health, and Service Perks map. You'll see all of the locations that offer special deals to Uber drivers., In order to receive your Uber driver perk at a participating business, you'll just need to show your Uber Driver app with your Uber identification information., Momentum perks are designed to keep drivers driving for Uber longer. You can get deals on car insurance, maintenance, phone plans, and healthcare. You can also earn points by driving an exchange them for rewards. You'll need to take at least one trip in order for certain rewards to become available., This will display the points that you have earned and the rewards that you have qualified for.

You'll need to log in with your Uber Driver account if you aren't already.
 Awards will unlock as you earn points. You can redeem points for different rewards, which vary depending on your location., You'll see any of the rewards in that category that you currently qualify for, as well as rewards that you'll need to drive more to earn., You'll receive a voucher that you can use at that location to claim your reward., You'll unlock more rewards the more you drive. Rewards are tracked across a three month period, at which point they will reset., You'll need to provide at least 100 trips in a month before you are eligible for the Uber Fuel Card program.The Uber Fuel Card has a spending limit and does not require a credit check., You'll need to log in if you aren't already., You'll see this at the top of the Rewards page.

If the button says Track Your Status, you have not completed 100 rides in the previous month.
 Uber will ship your new card to you after you claim the reward. This will take 5-7 business days., Your card will arrive with instructions on activating it. Follow the instructions to call or use the website to activate your card before using it., You'll get 1.5% off gas purchases anywhere MasterCard is accepted. There are also partner gas stations that provide an additional 3-9¢ discount per gallon. Uber provides maps of participating gas stations:

West Coast
Central
East Coast

, If you are asked to select between Credit and Debit when swiping your card, choose Credit., Your card's balance is paid directly from your Uber earnings each week. You can track your charges from the driver dashboard website. You'll see the discount you received for each purchase.

You have a $100 daily limit and a $200 weekly limit.
You are limited to three charges per day.
Your card will only work for fuel, not for purchases made in a gas station convenience store.

