 Funeral homes will almost always help you select a coffin from their stock. Most funeral homes will have a display room for you to select a coffin from. You'll be able to see each coffin in person, allowing you to find one that is right for you. The funeral home staff can also help answer any questions you might have about a particular coffin. Speak with your local funeral home to learn more about selecting and purchasing a coffin.You should be given a comprehensive price list of the available coffins.
Many funeral homes will match competitor's prices.;
, There are many stores that specialize in selling coffins and other burial vessels. These stores often sell coffins at much lower prices than you would find at a funeral home. If you want to avoid the high costs of funeral home coffins and still get excellent service, consider visiting a coffin retailer.You'll need to find a retailer near your location.
Many coffin retailers offer lower prices than funeral homes.
Most retailers will have a showroom that you can browse.
 Thanks to the development of e-commerce, it is now possible to buy a coffin online. Purchasing a coffin online is no different than buying any other item from the Internet. All you need to do is locate an online coffin seller, place your order and wait for the coffin to be delivered.Many online coffin dealers offer overnight or one day shipping.
Shopping online for a coffin can yield significant savings.
 Renting a coffin can be an affordable option when it comes to funeral preparation. Coffins are rented for the duration of any religious ceremonies or other pre-burial gatherings. The deceased is buried in an alternative container while the rented coffin is returned to the funeral home.Most rental coffins will be offered by funeral homes.
The deceased will be placed inside another simple container. This container is placed into the rental coffin during any ceremonies and then removed for burial.
Rental coffins are most often used when the deceased is being cremated.
Most rental coffins are made in the same style as standard coffin models.
 If you have access to the tools and possess the technical knowledge, you might consider making your own coffin. Making your own coffin can be an affordable burial option and will let you create a truly personalized interment vessel. If you want to save money and create a unique and meaningful coffin, consider creating one at home.Coffin kits are available to purchase. These kits contain assembly instructions and the materials to build the coffin. Some coffin kits can be assembled without the use of tools.
Many homemade coffins are used for home burials. However, you'll want to check with your local, state or federal laws before pursing a home burial, as they may be prohibited.
If you are planning on interring the deceased in a public cemetery, check with the cemetery's regulations to ensure they will accept your homemade coffin.
 The material you select for the coffin will affect how long the coffin lasts and the appearance of the coffin. There are currently three common materials used to make a coffin. It's important to remember that no coffin will last forever and you should select one based on your financial comfort and personal taste. Review the three main materials used to make coffins to get an idea of which one might be the best choice:Metal coffins can last a long time and are generally made out of steel, bronze or copper.
Wooden caskets are often made out of ash, maple and cottonwood.
Fiberglass coffins are lightweight and can be made to resemble wood or marble.
 Coffins can be expensive. Coffin prices will vary, depending on the material, size, design, fabric and any customization options that are available. Knowing what you can expect to pay can help you decide which coffin might be the right one. Take a look at the following basic prices of coffins to learn more: Metal coffins can range anywhere from $1,000 to $10,000, depending on the metal used, the style and the dimensions.
Wooden coffins can range from around $900 to $10,000, depending on the type of wood used, the style and the finish.
Burial shrouds can cost between $150 to $1,000.
Cardboard coffins can range from $50 to $500.
 Coffins and caskets are not one-size-fits-all. You will need to know the measurements of the deceased and compare them to the dimensions of the coffin you are considering. Make sure the coffin will easily accommodate the deceased before making a purchase.Most coffins are between 24” and 27” wide.
Oversize caskets range from 21” to 38” wide.
Goliath caskets can be made up to 51” wide.
Make sure you check the length of the coffin as well.
 Although it is not a legal standard, many cemeteries will require you to place the deceased and their coffin in a concrete vault. This vault will help the grave site from caving in after the coffin degrades. Make sure you consider any vault regulations before making your final choice of coffin.Some cemeteries allow for grave liners which can be less expensive.
Vaults will usually cost about $1,000.
Liners can range between $400 and $800.
 While a basic coffin will be the most affordable option, you may want to consider adding certain artistic elements. These decorations will help to personalize the deceased's coffin and make it something special. Ask your funeral home or coffin supplier if they can help you add these unique and individualized touches to the coffin you are considering.


You can have names, dates or other personal information added to the coffin.
You might opt for decorative carvings or other artistic touches to be included.
Casket corners are sometimes used to display symbols of the deceased's favorite hobbies, interests or life achievements.
 Nearly all coffins will come with some kind of cloth covering for the interior. However, you'll likely have a choice when it comes to which type of cloth you select. You can speak with your funeral home to learn more about the options they have available. Before your visit, review these examples to get an idea of what to expect:You may be able to select the color of the material used in the coffin.
Silk, velvet, cotton and crepe are some examples of coffin interior options.
Some casket lid interiors may have the option to include embroidered symbols or messages.
 If you are concerned about the environmental impact a coffin can have, you might want to consider purchasing an eco-friendly coffin. These coffins and burial containers are guaranteed to be biodegradable and are often less expensive that other coffin styles. If this type of coffin sounds like one you would be interested in, take a look at the following styles they can come in to learn more: Burial shrouds
Cardboard caskets
Wicker caskets
Untreated wooden caskets

, Coffins are highly customizable and you will likely have a wide range of additional features to choose from. These features will allow you to personalize the coffin, adding meaningful touches to the deceased's memory. Ask your funeral home for more information about a coffin's special features to learn more.Many coffins will have a memory drawer for you to place mementos or messages in.
Coffins will come in either a single or double couch style. A double couch coffin will allow only the top portion of the coffin lid to remain open during a viewing. A single couch will require the entire lid to remain open.
Some coffins will have internal hardware to slightly lift the deceased during a viewing.
You may choose to install a memory tube. A memory tube will hold the deceased's personal information, allowing for easy identification should the coffin become dislodged after interment.
Coffins will generally have a gasket option. A gasket will keep the deceased separated from the coffin itself after burial.

