 While you wait for it to heat up, you can remove the chicken from its packaging, separate it into pieces, and gather your ingredients.;
, When it is completely liquid, mix in the honey, pineapple juice, mustard, salt, and curry powder. Stir well to combine. The heat should cause the honey to thin.


Handle the hot melted butter with care. Be sure to use a microwave-safe container, like one made from glass or ceramic.
 Make sure there's about an inch of space separating each piece so that they can cook evenly. Spoon the sauce over the pieces of chicken, giving each a thick coat.


For a quicker cleanup, you can try laying a piece of foil over your cooking sheet and using a cooking spray or a light brushing of oil to prevent sticking.
 After 30 minutes of cook time, carefully remove the tray from the oven and turn the pieces over. Put the tray back in and start checking on the chicken for done-ness about every ten minutes or so.


Your chicken is done when the thickest part of the meat is soft and white all the way through and the juices run clear. Ideally, the outside of the chicken should have a pleasant golden-brown shade at this point.
The FDA recommends an internal temperature of about 165 degrees F (about 74 degrees C).A food thermometer can help here.
 When the chicken is done, remove it from the oven. Don't cut into it just yet — let it sit for about five to ten minutes so it can cool. After this, simply serve with your favorite side and enjoy!


Letting meat sit briefly after cooking can also improve its texture. During this resting period, moisture displaced by the cooking process is gradually re-absorbed by the muscle fibers in the meat, giving you a more tender, juicy bite. This is why cutting into meat as soon as it comes out of the oven will cause lots of juice to run out but cutting into it after 10 minutes or so will produce much less juice., This chicken dish is inspired by the flavorful cuisine of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and the rest of South Asia. Try it with some delicious sides from the region, like the following:


Indian rice
Naan bread
Creamy Thai curry

