 This is the history and subjective findings of the athletes complaint. This is information the patient reports, directly to you. The History of the Subjective portion of the S.O.A.P notes include the Etiology or MOI (Mechanism Of Injury), c.c. (Chief Complaint), Symptoms, Description of pain, and past history.


The history is the major portion of the note. This will help when it comes to objective to determine and narrow down the list of potential injuries.
When asking questions, try to avoid questions with "yes" or "no" answers or questions that could lead them to an answer, such as "that hurt didn't it".
 This portion of a S.O.A.P note consists of what you, the clinician can observes. It can be measurable. The Objective portion of the S.O.A.P note includes vision, palpation - soft and bony, girth, ROM (Range of Motion) - AROM, PROM and RROM which stands for Active, Passive and Resistive Range of Motion, manual muscle tests, neurological assessment, circulation, and special tests.


If any special tests are given, which can including bony and soft tissue palpation, neurological exams, and other tests, then they should be documented here.
This is where you should narrow down the list of injuries and determine what it could be, and allow you to see if the problem could me muscular or more ligamentous.
 The likely diagnosis should be included in this section of the note. If a conclusive diagnosis has not been made yet, some possible diagnoses can be charted. It may include additional diagnoses that need to be ruled out.


The assessment may also include information on various diagnostic tests that may be ordered, such as x-rays, blood work and referrals to other specialist.
The type of injury, whether it is chronic, acute, or reoccurring, should be documented.
 This is what steps will be taken to treat the patient. It should include what type of treatments will be given, such as medication, therapies, and surgeries. It may also list long-term treatment plans and recommended changes to lifestyle, as well as short and long term goals for the patient. You can also list any goals that you would like to accomplish with the treatment such as to increase strength or range of motion as well as to reduce pain.


This plan should be referred to daily until the plan for the individual is completed.

