 Walmart, Target and hundreds of other stores sell really cute, practical, inexpensive cosmetic bags. You can use a bags you already have if you like.;
, Many products come with applicators and brushes, but these brushes are apparently best for one time use. Choose the best brushes you can afford.
 All you need, apparently, is a simple, light coverage one. Nothing too heavy, since you are just beginning. Covergirl makes a great foundation called Natureluxe, it's great, say some. Make sure that the foundation product is really, really close to your skin tone, if that's important to you. You can use powder, liquid, a combination moisturiser and foundation, anything you like. You can look paler or darker than you are if you like err.
 Concealer is a lifesaver! It is perfect for those days when you don't want to wear foundation but still want to cover up any blemishes or flaws. Concealer is great if you are having a bad skin day and you need more coverage than just your foundation. All you have to do is apply it over your foundation! You can buy a concealer stick, which easier to apply, or one that comes in a tube. Covergirl Ready Set Gorgeous is a good one, some say.
 This will keep the foundation/concealer from coming off throughout the day.
 This is key, even if you are just beginning. An eyeshadow primer will keep the shadows from creasing. It also helps make it last longer. NYX has some really good primers. You can buy their stuff at Ulta Beauty, or online.
 This will give you a variety. If you want a lighter look, which is suggested for beginners, choose a sheer or light lipstick. Rimmel Cake Moss is really good.
 Only one or two should get you by. A lighter color for during the day and a darker color for the nighttime is perfect.
 One black one and one brown one will be good. If they are pencils, purchase a sharpener but if they are retractable don't worry about that. You can buy a liquid one or a pencil. Try using a pencil one first. If you want winged eyeliner, use the liquid form.
 If you have red hair or blonde hair and have really light eyelashes, brown mascara would work best for you, considering that black might be too dramatic. You can find good mascaras at Sephora. Even Walmart has good brands, like Maybelline.
 Trios are great, because it's easy to figure out where to put the colors. Same with blush, you should get one trio for every day wear and a darker trio for nights out. (The Milani Baked Blushes are really good!) Colors really depend on your skin tone, so find some that suit you.
 Gradually, you can step into higher-end products once you think you are good at makeup. Feel free to experiment!

