 Instead of eating two or three meals a day, try to eat five or six smaller meals throughout the day. This can help you increase your caloric intake and prevent you from overeating at a single meal. You should also snack on high-calorie foods in between the meals. Good snack options include:Nuts
Nut butters on toast or crackers
Spreads like hummus or guacamole on crackers or toast
Cheese
Avocado
Fresh and dried fruit;
, If you're too busy to snack or sit down to another small meal, consider drinking high-calorie drinks like protein shakes or smoothies. These should be healthy beverages that offer some nutritional benefit, not just caffeine and sugar.Try using coconut milk to make your drinks. Coconut milk has healthy fat with high calories. If you'd like fewer calories, you could use almond or hemp milk.
For extra calories and protein, make super-strength milk. Mix 1 quart of milk and 1 cup of instant non-fat dry milk powder. Stir this for about five minutes and store it in your refrigerator. Use it just as you would regular milk.
 Look for high-calorie foods that are also considered nutrient-dense. Many of these foods are good sources of protein, fiber, and healthy fat. Include these high-calorie foods in your diet:Whole grains: whole wheat or pumpernickel bread, bran cereals, granola, bran muffins, bagels, wheat germ and flaxseed
Fruit: Bananas, pineapple, raisins and other dried fruit, fruit juices, avocados
Vegetables: Peas, corn, potatoes, winter squash (acorn, spaghetti, butternut)
Dairy: Cheeses (especially hard cheeses like cheddar), ice cream, yogurt, and full-fat or "whole" milk and milk products, like cottage cheese, sour cream, cream cheese.
Meat/Plant proteins: Beef, pork, chicken, nut butters like peanut butter, beans, and seeds

, Make small changes to your normal meals. Avoid using low-fat or low-calorie products. Add healthy fats, like olive oil, to veggies and other low-calorie meals. For example, steam broccoli and add a drizzle of olive oil at the end., While many processed foods are high in calories, they're not very high in nutrients which makes them empty calories. This is especially true if the processed food is high in added sugar. This means the calories you consume should be nutritious (nutrient-dense) to help your body stay healthy and strong, instead of empty calories, which provide no nutritional benefits. For instance an avocado is high in both calories and nutrients (such as fiber, B vitamins, vitamin K, vitamin E, vitamin C, potassium, magnesium, and more),while a donut is high in calories but offers few nutrients other than refined carbohydrates and sugar.


You should also pay attention to empty calories when it comes to beverages. Sodas, alcohol, and milkshakes are all high in calories, but offer little health benefit.
Instead of drinking soda or even diet drinks, drink milk, juice, and sports drinks for added calories and nutrients., If you can, work with a registered dietitian to determine how many calories you should be getting every day. You can also use an online Body Mass Index (BMI) and Daily Needs Calculator. (Try this one: http://nutritiondata.self.com/tools/calories-burned). This will give you your BMI and tell you the minimum calories you need every day.


If you have a BMI of less than 18.5, you're considered to be underweight. You'll need to consume more calories than the minimum recommended if you want to get to a healthy weight. For example, you might want to increase caloric intake by 5 or 10%.
 You may have a medical condition that ruins your appetite, making it difficult to want to eat. For example, cachexia is a loss of appetite in cancer patients. Talk with your doctor if you're not feeling like eating. The doctor may be able to prescribe a medication (like progesterone) to improve your appetite., If you've been diagnosed with anorexia nervosa, you may fear gaining weight and have taken steps to lose weight in the past. You'll need to talk with your doctor about how to safely gain weight. Most treatments are centered around both family-based and individual therapy to help gain weight.


Some studies suggest that antidepressants can help treat anorexia and promote weight gain, but more research is needed., If you or your child is on the autism spectrum, you may notice aversions to certain food. You may only want to eat limited amounts of specific foods or medication you take may suppress your appetite. Work with a dietitian to determine any nutritional deficiencies you or your child might have. You may want to try a gluten-free or casein-free diet.Pay attention to sensory issues at meal time.For example, if your child won't eat slippery vegetables, try offering crunchy or firm vegetables.
Don't force an autistic child to eat something they can't bear. To them, it may be as disgusting as eating raw meat or beetles.
 It can be difficult to get enough healthy calories if you're dealing with nausea and vomiting during early pregnancy. Unfortunately, not gaining enough weight can increase your risk of complications during pregnancy.To improve your appetite, eat small meals and avoid spicy, greasy foods. It may help to eat bland foods for a while, especially if you're sensitive to the smell of food. To fight morning sickness, snack on:Crackers or pretzels
Ginger tea, peppermint tea, or ginger ale
Bland foods like mashed potatoes, toast, or chicken broth

, Plan to eat at scheduled times during the day. This can help you determine how many calories to include at each meal and it will keep you from skipping meals. Play around with your schedule to decide whether you'd like to eat larger meals or several small ones.


Kids like following routines and knowing what to expect. Offer your small children snacks and meals at the same times every day. They'll also be more likely to eat if you let them make some decisions about the food.It will take repeated exposure (15 – 20 times) to new foods for the child to accept it. Offer the new food but don't force the child to eat it

, If you find yourself rushing throughout the day and forgetting to eat, it can be hard to eat healthy foods or get enough calories. Be sure to slow down, sit down, and enjoy your meal. Create a calm atmosphere where you can relax and look forward to eating.Avoid distractions like watching tv or talking on the phone while you eat.
 You may not feel like eating very much if you're stuck in a routine that you don't enjoy. Do things to make eating fun and you'll be more likely to look forward to eating. For example, go on a picnic and get a change of scene. You can even do this indoors for something different.You can also encourage your child to eat by giving verbal praise or rewards (like stickers) for good eating.
 It's hard to eat healthy foods if you don't like what you're eating. Try to include healthy foods and foods you like. This will make it more likely that you'll actually eat the food you're buying. For example, instead of buying a healthy meal of things you don't really enjoy and only eating a little of it, make one of your favorite meals and include something healthy on the side.


If your child is not interested in eating something, offer something you know your child enjoys eating. Never force your child to eat a food they don't like. Instead, offer another food that's also nutritious.