 The spot gold price is basically the current going price for gold if you were to try and sell your gold coins over the counter to someone.Typically, the gold is sold by ounce, gram, or kilogram.Check the price on a larger finance website. The basic gold ticker is GCM16.CMX, and everything about the current price, historical price, and various financial indicators like Simple Moving Average (SMA) is listed on most financial websites.Monex.com has current prices and charts, and has been operating for more than 40 years.
Kitco.com is a more news-oriented site. You can get the latest prices as well as lots of recent news regarding the current price of gold.
 Some gold coins are easier to sell than others, particularly depending on your location. Some have purity guarantees, and can even be added to retirement accounts. The rarer coins are more difficult to sell, because grading can be both difficult and debatable.


Within the U.S., the Canadian Maple Leaf (24-karat) and American Eagle (22-karat) coins are the most frequently used. The American Eagle coin is guaranteed pure by the U.S. Mint.
Outside the U.S., the Canadian Maple Leaf dominates. It's also easier to sell the South African Krugerrand and Austrian Vienna Philharmonic.
The U.S. made a pure gold coin called the American Buffalo in 2006. It was intended to compete with the Maple Leaf, but it's not used as frequently., Actual gold weight (AGW) of your coins is typically displayed in Troy ounces (i.e price per troy ounce). If the ounces aren't displayed, weigh the coin first. After it's weighed, you'll need to know the amount of non-gold metals inside the alloy. Once you know the AGW, multiply it by the gold price per Troy ounce to know the value of your coin.For impure coins, you'll have to break down the fraction included in AGW. For instance, if the coin were to weigh two ounces, and it was 50% pure, you'd have 1 Troy ounce AGW.
Keep in mind a Troy ounce (31.1 grams) is not the same as a normal ounce (28.35 grams).If not specifically listed, you'll need to confer with a professional to determine the non-gold metals in your coin.
Convert grams to AGW by dividing the grams by 31.1035.
Some coins are standardized, and have the weight in Troy ounces displayed prominently.

