 If you are applying deodorant without taking a shower first, take off your shirt and anything you may be wearing underneath that. Remove your clothes so you don’t spray them along with your skin. Keep them clean so you can tell later on if you are using too much, if and when traces of deodorant appear on your clothes after contact with your skin.Deodorant can also be applied to your feet to reduce their smell and the risk of blisters.In this case, remove your socks instead!;
, Pat your skin with a towel. Remove all traces of moisture. Give your deodorant direct access to your pores without any blockage from sweat or water.Definitely follow this rule if your deodorant doubles as an antiperspirant. The aluminum used in antiperspirants needs to enter your pores in order to prevent sweating.
If you are using pure deodorant instead, experiment with dry versus wet skin. Some people believe that deodorant works best with wet skin., First, give the canister a few shakes to stir up the active ingredients. Aim the nozzle at the target area.Maintain a distance of at least six inches between the nozzle and your skin. Push the nozzle all the way down. Hold for one second, then release, to avoid creating an excessive cloud of spray. Wait until the mist disperses before applying more one-second bursts if needed.Recap the can when finished.


You should only need about two to three seconds’ worth of total spraying.
Hold your breath with your lips sealed while spraying to minimize the amount of mist that you breathe in.
Do not hold the can upside-down. If it isn’t held upright, the can may fail to spray its contents, even though it isn’t empty., Make sure the deodorant is applied over the entire area. Rub the residue around so that all of your pores receive an equal amount. If you have a significant amount of hair growing there, use your fingers to work the deodorant through the hair so that it reaches your skin.You can also spray your hands directly and apply the deodorant to other areas by rubbing it in.This method may be preferable to your armpits, so that you don’t have to aim the nozzle so close to your face.

