 For semi-formal attire, you'll need to wear a button-down shirt. The most classic and dependable look will be the white button-down shirt, but you can have a little more fun with semi-formal attire and pick a shirt with a subtle pattern or stripes if you're attending a daytime semi-formal event.It's important to clean and iron your shirt before you wear it. No matter how nice the shirt is, you won't look right if it looks worn and wrinkly.
If the shirt has a subtle pattern, make sure it matches the suit and tie you're wearing. This doesn't mean it has to be the exact same color as the suit and tie, but that the colors should be in the same color family.
Having a patterned shirt can also help you add a personalized look to what may feel like a formulaic outfit.;
, You still have to wear a suit to a semi-formal event -- just remember to avoid the tuxedo. For daytime events, wear a light suit that is usually cream or tan, a stroller or a director's coat, or a jacket in black or dark gray wool. For nighttime events, wear a dark charcoal or a midnight blue suit. Make sure the suit slacks fit your form and aren't too loose, too tight, or wrinkled.For a more formal semi-formal event, you can wear a tuxedo-jacket, or black trousers with a satin seam.
You can also consider wearing a cummerbund.
A vest that matches your suit can also go nicely with your semi-formal attire.
A variety of suit fabrics work for a semi-formal suit. You can wear a suit that is made of wool, gabardine, cashmere, or a wool blend.
A blazer can also be acceptable for a daytime outdoor event.
 You can wear a simple tie that matches your suit for a semi-formal event. The tie should be light for a light-colored suit and dark for a dark-colored suit. You can have some fun and pick a tie with stripes or a fun pattern, as long as it isn't too silly. You should wear a simple black belt with your pants, one that isn't too thick.


You can also add some flair to your outfit by wearing a red pocket pocket handkerchief or a white silk scarf.
If you're accompanying a date to an event, you can add a nice touch by wearing matching accessories. For example, if she's wearing long gold earrings, you can wear a gold tie or put a gold silk handkerchief in your pocket.
Cufflinks can also be a nice addition to your look.
 For semi-formal attire, wear lace-up shoes, dressy loafers, or Oxfords. For night-time events, you can wear shined leather shoes. Pair your shoes with dark dress socks. If a light sock peeks out from your outfit, the effect can be ruined.You should generally stick to wearing black shoes, but dark brown shoes can also be acceptable if you're wearing a dark brown suit.
It should go without saying, but you should never, ever, wear dress shoes without socks.
 Remember to take a nice long shower, style your hair, and shave your face before attending a semi-formal event. If your hair is getting long, make sure you cut it before you attend the event, or you will look disheveled. Take time with your appearance before you leave the house.


Make sure your shoes are clean, your shirt is tucked in, and your collar is fixed appropriately.
Some light cologne can also help add elegance to your look.

