 A VHS-to-DVD recorder basically gives you a DVD copy of your tape in real time.


DVD recorders cost between $100-$200 at major electronic stores or online. You can also usually find one between $50-$75 in good condition on Ebay.
With a DVD recorder, you don't have a lot of flexibility as far as menus, buttons and chapter settings, but it's the fastest and easiest way to convert VHS to DVD.
If you have a VCR or camcorder with Firewire connections, you can get a DVD Recorder with Firewire connections and transfer tapes at a higher quality. Firewire ports look similar to USB ports, except they are flatter and tapered at the end.;
, Your VCR/camcorder or DVD Recorder may have come with the correct cable to connect to the other, but if not, you'll need to find or purchase one.


Both your DVD Recorder and your VCR should be able to connect to an RCA or S-Video cable. RCA cables are red, white and yellow and connect to their corresponding colored ports on both the DVD Recorder and VCR. S-Video cables have four small, round pin connectors. Check the back of both your devices to see what kind of cable you need. If you don’t have the correct cable, you can find it at an electronic store or online for $5-$10.
If you're using a camcorder, the cable that came with it should connect to your DVD Recorder. If you no longer have it, you can find the right cable at an electronic store or online for $5-$10.
If your DVD Recorder and VCR/camcorder have Firewire ports, make sure your Firewire cable matches them exactly. The number of pins and the shape of a Firewire cable can vary slightly—they aren’t all the same. If you don’t have the correct cable, you can find it at an electronic store or online for $5-$10.
,, You'll want to start the DVD recorder first so you don’t cut off the beginning of the video.
 As quickly as possible after pressing “Record” on your DVD recorder, press “Play” on your VCR/camcorder.
 Press “Pause” on the DVD recorder and fast-forward the VCR/camcorder through parts you want to edit out. When you’ve reached the end of the portion you want to cut, restart the DVD recorder again and start playing your tape.
 When you reach the end of your video or the end of the portion you want to record, press “Stop” on your DVD recorder.


If you reach the end of your tape and your video stops automatically, your DVD recorder will stop recording automatically.

