 You should try to refrain from popping blood blisters if possible. However, if it gets too painful, you can pop larger blood blisters. If your blood blister is larger than a pea, or it is causing significant discomfort, pain, or interfering with walking or working, you can carefully pop the blood blister.You should know that this can significantly increase the risk of infection, so be very careful and follow the instructions as closely as possible. It really is best to have a physician do this with sterile instruments, but that is realistically not always possible.;
, Wash the area with the blood blister with an antibacterial soap. Also wash your hands well. Let the soap stay on your hands for at least one to two minutes. Rinse your hands and the area well.Use a clean towel to dry your hands and the blood blister.
 Preferably, you should use a sterile lancet or scalpel blade when you pop a blood blister. If you don’t have either, you can use a sterilized pin or needle. If you have alcohol, soak a pin or needle in the alcohol.Alternatively, soak the pin or needle in a solution of the antibacterial soap for 10 minutes.
You can also boil the pin or needle. Use tongs to take the pin or needle out of the boiling water and use it while it is still warm. You can also hold the tip of the needle directly into a flame for a minute. Make sure you let it cool before use.
 To pop the blister, lance or pierce the top of the blister. You will not need to penetrate deeply because you only have a thin layer of tissue to get through. You can press gently on the blister to help remove the fluid. Use a clean cloth or gauze to sponge up the blood. Apply pressure until any bleeding stops.This is not likely to be very painful because the nerves are usually found deeper in the skin and not on the top of the blister, but prepare yourself just in case.
 After popping the blood blister, make sure you do not remove the blister roof. The flap of skin covering the blister helps prevent infection. Leave it so it can protect the skin underneath., Apply an antiseptic such as betadine, iodine, or an antibiotic cream to the popped blister. Then cover the area with a clean gauze or bandage. Remember to make the bandage thick enough to protect the area from any rubbing or extra pressure.Remove the bandage at night so the blister can air out. This aids in healing.
Check for signs of infection every eight to 12 hours. These signs include redness, warmth, swelling, pain or whitish, yellowish, or greenish pus. Call your physician for advice if this happens.
 Certain conditions make draining a blood blister dangerous. If you have diabetes, HIV, cancer, or heart disease, or if you have a blood clotting problem or are taking blood thinner medications, you should never pop the blood blister yourself. It can lead to infection, which could be dangerous. Instead, go to your doctor and discuss what to do with him.You also should refrain from popping a blister if it arose because of a contagious disease. This can lead to you spreading the disease to others.

