 When writing in third person limited perspective, a writer has complete access to the actions, thoughts, feelings, and belief of a single character. The writer can write as if the character is thinking and reacting, or the writer can step back and be more objective.The thoughts and feelings of other characters remain an unknown for the writer throughout the duration of the text. There should be no switching back and forth between characters for this specific type of narrative viewpoint.
Unlike first person, where the narrator and protagonist are the same, third person limited puts a critical sliver of distance between protagonist and narrator. The writer has the choice to describe one main character’s nasty habit — something she wouldn’t readily reveal if the narration were left entirely to her.
 Even though the focus remains on one character, the writer still needs to treat that character as a separate entity. If the narrator follows the character's thoughts, feelings, and internal dialogue, this still needs to be in third person.In other words, do not use first person pronouns like “I,” “me,” “my,” “we,” or “our” outside of dialog. The main character's thoughts and feelings are transparent to the writer, but that character should not double as a narrator.
Correct example: “Tiffany felt awful after the argument with her boyfriend.”
Correct example: “Tiffany thought, “I feel awful after that argument with my boyfriend.”
Incorrect example: “I felt awful after the argument with my boyfriend.”

, The writer is as limited to just the protagonist's thoughts and feelings with this point of view. However, with this point of view, other characters can be described without the protagonist noticing it. The narrator can anything the protagonist can; she just can't get into the other character's head.Note that the writer can offer insight or guesses regarding the thoughts of other characters, but those guesses must be presented through the perspective of the main character.
Correct example: “Tiffany felt awful, but judging by the expression on Carl's face, she imagined that he felt just as bad if not worse.”
Incorrect example: “Tiffany felt awful. What she didn't know was that Carl felt even worse.”

, Although the narrator can step back and describe the setting or other characters, it has to be anything the viewpoint character can see. Do not bounce around from one character to one character within one scene. The external actions of other characters can only be known when the main character is present to view those actions.


Correct example: “Tiffany watched from the window as Carl walked up to her house and rang the doorbell.”
Incorrect example: “As soon as Tiffany left the room, Carl let out a sigh of relief.”

