 You should always discuss any new exercise regiments with your doctor to make sure you are healthy enough to perform them safely. Lion pose is not a particularly strenuous pose, but you may choose to incorporate it into a larger yoga practice., Wear clothing that allows you to move freely and will not distract you.
 Yoga is about meditation as well as physical exercise, so try to find a place free of distractions for your practice.
 You will need a soft surface to perform this pose because you will be kneeling. If you do not have a yoga mat, you can also perform lion pose on another soft surface, such as a blanket, towel, or rug.
 Your knees should be a comfortable distance apart and your hands should be at your side.
 Place your palms on the ground, with your fingers facing away from you, about 6 inches (15.2 cm) away from your knees. Spread your fingers wide and press them firmly into the floor.
 Prepare for the full extension of the pose by inhaling through your nose. As you exhale, open your mouth wide, constrict the muscles in your throat, and let out an audible sigh. Stretch your tongue out and down as far as possible.Be sure to engage the muscles in your arms by continuing to push your fingers into the floor as you roar. An alternative is to keep your hands by your side and then thrust them in front of you quickly as you roar., As you roar, open your eyes wide while gazing up towards your eyebrows or the tip of your nose., Hold the pose for as long as it feels comfortable. Relax your body as you inhale through your nose, and then repeat the pose on your next exhale. You can repeat the pose as many times as you like.
 One variation of lion pose is to cross one ankle over the other. If you try this modification, be sure to switch the cross of your legs and perform the pose the same number of times on each side., To add a hip opener to the pose, try incorporating Mandukasana (frog pose) into your lion pose. Before extending your arms forward, reposition your legs so that your big toes are touching, but your knees are spread at least as wide as your outer hips. Then perform the rest of the pose as usual. Some people combine this modified leg position with a modified arm position. Try placing your palms on the floor in front of you with your fingers facing towards you. Keep your hands a few inches from your body, and then lean forward slightly., If you would rather not lean forward, the muscles in your face and throat can still benefit from lion pose. Simply kneel on your mat and place your hands palm down on your knees instead of extending them in front of you. Then perform the rest of the pose as usual, being careful to keep your back straight.Even though your arms are not extended, keep pressing your hands down with your fingers splayed.
 Sometimes it is simply not comfortable to kneel. If you have sensitive knees, you may want to sit in a different position. You can sit in a cross-legged position, or, if you are more advanced, you can Do the Lotus Position. Choose a seating position that is comfortable for you, and then perform the rest of the pose as usual.Another great option for yogis with sensitive knees is to double the yoga mat over or kneel on a blanket for extra padding.
 Instead of roaring, experiment with laughing on your exhale. It may help you reduce stress.