 Police will want copies of anything you may have, such as letters or voice mail messages, that could provide evidence of the crime.


You can check your state's law to learn the elements of extortion. These elements are what a prosecuting attorney must prove to have someone convicted of extortion. If you don't have evidence of enough of those elements to constitute probable cause that the person committed the crime, police may not investigate your report.Generally, you should have evidence that the person maliciously threatened you. This could be a spoken threat or a written threat, although written evidence tends to be stronger – unless you have a recording such as a voice mail message of the threats being made against you.If you don't have recordings or written evidence of the threats, you may have a hard time getting police officers to investigate the situation. Police must have probable cause to search or arrest someone, and your word – without tangible evidence to back it up – is typically not enough to have a warrant issued.;
, Since extortion typically involves threats of future violence rather than immediate violence, you should file your report in person at the police station rather than calling 911.If interstate commerce is involved in any way in the extortion – for example, if the person lives in a different state than you do – consider reporting the crime to the FBI rather than to local law enforcement.You can use the FBI's online locator to find your nearest field office at https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field/field-offices.
 An officer will sit down with you to talk about the crime and compile a report based on the information you provide.


Provide as many details as you have so the police have enough information to investigate the crime. Keep in mind that police must have enough evidence to constitute probable cause before charges can be filed against the person.Typically you must provide basic personal and contact information about yourself, as well as any similar information you may know about the person you're reporting. You also should relate all information you have related to the crime and provide copies of any potential evidence you've gathered.When the officer has finished taking your report, ask for a copy of the written report for your records. Usually you'll need to provide the department's report or reference number if you want to provide any additional information or update the report later.
 Some jurisdictions offer emergency restraining orders to protect you if you feel you are in imminent danger.


Emergency restraining orders typically are issued at the police department, and provide you with temporary protection until you are able to file for a permanent restraining order at the courthouse.If the person extorting you has threatened immediate harm to you or someone you love, or if you're afraid the person will harm you or someone you love if he or she discovers you've filed a police report, ask the officer with whom you filed your report if an emergency restraining order is available.An emergency restraining order will keep the person from contacting you or coming near you or places you frequent such as your school or workplace. The order usually is only in effect for a day or two at most.Emergency restraining orders may last longer if courts are not in session – for example, if you've reported the extortion on a Friday evening, or just before a holiday., Officers may contact you for further information as the department investigates the situation.


Keep in mind that even if the person is arrested, he or she may never be charged with a criminal offense. Prosecutors have broad discretion when it comes to filing charges, and typically only do so if they believe they can get a conviction.