 You must be at least level 10 to begin PvP in Elder Scrolls Online.If you’re below level 10, follow and complete quests or attack mobs to increase your character’s level.
 At level 10, you will be given the ability to join an Alliance War. Press the L key to open the Alliance War menu. With the Alliance War menu open, you’ll find details about different PvP campaigns currently in progress. Each campaign is a different instance of the same PvP region., Locate the Campaign tab. The Campaign tab can be found in the top right corner of the Alliance War menu.

Once on the Campaign tab, select one of the campaigns and press E to join it.
Once you’ve joined a Campaign, you can highlight your joined Campaign and press the “Go to Campaign” button to be transported to the PvP region.
You can rejoin your campaign at any point in Tamriel by accessing the Alliance War menu with the L key.
 When you join the PvP region for the first time, you’ll be able to find an NPC that will give you a quest and explain the basics of PvP in Elder Scrolls Online to you. You must complete this quest before you can fight other players., You will need to talk to your faction’s NPC quest-giver for the ‘Welcome to Cyrodiil’ quest. When speaking to the correct NPC, you’ll be given the option to either learn about how the Transitus Shrine PvP fast travel system works or skip the tutorial for the Transitus Shrine. It is recommended that first time players do not skip the tutorial.

If you’re in the Covenant faction, speak to Veronard Liancourt.
If you’re in the Dominion faction, speak to Arcarin.
If you’re in the Pact faction, speak to Olvyia Indaram.
 You will now be requested to visit an area to begin the siege munitions tutorial. You will need to use the Transitus Shrine to fast travel to one of the following three locations.

If you’re in the Covenant faction, travel to the Northern High Rock Gate.
If you’re in the Dominion faction, travel to the Western Elsweyr Gate.
If you’re in the Pact faction, travel to the Southern Morrowind Gate.
 Once you’ve travelled to the correct area, you’ll need to ask an NPC in the area for siege munitions. Your quest marker will guide you to the correct NPC.

If you’re in the Covenant faction, speak to Zahreh.
If you’re in the Dominion faction, speak to Fangil.
If you’re in the Pact faction, speak to Mirrored-Skin.
 After collecting the siege munitions, you’ll be asked to complete the siege tutorial. This tutorial will take you through the basics of attacking sieges and will explain more about how PvP works in Elder Scrolls Online. Once again, you’ll need to speak to a certain NPC character to start the siege tutorial. First, you’ll have to travel to a different area using the Transitus Shrine. After completing the siege tutorial, you’ll be free to travel throughout Cyrodiil to search for other players to fight.

If you’re in the Covenant faction, find the siege range near Southern High Rock Gate and speak to Bugbesh.
If you’re in the Dominion faction, find the siege range near Eastern Elsweyr Gate and speak to Zan.
If you’re in the Pact faction, find the siege range near Northern Morrowind Gate and speak to Adalmor.
 Now that the tutorial is completed, you’re given the freedom to traverse the PvP region of Cyrodiil without any restriction. Whilst playing, there will be different objectives that you can capture to help your own faction.

The goal for each faction is to take control of as many objectives as possible. By doing so, all faction members will receive benefits throughout the rest of Elder Scrolls Online. Capturing objectives on your own can be difficult, but you’ll often find contested areas on the Cyrodiil map, which can be accessed from the Transitus Shrine. These are the best places to get involved.
 If you find an enemy that you think you can take on in a fight, initiate an attack on them just like you would with a standard non-player mob. Even if you don’t win the fight, you’re still slowing them down from completing their own objectives. As you play through Cyrodiil and Tamriel, you’ll have the chance to unlock better gear, which will improve your chances at defeating another player. Your level also plays a big part in your chance to win a fight, so being successful in PvP requires you to max your level as quickly as possible. If you can’t find any action, look on the Transitus Shrine for the following icons:

Two or three crossed swords signifies a cross-faction conflict.
A splash behind any other symbol indicates that the area is being sieged.
The larger the icon, the bigger the scale of the fight is.

