 You can take probiotics by mouth (either as capsules or in yogurt). These are mainly useful for prevention rather than treatment of BV. If you are prone to BV, eat one serving of yogurt daily (about 150 grams) with four to give billion CFU (Colony Forming Units). Make sure to choose a yogurt that has this information on the label.


You can also take probiotic capsules according to manufacturer’s recommendations. Experts don’t know exactly how ingested bacterial cultures in yogurt or probiotic supplements can populate the vagina, but there is evidence that they do., Use a very mild soap and warm water to wash your genital area. Dry yourself with a clean towel or allow yourself to air dry. You can also try drying it with a blow dryer set on cool.Avoid scratching or rubbing your genitals. Keep irritation at a minimum by leaving your genitals alone. Don’t scratch or rub the area.
 Cotton allows your genital area to stay cool and dry. The white underwear avoids irritants that may be in different dyes. Avoid nylon, acetate and any synthetic fibers.


Avoid wearing thong underwear because these tend to be irritating.
 Use a mild and fragrance free soap (such as fragrance-free Woolite) for washing your panties. Do not use fabric softeners or dryer sheets. These also contain chemicals that may irritate you.


Double-rinse your underwear to ensure that all detergent is gone. Detergent residue can cause irritation.
 Use white, soft toilet tissue. Remember always to wipe from the front to the back to minimize the risk of infection from bowel bacteria.
 Instead of using sanitary napkins while you have your period, use tampons during the day. Stay away from deodorant tampons because of the risk of toxic shock syndrome. Replace tampons every few hours, depending on your flow.


Do not leave tampons in overnight. Use sanitary pads instead.
 Pantyhose do not allow the genital area to “breathe.” They also trap heat and moisture, which creates the perfect setting for bacteria, yeast and other organisms. Instead, wear nylons with a cotton panty insert.
 Avoid feminine hygiene products, which can irritate the vulva. These include deodorant sanitary pads, all feminine sprays and deodorants, any products containing Vaseline, oils or greases.


Avoid bubble baths, bath oils, talc, or powder, especially powder that contains cornstarch. Cornstarch provides food for microorganisms.

