 Select the picture you want and print it out using a standard printer and standard printer paper.


You could also use a picture from a magazine, piece of wrapping paper, or similar source. The material the paper is printed on should be no thicker than standard printer paper, however.
 Use scissors to cut around the picture, leaving as thin and narrow a border as possible.
 Place the picture face-down and use a glue stick to apply glue to the back.


You could apply a thin bead of tacky glue or other craft glue, but make sure that the bead is thin enough to prevent it from wrinkling the paper or showing through from the front.
 Position the picture over the candle, then press the glue-covered side of the image onto the candle.


Stick the center of the picture on first, then gradually rub out toward the edges with your fingers or cloth rag.
Firmly rub out any air bubbles you see, as well.
 Melt enough clear or white candle wax in a double boiler to cover at least half the height of your current candle.


Fill the bottom half of the double boiler with 2 inches (5 cm) of water and let it reach a boil over medium-high heat.
Place the wax inside the top half of the double boiler. Turn the heat down to medium-low, and let the wax melt slowly.
When ready, the over-dipping wax will reach a temperature of about 217 degrees Fahrenheit (103 degrees Celsius). This temperature may vary depending on the type of wax used, however.
 Grab one end of the candle and quickly dip the other half in the melted wax.Work carefully. Use tongs or gloves to protect your hands from the hot wax.
Only leave the candle in the wax for a few seconds.
Wait one minute after dunking the first half before continuing further.
 Once the first dipped half is cool enough to touch, lightly grab onto it. Quickly dunk the uncovered half of the candle in the hot, melted wax, as well.


As before, you should protect your hands and only keep the candle submerged for a few seconds.
 Place the candle on a dry, cool surface and let the wax coating harden.


Slice off any thick drips of wax with a craft knife once the candle has cooled.
This step completes the process.

