 Once you have decided upon a suitable field trip location and determined all of the learning objectives, you should speak with the principal of your school in order to gain permission. Explain the educational value and the relationship to the curriculum of the grade level(s) that will attend.You will also want to clarify the date with the principal in order to ensure that the class trip does not conflict with any other mandatory school activities.
 Speak with a representative from your school board in order to gain access to standardized letters for parental permission as well as the standard trip planning package. If your school board has a trip planning package you will need to fill out all of the forms included in the planning package in order to get permission from the superintendent.This will vary between school boards. Talk with the principal or a senior colleague to determine the exact requirements associated with taking a class on a field trip.
 Each parent will also need to fill out a permission form in order for their child to attend the class trip. Permission forms should be sent out well in advance of the trip date in order to give families time to read over the forms, pay any costs associated, and arrange their schedules accordingly. Things to include on a permission form are:Date and location of field trip as well as all transportation arrangements.
Educational purpose of the field trip.
Cost associated with the trip and date the money needs to be submitted.
Information about meal arrangements.
Trip schedule or list of activities for the day.
Place for parental signature and contact information.
 If you are not travelling with an insurance company, you should ask parents to fill out a separate medical form which includes information regarding student health, medical insurance, and parental permission for medical treatment if required. Your school board may provide a standard form for medical releases or you can conduct an internet search for “medical release forms.”