 If you find a stray dog with no tags, take the dog to a veterinarian or a rescue shelter to have the dog scanned for the presence of a microchip. These chips register dogs in the event that they escape their homes, are lost, or are abandoned.Some stray dogs have accidentally become separated or lost from their owner, and they are actually a much loved family pet. In these cases, reuniting the pet with their owner is definitely the right thing to do, no matter how much you have fallen in love with the stray.


It might also turn out that the dog is chipped but the owner has deliberately dumped him. Identifying the owner via the chip could allow the authorities to prosecute the owner for neglect.;
, If you’ve just acquired a stray dog, be sure to take him to visit a veterinarian as soon as possible. It is important for you to be as informed as possible about your new canine companion. Your vet will be able to distinguish between a dog that’s recently gotten dirty and a dog that’s been neglected to the point of becoming filthy. Your vet will also be able to tell if the dog has been a victim of animal cruelty, physical abuse, and/or extreme neglect.


The vet will look for any signs of ill health which could explain the animal's poor state, as well as assess cuts or injuries, and advise you as to what treatment is necessary to fix these problems.
If you got the dog from a shelter, you can also direct many of your questions towards them. They may have records on the original owners of the dog.
 Even if the dog you are caring for does not seem rabid when you take him in, it is possible that he has rabies and may begin to show signs after several days. There is no way to be sure about whether or not a dog is rabid, other than to biopsy its brain, which requires waiting until the animal dies or euthanizing it. Do not attempt to catch a dog that seems aggressive or that is acting in a strange way. Call animal control to catch the dog.If you are determined to care for the animal, talk to your veterinarian about testing its blood for the presence of rabies antibodies. This test will not distinguish between actual rabies and a rabies vaccine, but if it is negative you will know that the dog has not been infected or vaccinated.
 Canine parvovirus, distemper, canine hepatitis, and rabies are considered core vaccines by the American Animal Hospital Association’s Task Force. Every country has a similar list of “core” vaccines that you should give your dog. Ask your veterinarian about mandatory and non-mandatory vaccines to consider.Get a rabies vaccination. Cases of canine rabies in the US each are uncommon, just in case the animal becomes rabid and bites you.If you already have a dog, make sure your dog isn't in contact with the one you adopted until the stray has had its vaccinations and its behavior is stable.
 Emotional pain is often obvious to a veterinarian who has experience dealing with neglected animals.If the previous owner of your dog terrorized, taunted, isolated, abandoned, or over-pressured your dog, a vet will be able to help you identify the signs.For example, a rejected dog may be either attention-hungry or excessively independent.

