 If you want to do your part to curb the animal extinction rate, you should avoid using products that are harmful to the environment. Many corporations harvest food and other resources in a way that negatively impacts the habitats of endangered species.


Look for products made from recycled materials. They are often marked by a series of green arrows forming a circle. You may also find information on a product's label indicating how much of it is made from recycled materials.If you wear make-up, be conscious of which products you purchase. Many cosmetics companies are notorious for animal testing and other environmentally harmful practices. A lot of big companies, like Olay and Garnier, routinely practice animal testing. Read the labels on cosmetics, shampoos, and conditioners to make sure there is no animal testing involved.Many products make use of palm tree oil. It's used in foods, cosmetics, and soaps. Many tropical forests are being stripped to make room for palm tree farms. If you see palm tree oil on the label of a product you're buying, make sure that company harvests the oil in a sustainable manner. You can find a list of companies that support ethical palm oil harvesting on the Union of Concerned Scientists website.;
, You should never purchase products made from threatened or endangered species. Many people enjoy bringing home memorable souvenirs after overseas trips. However, many of these trinkets are made from animals in danger of extinction. Avoid products made form things like ivory, tortoise shell, and coral. You should also stay away from anything made from tiger fur or the fur of another endangered animal., Many of the agricultural practices used by big food companies are harmful to the environment and endangered species. If you want to do your part to help, strive to buy local food. Be on the lookout for grocery stores who buy from local farmers as well as farmer's markets in your town. Smaller farms generally do less environmental damage and are often more committed to sustainable, ethical farming practices., Reducing your overall carbon footprint can help the environment. This can protect the habitat and welfare of a variety of endangered species. Sometimes, tiny tweaks can have a big impact on how much energy and fossil fuel your household uses.


Replace your lightbulbs. Switch to compact fluorescent bulbs, which you can buy at most supermarkets. These types of lightbulbs use significantly less fossil fuel than conventional lightbulbs.Unplug electronic gadgets when you're not using them. Even if a product is not in use, it saps electricity from an outlet just by being plugged in. Make sure to unplug kitchen appliances, like the coffee maker and the toaster, when they're not in use. You should also unplug laptop cords and phone chargers when you don't need them.Turn your thermostat two degrees colder. Chances are, you won't notice the minor tweak in temperature. However, you'll be using significantly less energy if you do so. You may also save a lot on your next electricity bill., The meat industry has a huge impact on the environment, harming the welfare of endangered species. Rainforests, home to many endangered species, are often clear-cut to make room for factory farms. You can help by transiting into a more plant-based diet.A vegetarian diet means you refrain from eating products made from animal flesh. Products like eggs, butter, and cheese are still acceptable in a vegetarian diet but you would exclude anything like chicken or beef. Protein in a vegetarian diet can come from nuts, legumes, eggs, and cheese.A vegan diet excludes any products made from animals, including cheese and eggs. Many people choose to go vegan because farming practices that harvest meatless animal-based products still greatly harm the environment. As a vegan, you would get your protein solely from plant-based options like beans, nuts, and seeds.You should talk to your doctor before switching to a vegetarian or vegan diet. Vegans especially may have to take certain vitamins to make sure they get the necessary nutrients when not ingesting animal-based products.
If going vegetarian or vegan seems like a massive commitment, consider simply lessening the overall amount of meat you eat. In addition to helping the environment, eating less meat is good for your overall health.You can have one or two nights a week when you try to make a vegan or vegetarian based dinner. You could also try something like only eating meat for one meal per day.
 You should make an effort recycle products like cans, cardboards, and plastics. You should also try to switch over to reusable products. Go for cloth napkins over paper ones, for example, and do not buy products made from materials that are not biodegradable.

