 Depending on the nature of the break-up, you and your ex need to establish some ground rules about communication going forward. While you may want to talk or contact them still, listen to what your ex says. If they are ignoring you, they likely do not want to communicate.Consider asking questions to find out what the boundaries are. Ask, "Is it okay if I call or text you?" Listen to what they say or how they respond. Your ex may be ignoring you at this point, which is a passive "no" in these situations.
See if you and your ex wish to remain friends on social media. Ask, "Can we still keep in contact through social media?" If they end up blocking you on social media, this is a sign that they are trying to move on.;
, After a break-up, some people want to separate themselves from their ex, no matter how wonderful the times were before. If you ask your ex about keeping in touch, and they say “no,” be willing to respect this answer. If you continue to pester them, they may become even more irritated.


The act of saying “no” is not meant to disregard the relationship that you both had. It’s a sign that it's time to move on for both you and your ex.
Even if you’re upset with your ex’s actions, learn that he or she is human too. We all have the right to say “no.”

, While you may want to talk with them and find out how they're doing, accept that both you and your ex's lives won't simply stop just because your relationship ended. They will continue their lives and you will continue yours. Allow your ex the space and privacy to find their own path after the break-up. Invasion of someone's privacy is both emotionally unsettling and legally violating someone's rights. Each person has a right to their own privacy.
Once your relationship ends, if you continue to go into their home, text them throughout the day, or follow their every move, this is an invasion of privacy if the interactions are unwanted.
If you feel that what you're doing may be wrong, take a step back and find support elsewhere. Don't seek out your ex for support after a break-up.
 If you have been hurt by your ex, you may want to seek ways to "hurt" them by sharing secrets or sensitive information. By in truth, when you are trying to "get back at" someone, you are simply expressing your pain and rejection in public. This will not make you any better, happier, or stronger. Doing hurtful things to your ex out of spite will likely make you feel worse in the end.
Protect your image and yourself in public spaces like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and other social media sites. Resist the urge to use social media as a way to vent your heartache. Avoid the need to "overshare" the details of your life on social media.
Don't find ways to "stalk" your ex through social media. Treat your ex's social media pages like their home, work, or favorite hang-out spot. Though it may be public, it is their private space at the same time.
 Trust is the key to any healthy relationship. If you break that trust, the relationship has little room to grow. Deception in order to get back with your ex will ultimately be harmful to you and your ex.


Stop and think about what you're doing and how you're acting. If you're emotionally overwhelmed, take a step back before deceiving someone to feel better.Resist temptations to get revenge or "make them suffer" by lying about a situation.
Avoid snap decisions that impact other's lives. When you feel overwhelmed by emotion or are having difficulty with what to do, redirect your thoughts of your ex to positive people or things outside of your relationship.
 Breaking up is tough, emotionally and physically. Learn to open up to friends and family that you trust about the hurt and pain you’re feeling. Avoid sharing your various emotions with your ex after a break-up. You need to find other outlets to let go of your hurt, anger, and sadness. Consider these outlets:Talk with a friend or family member by phone or in person about your relationship. You can choose how much to tell them about what you're feeling. See if they have advice about moving forward.
Write in a journal or other private space about your feelings. Avoid using social media for this.
Don't feel ashamed about what you're feeling. Sharing can help you feel less alone. Everyone has had a loss at some point in their lives.
 You and your ex may have mutual friends that you both see. Avoid trying to destroy your ex’s friendships with others. You may find that some friends stand by you, while others stand by your ex. And that’s okay.Avoid trying to get information about your ex’s relationship status through mutual friends.
Resist the urge to bad-mouth or trash talk about your ex. Avoid spreading gossip or half-truths.
Don’t seek dates with your ex’s friends as a way to simply make your ex mad or jealous. Having a genuine interest in your ex’s friends is one thing. Using your ex’s friends for your own agenda is another.
 A break-up can feel like you're going through grief. If you have been with someone for many years, the end of the relationship can be a shift in your way of life. Like the loss of a friend or family member, when a relationship ends, you may feel like you're losing that person.Grieving a break-up can go through stages of desperation, denial, bargaining, anger, acceptance and hope. These stages may last a few minutes, days, months, or years, depending on your situation.
It's okay to have different emotions, but avoid acting on emotions of anger and desperation.
Acceptance will take time, but understand that it is possible to find hope and learn to accept this transition.
 Try to avoid unnecessary reminders that connect your thoughts to your ex. Find things that you love to do that don't involve your ex. Do those things with friends, family, or on your own. Consider these positive ways to redirect your thoughts: Put away pictures or things that are reminders of your ex. Limit your time on social media that could lead you to think about your ex more.
Try new things with friends. Reconnect with people who are not associated with your ex.
Do something relaxing. Take a hike into nature. Go to a spa. Get a massage.
Get active. Exercise at the gym. Take a walk. Ride a bike.
Be creative. Use your time and energy to vent your emotions in a positive way. Draw. Paint. Build. Write.
 Accept and love yourself for who you are. While all people have faults, avoid dwelling on them in yourself or others. Avoid seeing yourself in a negative light as worthless. Learn to forgive yourself.Think about three things you love about yourself. Focus on both your personality and your body image.
Use positive affirmations each day. Say to yourself, "I am a whole and worthy individual" or "I love and trust myself."By loving yourself, you will be better able to move on. You will be less likely to act "crazy" or "psycho," and instead act "caring" and "loving."

, Reach out the positive and caring people in your life. Talk with them openly about your feelings and actions. If they have concerns about what you are doing, listen first rather than acting defensive.


Avoid assuming the worst in yourself and others. If you have concerned friends, give them a chance to support you.
Consider meeting with a close friend one-on-one over the phone or in person rather than in large group settings. This may help you to feel more safe and secure when talking about a difficult break-up.
 If you're going through a difficult breakup, and find yourself still upset, sad, and in pain, seek help. There are many outlets to help you find ways to cope, teach yourself how to move forward and find your own self-confidence. Getting a professional's advice and support will help you to find strength and avoid any bad habits after a break-up.Talk with a counselor. Find a mental health professional in your community who specializes in break-ups and divorce. There may be options through your health insurance or private pay options. Many counseling centers also offer sliding scale fees.
Join a support group. There are many support groups through counseling centers and places of worship. They may focus on relationships, divorce, depression, or other life transitions.
Seek medical advice. Talk with your healthcare provider if you have severe anxiety or depression for many weeks or months. Be open about your family's mental health and medical history. They may offer medication for any severe symptoms.
 Just because a previous relationship did not work out that does not mean all future relationships will fail. Heartache is a part of life, but there is hope. Open your mind and heart to new love. Think about what you can do to change yourself for the better.


No one is perfect. Accept that you have faults, and so do other people. But that does not mean that you can't work towards a happier and healthier relationship for the future.
Be positive that love can grow with time and effort.

