 When preparing foods, you may want to consider using heart-healthy olive oil. This oil is high in monounsaturated fatty acids, which are considered a healthy dietary fat, and can improve your heart health by lowering your total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels.Olive oil is best used to make salad dressings or cook foods at a low or medium heat (less than 365 degrees Fahrenheit or 185 degrees Celsius).If you cook olive oil at high heats, it will begin to burn and lose its healthy qualities. Use canola or peanut oil at higher temperatures.
Olive oil is the healthiest when it is fresh. Exposure to air and light causes the oil to lose its heart-health benefits. Be sure to store your olive oil in a cool place and away from light.
 The oil made from canola seeds is high in monounsaturated fat and is a heart-healthy choice for when you are cooking at a higher heat.It is also much cheaper than most other oils and widely available. However, depending on how the canola oil is processed, it may contain higher levels of trans-fats, which increase the risk of heart disease.Consider buying canola oil that has been cold pressed to get the oil’s healthy fats.


Avoid burning canola oil. This can cause it to lose its health benefits.
Canola oil is high in omega-3 fatty acids, which are important for heart and brain health.
 Common corn oil can be a heart healthy option for cooking. This oil is high in polyunsaturated fatty acids, which are a healthy dietary fat linked to improved heart health.You should use corn oil when you are sautéing vegetables or searing meats at high heat.Be sure to avoid hydrogenated corn oil. This can increase the amount of LDL cholesterol in your diet. The product’s nutritional label should tell you if it is hydrogenated or not.
 If you are looking for cooking oils high in healthy fats, there are a number of different options. Peanut and sunflower oils are high in monounsaturated fats, while cottonseed and soybean oil are high in polyunsaturated fats.Specialty oils, like grapeseed, sesame or avocado, are also healthy choices. However, they can also be more expensive.In general, buy oils with less than 4 grams of saturated fat per tablespoon.
Avoid all partially hydrogenated oils or trans-fat.
 Before you cook a dish, be sure to check you oils smoke point. This is the temperature at which your oil will begin to burn and give off smoke. Once oil begins to burn, it loses many of its healthy qualities.Oils with high smoke points (over 365 degrees Fahrenheit or 185 degrees Celsius) are good for high-heat frying or stir-frying. These include corn, soybean, peanut and sesame oil.
Oils with a medium smoke point (less than 365 degrees Fahrenheit or 185 degrees Celsius) are good for sautéing over medium-high heat. These include olive, canola and grapeseed oil.
Oils with a low smoke point should generally not be heated and saved for use in salads and dips. These oils include flaxseed and walnut.

