 The symptothermal method uses a combination of tracking physical changes and BBT to determine when you ovulate.Tracking your BBT is the “thermal” part of the symptothermal method, and it requires that you track your basal body temperature every day.Because your BBT will experience a sustained rise two to three days after ovulation, tracking your BBT can help you estimate when in your cycle you’re ovulating. (See the method on Using Basal Body Temperature for more detailed instructions.)
It will take several months of daily tracking to establish a pattern of ovulation.
 This is the “sympto” part of the symptothermal method and involves closely tracking your physical symptoms to determine when you’re ovulating.Each day, carefully track and record your cervical mucus (see the section on Checking Your Cervical Mucus for more) and any other menstrual symptoms you experience, like breast tenderness, cramping, mood swings, etc.Worksheets for tracking your symptoms are available online to print or you can devise your own.
It will take several months of daily tracking to distinguish a pattern.
 Use both the information from your BBT tracking and from your symptom tracking to verify when you ovulate.Ideally, the data will coincide, allowing you to determine when you’re ovulating.
If the data conflict, continue your daily tracking of each until a coinciding pattern appears.
 This method is best used for fertility awareness, and does have certain limitations.


Some couples use this method for natural contraception by avoiding sex during the woman’s fertile period (leading up to and during ovulation). Using this method for contraception, however, isn’t generally recommended, as it requires very careful, meticulous, and consistent record-keeping.Those who use this method for birth control still experience about a 10% chance of unplanned pregnancy.This method can also be problematic if you’re experiencing periods of high stress, travel, illness, or sleep disturbance, which will alter your body’s basal temperature, as will working nights or drinking alcohol.