 Give yourself time to get the flavor of the food out of your mouth or you will be tasting food-flavored beer, and continue to seek out food for the duration of the festival. Most festivals have pre-arranged agreements with (on-site) food vendors that allow for at least one or two low cost food items to be available for purchase from each vendor. Typical beer festival fare of turkey legs, pizza, nachos and different sandwiches will give your stomach a much needed buffer between beer and alcohol absorption. Take time to enjoy your food; this will also help to cleanse your palate between flights of beer.;
, If you have four two ounce servings of beer, try to drink that same amount of water before moving on to another flight of beer. Most festivals provide either bottled water or some other way of obtaining water specifically for this purpose. You will undoubtedly use the restrooms more frequently, but in the end this will keep you from becoming dehydrated and could help reduce the chance of suffering a hangover later on.
 Almost all beer festivals provide lists of both breweries and the beers that they plan to bring along to vend at the festival. Get hold of that list and start planning what flights you might want to try. Some festivals also provide a site layout–this makes finding your favorites that much easier. Try some of the following (as long as the requisite brewers are in attendance):


A Belgian flight
A pale ale flight
A hop flight
A German flight
A wheat flight

, Don't start a tasting session with a beer with an IBU (international bitterness units) of 90 and expect to be able to taste anything but hops from then on. Start lower and work your way up. Your taste buds will thank you.
 Too often attendees at festivals look at those festivals as a four hour kegger. To enjoy the festival and create a lasting impression in your mind, and to retain a happy memory of the beers you drank (that you should be able to find after the festival), take your time to actually taste the beer. Tasting hints to consider:


Aroma - Since half of taste is actually our olfactory perception, take time to smell the beer. Make a mental note of what you can smell.
Appearance - Although most festivals pour in two ounce portions, you should be able get a good idea of the look of the beer. The head retention, color, cloudiness, etc.
Taste - When tasting, it is recommended that you drink only half of the sample initially. Make a note of the different properties of the beer (bitter/sweet/tart, etc.).
Mouth feel - What did the beer feel like? Thick, chewy, silky, fizzy? The texture will have an effect upon your perception and enjoyment of the beer.
Second look (overall) - Finish the beer sample. Did you note any changes from the first taste to now? Did the beer breathe differently or did you experience a flavor that was not present during the first swallow? Many beers (especially ales) are very complex and can't be fully appreciated with a single taste.
 Most festivals have too many beers to possibly learn in the short period of the festival. If you find a beer that you really like, write it down and stick the information in your pocket. Plan to buy it later to enjoy it in the comfort of your home.
 Pay a neighbor's kid, go as a group with one person designated to drive, take a taxi or a bus.

