 If you think, "I hate X because they are rude," don't judge it. Just recognize the thought and trace back, why it is that you feel that X is rude.;
, Going back to X being rude, what have they done to you recently that you found to be rude? Are these things truly rude, or have you just thought them rude because it spoke a truth to you? Remember that no matter what anyone says or does to you, it is not a reflection of you, but of their consciousness. You are the person in control of the messages repeating in your head.
 If you walk into a room and feel a nervous energy, take note of it, and then look at the messages you've been telling yourself. If you were happy going into the room and then sank suddenly when you walked in, then its possible those energies are coming from elsewhere. This isn't to say that you didn't play a part in them. Just being aware is the key here.
 If you bash yourself for feeling angry then you aren't doing your responses any good. They are there for a reason–learn to accept them, and you'll begin to understand them more fully. This is a tough one but it gets easier the more you practice full acceptance of your emotions, with no strings attached.
 Most Empaths are confused about their own emotional energies and the energies deriving from others. If you are around someone who has an angry emotional field being emitted often, then you must learn how to disassociate from that state. The best way to do this is to look at your own emotional state before you were around this person. If you were happy and feeling light, and then when they came into the picture, all of a sudden you felt a throbbing pulse ignite, then likely it's not coming from you. (Now keep in mind if you constantly think angry thoughts about this person while you're not around them, then don't be surprised if you feel angry when they come onto the scene. In this case you likely need to work within your own self to figure out the source of anger first, and then work out what you've absorbed from them.)

, If they often act anxious around other people, not just you, then it's becoming clearer that this person is the one emitting the nervous energy, not you. (This point may seem like common sense but often we absorb other's energies as our own, leading us to mistake them for our own.)

, As well as behaviour, the talk can be very telling within the messages as to what this person thinks regularly. People with repressed emotions often spill out their true feelings in unconscious ways. Do you feel guilty around a person who always seems to be criticizing others?

, If they seem composed all day long and smile at everyone they meet, but then you always hear them slamming their mug on a table or shuffling things aggressively, then be sure to note that.  So often these little mannerisms are the telltale signs of what lies beneath their presented exterior.  (This step can be difficult to recognize but soon you'll pick up on things you've been aware of for some time, yet never put into conscious thought about. One day you'll see a friend’s habit in a completely different light. For example they always clear their throat and you feel a nervous twinge inside, but never thought about the connection.)

, Recognition is the first key to moving away from their state of being.
 Inside that steel wall, know that you understand your emotions and why you feel what you do right now, and that you don't have to feel what others are feeling. This is coming from a place of love; if someone is nervous about flying, you won't be much help to them if you act nervous too. So, keep your emotions barred off from others (unless they're positive and you'd like to share in that).
 Watch the orbs floating around and each time one gets near you, see a force field surrounding you that causes these orbs to bounce right off. From here, feel free to expand the force field as far as you like.
 This is never a bad thing, nor is it a sign of being a coward (in fact, it takes courage to extricate yourself). Just leave, your well-being is more important.
 This will help to keep you from interacting with negative energy more often than you need to, until you can leave.

