 Stand in front of the mirror and look at your scrotum. If you have a hydrocele, at least one side of your scrotum will be larger than it normally is.If you are trying to determine if an infant is suffering from a hydrocele, the procedure will be similar. Look for swelling in the testicles. The swelling may be on either or both sides of the testicles.;
, Often, a hydrocele will feel like a fluid-filled sac inside the scrotum. Gently grasp your swollen testicle and see if you can feel this balloon-like sac in your scrotum.Typically, a hydrocele will not feel painful. If, when touching your scrotum, you experience pain, contact your doctor as it could indicate something more serious.
If an infant has a swollen testicle, you can identify a hydrocele by gently feeling the scrotum. Inside the scrotum, you will feel the testicle, and if there is a hydrocele, you will feel a second lump that feels like a soft, fluid-filled sac. In infants, this sac could be as small as a peanut.Your doctor will do a physical examination and order an ultrasound to diagnose a hydrocele. Your doctor may also perform the flashlight test. If the mass trans-illuminates under exposure to a flashlight, then it is a hydrocele. If it doesn’t then it may be something more serious like a mass or hernia.
 The more your scrotum swells, the more likely it is that you will have a hard time walking.Men with this issue have described the feeling as a dragging sensation, like something heavy was tied to their testicles.This is because gravity pulls your scrotum down, but because there is fluid in it that wasn’t there for most of your life, it will feel heavier than normal.


You might also experience this dragging sensation when you stand up after you have been lying or sitting down for a while.
 If you do not begin treatment for the hydrocele, your scrotum will continue to swell. If this happens, you might find it hard to put on your regular pants, instead opting to wear baggier pants so that no pressure is put on your swollen scrotum.


If you believe you might have a hydrocele, it is best to have a doctor determine the cause of the problem. Sometimes, a hydrocele is an indication of a hernia, which needs to be treated by a doctor., Normally, you won’t feel any pain while urinating if you have a hydrocele. However, if your hydrocele is caused by an infection in the epididymis and testis (which is referred to as epididymal orchitis) you will most likely feel pain when you go to the bathroom. You should talk to a doctor right away if you begin experiencing this pain.