 Asking someone out, starting out in a new relationship, or the “seeing each other” phase, can bring nerves as well as excitement. Have confidence in the fact that the person you are and your personality attracted your date in the first place. If you are getting ready to ask someone out, have confidence in yourself and it will show to them.


If you need a little boost in confidence, get a new outfit that makes you feel great, or get a new haircut.
Stay away from negativity and only listen to positivity.Change your posture, eye contact, and smile. These will help you present yourself as a confident person and will help you feel more confident and controlled as well., Maybe you have asked your friends to set you up. If so, that's great! If you have already met someone you like, you may have to take matters into your own hands and ask them out. It can be stressful, but if you really like the person, step out of your comfort zone and take the risk! There are several ways you can go about asking someone out on a date.Use a mutual interest to ask them out. If there is an event you were both planning on attending, ask, “You and I were both planning to go to the dance on Friday, why don't we make a night out of it and go together?”
Ask in a casual way. If you want to set a relaxed vibe, ask them out for something casual like coffee. “Hey, I was wondering if you would be interested in getting coffee after school, you know, just you and me?”
Ask in a more formal way. If you'd like the date to be a little more serious, or if you think your date would appreciate the extra effort, you could leave a note attached to something asking, “Would you like to go on a date with me?” or simply stating, “I would like to take you to dinner sometime.”

, Maybe you've been really wanting a relationship like this for a long time, maybe you're nervous, or maybe you met the perfect guy and you are really excited. These are all great things! Be careful not to get too caught up in the emotion that you it becomes too intense too quickly and scare him off.Take things slowly, and let them develop naturally.
 Even if a date doesn't work out, try and enjoy the dating process. It may take time to find your person. Use any bad dates you have as funny stories to tell your friends, and any good dates you have as confidence boosters. Just enjoy it, don't be worried about what will happen next or what others think. Love is love is love, and you deserve to find yours.

