 Most intestinal gas is caused by swallowing too much air. You can swallow too much air by excessively eating, drinking alcohol, chewing candy and gum and by smoking. If you do these things often, consider limiting them for the sake of your gas.;
, While it is true some foods, such as beans, can cause excessive gas, there may be some foods that your body is particularly sensitive to. List all the foods you eat each day for one week. Also track how many times you pass gas each day. You should quickly see the correlation between your dietary habits and the amount of gas you pass each day.
 Try an over-the-counter medicine containing simethicone, which helps to break down gas bubbles. You can purchase products containing simethicone in many forms, including pills, chewable tablets and liquids. Look into other gas-fighting medications available at your local drugstore as well.
 You can purchase medications that help reduce the amount of gas some foods produce. Activated charcoal will also help decrease the smelly odor that sometimes accompanies flatulence.
 When you feel gassy, some light exercise, or any type of physical movement, will help you speed up digestion and prevent gas build-up in your intestines (bloating.) It is helpful to take a quick 10 minute walk immediately after each meal.
 To reduce excessive gas and bloating, reduce the amount of gas-producing foods you eat. It isn't necessary to cut any of these foods out of your diet, but simply to limit their consumption.


Baked beans, cruciferous vegetables, such as broccoli, kale, brussel sprouts and cauliflower, carbonated beverages, chewing gum (especially if it contains sorbitol), apples, bananas, peaches, hard candy, and potatoes all cause gas.
Avoid processed foods. The chemicals used to make processed foods aren’t digested by the body very well and often cause gas.
Excessive gas can also be caused by malabsorption of foods, like when you are lactose intolerant.
 If you eat too fast, you will swallow more air, which causes gas. Eating slowly will help you relax and help you digest foods easier.
 Drinking at least 8 glasses of water a day will prevent bloating and constipation, but gulping the water can actually cause too much gas and bloating. Concentrate on sipping water during your meals and throughout the day.
 Several kinds of tea work wonders for reducing and eliminating gas. Try peppermint, fresh ginger, or lemon tea once a day and wait for results. You can use dried or fresh ingredients and get the same results.
 Anise and caraway seeds aid in moving gas through your digestive tract. If you can handle the taste, chew on a handful of either seed throughout the day and keep track of the results., When you are anxious or stressed, you increase your breathing rate which causes you to swallow more air. Practice deep breathing when you get anxious to reduce the likelihood of gas later.