 Put an end to all conversations that put down or gossip about someone else. You don't have to be friends with the person being trash-talked, but it's important to tell the trash-talker not to speak badly of other people, even if you don’t particularly like the talked-about person either.


You can defend the person being trash-talked. For example, if someone says, "I hate Maddie! She's so ugly,” your response can be, "That's mean. Don't talk about people like that. I think Maddie is pretty."
Tell the speaker to stop talking about other people this way. You could say, “I don’t think it’s right to be making fun of him like this. Please stop.” If they continue, walk away from the conversation.
Something else may be happening in the bully's life that is causing them to bully others. Sometimes people may act out because they are suffering stress or experiencing other issues at home. They may also have been bullied themselves, or they may have been a victim of abuse. These people may be in need of additional support, such as mental health counseling, to address these issues. Try your best to gently inquire about these possibilities. Offer supportive guidance to encourage them to seek help from a qualified professional.
 Teach others how to stand up to bullies and to stand up for what’s right. Find anti-bullying or anti-discrimination resources appropriate for your audience, educate yourself, and share what you’ve learned.


Find resources that support a cause you believe in and is valuable to your audience. For example, you may wish to learn about bullying to raise awareness to your high school, or you may wish to learn about hate crimes against a minority population to help raise awareness in your community. People will be more receptive to your campaign if it is something they can connect with.
Assist your local community, workplace, or schools with establishing a reporting system to make it easier for victims to seek help. Communities, workplaces, and schools can use these procedures to help identify easy and practical ways for victims to report bullying or harassment. They are also able to use these reports to track bullying and harassment trends over time so that they can develop better prevention procedures.
If you are in school, you could start an anti-bullying group, or talk to your school’s leadership about things that could be done to help prevent bullying at your school., If you're online and see other people talking badly about someone or sending harassing messages to them, report their account. Most social media websites have an option to report people for abusive behavior, and cyberbullying is considered abusive behavior by almost every website's Terms of Service.


Remind people to think before they post. Once you post something, it is out of your hands and on the internet forever. If your friend wants to post something mean about a classmate, you could say, “Do you really want to post that? It could get back to him really easily, and it will make you look bad.”Treat other people on the internet the same exact way you would treat them in real life. If you don’t have something nice to say, don’t say it at all, or share your differing opinion respectfully.
Avoid using websites that allow you to be anonymous. People sometimes take advantage of anonymity features on a website to harass people.
If you’re a kid or teenager, allow your parents access to your passwords and social media accounts. They can help you if you encounter any problems online., Make an effort to learn more about people of different races, cultures, religions, or sexual orientations than yours. The more you learn about someone’s life, the more likely you are to have empathy toward them and their situation. Promote a culture of empathy among people in your life. Knowing more about another person’s story can help prevent bullying and help others speak out against it.You could make friends with classmates or coworkers who have different backgrounds. Once you get to know them better, you may find that you share a lot of the same things in common.

Volunteer for a cause that supports people who have different circumstances than you do. You could volunteer at a homeless shelter, set up an apartment for a refugee family, or work with your faith community to set up a fellowship with a different faith group.
Read books about people or written by people who are of a different background than yours.

