 The weight of your painting will determine what fasteners and technique you will use to attach it to your wall. Heavier pictures and mirrors require special materials based on their weight. Use a regular bathroom scale to determine the exact weight of your picture.


Pictures up to 10lbs are considered light loads, 10-25lbs are considered medium loads, and 25-50lbs are heavy loads. Check the packaging on the wall fasteners before using, as they will usually give a weight range for intended use. ;
, Older homes from the 1940s or earlier tend to have plaster walls. Most modern homes use drywall. You can also hang heavy pictures on brick, mortar, and ceramic tile with the necessary tools and approach.
 Find a spot where you would like to hang your picture or mirror and hold it against the wall. Consider hanging your picture at eye-level height as a general rule of thumb. Mark the top of the frame with a pencil or a piece of painter's tape. , Use a measuring tape to determine what point on the wall to hang your picture from. Depending on the kind of frame you are hanging, the frame may hang lower on the fastener.


If the frame has a D-ring or other metal loop on the back, simply measure from the top of the frame to the height of the ring. Measure this distance down from the mark you made on the wall with pencil or painter's tape. Mark this new spot in pencil with an X. This will be where you drill or nail a fastener into the wall. If the frame has a wire across the back, pull up on the wire with the tape measure to it's highest possible point. Measure from this point to the top of the frame. Remove the tape measure and measure this distance down from the original mark you made on the wall with pencil or painter's tape. Mark this new spot in pencil with an X. This will be where you drill or nail a fastener into the wall. , For added strength, consider hanging the picture from two points in the wall. This is especially recommended for heavy loads. If the frame hangs from a wire, use two fingers to hold the wire at the desired hanging points. The farther apart they are, the more stable the painting will hang. Measure from these two points with a tape measure to the top of the frame and transfer the measurement to the wall using a pencil.


You can also hold a scrap piece of wood about half the width of the frame under the hanging wire to determine the two hanging points. The two corners of the wood will be where you will hang the fasteners. Measure the distance between the wood and the top of the frame using a tape measure and place the wood on the wall underneath your original mark using that measure. Using a level to make sure it is even, draw a line across the top of the wood. The two end points of the line will be where you hang your two fasteners.

