 Disclosing an anxiety disorder to a partner can be difficult. You may be unsure or even afraid — nervous that your partner could misunderstand you or not quite know how to react. Still, you should sit down and talk. You’ll feel better with the issue off your chest.There’s a good chance your partner knows that something on some level is not right and wants to help. Talking about your anxiety disorder will help to clear the air and clarify exactly what you need.
Say something like, “Rhonda, do you have some time to talk? There’s something important that I need to tell you,” or, “Is this a good time to talk, Martin? I want to tell you about something that I’ve been dealing with.”
You don’t need to be all that specific at first. Just be clear that you want to have an important conversation.;
, Talking about a mental illness like anxiety disorder will take time. You’ll need to be able to explain and also answer questions. Be sure, then, to pick a time when your partner is free and when neither of you will be bothered by distractions like work or a big sports event.Find a quiet moment and a quiet place for the conversation so that you can speak honestly and not feel constrained. You might try when you’re both home from work and relaxed, for instance, like after dinner or on the weekend.In general, you should wait until you’re ready and well to disclose your disorder; however, the moment might also come naturally if your partner sees you having a panic attack. In that case, you can use the opportunity to bring up the subject., Disclosing your disorder to a loved one might be very stressful and could possibly trigger your anxiety. If you feel unable or unwilling to raise the topic, consider writing a letter as an alternative strategy. Put down everything that you would want to say in person and then either give it directly to your partner or read it aloud.


Long or short, make sure to get your basic point across, i.e. “Julia, I’ve always struggled with panic attacks and was diagnosed years ago with anxiety disorder.” Or, “Maybe you’ve noticed that I have some strange rituals, James. The fact is I have this fear that bad things will happen if I don’t do them.”
Deliver the letter to your partner in a place where it will be easily found, like near the car keys, on a desk, or on the bed. If you’ve asked to talk already, you can also bring it with you and either give it to your partner or read it aloud, i.e. “Before we get started, I want you to listen to some words that I wrote down.” Or, “This is difficult for me to talk about, so I'd like to read you this letter I wrote.”

, You may want to tell your partner about your anxiety disorder because you need help and support in seeking a mental health professional for a diagnosis. But if you are worried that your partner might not be as supportive as you'd like — that he may think you're making a big deal out of nothing — you may want to choose a time to talk once you have seen a mental health professional and confirmed your diagnosis. This will add credibility to the discussion and can help your partner understand that this is a serious situation.


To obtain a diagnosis, see your primary care doctor first. She can give you a physical examination to rule out any illnesses that have symptoms that are similar to anxiety and take a detailed personal history. Be as honest as possible with your doctor, as many things (from hormones to drug and alcohol use to medications) can contribute to anxiety.Your doctor may be able to make a diagnosis or she can help you find a mental health professional to give you an evaluation.
The diagnosis will depend on your symptoms. The doctor may use one or more diagnostic tests to get a sense of your level of anxiety and if you suffer from a specific disorder such as obsessive-compulsive disorder or social phobia.Your doctor may be able to offer you guidance on how to explain your anxiety to your partner — that it's not made-up or something you can simply "get over.", Start with a “process talk.” All this means is that you’ll talk about talking. It should help you prepare your partner and also sort out your own thoughts.Try saying something like, “This is sort of embarrassing, but can you please listen to what I have to say? I’m hoping to get something important off my chest.”
You could also try, “There’s something in my life that I need to tell you about. Can you be patient and try to understand?”

, While it’s difficult to live with an anxiety disorder, it’s even harder to live without the support of loved ones. Your partner will most likely want to help as much as possible, but may not really understand your condition and the difficulties it creates for you in your life. Help your partner understand by talking about your disorder.Explain how you feel, i.e. “Julia, there are times when I just feel completely overwhelmed. I get afraid, I can’t breathe, and I have a panic attack.” Or, “I can’t explain why, Alejandro, but I feel afraid if I don’t follow my routines. Like something terrible will happen.”
Be upfront if you have a diagnosis so that your partner will know you’re struggling with an accepted mental illness, and call the disorder by its name: i.e. “My doctor says that I have an anxiety disorder, Bill,” or, “The doctor thinks my routines are compulsions. She thinks that I might have an anxiety disorder.”

, Ideally, a partner will respond well to your disclosure. Things aren’t always ideal, though, and some people may not react well or even believe that you have a problem. The important thing is to give real examples of how anxiety is affecting your life — and to show that you can’t just snap out of it.For instance, you might say something along the lines of “I’ve had trouble dealing with stress at work. To be honest, some days I’ve felt so overwhelmed that I don’t bother going in at all.”
Or, “Things are just getting out of control. I think about germs constantly and wash my hands so much that they’re cracked and bleeding.”
Don’t feel that you need to share all the details about your disorder and feelings; however, you should not leave your partner with the impression that things are fine. Make it plain that your disorder is keeping you from having a full and healthy life.
 You don’t need to go to great lengths to explain how you feel or why you feel that way, especially if you haven’t yet sought treatment. Cut to the chase and tell your partner that you want to get better. Then, ask for help. Say something along the lines of, “I’m sort of scared to take the first step, but I need to see someone. Will you help me set up the first appointment?”
You might also say, “I just want to learn how to manage my anxiety and live normally. Can you support me in that or maybe help me find a therapist?”
Be firm if your partner questions your condition — that it doesn’t sound so serious or that it’s a stage. Repeat yourself, i.e. “No, Linda, this is definitely not normal.”

, Your partner will hopefully want to do everything possible to help, so be upfront and concrete with suggestions. This might be assisting you with finding a medical professional like a psychiatrist, therapist, or psychologist or by picking up on errands and urging you to get out, socialize, and be healthy. It could also just be an occasional hug and kind word.Your partner might be able to help you find suitable treatment. Ask for support in this way, i.e. “I just can’t bring myself to make the first call. Can you do it for me and help me follow through?”
You might also ask your partner to drive you to appointments or anxiety support groups, as well, or even attend with you if you feel comfortable.
Don’t forget about everyday support, too, i.e. “Just having you here to encourage me and to make sure that I get out once in awhile is helpful.” Or, “It would be nice to have a hug now and then.”

, Disclosing a mental illness can be a confusing and emotional event for all parties. Don’t be surprised if your partner has a lot of questions and field them the best that you can. Just remember that knowledge is empowering: your partner will be able to support you better knowing more.Your partner might want to know what is causing your anxiety disorder or might ask how long you’ve been struggling with it. We don’t know what is behind anxiety disorders, but try to answer to the best of your ability.
Reassure your partner that your anxiety is not related to anything in your relationship together. The disorder is no one’s fault.
 Don’t despair if your partner needs time to digest what you’ve said or even has doubts that you have an anxiety disorder. Try again. Repeat yourself and repeat the fact that you want to get help.Raise the topic as often as you need to get the point across. You might say, for example, “Look, Brian, I know you don’t think it’s serious, but I really think I should see someone.” Emphasize that you’re not just dealing with normal anxiety, i.e. “No, Alex, this isn’t the same thing.”
Stress that anxiety is impacting your life and that the problem is serious. Stress too that you need your partner’s help and support in getting the best care.

