 When coping with the stress and the problems of day-to-day life, it can be easy to lose track of what truly motivates you. Finding these things can be really helpful in overcoming the low points in life and moving forward.


There are a wide variety of things that can be your motivation! For example, it can be your work, your hobbies, or your relationships, or a combination of all of these things. Any of these things can bring you joy, a feeling of accomplishment, and the motivation to keep moving through life.
Make a list or write an entry in your journal about what motivates you most in life. This could be a quick list or a more thorough exploration of drives and propels you in life. Writing out your motivations will allow you to revisit them when you are feeling down and can't remember why you need to move forward.
Try reawakening your inner child. Find a new hobby or something to take your mind off things for a period of time everyday.
 Volunteering is a great way to cope with life because it can show you both the wonderful things in life and the way you can specifically can make a difference in the world. If there are things in life that bring you joy, find a way to work that into your volunteer work.


For example, work with animals at a local shelter if you love pets, help out at community events even just picking up trash in your neighborhood if you are interested in the environment.
 It can be hard to see the beauty of life when you are weighed down by the troubles of life. However, in order to cope with life, it's important to find beauty and joy in the world. This can help you to relax and rebuild your strength when times get hard.


This could include the beauty of art, moments of kindness between children, or the wonders of nature, just to name a few things.
 Sometimes finding motivation and purpose requires you to change a variety of things in your life. For example, it may be that you need to change jobs or manage your time differently in order to find satisfaction with your life.Whatever it is that you need to change, change in general can be scary. It may take a lot of conviction and perseverance to make the changes you need to. However, keep in mind that the ultimate payoff for following through with changing you life is a happier and more fulfilling life.

