 Amla powder — a powder made from Indian gooseberries — is easy to find for online, but may be more difficult to find in your local shops. If you would prefer to buy it in person, you may be able to find it in shops that carry Indian products or natural/herbal products., Place 2 teaspoons (9.86 ml) of amla into a bowl. Then, add 1 teaspoon (4.92 ml) of any oil to the bowl— many people use coconut oil. Next, add 1 teaspoon (4.92 ml) of water to cover the amla and oil — hot water is recommended. Stir the ingredients together so that the mixture is smooth.
 Measure out 3 teaspoons (14.8 ml) of conditioner and add it to the mixture. If you have very long hair, you might want to double or even triple the amla-oil-water-conditioner recipe. Use a ratio of 2 parts amla, 1 part oil, 1 part water, and 2 parts conditioner.
 As amla does have darkening properties, wear clothes that you don’t mind being stained. You can also just put a towel over your shoulders if you’re confident that you won’t spill any of the mixture on your pants or socks.
 If you've washed your hair in the last 48 hours, then you needn’t wash your hair, as you’ll be shampooing the mixture out afterward.


If it's been more than 48 hours since you've washed your hair, then your natural oils can prevent the amla from absorbing.
 Spread the amla-conditioner mixture into your hair as you would a conditioning treatment. Ensure that it’s evenly distributed, paying special attention to your scalp and the ends of your hair.


Amla has strong antioxidant qualities that make it very good for your scalp, so take time to give yourself a bit of a scalp massage while the mixture is on your head!, You may want to put a shower cap or plastic bag over your hair to protect your furniture and clothes.
 Use lukewarm water to cleanse away the mixture. Hot water can remove some of the color.
 Amla has only very mild darkening effects; it could take time for any results to show. In general, amla powder is more widely known for its moisturizing and thickening properties.


It is more common to use amla in conjunction with henna, to aid with darkening and moisturizing the hair.

