 This headboard my not last forever, but it is a great way to see what one may look like on your bed before you upgrade to a sturdier one made out of wood. Here's what you will need:


2 pieces of cardboard that are wider than your bed
Glue or strong tape
Box cutter
Fabric
Scissors
Spray adhesive
Hot glue (optional)
White paint (optional)

, If you are using tape, try to use strong packaging tape or duct tape. The double thickness of the cardboard will make your headboard sturdier., If you don't do this, the color of the cardboard may show through and make your fabric appear darker than it actually is. You can use white acrylic paint and a foam roller, or white spray paint. Be sure to let the paint dry before moving on.
 You can make it however tall you want, but it needs to be at least as wide as your bed. If it is narrower than your bed, it will look too small.


If you are making a curved/fancy headboard, make a template on a piece of paper for just one side of the pattern. Trace the template onto the left side of the headboard. Flip the template over, then trace it on the right side of the headboard. This will ensure that your pattern is the same on both sides., The box cutter may not go through all the layers in one go. If this happens, simply keep gong over the same area again and again until the box cutter goes through.


Consider working over a cutting mat so that you do not ruin your table or floor. Be sure to move the mat as you work, so that it is always under where the knife is cutting.
 Make sure that the wrong side of the fabric is facing you, and that there are no wrinkles. The fabric needs to be a few inches larger than your headboard all around. You will be folding the edges of the fabric over the headboard and gluing them to the back.


If there are any wrinkles in the fabric, you will need to iron them out.
 Use straight, even strokes, and always go in the same direction. Try to overlap each stroke by a little to prevent any gaps. If you painted the cardboard white, then spray the side you painted; this is the side that will be sticking to the fabric.


Consider covering your work surface with newspaper so that the spray adhesive doesn't get on it and make it sticky.
 Try to center it as much as possible, so the fabric boarder is the same width all around.


If you made a curvy headboard, then trim the edges of the fabric down to match the curves; be sure to leave a few inches of seam allowance, of you won't be able to wrap the fabric around the headboard.
 Pull the fabric as taught as you can. If there is a curve, you will need to cut little slits into the edges first; this will help the fabric curve better.
 The spray adhesive may not be strong enough to hold the fabric to the back of the headboard. If you see the fabric peeling up, you will need to glue it down. Apply the hot glue to the back of the headboard and press the fabric down onto it. Hot glue sets quickly, so only apply it ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) at a time.
 Begin by poking two holes into the back of your headboard, one on each side; be careful not to poke through the fabric on the front of your headboard. The holes need to be level, or your headboard won't hang right. Then, attach two hooks onto your wall. The space between the two hooks should be the same as the space between the two holes in your headboard. Hang the headboard onto the hooks; the hooks should slide right into the holes you made.


Be sure that the bottom of the headboard extends behind your mattress.

