 You will need to start very early to make sure you catch connecting trains.;
, You can check in about 10:30 a.m. Be sure you confirmed it before your trip. Make sure your train arrives accordingly.
 There are a lot of sights to see around Vizag. Some sights are Vizag itself, Araku and Jagdalpur.


Vizag: 1 day for Simhachalam + kailashgiri + Rushikonda beach + Visakha Museum + Submarine museum

In the morning, at around 8 o' clock or before, head towards Simachalam (you can board your bus from COMPLEX(as it is called), and reach at the foot of Simachalam; from there don't take the risk of boarding bus again (as the journey is very much hectic); rather take a share private car->tata sumo or so to reach the temple; it will charge at most Rs. 15-20 per person).
It consumes a lot of time..'Nirshinghadev' is worshipped here. If you stay in RK beach, you have come back, and then go to Rushikonda beach, and you can stay there for few hours. Don't think of taking bath in sea, as it is very dangerous. You can enjoy water sports there, it takes Rs. 250 per 3 persons. Take your lunch, then go to Kailasagiri (you can take share Auto to reach kailashgiri). Perfect time will be around 3 to 4 p.m..you will really love to stay there for another couple of hours (there is toy train, elevator, titanic viewpoint, VUDA park and unparalleled scenic beauty). Come down of hills through rope-way, and then take another auto to hear towards Visakha Museum on the way to RK beach. More than 1 hr is required to see everything completely (ticket- Rs. 5).
 Usually, the beaches in Vizag aren't safe for taking a bath. But it is permissible in Yarada beach. You can take your clothes for change accordingly. Today, it is better to book a private car. You also may patch up with another tourist family to do that. Yarada beach is a private beach; so you have to pay an entry fee of around Rs. 25- 30 per person..stay there for 1 to 2 hrs as per time availability..then visit Lighthouse and Dolphin nose..best time is around 3 o'clock..from there you may have a gaze upon shipyard, and during evening, come back to your rk beach..today, have some time in RK beach in the evening; enjoy the breeze; and also visit Submarine museum and Aquarium at a walking distance..there is also a kali temple, and ramakrishna mission in rk beach..you can also make a visit to these spots..let me tell you, generally, cab drivers discourages to put Dolphin nose and Yarada beach in your trip..but be misguided by them.
 You will encounter around 45-50 tunnels on the way to Araku. It is better to have railway reservation for this trip, otherwise you can buy a general ticket of Rs. 20. Anyhow try to manage your seat adjacent to the left windows of the train to get the best view. During the season, there is a huge rush of tourists, and so you may have to fight to manage seats! Reach the station before 6 p.m (train will be given at around 6 p.m, and it will start at around 7 a.m).
 Don't take the APTDC tour. Book your hotels at araku beforehand. Visit adjacent sight seeings after taking an afternoon meal, take an auto will not charge more than 400.
 You can take a public transport(bus), or take a private car(bit costly). Reach there before 9:30. Be the first group to enter the cave and take a ticket for camera(rs.100). Make a video recording of your journey into the cave.Don't fear, you can easily go to the end. There is also a small temple at some height. Visit there also, but try to do everything before being rushed by hundreds of tourists.
 If you are 2-3 members in a group, it is better to take public transport, or take a shared auto. You have to bargain time and again. All kinds of dishes are available in vizag..for bengali dishes, you can look at hotel Nirala Saikat or Hotel Sonar Bangla (at the same building).

