 Fructose, which can be found in corn syrup and other sweeteners, raises uric acid levels significantly.When uric acid builds up, it forms needle-like crystals (monosodium urate), which cause the joint pain and inflammation known as gout.Diets high in sugar, sweeteners, and processed food are currently a major cause of gout.


Try replacing soda and sweetened fruit juice with water and/or juices labeled "100% fruit juice".
Look at the ingredients of grocery items you purchase. Avoid foods containing high fructose corn syrup, and keep foods that list sugar or other types of corn syrup to a minimum.
 Meat of all kinds contain purine, which breaks down into the uric acid that causes gout. You do not have to eliminate meat entirely, but eating no more than 4-6 oz (113-170g) daily is recommended.An amount of meat that could sit flat on your palm is roughly 3 ounces, or one serving. Eating two of these servings each day is recommended.Lean meat is safer than fatty meat.
 Certain other foods contain high levels of purine, which can bring on a gout attack. Try to remove these from your diet, or eat them only occasionally and in small amounts:Kidneys, liver, brains, and other organ meat
Anchovies, sardines, and mackerel
Gravy formed from meat

, Fats in your diet, especially saturated fat, can slow your body's processing of uric acid, and bring on more severe gout pain.Fortunately, many of the changes above also happen to reduce the amount of fat in your diet, but look for other ways to reduce your fat intake to healthy levels if necessary. If you normally drink whole-fat milk, try switching to 1% fat or skim milk instead. If you are used to eating fried food, instead try roasting vegetables or baking chicken.
 Alcohol is linked to gout, but can be drunk in moderation with low chance of negative effects. However, beer contains yeast that is high in purine, making it especially likely to worsen your gout. One or two 5-oz. (150 mL) servings of wine each day is a safer way to consume alcohol.Adding wine to your diet does not make gout less likely. It is only recommended as a safer substitute for beer.

