 If you suspect that there is illegal drug activity occurring in your area, you will want to make a report with the proper authorities. First, make sure that you have written down all of the information that you will need. You want to make sure that your report will be detailed and accurate, so that it will be useful to officials.Make sure that you are able to provide the exact address of the location where you suspect drug activity is happening. If you know the full names of the people who live there, provide that information, too.
If you see a car connected with the drug-related activity, take note of the license plate. You should also write down when the car arrives, how long it remains at the address, and how frequently it appears.
You should also tell the authorities if you see small packages being exchanged. These could be either drugs or money.
Note patterns, but also notice if those patterns change. Don't assume that the authorities are aware of any changes--you can always update your report as necessary.You will also want to point out anything else specific you know. Are there children living there? Are there dogs on the property? Is there a specific time of day where the activity most often occurs? Make notes of anything you think might be relevant.;
, Your first step should be to contact the police department nearest you. If you feel unsafe, or feel that something dangerous is presently happening, call 911 immediately. If you do not see immediate danger, you can call the non-emergency police phone number for your local precinct.Ask the person asking the phone who you can speak to about reporting drug-related activity. It is possible a clerk may take your report and pass it along to the appropriate department. If you would feel more comfortable, you can ask to be connected to an officer who handles drug related crimes.
 Often, a federal law enforcement agency will get involved if there is significant illegal drug activity. If you do not feel that your local agency is equipped to deal with the situation, you can reach out to a national agency. Two appropriate agencies to contact are the DOJ (Department of Justice) and the DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration).Use a hotline or online form. Both the DEA and DOJ have phone numbers and websites you can use to report illegal drug activity.If you live in a large city, it is likely that a federal agency will have a local office near you. You can phone that office to report your information.
 Drug activity is often associated with violence and intimidation. It makes sense that you might want to stay anonymous when reporting a tip. Law enforcement agencies are perfectly happy to take your information about a possible crime without needing to know your name.When making a report, you might be asked to provide your personal information. However, this is completely voluntary. If you want to stay anonymous, you can.

