 Keeping both feet flat on the floor, draw them in toward your butt so that your knees bend, with your legs resembling a raised tent. Touch the backs of your ears with your fingertips while drawing your shoulder blades together, so that your elbows point outward from your sides instead of ahead. From here:Engage your abs to pull your upper body off the floor and toward your knees.
Be careful not to yank yourself forward with your head or shoulders.
Once your upper body meets or nears your thighs, use your abs to lower your upper body back down to the ground for one rep.
Increase the number of reps and/or sets with the goal of reaching three sets of 50 per workout.
 First, get into a position for a push-up, with your toes lifting your lower body into the air. But instead of placing your hands on the floor, use your elbows instead. Set them directly below your shoulders with your forearms flat on the floor, pointed ahead of you, so both arms form right angles. Once you are in position:Draw your belly button inward, toward your spine, to straighten your back and get those core muscles active.
Let your forearms support your upper body and raise your palms off the floor if necessary to make sure of this.
Aim to hold this position for half a minute as your first set.
Repeat with two more sets, adding time to each until your second set is 45 seconds and your third set is 60.
 First, choose a weight that is light enough for you to control each lift from beginning to end in order to avoid injury. In the beginning, start with something light, such as five to ten pounds each, to avoid straining yourself. Then stand with your feet about hip-width apart. With a dumbbell in each hand, hold them at your sides, keeping your arms straight and your palms facing in toward the outside of your thighs. From this starting position:Bend your elbows a bit and begin your lift, raising the dumbbells outward to either side of you.
As you do, angle each dumbbell so that the forward weight dips down, as though you were emptying a glass.
Continue your lift until your arms are spread out to either side of you, parallel to the floor.
At this point, hold your position for a second after your last exhale.
Now inhale and bring your arms slowly back down to your sides to finish your rep.
Condition yourself toward the goal of completing three sets of 25 lifts each for each workout.

