 Reverse eyeliner is a somewhat bold, unconventional look. You want that to be emphasis of your makeup. Play down the rest of your makeup. Do only basic foundation and, if you contour, keep it minimal. Use a light amount of blush and lipstick to avoid an overwhelming look., To start, add primer to your eyes. This will make them brighter, calling attention to your reverse eyeliner. Dab a small amount of primer on your eyelids and use your fingers to gently blend it into your skin.Wash your hands before applying primer.
 Apply your eyeshadow as you normally would for an every day look. You do not want bold eyeshadow, like a smokey eye or bright colors. Stick to neutral shades, like browns or peaches, that compliment your natural skin tone or eye color. This way, your eyeshadow will not distract from your eyeliner., Take an eyeliner pencil in a dark shade like brown or black. Draw a line just underneath your lower lash line. Keep the line thin and keep it as close to your lash line as possible. Move from one end of the eye to the other.If your eyeliner pencil needs sharpening, do this before applying the eyeliner. This will allow you to make a distinct, clear line.
You do want to end up with a slightly thicker line for reverse eyeliner. Keeping it thin at first, however, is important as this will help you keep the line as close as possible to your lower lash line.
 When you're done, you want to use a smudge brush to gently smudge the line you drew. Use sidewards swiping motions to bring the line down slightly. You want to make it slightly thicker, as reverse eyeliner is somewhat dramatic.You can also blend the line closer into either corner of your eyes during this step.
 As you smudge your eyeliner, make a small wing pointed upward slightly at the outer corner of each eye. When you reach the outer corner of each line, make sideways swiping motions with your brush that direct the eyeliner out and upward to form a wing., You can use either liquid or pencil eyeliner. Gently trace over your line with a black eyeliner. This will further define it and make the reverse eyeliner look more apparent., You do not want too much eyeliner on top for a reverse eyeliner look. However, move the wing inward slightly onto your upper lash line. Draw a small line going a little into the outer corner of your upper lash line.If you want, you can also draw a small line going into the inner corner of your upper lash line. This makes your eyes look slightly more defined and dramatic.
 Take a black eyeliner pencil and look closely at the eyeliner you drew. If there are any obvious gaps, or places where the eyeliner is lighter, fill them in using your eyeliner pencil.If you want, you can fill in your waterline as well. This is optional, however.
 After doing your eyeliner, add a few coats of black mascara. This will really make your eyes pop, leaving you with a dramatic reverse eyeliner look.Avoid adding too much mascara and do not go for fake eyelashes. Remember, your reverse eyeliner should be the focus of your look.

