 When writing about your achievements and activities, avoid going into details about unimportant aspects. Keep your descriptions to-the-point; this will make them more powerful to the reader. Ideally, a resume shouldn’t be more than a page or two long. Any longer and the reader will begin to gloss over the content.


Bad example: “I was on the Student Council, and attended the meetings every week. We had a lot of good debates in these meetings. Most of the debates were about how the school should be run.”
Good example: “Elected to Student Council, led the council in many debates about school policy.”

, While you should never lie, or even embellish, on a resume you should draw attention to your accomplishments. You aren’t trying to get your fellow students admitted, so focus on what you have done.


Bad example: “Took Student Council notes.”
Good example: “Managed all Student Council documents and meeting minutes.”

, When you write your descriptions, begin each point with an action word that will make it pop out to admissions officers. This will help keep your descriptions concise and impactful. Never use “I” in a resume.


Bad example: “In charge of several committees, including the Homecoming and Prom committee.”
Good example: “Chaired the Homecoming and Prom committees.”

, If you received good grades in high school, be absolutely sure to draw attention to them. Include a GPA score if over 3.0, and list your class rank or percentile if you have access to it. Good SAT or ACT scores as well as any honors programs should be listed as well.


If you have space, you can list some of the AP and college-level course you have taken.
 If you have a lot of extracurricular activities to list, then space on the resume can become an issue. When listing your extracurricular activities, pay special attention to anything that you took a leadership role in. This could be a section leader in the marching band, a team captain, volunteer coordinator, new student orientation, and much more.
 A strong volunteer section on your resume will help show that you care and take the initiative to help others. Try to have at least two or three volunteer entries to help you stand out.
 Throughout your academic career, you may have become fluent in a foreign language or mastered one or more computer software programs. These are things admissions officers look for and should be included on your college resume.
 Before printing and sending out your resume to colleges with your applications, have your resume proofread by at least two other people. Try to have a guidance counselor take a look at it to see if they have any recommendations. A resume should never be sent out with grammatical errors or misinformation.

