 Tart, thick-skinned apples like Jonathans, Rome, Melrose, Fuji, and Granny Smiths are usually your best bet. Sweet, thin-skinned apples, like Red Delicious or Golden Delicious, do not generally do as well.


Also make sure that your apples are in good shape. Apples with soft spots or bruises give off a lot of ethylene gas, which can cause nearby apples to decay faster than normal and may thwart your storage efforts.
 Moreover, if one apple starts to rot while it is in storage, it could contaminate the other apples it touches, causing the entire bunch to spoil faster. Wrapping each apple individually prevents most of the potential damage caused when apples come into contact with each other.


Separate a section of newspaper into quarters and stack those quarters together. Choose a section that only has black ink since colored ink contains poisonous heavy metals.
Place one apple on top of the stack of newsprint. Bring the top sheet up and fold it around the apple, gently twisting the corners together the keep the apple wrapped. Do not twist too tightly, since you may tear the paper if you do. The objective is only to prevent the apple from coming into contact with other apples, not to keep the air out.
Continue wrapping each apple in a quarter sheet of newsprint until the entire bunch has been covered.
 Insulating the box also helps regulate the temperature of your apples and the amount of airflow it receives. Line the containers with straw or perforated plastic liners.
 Line them up side by side, making sure that the newsprint wrappings do not come undone and that the apples are not directly touching skin to skin.
 A root cellar is the most common location of choice, but an unheated basement, unheated attic, or enclosed porch can also work just as well. The average temperature of the area should not drop too far below freezing, however, since the freezing process will rupture the cells of your apples, turning them to mush when they thaw.
 Potatoes release a gas as they age, and this gas can cause apples to rot faster. You can keep the two types of produce in the same room or storage facility, but do not keep them side by side.
 Stored this way, apples can retain their freshness for several months, but will start to go bad after that.

