 Stay hydrated by drinking water, juice, and broth throughout the day.Get plenty of rest by staying home from work or school and staying in bed. Try over-the-counter anti-diarrheal medicines like Pepto-Bismol or Immodium A-D to help relieve symptoms. Follow a clear liquid diet of water, broth, juice, and sports drinks until you can handle solid food, then introduce the BRAT diet (bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast).


Avoid fatty foods, dairy, caffeine, alcohol, and artificial sweeteners.
Many cases of diarrhea are caused by viruses and will pass in a couple of days. It may also be the result of foodborne illness, which is far more common than you might think.
If your symptoms get worse or don’t resolve after 48 hours, see your doctor — you may need antibiotics or other medications.;
, Stay hydrated — like with diarrhea, dehydration is the biggest risk when you’re sick with vomiting. Follow the same guidelines as when you have diarrhea. If you can eat without vomiting, eat small amounts of bland foods like toast, crackers, and jell-o. Once you can keep these down, add rice, cereal, and fruit to your diet. Increase what you eat slowly as your illness improves.If you’re too nauseated to drink anything, try sucking on ice chips to get small amounts of fluids.
When you do drink liquids, try to have them at room temperature. Avoid cold or hot drinks.
Don’t eat spicy or fatty foods, which can further irritate your stomach.
Let your stomach calm down after vomiting by waiting 30 – 60 minutes afterwards to eat or drink anything. Don’t try heavy solid foods until at least six hours after you last vomited.If your stomach upset is from motion sickness, try a medication like Dramamine before traveling.
 If you have diarrhea or vomiting that lasts over 24 hours, or you cannot keep any liquids down for over 12 hours, see your doctor right away.Seek emergency care if you have any signs or symptoms of dehydration, such as:Extreme thirst
Dry mouth or skin
Dark urine, or producing little or no urine
Weakness, dizziness, fatigue, lightheadedness

, Signs that your stomach problems necessitate medical care include a fever of 102°F (39°C) or higher, or moderate to severe stomach, rectal, or chest pain. If you have blood in your stool or vomit, or your stool is black and tarry, see your doctor right away.
 Try eating prunes or yogurt containing live cultures. Hydrate well and get regular exercise. Increase the fiber in your diet with vegetables and whole grains. Consult your doctor if you do not have a bowel movement for over a week — they may suggest castor oil, over-the-counter milk of magnesia, or a laxative.


People have different rhythms, and it’s normal to have a bowel movement every day to three times per week. If your stool is very hard or you have to strain to poop, see your doctor., GERD can often be controlled with dietary changes. If symptoms persist, try an over-the-counter antacid like Tums or Rolaids. Visit your doctor for a prescription for a proton-pump inhibitor (PPI), histamine (H2) blocker, or a medication called Baclofen. In extreme cases, surgery is possible.Make the following dietary changes to minimize your symptoms of GERD:Restrict fatty foods in your diet.
Avoid chocolate, mint, caffeine, and carbonated beverages.
Skip spicy foods if you’re currently having a reflux flare-up.
Don’t drink alcohol.
Be wary of acidic foods like citrus, tomatoes, onion, and garlic.
Eat whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and lean meats.
Add ginger and fennel to recipes.Try probiotics from live-culture yogurt.
Stay upright after eating. Don’t lay down for at least a couple of hours after eating.
 If your stomach upset is more severe on a particular day, give your stomach a rest by drinking clear soup (not creamy) and tea. Chamomile tea, ginger tea, and peppermint tea may be especially soothing.