 Unlike a void marriage, a voidable marriage requires court intervention to dissolve. In New York, there are only five circumstances rendering a marriage voidable. , The age of consent in New York with respect to marriage is 18. If one spouse or both spouses was below the age of 18 at the time of the marriage, and were married without parental consent, then that can render a marriage voidable. , If there is some reason that at least one spouse lacked the capacity to understand the "nature, effect, and consequences of the marriage," then the marriage is voidable. Of course, there are a variety of reasons a person might permanently or temporarily lack capacity, but one of the most common situations that fits into this category is a marriage where one or both spouses are mentally handicapped. , If at least one spouse is permanently physically unable to have sexual intercourse, but the other was unaware when the marriage began, that constitutes grounds for an annulment under New York law. , If one or both spouses suffers from an incurable mental illness for five or more years, the marriage is rendered voidable. The action can be brought by either spouse or on behalf of either spouse. If you are inclined to use this as grounds for an annulment, proceed with caution, because the court can award the sane spouse to financially support the mentally ill spouse.
 If consent was obtained through force, illegitimate pressure, or fraud, that will make the consent voidable. Examples of fraudulent marriages would include misrepresenting a pregnancy, misrepresenting a willingness to have children, or marrying to obtain legal immigration status. , In contrast to a void marriage, which is always invalid, in voidable marriages, spouses can waive by consent what would normally be grounds for an annulment. The different grounds for an annulment have different waivers.


If you seek an annulment because one of the spouses was too young to give consent, understand that if both spouses continue to live together after they turn 18, that constitutes a waiver. If you plan to seek an annulment because of an inability to consummate the marriage, be aware that you need to initiate your case within the first five years of marriage. You will also need to show that you were unaware of this inability when the marriage started. If you plan to seek an annulment on the basis of fraud, force, or duress, then you must bring the action within two years of your discovery of the fraud and within three years of the commission of the fraud. Furthermore, if you continue to live with your spouse after you discover the fraud, that will constitute a waiver. , If the marriage was obtained by fraud, force, or duress, only the innocent party to the marriage can file for an annulment. If the issue was an inability to consent due to age, then only the underage party or their relatives can bring the action for annulment. If the issue is a lack of mental capacity, then either spouse can seek the annulment, in addition to the relative of the spouse who lacked capacity. If the issue was an inability to consummate, then either party may seek the annulment, although the incapable spouse will have to meet certain requirements in order to seek the annulment. New York does not provide forms for procuring an annulment, and even the simplest annulment requires a trial where evidence is presented to prove the grounds for annulment. The type of proof necessary is dependent upon the grounds for obtaining the annulment, and in some cases, is extensive. For this reason, it is strongly recommended that you use the services of an attorney if you wish to pursue an annulment. , If you choose to initiate an action for annulment without the services of an attorney, you will first need to find a process server to serve your souse with a copy of the petition. The court requires that a third party to the action serve the documents. You can not serve them yourself.
 A proof of service is a document that notifies the court that your spouse has been given a copy of the annulment documents by a third person. The proof of service must be completed by the person who gives your spouse the annulment petition. The completed proof of service must be returned to the court within 120 days after you file your annulment. Some forms that you may use for service of process are here: , Your spouse has 20 days after the day he is served to file an answer with the court. After your spouse files his response, you will be served with a copy in the same way that you had your spouse served with your documents.
 The hearing will usually be 4 weeks or more after you file your petition for the annulment. Research any area of annulment law specific to your marriage. Take the time to research and gather the documents related to your situation prior to the court hearing. This will make you more prepared for your court hearing.
Think about who you will call as witnesses. The court may require more than just your testimony and that of your spouse, depending on the circumstances of your annulment.
 The court hearing may not be the only hearing necessary in your matter. If your annulment is simple, there are no children involved, and you and your spouse present all the necessary evidence to prove your annulment, then there may be no need for another hearing. However, the judge may need you or your spouse to supply him with additional information regarding the annulment. If so, he will tell you what he needs and give you another court date. Complete any financial documents that are required for the annulment to be finalized. The court may require that you complete financial documents, especially if you and your spouse have children together.
Follow all the additional instructions of the judge and bring all requested documentation to each court hearing. The more you cooperate with the judge, the faster your annulment will be approved.

