 The icon is yellow white a white ghost silhouette.;
, This is the large circular button at the bottom of the Snapchat window. When you tap the button, you'll take a photo Snap. When you press and hold the button, you'll record a video Snap.
 You'll see these buttons appear after taking your Snap. The recipient will be able to see these even though they're not using Snapchat.


You can add stickers and emoji, type a caption, and draw on the picture or video.
 Filters you add will be visible to the recipient as well. Some filters are only available in certain locations.
 You'll find this in the lower-left corner. The icon is an arrow pointing down at a line. This will save the Snap to your Memories, which is a cloud-based photo album for your saved Snaps., You'll find this in the upper-left corner. This will return you to the Camera screen.
 Besides saving a Snap that you've just created, you can save Snaps that you've added to your Story in the last 24 hours:


Open the Stories screen by tapping the 3-dot button in the lower-right corner.
Tap the ⋮ button to the right of My Story. You won't see your Story at the top of the screen if you haven't added any Snaps in the last 24 hours.
Tap the Snap you want to save. Snaps in your Story are automatically deleted after 24 hours.
Tap the Save button. This looks like a chevron pointing towards a line, can can be found in the bottom-right corner after opening the Snap. The Snap will be added to your Memories.
 You can access your Memories from the main Snapchat camera screen.
 This is the small circle beneath the Shutter button on the Camera screen.
 You should see it at the top of the Memories list.
, You can send the picture or video through your Messages or Mail app, or through any other social media and messaging apps you may have installed. Swipe the top row from right to left to view the sharing options., The Snap attaches to a new message in whichever app you selected. The recipient will be able to view the photo or video like any other media file.


Snaps sent outside of Snapchat will not automatically delete after being viewed, and you will not be notified you if a screenshot is taken when you share outside of Snapchat.

