 If you plan to use wood chips with your gas grill, submerge 2 cups (500 ml) in a bowl of water. Let the chips soak for 30 minutes.


Only use wood chips if your grill has a separate smoker box or smoker pouch. Do not worry about wood chips if your grill does not have a smoker attachment.
Only use untreated wood chips.
If using pre-soaked wood chips instead of dry ones, you can skip this step.
Mesquite and alder wood chips are both good choices for smoked potatoes.
 Turn on all the burners of your grill, setting them to high heat. Wait until the burners are fully preheated before continuing.


If there is no light or indicator to let you know when the burners have preheated, wait at least 10 minutes before moving onto the next step.
 Switch off the center burners, then place a drip pan in the center of the grill over the burners you just turned off.If your grill only has two burners, turn one off and place a drip pan over that burner.
 Reduce the heat of the remaining burners to medium or medium-low. Wait approximately 10 minutes for the temperature inside the grill to drop.


If the grill has a thermometer inside or on the lid, wait for the internal temperature to read 250 degrees Fahrenheit (130 degrees Celsius) before proceeding.
 If your grill has a smoker attachment, fill it with your soaked wood chips now.


Continue preheating the grill until you see smoke coming from the attachment.
 Pierce each potato several times with a metal fork, the season with melted butter, salt, and pepper.


Pierce each potato 8 to 12 times, spacing the holes evenly around the surface. Doing this lets steam and pressure escape from the potato during the cooking process.
Brush enough melted butter over each potato to completely coat the surface.
Use as much salt and pepper as desired to satisfy your own tastes.
 Arrange the prepared potatoes over the drip tray placed in your prepared grill, keeping them in a single layer.


Try to keep 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space between them, if not more. Good air circulation will result in better cooking.
The potatoes must be over the drip tray regardless of whether that tray is in the center of the grill or along one side.
 Cover the grill and smoke the potatoes for 1 hour to 1 hour and 15 minutes.


You do not need to turn the potatoes as they cook.
When ready, the potatoes should be roughly the same consistency as a baked potato. You should be able to squeeze the center with your fingers, but the potato should not completely fall apart when you do so. You should also be able to easily pierce the potato with a metal skewer.
 Remove the smoked potatoes from your grill. Let them cool slightly for 2 to 5 minutes, then serve and enjoy.


Serve smoked potatoes like you would serve baked potatoes. Slice each potato open and add butter, sour cream, cheese, bacon, green onions, or any other toppings you may desire.

