 Hypocalcemia can occur at any stage in a dog’s pregnancy, but is most common in the weeks immediately preceding birth, the weeks following birth, and the time while the dog is lactating, or nursing its puppies. Signs of hypocalcemia include:Restlessness
Excessive whining and salivation
Sensitivity to stimuli
Panting
Pacing
Stiff gait
Muscle twitching or tremors
Muscle stiffness
Convulsions;
, A deficiency of blood calcium, or hypocalcemia, can develop in mother dogs prior to giving birth, in the immediate weeks following giving birth, or during lactation. This condition is also referred to as “milk fever,” and is caused by an underactive parathyroid gland. When this gland does not respond quickly enough to body’s demand for calcium, the dog can suffer from convulsive muscle contractions that limit the dog’s movement., Dogs that are pregnant with, or have given birth to, their first litter are more likely to develop hypocalcemia. If your dog is expecting its first litter of puppies, you should be especially vigilant about monitoring your dogs for the signs of hypocalcemia. If possible, you should also take measures to prevent hypocalcemia in your pregnant dog., Certain breeds of dogs, particularly toy breeds, are more likely to develop hypocalcemia than larger breeds. Breeds that are at a particularly high risk include Mexican hairless dogs, Pomeranians, shih-tzus, miniature poodles, Chihuahuas, and miniature pinschers., Diet and weight can increase the risk of hypocalcemia. There are certain risk factors aside from breed and giving birth to a first litter that can increase a dog’s risk of hypocalcemia. These factors include a disproportionate ratio of phosphorus to calcium in a dog’s diet while pregnant, as well as overall poor nutrition during your dog’s pregnancy. Your dog is also at a higher risk if its body weight is low in proportion to the size of its litter.For a pregnant dog, the correct ratio of calcium to phosphorus is between 1:1 and 1:2:1.
You should avoid feeding a pregnant dog puppy-growth diets, as these foods are higher in calcium and can be problematic.

