 These drugs cause complete blocking of acid production, which in turn lets the stomach heal itself. These drugs are more potent than others and are generally given to the horse once a day.


Omeprazole and pantoprazole are both proton-pump inhibitors. Omeprazole (dose at 0.7mg to 1.4mg/kg daily), is the only FDA approved drug for the treatment of gastric ulcers in horses. Commercially available paste of omeprazole can be given once a day, and during transport.
 These drugs cause partial blockage of acid production in the stomach, hence it is given more frequently. In general, you should give your horse this medication three or four times a day.


Cimetidine, ranitidine, and famotidine are variations of this medication. Dose of cimetidine (300 to 600mg 3 to 4 times a day). Ranitidine is effective in foals and is given once a day.
 These drugs provide a protective lining in the stomach mucosa and aid in its healing process. There are two main kinds of prescribed protective lining, sucralfate and lecithin.


Sucralfate: this drug binds to the stomach mucosa and may promote healing. Dose for foals (1 to 2 grams in foals 4x a day), in horses (2mg/kg 2x a day).
Lecithin: contains phospholipids and essential fatty acids like linolenic acid (omega 6), and linoleic acid (omega 3). Lecithin binds to the lipid layer of the stomach, providing an additional layer of protections against acids, omega 3 and omega 6 fatty acids strengthens the cell membranes of the stomach lining.
 Other substances that give a protective layer in the stomach include slippery elm powder, low protein whey powder, and psyllium husk. These substances can be given as slurry before feeding, or as top dressing in dry feed.
 Sodium bicarbonate can be used up to 200grams per dosing to provide short term relief, and neutralize gastric acid, it is usually given after feeding whole grain rations.
 Probiotics include yoghurt products containing Lactobacilli spp. As a daily, these probiotic supplements can help as the beneficial bacteria competes with ulcer forming bacteria.


Prostaglandins can also combat bad bacteria. These are recommended in horses that have developed ulcers because they have high doses of NSAIDs.

