 This is a simple trick where you ask a person to perform some easy math that leads him to the same answer almost every time. This is what you should tell the audience member:Think of any number.
Multiply it by 2.
Add 8 to the total.
Divide it by 2.
Subtract your original number from the total.
Remember this new number--it's your secret number!
Count on the alphabet until you get to the letter that goes with your secret number. (Number 1 is A, Number 2 is B, and so on.)
Think of a European country that goes with that letter.
Go over to the next letter of the alphabet.
Think of a large animal that begins with that letter.

Once the audience member has thought of it, just say, "I know what you're thinking of...the number 4...and an elephant in Denmark!" This will work every time.
 This silly trick works almost every time. All you need is some paper and pens, and several gullible audience members. First, place one scrap of paper in your left pocket that says "celery" on it, and place another scrap of paper in your right pocket that says "carrot" on it. Remember where you've placed this paper. And you're ready to begin your trick:First, hand out paper and pencils to all of your audience members.
Ask them to complete several easy mathematical tricks, about ten of them, such as multiplying 2 x 2, dividing 10 by 5, adding 3 and 3, and so on. You can say that this is getting their minds ready for mind reading.
Then say, "Quick, write down the name of a vegetable!" Make sure that people do this as quickly as possible; don't let anyone "think" about it for too long.
Call on a random audience member to say what vegetable he wrote down.
If he says "celery," pull out the piece of paper in your left pocket that says "celery." If he says "carrot," then pull out the piece of paper that says "carrot." Tell the audience that you have such strong mind-reading powers that you were able to predict what they were going to write down before the trick even began.
People in the US and Canada pick one of these two vegetables 80-90% of the time. If the person doesn't say one of the two vegetables, then oh well, you'll have to move on to another trick! If you're in a different country with different popular vegetables, then you have to try to find your own "magic vegetable."

, This trick is pretty simple but it can take a little while to master. All you need to get it done is a hat, around 10 audience members, a pen, a slate to write your prediction on, and as many scraps of paper as you have people. Here is what you have to do:Ask an audience member to shout the name of a famous person.
Write the first name down on a scrap of paper and throw it into your hat.
Ask the audience to keep shouting out names.
Pretend to write each name down, when really, you will just be writing down the first name, over and over. This is the part that takes practice.
Once the hat is filled, ask an audience member to volunteer to help you.
Say that you will predict which name he will draw out of the hat. Of course, you will predict the first name. Write it down on the slate so that everyone can see.
Have the audience member reach into the hat to pull out any scrap. Since they all say the first name, lo and behold, you have correctly predicted the name he would pull out!

