 An Explorer is the leader of the colony in AoE3 (not available in other Age of Empires versions). To quickly find and select your hero, press the hotkey / (forward slash). You can command him to construct buildings using the following hot keys:


Press / and then P to construct a Trading Post.
Press / and then G to construct a Town Center.
 A Home City in AoE3 is the city that sends the Explorer to find and colonize the New World. You go to the Home City to seek reinforcements to enable you to properly govern your colony. To quickly go to your Home City press H, and press H again to return to the game world.
 Press the hot key T to instantly go to your Town Center.
 You can use the combination Ctrl + (building hot key) to instantly go to the respective building. For instance:


Press Ctrl+B to go to your Barracks \ Blockhouse
Press Ctrl+C to go to your Church
Press Ctrl+D to go to your Dock
Press Ctrl+A to go to your Artillery Depot
Press Ctrl+I to go to your Mill
Press Ctrl+K to go to your Bank
Press Ctrl+L to go to your Plantation
Press Ctrl+M to go to your Market
Press Ctrl+E to go to your House \ HouseEast \ HouseMed \ Manor
Press Ctrl+P to go to your Trading Post
Press Ctrl+Q to go to your Field Hospital
Press Ctrl+R to go to your Arsenal
Press Ctrl+Z to go to your Capitol

, in AoE3, you can quickly have your villager construct any building by pressing B and then the corresponding building’s hot key. For instance:


Press B and then B to construct a Barracks \ Blockhouse
Press B and then C to construct a Church
Press B and then D to construct a Dock
Press B and then A to construct an Artillery Depot
Press B and then I to construct a Mill
Press B and then K to construct a Bank
Press B and then L to construct a Plantation
Press B and then M to construct a Market
Press B and then E to construct a House \ HouseEast \ HouseMed \ Manor
Press B and then P to construct a Trading Post
Press B and then Q to construct a Field Hospital
Press B and then R to construct an Arsenal
Press B and then Z to construct a Capitol

, There are different hot keys for displaying various pieces of info on your HUD:


Press F2 to display improvements
Press F3 to display objectives
Press F4 to display player score
Press F5 to display chat menu
Press F6 to display tribute menu
Press F7 to display player summary
Press F10 to display in-game menu
Press F11 to display game time

, Press F8 to quickly save your game progress, and F9 to quickly load from the last quick save point.
 Press Ctrl-F12 to quickly capture a screenshot of the game screen.
 Press . (full stop) to cycle through all your idle villagers one by one.
 Press , (comma) to cycle through all your idle military men one by one.
 Press ‘ (single quote) to cycle through all your ships.
 Press ; (semicolon) to cycle through all your wagons.

