 Fraps is available for free from the developer’s website. The free version will allow you to record for 30 seconds, and will place a watermark on the recorded footage. Once you’ve downloaded the free version, run the Setup file and follow any instructions.


The default installation settings should be acceptable for most users.;
, Click the Movies tab to configure the Fraps video recording. In this tab, you will be able to adjust several options:


Choose the folder that you want to save your recordings by using the top field. Click the Change button to browse for a new folder.
Set your recording hotkey by changing the Video Capture Hotkey. By default this is set to F9. Pressing the hotkey during a game will start and stop recording.
Choose your capture settings. Fraps will cause a noticeable drop in performance, and the drop will increase as you increase the FPS (frames per second) of your recorded footage. The ability to record at high FPS is determined by the power of your computer.

Play around with different options until you find one that gives you good quality while still allowing you to play your game comfortably.


Choose whether or not to record the sound. If you are going to be using different audio in your finished video, you can uncheck the “Record sound” box to keep your file size down.
 Once you have Fraps correctly configured, start your PC game as you normally would. Once you get to the point where you want to start recording, press the hotkey you specified (F9 by default). Fraps will display the FPS in the corner of your display. Once you are finished recording, press the hotkey again.


Your new video file will be saved at the location you set in the Movies tab.
 The AVI file created by Fraps will likely be quite large. Use a program such as HandBrake or Windows Movie Maker to convert the movie into a smaller, more portable format, such as MP4

, Once you’ve converted your video, all that’s left is to share it with the world. You could upload it to YouTube, or burn it to a DVD. Edit multiple clips together with music and transitions to create a highlight reel of your best moments.

