 (If your wall is solid brick, stone, etc., this method will not help you). The length of the 2x4 will be the length of the workbench and should be sized accordingly. (In this example, we are using a 16-foot / 4.8-meter piece.) Use a spirit level to make sure that this is attached horizontally.









Depending on the steel shelf brackets you have (and how far the hole is from the bend in the bracket), you may need a 2x6 (38×140 mm) instead.
The top of the 2x4 strip in this example is 3 to 3.5 feet (approximately 1 meter) off the ground. If you need park a vehicle in your garage and it needs to fit underneath the shelf, account for any additional clearance required (i.e. your vehicle's hood).
Use 2.5-in / 6.5 cm screws (or 3-in / 7.5-cm screws if going through drywall) to attach the 4-in (89-mm) flat face against the garage wall studs.
 The gap between the two parallel strips should be determined by the length of the steel shelf bracket.
 The heavier duty the shelf bracket, the better. The top of the bracket is flush with the top surface of the upper strip. Use a plywood piece on top (a temporary shelf) and then butt the shelf bracket against it. Use 1.5-in (3.8-cm) screws to then attach the brackets. You will end up with two strips against the wall with a row of shelf brackets attached to them. The shelf brackets should be spaced approximately 2 feet (.6 meters) apart.









If desired, shelf brackets can be alternated; heavy duty, lighter duty, heavy duty, etc. in order to accommodate toolbox placement and to be able to comfortably pull up a chair underneath the workbench.
 A 4x8 ft (1.2 x 2.4 m) sheet will work well for this purpose. Place one of the planks on the shelf brackets and screw the plank to the upper strip at the top/rear. Place the second plank next to (left or right of) the first one and join the two end-to-end with a 6 in (15.25cm) x 18 in (45.7 cm) piece of plywood underneath the two plank ends.
, Glue and screw a 1.5 in (3.8 cm) by 3/4 in (1.9 cm) maple strip that's as long as your shelf. This strengthens the Workbench top while absorbing wear and tear.
 These thin drawers will accommodate any small tools you may have. The drawers should be 2 feet (.6 meter) wide, have a depth of 1.5 in (3.8 cm), and stretch 18 in (45.7 cm) to the back. To make and attach the shelves:









1x4 ((19×89 mm) pine strips can be attached to the bottom of the shelf. The short part of the strip can be attached with glue and screws to the plywood sheet.
Attach metal drawer slides to the strips.
Construct drawers with a hardboard base and pine sides (1x2in or 2.5 by 5 cm). Edges hold the matching drawer slides. These drawer boxes are then slid into the pine strips that are attached to your plywood plank.

