 It can be hard to get the conversation going with someone you don't know, especially if you find the person attractive. Your attraction can make you a little tongue-tied and shy, but don't worry, you don't have to use a super cheesy pickup line to get her attention. Simpler tactics can be more effective, as long as they get you talking to her.For example, asking her a question can help get the conversation going. It can be something as simple as, "How do you like this warm weather?" or "Isn't this coffee amazing?" This tactic can work even better if you get the person to evaluate themselves instead of you, such as "Is that a designer bag you have?"
Ask them to do something for you, such as pass a napkin or move her bag. Asking her a favor will actually endear her towards you and can help get a conversation going.
Don't forget to introduce yourself and ask the person's name.
 If you say hello and then walk away, that doesn't show much interest. However, if you keep the conversation going, especially if you are getting her to talk about herself, you show you are interested in her and what she has to say.Ask her questions about herself, such as "What do you do for a living?" or "What do you like to do for fun?"
As you listen to her, try to to find common interests, so that when there's a lull, you can bring up something about yourself that you have in common with her.
 A genuine compliment goes a long way in showing her that you are attracted to her. The emphasis is on genuine. Therefore, as you're talking to her, notice something unique about her that you like, such as her beautiful green eyes or her witty banter.

For example, you could say, "You know, you have really engaging eyes. They are such a beautiful green."
You could also say, "You're so witty!"

, Once you know her name, try using it conversation. You don't want to overuse it, but saying it once or twice can help create a sense of intimacy. It shows that you cared enough to remember it. Plus, people like hearing the sound of their own names.For example, you could say, "Nice to meet you, Jessica." or "What do you think about this weather, Jessica?"

, If she tells a joke, be sure to laugh at it. You don't want to go overboard. Laughing too much can come off as trying too hard. However, giving her a laugh when you know she is cracking a joke can endear you towards her and let her know you find her attractive, especially if you both know the joke wasn't that funny.If she seems too nervous to crack a joke, crack one yourself. You could poke fun at yourself, such as saying, "Giants cause all kinds of trouble. That's why people get their pitchforks when we're around," if you're tall and accidentally knock over a chair.
 Being attentive to her needs will let her know that you care about her. Anticipating her needs will wow her, along with showing her that you care about her enough to figure out what she wants and needs before she asks for it.For example, if you notice her drink is empty, ask if she'd like another. If you notice she's getting antsy standing up, ask her if she wants to find a table to sit down and chat.

