 Using too much Vagisil can lead to severe side effects, so only apply a small amount. The amount of Vagisil cream that you use should be about as long as your fingertip (about one inch long)., Do not insert Vagisil into your vagina. Only use it on the parts of your vagina that are outside of your body, such as your labia and vulva. Use your finger to rub the cream into the outer areas of your vagina to help soothe itching.Do not apply Vagisil to large areas of your body. Applying Vagisil to large areas of your body may cause severe side effects, so only use it on the affected areas of your vagina. If your itching extends beyond the area that a small amount of Vagisil will cover, then call your doctor or gynecologist.
 The product works by blocking the nerve signals that cause itching. This will provide some temporary relief from vaginal itching.Just keep in mind that it might take a few minutes for the medicine to work, so try to be patient.
 You should not use Vagisil more than four times per day. If you still have symptoms after using Vagisil, then contact your doctor or gynecologist.You may require a prescription strength medication.
 The active medicine in Vagisil (benzocaine) can cause some severe side effects, but only when used in the mouth; however, seek emergency medical treatment if you experience any of the following symptoms:Light-headedness
Fast heart rate
Shortness of breath
Bluish, grayish, or pale lips, fingernails, or skin

, Benzocaine topical can also cause an allergic reaction for some people. Stop using Vagisil and call your doctor if you notice:Severe stinging, burning, or sensitivity
Swelling, redness, or warmth
Oozing
Blistering

, Some side effects are normal, so do not panic if you notice some mild side effects from using Vagisil. Common side effects of using Vagisil include:Minor burning or itching
Mild redness or tenderness
White, dry flakes at application site

, Vagisil is meant for temporary, short-term use only. If your symptoms last for more than seven days and they do not seem to be getting better, then call your doctor or gynecologist.Vagisil is not designed to treat itching caused by an infection. If you have signs of an infection, like abnormal vaginal discharge, odor, or open sores in the area, then you should seek medical care instead of using Vagisil.

