 Keep the room you are in softly lit. Fluorescent lighting is considered bad for eyes since they give off the wrong light frequencies of color and emit radiation that makes you drowsy all day long.When reading, try to keep your light source located behind you and keep the light directed on the paper or the task you are working on.
At work, or at a desk, use a shaded light source positioned on the desk in front of you. Again, keep the light directed towards your work and the shade will protect your eyes from direct light from the source.
Avoid watching television or working on the computer in the dark.
 Dry eye is caused by a lack of lubrication and moisture on the surface of your eye. Problems can range from minor irritant to serious inflammation of the tissues of the eye.Use a humidifier to moisturize your house or workspace.
Adjust your thermostat to reduce air flow and dust particles that might irritate your eyes.
Move your desk or office space if it is near a vent. Request moving to a different area of the office.
Quit smoking because it can inflame your eyes. Consider stopping if you develop a dry eye condition.
Use artificial tears if necessary to keep your eyes moist and lubricated.
 Invest in the correct glasses or contact lenses for your specific situation. Nowadays, eyewear is made for nearly every situation so make sure to get a proper eye exam and talk to your optometrist about getting the correct prescription for the most likely environment where you will be wearing your glasses.Prescription and nonprescription lenses are made for nearly all types of lifestyles. There are different types of lenses for age, sports, and indoor and outdoor wear.
If you work outside or have to drive long distances make sure to buy polarizing sunglasses to protect your eyes again UV light and glare. This will help prevent squinting.
Make sure you wear glasses for as long as you need to and keep them clean.
 Computers are a major source of eye strain for most people. Try to limit your screen time by routinely taking breaks, exercising your eyes, and keeping them hydrated.If you tend to stare when you use a computer remind yourself to blink often in order to produce tears that moisten and refresh your eyes.
While you are on the computer practice the 20-20-20 rule: Every twenty minutes look at something twenty feet away for at least twenty seconds.
Reduce glare on the screen to avoid straining your eyes. This means you should adjust lighting in front and behind you.
Keep the monitor positioned directly in front of you at about arm’s length away. The screen should be approximately just below your eye level. Adjust your chair if necessary.
Use the convenience of a paper holder so you can keep your eyes relatively on the same level as the computer screen. Reducing the amount of times your eyes have to readjust will lessen eye strain.
Enlarge the font size, contrast, and brightness for easier reading and browsing.
Keep your screen clear from dust.

