 Many companies offer invitation kits that provide the invitations, enclosures and envelopes for wedding invitations. Invitation suites are available in many paper colors and designs, ranging from traditional formal invitations to casual themed invitations.


Order at least 20 to 25 percent more invitation suites than you plan to send. This allows for extra pieces in the event of mistakes as you are printing them. For example, if you plan to print 100 invitations, order 125 invitation suites.
 If you don't mind cutting your invitations and enclosures to the desired size, order cardstock and matching envelopes. This is a less expensive option than an invitation suite and offers design versatility.


Order at least 25 to 50 additional pieces of cardstock to allow for printing mistakes.
Order envelopes for the invitations and enclosures. An invitation suite comes with envelopes for the invitations and enclosures, but if you are making your own invitations from cardstock, you will need to order the envelopes separately. For example, if you want guests to mail back a response card, you need to supply an envelope that fits the response card. Some couples choose to use outer envelopes and inner envelopes. The outer envelopes are addressed, while the inner envelopes protect the invitation and enclosures. If you are using both outer and inner envelopes, be sure to order the correct quantities and sizes for your invitations.
 Add some visual interest and color to wedding invitations by layering the printed card on top of a different color cardstock. This makes the invitation appear to have a border, and results in a thicker invitation. The layering cardstock should be about 1/4-inch larger than the printed cardstock.


Do not add layering papers to pre-cut invitation suites, as the final invitation size may not fit in the envelopes provided with the invitation suite.
 Most standard wedding invitations are printed on a white or cream cardstock. However, there are different shade of white and cream. Consider whether you prefer a bright white, an eggshell, a light cream or an ivory tone for your invitations.


Mix and match color palettes to find colors that complement each other. If you choose to use layering papers or colored inks, evaluate how the colors look with the white or cream cardstock you choose before purchasing any paper.
 Environmentally conscious couples may want to choose 100% recycled with 30% post-consumer waste paper. Those who desire a luxurious feel to the paper may prefer 100% cotton paper. Couples who want a more dramatic invitation may choose textured paper.
 Most paper distributors will provide samples either free of charge or for a small shipping fee. The paper sample will allow you to evaluate the paper weight, color and texture.

