 One way to help prevent arguments about money is the be open about your finances with your partner. This helps each of you be on the same page, so you won’t be keeping secrets about money or lying about money. These behaviors can cause problems and arguments.When your relationship gets to the point where you start sharing bills and financial responsibilities, you should be open about all of your finances. This includes your debt, income, and financial obligations.
Tell your partner, "I want to share my finances with you. I have some student loan debt, a car payment, and two credit cards."

, You should share vital financial information with your partner so that you both stay informed of each other’s financial situation. This includes any changes to your income, tax returns, and credit reports. This helps maintain honesty and communication between you, and you can avoid potential problems if you keep something from your partner.This often happens at the beginning of a partnership, when you let your partner know your financial situation. However, you should continue doing this throughout the relationship, especially if things change significantly.
For example, you may say, "My credit report has changed recently due to my recent bill payments. I'd like to go over what changed the credit report with you."
Another way to prevent arguments is to agree to text or call if you are thinking of purchasing something over an agreed upon spending limit, such as $100. If you or your partner is out shopping and finds something above the agreed upon limit, then sending a quick text or making a quick phone call may prevent an argument later on.
 Another way to help prevent fights about money is to discuss any minor problems before they can turn into something worse. Getting together with your partner once every week or two to discuss the budget and any minor problems can help keep the lines of communication open and help prevent fights.For example, you may get together and discuss how one of you spent more on groceries than was budgeted, or another minor financial problem. Addressing the problems early can help prevent the small things from turning into major problems.
You may say things like, "We went over the budget on groceries, but by cutting a few corners, we can adhere to it next month."

, Many people help out family members financially. However, this can cause a lot of problems and arguments. To help prevent this, talk about what you and your partner want to do about helping out family members so you have a procedure in place.For example, you may decide to help out a family member up to a certain dollar amount or a certain number of times each year. You may decide that you want to help out certain family members but not others. Discuss these issues with your partner and come up with a solution that you both can handle.
You may say, "I understand that your parents struggle, but we can only afford to help them for this set amount of money three times each year."

