 Make sure you find time to enjoy your teen. Even if they are making your life difficult at times, do activities together and with the family that you know everyone will enjoy. For example, set up a family game night once each month and play board games your teen enjoys. If your teen is adventurous, take them go-karting. If your teen is artistic, take a painting class together. Find common ground and have fun.Even if the time you spend together is just walking the dog once each day, it’s still quality time with your teen you may look back on fondly.
Understand that as your teenager gets older, they may want to spend more time with their friends and less with their family. Don't force them to do family activities. Plan activities that they genuinely want to do, and respect their personal boundaries.
 At this crucial time in their life, your teen is looking for someone to understand what they're going through. If you’re having a hard time connecting with your teen, find ways to relate to them. Put yourself in their shoes and think about what it would be like to live a day in their life. If your teen comes to you with a problem, hear them out. They generally don't need you to fix their problems for them (they'll figure that out for themselves), but they need someone who'll listen to and empathize with them. Sometimes loneliness (or any other issue) can trouble teens and can impact their exam marks negatively. Don't immediately punish them. Instead, understand and support them so that they don't experience loneliness, isolation, or some other negative feeling from the parental side either.
Don't belittle or discount your teen's problems as being unimportant or caused by hormones. Their problems and struggles seem big to them.
 Just as you want your teen to treat you with respect, treat them with respect as well. Be a good role model and show them what respect looks like, even when you’re fighting or disagreeing. Constantly yelling at a child can damage their emotions and cause them to feel insecure. Respect their opinions and ask for them.Show respect by speaking calmly and listening to your teen. Increase their independence and let them know that you trust them. Give them responsibilities and let them show you that they can come through.
Don't forget to praise them for what they do right. Recognize their efforts when they have done well in school, sports, social activities, chores, or family events.
 If they like sports or activities, sign them up and go to their events. If they are musical, pay for lessons and go to their recitals. Get them involved in the activities they enjoy and show that you support them. This shows that you care and are invested in their skills and happiness.


If they win any awards, make a big deal out of it and take the whole family out to dinner in their honor. These are easy, fun things you can do for your teen that will cement a lifelong healthy relationship between the two of you.
Sometimes teenagers may want to celebrate in ways that don't include the whole family. Make sure that when you celebrate, you celebrate in the way that they choose.
 Your teen is looking for a place to hang out with their friends. Be a good sport by opening your own home to them. Create a space where they can hang out by themselves but you can casually walk through. Have some healthy snacks around and let them listen to their music, hang out, and play video games. Make yourself available, too. You'll be surprised how many of their friends might need a listening ear.


Having your teen’s friends over at your house means that you can casually monitor what they’re up to and make sure they’re being safe.
 Teens may not always want your physical affection, but they do want your love. Show your love to your teen by being there for them. Don’t just notice their academic achievement or athletic excellence, praise them for who they are as a person and for the traits they possess. Show your love through actions, too. Whether this includes going to their sports meets or packing their lunch every day, tell them these are acts of love.Not all teens want to talk with their parents, but let them know you’re willing to listen.


Unconditional love and acceptance is the greatest gift you can give them, one that will not only boost their confidence to face another day, but will also steer your relationship with them in a positive direction.

