 Do you believe in and worship your god in some way, shape, or form? If so, you're part way there! If not, take the first step. It's okay, friend, take all the time you need — this article will be waiting for you when you get back.;
, Figure out what you are getting into, and determine why you want to do it. Be aware that Judaism is a major commitment which will affect every part of your life, will last as long as you live, and will even transfer to your children. Judaism is based on the commandments (of which there are 613 in total, though many are not applicable today) and Maimonides' Thirteen Principles of Faith. They should be your first step and the foundation of your Jewish faith.
 This can often be a touchy subject among families, so be sure to explain your reasoning and desire to become Jewish. Make sure that you are comfortable with your decision to leave your former religion, if you had one. in order for your family to allow you to convert, you can start to drop subtle hints, bring up conversations about the Jewish religion, etc, to at least see their views on the Jewish religion and people.


Your family, friends, and people that you know could turn you down or have a negative attitude towards you if you convert. While this of course is no reason not to convert, you should be prepared for this outcome.
 Not many rabbis will convert people just because of marriage; the potential convert must be sincere and want to convert because of spiritual feelings and not just because of marriage. There are three main branches, all with differing levels of observance and ritual. Generally speaking, from most to least traditional, these are: (a) Orthodox, (b) Conservative (called 'Reform' or 'Masorti' in Europe), and (c) Reform (called 'Progressive' or 'Liberal' in Europe).
 Be prepared for the rabbi to try to dissuade you, or turn you away, 3 times or more. Many rabbis consider this part of their job. The goal is not to prevent honest seekers from converting, but to test the individual's commitment, and to make sure that becoming a Jew is truly what he or she wants. If you are persistent, show that you know what you're getting into, and are still committed to doing it, the rabbi may eventually decide to start you on the path to conversion., You will need to spend at least a year (sometimes two or more) studying (many organizations offer night classes) and living a Jewish life before your conversion is finalized. Your studies will cover the basics of Jewish law, history and culture, and you will also receive some instruction in the Hebrew language. If you are a teen or child who would like to convert to Judaism, realize that very few rabbis will let you convert, and you also have the obstacle of family not allowing you to practice your faith. If you are in this position, it is recommended that you get Jewish books, study Judaism as much as you can, and maybe even try living Jewish traditions, such as not eating leavened bread during Passover and keeping the Sabbath. When you are age 16-18, go to a rabbi and start talking to him or her about conversion. Remember that you don't need to officially convert to join a Jewish community, you can go to services anyway. However, certain aspects, such as reading from the Torah scroll or wearing a prayer shall and Tefillin, may only be done by a Jewish person.
 You will also be questioned before a Jewish court (called a Beit Din, consisting of three authorities) about adherence to the Halacha (Jewish Law), as part of the conversion proceedings.
 It will involve three things: acceptance of all The Commandments of the Torah and Rabbinic Enactments (at least for an Orthodox conversion), a ritual bath (full-body immersion in a Mikva), and if you're an uncircumcised male, you will also need to be circumcised. In the cases where the man has already been circumcised, creating a small drop of blood is sufficient.
 Some authorities (often Orthodox and those of higher levels of observance) have stricter rules, considering a child conceived before her conversion as not being Halachically Jewish. If they want to be Jewish, they will have to go through conversion themselves after they reach the age of 13. Children born to a Jewish woman after her conversion are Jewish automatically, since Jewish lineage is passed through the mother.

