 The hair is the most important thing about a scene meez. It's very expensive,so be sure you have the coins for it. Remember that if you don't have the hair, there's no way you will accomplish this style. Good fringes would be the over-eyes bangs (1200c) or the side swept bangs (1000c). Back hair would be the scene side ponytail (1400c),the hawk and scene hair (1100c),or the teased hair (VIP. 1300c). Or any hairstyle under scene hair. Be unique and different with your hair. Glitch it if you know how.;
, Clothes are usually somewhere between 300c and 900c. Wear graphic tees with shorts such as the skull shorts (1500c) and the zebra print shorts (800c). ALWAYS wear some sort of hat/bow. The big velvet bow is perfect with the hawk and scene hair. The beanie with ears is perfect with the side ponytail. Make sure your hat/bow goes with your hair. For jewelry,wear big necklaces. Fishnet leggings (900c) and fishnet arm things work good to. The big fuzzy boots,or high tops or crazy slippers (flamingo,bunny,or turkey slippers) for shoes. Make your clothes colorful,based on one color,or black and white. (Though black and white you might be labeled emo). Piercings; Monroe,3 lip spikes,etc) If wearing a belly shirt or bra,wear a belly ring.
 If you have the over-eye bangs,just wear smokey eyes for eyeliner and pink blush. The panda nose works very well with any fringe. Never wear colorful make-up,always make it simply black. Ganguro eyeliner for fringes that show eyes. Lip gloss not needed. Be unique.
 Don't be noobish and just randomly go up to someone and be like "hey what's up". In fact,never say hey what's up. If you plan on walking up to someone,don't. Go one step away from them,wait for them to say something,and then in whatever direction they are,say "<_<" or ">_>" Then say "wow". Always be fun and outgoing. But be yourself at the same time.
 Have a funny,and about yourself bio. And media box. Put pictures of you in your media box and funny quotes. Include a playlist with all your favorite rocks songs/bands. (Brokencyde, BOTDF, Metro Station, Slipknot,etc) Always have your top friends full. But don't just put random people in it. Put people you talk to a lot in it.

