 Research the weather condition and trail difficulty before signing up for an adventure.;
,, Proper vehicle maintenance is a must when you go off-roading. The basic checklist must include the following:


Proper tire air pressure
Good tire condition
Sufficient transmission oil, engine oil, brake fluid and radiator coolant level.
Good condition suspension system such as the shocks, ball joints, tie rods ends, and wheel bearings.
Sufficient fuel level and battery power
Check battery terminals and secure the battery with an enforced bolted harness. A loose battery and exposed terminal wiring can damage your vehicles electronic components or even weld itself to frame or engine and even worse, catch your truck on fire.
 Every off-roader must bring along with him food and water, GPS devices, extra clothes, communication devices, a map, a flashlight and a first aid kit.
 Every vehicle must be equipped with a spare tire, a car jack, tire iron and extra fuel in case you run out of gas.
 Improve a vehicle’s off-roading capability with aftermarket upgrades.



Off-road tires. They are more expensive than your regular tires. The price of mud tires usually start at $100. This is the most basic upgrade that a budding off-roader can start with. These type of tires have deeper treads and offer excellent traction to withstand different off-roading conditions.

Cold air intakes and air filters. These accessories enhance a vehicle’s performance by improving its airflow.

Heavy duty shock absorbers. High quality shocks are essential to help control the suspension and to improve the ride quality and handling of a vehicle, on and off-road.

Off-road lights. Visibility is one of the most important concerns of outdoor adventurers. Different types of off-road lights such as light bars and flood lights can help the off-roader to see faraway objects, blind corners and other potential hazards that are often encountered during nighttime driving.

Fender flares. This accessory prevents mud and rocks from getting in the wheel well.

Body armors. These include heavy duty, off-road front and rear bumpers, which offer greater protection than stock bumpers, while skid plates serve as an undercarriage shield to prevent damage from ground contact.

Lift kits. This gives a rig an added ground clearance, increases wheel well clearance, to allow use of large tires, and also adds space between wheel axles.

Roof racks. They are often purchased to load objects that can be used while going on an off-roading adventure or other types of sport equipment such as kayaks, canoes and surf boards. It also gives a rig a rugged look.

Rock sliders. It protect the sills and side of the vehicle from rocks, logs and other objects encountered on the trail.

Nerf bars. This exterior upgrade allows passengers to easily get in and out of the vehicle, particularly those outfitted with lift kits.




Winches and tow straps. These are essential, especially during the times that a rig is stuck in deep mud and in need of extraction or towing.
Extra long rope, steel cable or nylon straps to aid the winch or the towing vehicle if you are stuck in an odd angle or having difficulty with traction.
, This handy tool can save your life if you are in an accident, collision, or end up inverted under water and cannot reach or free yourself from a harness or jammed doors and windows.
, If you are within the area, you can talk to locals and inspect the terrain before you start your run.
 Inspect your vehicle for possible leaks and other damages that it may have incurred during an off-roading adventure. Make sure the tire pressure is in a sufficient level before you return to the highway.

