 If you would like to track your period the old-fashioned way, obtain a calendar and mark the days with pencil, pen, marker, or highlighter. You may use different colors, symbols, or stickers to mark the beginning and end of your cycle, the length of your period, or the days you experience physical or emotional symptoms. Create a system that is clear and works for you.


If you do not want to overload your calendar with too much information, you can keep a separate journal for your physical and emotional symptoms and only use the calendar to mark the beginning and end of your cycle and period.
If you don't use a calendar often, keep your calendar in a place you will remember it. Hanging the calendar in your bathroom or placing it next to a mirror may be helpful
If you are a very private individual and don't like your period info out for the world to see, use a very discrete mark (e.g. an "x," circle, or color) signifying the event to you.
 Instead of using pen and paper, you can use an app to track your period. These apps can keep all of your information at your fingertips and predict when your period will occur. In addition to having a calendar, many of these apps allow you to record physical and emotional changes that take place throughout your cycle.Clue is a free app for iPhone and Android phones and is one of the most recommended apps. It allows you to record physical and emotional symptoms, the days you have sex, and create reminders to take your birth control pills. After entering a few months of data, the app will use algorithms to predict when your next period starts and when you are expected to ovulate.
Period Tracker Lite is another free recommended period tracking app. This app allows you to use icons to describe your moods instead of typing out your symptoms. It is available for both iPhone and Android phones.
 If paper and pen or apps do not appeal to you, you can use an online tracker. These websites allow you to enter all of your cycle information and often have tools such as calendars, history reports, and reminders. Some of these websites also provide links to information about menstrual cycles.If internet access is an issue for you, you may not want rely on an online period tracker.
Many of the sanitary product makers (e.g. Tampax, Always, etc.) have online tackers available through their websites.

