 Seasonal affective disorder is a type of depression that is influenced by changes in seasons. If you notice yourself becoming sad or blue as winter sets in each year, you may want to consider if you are affected by this disorder. Although rare, some people may experience symptoms of SAD during spring or early summer, too. Symptoms of SAD may include:Feeling empty, sad, or anxious
Feeling irritable or restless
Having difficulty concentrating or remembering things
Experiencing changes in sleep or appetite
Feeling worthless or hopeless
Losing or gaining weight
Having little or no energy
Thinking about death or suicide

, Certain people are more susceptible to being affected by SAD than others. Studies demonstrate that about 1% to 2% of the population is affected by this type of depression. Risk factors associated with SAD include:Being female
Being a young adult
Having a family history of SAD or other type of depression
Having an existing diagnosis of depression or bipolar disorder
Living far north or south of the equator

, Diagnosis of SAD requires experiencing the cycling effects of feeling depressed during the winter months and having symptoms fade when spring/summer approaches (or vice versa in the case of summer SAD) for at least two years in a row. It can help your doctor diagnose the situation if you keep track of your mood.


Have you been feeling depressed since late fall (or late spring) and notice your symptoms worsening as winter starts and progresses? Write down how you are feeling and alert your doctor., Sometimes, we feel sad or blue due to logical reasons like a loss or even sickness. If you can connect the onset of your depressive symptoms to a specific stimulus, it can rule out the possibility of you having seasonal affective disorder. This can also help your doctor determine the root cause of your low mood.
 Although you may not yet meet the criteria for diagnosis of SAD, your doctor can still help treat your depression. Ignoring depressive symptoms can be costly to your overall life satisfaction and functioning. Reach out to your primary care doctor and ask for a mental health referral. Or, if you already have an existing relationship with a mental health provider, schedule an appointment with this professional to discuss your symptoms.


It’s important not to ignore the symptoms of depression or SAD. Also, if you are feeling suicidal, contact the suicide helpline right away at 1-800-273-TALK., Light box therapy involves sitting in front of a bright light for a set amount of time every day. This extra light exposure can help to improve your mood. You can sit in front of the light while you are reading, watching TV, or eating. This may help to improve your mood in as little as a week.It is best to use the light box first thing in the morning for about 20 to 30 minutes.
Sit about 1.5 to 2 feet away from the light with your eyes open, but do not look directly at the light.
The light box you use needs to provide about 10,000 lux of light with very little UV exposure.
Using a light box can help combat Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). However, it is important to talk to your doctor before trying light box therapy.