 You may choose a fabric like cotton or muslin for the resist printing. Avoid heavy fabrics like wool or slick fabrics like silk. Go for a fabric that is white or very light in color so the print stands out more.;
, Take your chosen fabric and place wax paper underneath it to protect the surface you are working on. Lay the wax paper and the fabric down on a flat, high surface, such as a table. Make sure the wax paper lines the fabric so no glue or paint gets on the surface you are working on., Use clear glue that is washable. Hold the glue steady as you draw out designs on the fabric. You may do a pattern with lines, circles, spirals, or shapes. Or you may try a chevron or floral pattern. The design you make with the glue will be the design that is resist printed onto the fabric.Do not let the glue get too thick on the fabric. Try not to use too much glue on the fabric, as this can lead to a blurry design.
 Once you have created the designs on the fabric with the glue, let the glue set overnight. Place the fabric in a safe spot where it will not be touched so it can dry.If you are using clear glue, it should appear clear when it dries.
 Lay out the fabric with the glue designs and put out craft paints and paint brushes. Pick out colors that you think will look good with the designs. Then, brush the paint right over the glue, onto the fabric. Cover the entire piece of fabric with paint, creating a background color for the glue designs. Blend colors if you’d like or use just one color. Get creative and paint the designs as you see fit.Use acrylic or water based paints for the designs. Avoid using oil based paints, as they will not dry well.
Try not to layer on the paint too thickly over the glue, as this can distort the design. Stick with one to two light coats of paint on the fabric.
 Giving the paint time to dry will make it easier for you to rinse off the glue later. Determine the drying time based on how you want the colors to appear. If you want the paint colors to appear darker on the fabric, you should let the fabric dry for longer.If you want the paint colors to appear more subdued, let them dry until they are damp to the touch. Then, rinse them off while they are still slightly wet.
 Once the paint has dried to your liking, place the fabric under warm running water and gently rinse off the glue. It may feel a bit slimy but that’s okay, that is to be expected. Rinse until the glue slides off the fabric.Do not rub or scrub at the fabric, as this can damage it. Instead, let the glue melt and slide off on its own.
 Leave your prints out overnight to dry on a flat surface.


You can frame the prints and hang them as wall art. Or you may use the prints to make pillowcases for your couch. You can also use the prints as dish towels or placemats.

