 The process of dying fresh flowers involves adding a color to water, and waiting for the flowers to absorb it. The dye will be absorbed by your flowers so it's best to choose light colored flowers. Popular choices include roses, daises, orchids, mums, and Queen Anne's lace but you can try any pale colored flower.;
, Decide what colors you want. If using a liquid food color you can blend the colors to get what you want. Typically, food color sets come with yellow, red, green, and blue, but you can mix these to create other colors. Alternatively, you can use powdered floral absorption dyes.
 Fill a vase with enough warm water to submerse the stems. Add flower food and dye to the water. There is no right or wrong way to add the dye; the more dye you add, the more vibrant the color of the flowers will be, the less dye, the more subdued the color.
 Before putting your flowers in the dyed water, you’ll need to cut the stems. Use a pair of gardening shears or sharp scissors to cut an inch or two off the stem 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) at a 45-degree angle. At this time, remove any extra leaves that you don't want. This will allow for optimal water absorption, expediting the overall time it takes your flowers to change color.









After picking your flowers you can leave them sitting out without water for a couple of hours. They will get thirsty and once you cut the stems and put them in your dye solution they will absorb the color pretty quick.
 Put your bouquet of flowers in the prepared vase The color won’t show up in the flower petals immediately, but it won't be long. Depending on the flower it could take 1 to 6 hours for them to be nicely dyed. The longer you leave the flowers, the more intense the color will be.
 Re cut the stems and put them in a vase with fresh warm water and flower food. To keep the flowers looking fresh, you should put new water in the vase at lease every other day, adding fresh flower food each time. The color will remain in the flowers until they eventually wilt and die.