 Taking out a student loan from a private lender is probably the most expensive way to finance college education. Therefore, it is imperative that you take steps to improve your credit before you take out the loan, so that you can do everything you can to reduce your interest rate.


For tips on improving your credit score, check out Improve Your Credit Score


, Student loans are one of the only types of debts that cannot be discharged in bankruptcy, which means that they are an obligation that can follow you around in spite of major financial reversals.When the permanency of all student loans is combined with the near usurious interest rates charged by many private lenders, you need to make sure than you have exhausted all other options before you take out a private student loan.
For example, you may also be eligible for other public loans or government and private grants. For more, see how to apply for federal grants.
 Be very diligent in searching for a private student lender, as it can affect your financial future for years to come. There are a variety of websites that offer comparisons in rates for student loans, but https://www.credible.com/student-loans and http://www.simpletuition.com/ are both well-regarded.
 If you are a parent, then consider co-signing on your child’s loan rather than taking one out in your name. Although you will be on the hook if things go south in either case, cosigning on the loan will allow you to release it to your child when they are able to pay, freeing you of liability.However, a parent might be better off taking on a personal loan then funding the student, since personal loans can be discharged or negotiated more easily than student loans in the event of financial hardship.
 All universities must issue information that documents the costs of attendance, and it's fine to use that. It is usually included with the financial aid award letter.
 You should gather information for the student and the borrower, if they are two different people, or the student and the cosigner, if there is one.You will need:


School information, including school name, major, grade, and school term for which you need the loan
Social Security number
Telephone numbers
Current addresses, both for your home and your school
Gross income information
Residence information, including whether you own or rent, and the monthly housing payment
Requested loan amount

, It's best to get on this as early as possible, right after you get your financial aid award. It can take nearly a month to get approved for a private loan, which could push back your enrollment.