 If you do see some, kill them. They may be hard to kill but it's worth it. They give no experience at all but the meat does. And maybe the ham they drop is worth money. They sell for 2 gp (gold pieces) each and the meat is 4 gp.

When you can't hold any more meat (when your Capacity is at 0 system told:it's too heavy), or when there are no more animals, go to a man named Willie just on the right of the pin (leave out of the north exit, then go right). Sell him ALL of your meat, cheese, and whatever food you may have (that he will accept) and get plenty of money now since there aren't many animals left now.
Go south of the animal pen (go right through it and go right again until you come across a big field. Kill everything that is there: deer, chickens, rabbits, etc.) and collect their meat. And check all the dead bodies and see if anyone left anything. Now sell everything again and check the animal pen again! And repeat.
When you have around 300-400 gp buy this list from either Al Dee(north of Willie) or Obi(Left of Toms) they all sell the same things at the same prices( either one will do the list includes Leather Legs Leather Boots And(maybe if you want to save a little money but have weaker armor out on armor) a Helmet this doesn't add up to much but it WILL when you get the list above go to the center of town(where the sewer gate is)and say:Buying Chain Armor Offer
Wait until someone replies this is the best armor in Rookguard when you get to main(main land) its worth nothing its mostly around 50 gp but can go higher.
Then when you get your chain armor yell(if you didn't buy a helmet) Buying Legion Or Viking Helm Offer)these are good helmets in rookguard then when you've done THAT shout Buying Katana Or carlin Sword Offer the katana is the BEST weapon in rookguard and carlin sword is the second best do this until you're done.
When you get this you should be AT LEAST level 4(if you trained fist) or level 1(if you got money first when you have done this go buy a backpack from obi or al dee for 20gp and a rope and a shovel(you will need these)if you don't have enough money kill more animals for meat until you have enough this will ring up a HIGH bill but is worth it next off more training places.

If there is only 1 fight it if there are 2 or more lure(this means letting it follow you)somewhere else or get a narrow space and fight them 1 by 1 if your level 4 do this if your level 5 fight them both there will be other normal spiders that won't be a problem with your new armor and weapons when everything is dead get on board the raft there should be a chest there open it up and you should receive a book
Go back to the town and go to the library(north of the sewer gate can't miss it) and go down the stairs go into the room with many beds and look for someone named Amber say "Hi", then Book, then yes.


Receive a short sword sell that to obi and receive some good money (This quest can be done as many times as you want as long as you find another book on the ground)when you have done that go back outside the city and look ALLOVER the place for monsters fight them and when you get to level 5 or 6 go to a little bridge South of the bridge to the city(go south of the bridge then north until you see it)cross over there and go south then left until you find some trolls and a tower fight the trolls and snakes you see and walk around the place looking for them(stay IN THE SWAMP(where all that green goo is) unless you want to be killed!) kill snakes and trolls when you reach level 6 or 7 its time for your first dungeon!

When you're in the swamp(at troll tower)go Left(<---) until you reach water then go North until you see a building there may be monsters in it but nothing to scary go inside fight off everything there(make sure to have food) then go all through the cave(make sure to have a rope as well and a shovel) until you reach level 8 then you may leave Rookguard (YAY) but before that finish some quests( a link at bottom of wikihow) .


If you took the money first...

Follow the same path as others(kill rats trolls and snakes dungeon!)until level 8.
 Everything ranged uses up ammo and that can get expensive when buying(unless using spears and fighting trolls because trolls drop spears) Has average melee, and magic. Paladins and very all around characters, and very fun to play. But Paladins along with knights pay the price early on you have to train a lot. You want your Distance fighting over 60 when you hit level 20.
Sorcerer Pros: Can use Magic Wands from a distance Can Make Many Runes(Including SD's(Sudden Death Runes)and they are VERY strong runes and VERY expensive Has a VERY high amount of mana then other classes The higher there ML(Magic Level) The higher there rune strength will be Cons:Wands use mana and when mana runs out you cannot use it(can still use runes though also mana can be restored by eating food) Has the LOWEST Cap(capacity this is how much you can carry) has the LOWEST HP
Druids Pros: Can make Healing Runes and other Healing Spells(VERY popular and can get a lot of money) Can heal other people Uses Rods that can attack from a distance Has the HIGHEST Mana in the game Is accepted by everyone due to the fact they can make Healing runes(they can be used to HEAL other people ANYONE can use them this like a healing spell in a rock that anyone can use)


The higher there magic level the HIGHER there heals will be Cons:Has the lowest HP and CAP in the game Rods use mana and when mana runs out it can't be used(can be replenished with food).
