 It's helpful to have a general overview of the city before you arrive, as well as an understanding of Baltimore's visitor offerings, discounts, events, and neighborhoods to check out. If you opt for a tourist guidebook, bring it with you for quick reference.;
, You may only be visiting for the weekend, but even a two or three day getaway can be greatly affected by the weather. Here is an overview of the best times to pay a visit to Baltimore:


Winter: The harbor looks beautiful under a fresh blanket of snow, but the harsh winds, frigid temperatures, and unpredictable winter storms are turnoffs to consider. If you'll be visiting anytime from November through March, be prepared for the cold weather, but also enjoy the numerous indoor public events offered.
Spring: One of the best times to visit Baltimore, springtime in Charm City offers mild or pleasantly cool days, budding trees and plant life, abundant outdoor activities and relatively thin crowds.

Summer: The air is sticky, the crowds are thick, and you'd be hard pressed to find many bargains. And you can't rule out the brief, but frequent, summer thunderstorm. However, harbor cruises and boat rides are a great relief to the humid days, and local produce markets are thriving with fresh merchandise.
Fall: Autumn is another great time to visit Baltimore; with cooler days, thinning crowds and the holidays approaching, the city seems to take on a charming vibe.
 While there are numerous hotels in Baltimore, especially downtown, less expensive options include homey bed-and-breakfasts and small but comfortable rental apartments in the city's most historic neighborhoods. If booking a hotel, consider the following tips to lessen the cost of your stay when making reservations:


Don't pay the rack rate. The rack rate is the highest fee a hotel charges for a room, and you'll most likely end up paying it unless you inquire about any discounts, such as if kids stay free or if your room comes with kitchen capabilities.
Get more for your money. Even if you are just staying for the weekend, ask the clerk for a corner room, which are typically larger and feature more windows, and if the hotel was recently renovated, ask for one of the newly redone guestrooms.
 Places to visit at the Inner Harbor in downtown include the renown Maryland Science Center, Maritime Museum of Baltimore, Port Discovery Children's Museum and the Baltimore World Trade Center observation deck.
 Visit Federal Hill across the harbor for amazing city views, or browse the shops and street life of the historic Fells' Point neighborhood.
 Locally-inspired fare is the norm at almost all but the chain restaurants, which includes seafood and American-style offerings. Many of the restaurants are located on the water and offer breathtaking harbor views.
 Take in the local scene there and find secret offerings or cheaper shopping then what you'd find at the harbor.
 Whether it be a romantic dinner cruise on the bay, an expensive must-have souvenir or a hotel suite with a remarkable view, treat yourselves during your visit to Baltimore with something special.

