 Many people are at risk, and you should know if you are too. People who are at risk are:


Those with spina bifida (myelomeningocele)
Healthcare workers and rubber industry workers
People who have had repeated exposure through multiple surgeries, repeated exposure to: latex tipped urinary catheters, medical equipment with latex, condoms, rubber latex gloves, and other household or pubic use of rubber latex products (this includes breathing in the protein molecules suspended in the air by use of powder on latex gloves, etc.),
People who have food allergies that have protein molecules that simulate the proteins in latex: the most common being banana, fig, tomato, strawberry, tropical fruits, and chestnut/hazelnut;
, Some common reactions are:



Atopic Dermatitis It is characterized by dry, itchy, and/or reddened skin. There can be localized scaling and/or lesions. It is a sensitivity rather than an allergy, and can be made worse by powdered gloves and harsh cleansers.
Allergic Contact Dermatitis. This may not always show up right away, but when it does manifest, it does so with red raised lesions that are itchy and painful and can spread to other areas of the body. The lesions can resemble other contact reactions such as poison ivy and poison oak. They usually get worse with repeated use or contact with latex products.
Immediate allergic reaction. It manifests right away, sometimes starting with irritated eye and hay fever type symptoms, but can rapidly progress to rapid heartbeat, palpitations, difficulty breathing. This is a serious condition and is often referred to as anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shock. Untreated, it can lead to death.
 There are usually synthetic alternatives to latex, so do some research. Medical facilities have latex-free treatment options, so always let them know you are sensitive to latex.
 For the more severe reaction, treatment consists of antihistamines, steroids, and in very severe cases, epinephrine. Those individuals who have this reaction should keep that information on them at all times and carry an epi-pen.
,, Avoid the problem foods mentioned above.

