 Many people have variations such as flat feet, high arches, low arches, or wide feet. If this applies to you, you’ll need to choose shoes designed for your problem or variation. To find out if you have foot problems or variations, wet your foot and make a print on a brown piece of paper. Then, trace the outline of your foot.If your footprint shows the entire sole of your foot, with little to no curve on the inside, you have low arches or flat feet.
If your footprint shows only a portion of your forefoot and heel, with a narrow connection between the two, you have high arches.
If your footprint has a distinct curve along the inside, you have a neutral arch.;
, Flat feet leads to overpronation, meaning your feet roll inward. This creates extra wear on the outside heel and inside forefoot, so you’ll want a shoe with a motion-control feature., High arches lead to underpronation, meaning your feet roll outward. This creates extra wear on the outer edge of the heel and little toe., If you have neutral arches, you’ll need a shoe the right amount of support and cushioning, so choose one with a stability feature., If you do step aerobics on wood or linoleum, you need soles with very good traction. If you do your aerobics on carpet, you want a lower amount of tread so the shoe doesn't catch on the carpet pile., This is especially important if you workout at a gym. Most gyms have hardwood or linoleum flooring, and shoes with marking black soles leave streaks on the floor, so you may be asked not to use them., These are popular shoes, but they are made for straight movement and provide no lateral support, so your ankles are prone to injury. If you are unsure of whether a shoe you are looking at is for running, ask a store employee or look on the manufacturer's website., Choose a specialty sport-shoe store with a large inventory and a knowledgeable sales staff. Do an Internet search to find such a store in your area.If you choose to shop for aerobics shoes exclusively online, go to a site that has free shipping, such as Amazon's Endless website. Choose a few pairs of shoes using the above criteria. You may want to order several pairs then try them on when they arrive and send back the ones you don’t need.
 It’s a good idea to have a sales associate measure your feet in the store. This will ensure you are buying the correct size of aerobic shoes. There should be about ⅜ to ½ inch (0.95 to 1.27 cm), or about a thumb’s width, between the front of your big toes and the end of the shoe.The heel should be relatively tight, and shouldn’t slip out when you walk.
The upper part of the shoe (which goes over the top of your foot) should feel snug and secure, but not too tight.
 For aerobics, you’ll want a lightweight shoe to prevent foot fatigue. Look at the materials the shoes are made out of, and hold several pairs of aerobic shoes in your hands, one at a time, to determine which are light and which are heavy., Place one hand at the heel and the other hand at the toe of the shoe and twist. In good aerobics shoes, the front section of the shoe should twist with a small amount of resistance., You may have seen shoes with heels that seem to go out much further than your foot bed. A round outsole in front gives you extra stability during lateral, side-to-side movement, while a wide heel gives extra cushioning as you step down.Look for a firm heel counter. A heel counter is material that is put around the heel to stiffen it and give extra support to the rest of the foot bed.
 The upper is the area that covers the top of the foot. If your feet tend to get extra sweaty or smelly, look for a material that is sturdy, but breathable. Firm leather provides the best outer foot support; however, they can be more expensive, heavier, and less breathable than synthetic materials., Aerobics shoes should have insoles (the inside part your foot rests on) with enhanced cushioning. Although aerobics are low impact, you’ll want a shoe with extra shock absorption under the ball of your foot.Press on the insole with your thumb. The softer it is, the more likely it is to give you cushioning and shock absorption.
A shoe with an insole made from ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) is a good option. Gray EVA is firmer, while white EVA is softer and is best for aerobic exercise., It’s important to try on multiple pairs of shoes before deciding which ones to take home. Choose the shoe that is the most comfortable to you from the get-go. There should not be a “break-in” period.Try on aerobics shoes with athletic socks. You want to make sure they fit well with the thickness of the socks you will regularly use.
 Go to an area of the store that has similar flooring to your step aerobic environment and do some aerobic moves. Move laterally, jump, and walk around in each pair of potential shoes. See which have the best grip and the most support for your feet., Go to Amazon or Zappos and cull the reviews to look for people who use them for step aerobics. This will give you a better idea of the support and durability of the shoe.

