 Depending on how you and your friends communicate most effectively, you'll either need some note cards or paper or a telephone and your invitee list containing phone numbers. If your need to, try sending e-invitations from such companies as eVite, or send invitations through social networking feeds such as Facebook or Twitter. Throw an extra flare and post it on any and all blogs you own and write often into.;
, Tell these people that although some people may shy away from wearing items when they hear they have to wear a sleeper while they are there, that blanket sleepers have come back into style for many adults as well as teens, and can be bought at their nearest superstore (Target and/or Walmart) on the adult lingerie racks and online at either JumpinJammerz or one of the few other reputable companies.


For those who are thin or short, some people (mostly tween and early teen girls) may still even fit into the biggest-sized toddler-sized ones available there as well, so they can try them on too.






Let them know that to effectively enter your sleepover, their sleeper must be nearby (with or on them) and that if they aren't dressed in it when they show up, they must change into it moments after they step into the house.
, Be sure that the room will not exit into any other room that requires others to change their clothes also.


Be prepared in the event that four people will arrive at the same exact time and will be ready at those exact same times. One person can use the room while others must wait their turn.
, Purchaseseveral sets for yourself and others. Unless you know their size, always try to purchase a few of different sizes.
 Always think about the negatives in all activities you plan.


Set up more than one room, if the attendees vary in age. Inviting relatives of family members of your invitees should be allowed to come in, as long as those unplanned guests can wear blanket sleepers themselves, and their adult chaperone (if needed) can attend too. The adult chaperone doesn't have to wear a blanket sleeper, though it is greatly encouraged that they do wear one to keep with the same theme.







Stash an extra blanket or two for the adults that chaperone these smaller children to use that night.Although the blanket sleeper will provide enough warmth to suffice, for those who feel terrible showing off their blanket sleeper, they can have an extra layer of security.






Include board games, computer games, appropriate races (watermelon race, wheelbarrow race) as part of any games you might be able to play while waiting for "lights out" to arrive. For each age group, for those kids who are teens who enjoy talking about the 'opposite sex' or playing Spin the Bottle or one of the many other weird dare games most teens and tweens like to play, as these too, can be done too just like at other slumber parties but make sure it doesn't get too rambunctious and out of hand.
, No one likes to walk very far for a slumber party, and especially not when they have to wear something this strange out in public, so why force them to walk too far.
 The party area shall be of a calm, serene nature, and the sleeping area should be even serener.
 If they want, they can bring in "sleeping pals" (teddy bears of all sorts), but these sleeping pals may get in the way and aren't necessary.
 Tell them they must wear it, but they can cover themselves up with a blanket or sleep in a lighter-weight sleeping bag at the host's choice.
, Make cookies that look like sleepers, or make something to suit the occasion.

