 Part of prioritizing your marriage and working on intimacy is spending time together. Your marriage can’t be a priority if you don’t make time for it. Take a look at your daily schedule. Find a block of time each day where you can be with your spouse.You may have to cancel something, rearrange certain responsibilities, or make certain things easier and quicker to make time for your spouse.
For example, you may choose to make a quick, easy dinner so you and your spouse can have half an hour after dinner to spend talking. You may ask your spouse to pick up the kids instead of you, go to the gym in the morning, or move a stack of work to the next day.
Spend at least 15 to 30 minutes together with no electronic devices. Talk to one another about your days. Hold one another. Kiss. Spend this time enjoying each other and connecting.
 You can’t work on increasing the intimacy in your marriage alone. It has to be a joint effort between you and your spouse. When you are figuring out how and when to spend time together, make sure you plan together. Don’t plan it and tell your spouse. Instead, work together. This can also start to increase intimacy.Sit down together with your weekly calendars. Think of times you can squeeze in 15 or 20 minutes to be together. If evenings are bad, consider mornings or lunch dates.
See if close friends or family members would be willing to watch your kids now and then so that you can spend some time alone with your spouse. For example, you could ask your children's grandparents or a friend who has children around the same age.
 Every person needs different things to feel an intimate connection. Some people are more physical, while others are more emotional. You and your spouse should discuss what you need from each other to feel more intimate.For example, you may say, “I need to be touched more, like hand holding, hugs, or your arm around me” or “I need you to be more affectionate. I’d like it if you smiled at me, complimented me, or acted happier to be around me.”
Meeting your spouse where they need you to can help you both get what you need, which will lead to deeper intimacy.

