 Most of the supplies for confetti balloons can be found at your local craft store, general retailers, most grocery stores, and sometimes even pharmacies. You'll need:

Balloons
Confetti
Funnel or tube (optional; recommended)
Ribbon (optional)
Scissors (optional)
Tissue paper (optional);
, Confetti can easily spread around and make a mess. Lay out a cover over your work area, like newspaper, a drop cloth, or butcher paper, to catch any errant confetti.

Once you've finishing making your balloons, roll up your cover so the confetti is trapped inside it, then dump the confetti in a container for later or in the trash.
 Confetti is relatively inexpensive, but you can still save some money and have fun doing it by turning confetti making into a craft. Use suitable paper, like colored construction paper, then:

Use scissors to cut long, narrow strips in the paper. Your strips should be roughly a ¼" (.64 cm) thick.
From one end of the strip, begin cutting ¼" (.64 cm) squares free from the strip. Do this until you have enough confetti.
 For personalized confetti, you may want to cut tissue paper into small (no larger than a quarter) thematically appropriate shapes. This can be used in place of store bought confetti, or mixed in with it. For example:Cut miniature hearts in red colored tissue paper to create Valentine's Day themed confetti.
Use green tissue paper to cut out shamrock shapes for St. Patrick's Day celebrations.
Red and green tissue paper cut into small circles work well for Christmastime holiday events.
Cut small scale flowers in bright, vibrant colors to create a springtime vibe in your balloons., The easiest way to do this is with a funnel or a medium thickness tube. Put your funnel or tube in the mouth of the balloon, and pour confetti through the funnel and into the balloon.

Larger tissue paper designs can be rolled up and pushed through the funnel/tube. Do this for as many balloons as you desire., If you don't have a funnel or tube handy, you can simply stretch the mouth of the balloon open to fit your confetti. However, this may be easiest to do with an extra set of hands., In some cases, your confetti may clog your funnel, tube, or even the neck of the balloon. If this happens, use a narrow item, like a chopstick or an unsharpened pencil, to push the confetti through., Now that confetti is inside the balloons, you can fill them with helium or air. When the balloon is full, tie off the end in a simple knot. With another simple knot, attach a ribbon or string to the tied off end of the balloon.

Helium is necessary if you want your balloons to float. Helium tanks can be found at party stores and many general retailers, like Target and Walmart.