 Signs and symptoms of kennel cough are a persistent, dry cough with a “honking” sound, gagging, fever, coughing up white foamy phlegm, and/or nasal discharge.In most cases, your dog will appear healthy except for a cough.;
, If you suspect your dog has kennel cough, call your vet and schedule an appointment. Your vet will be able to accurately diagnose your dog.


Let your veterinarian know that you would like to treat your dog with natural remedies. Your vet should be able to recommend safe products and methods to treat kennel cough naturally.
If your dog’s symptoms become worse, for example it develops a loss of appetite, becomes lethargic, or the cough gets worse, contact your vet immediately.
 Kennel cough is very contagious. It can be transmitted through the air or through contact with contaminated objects. If you own other pets, make sure to isolate your sick dog from these pets. Isolate your dog’s bed, toys, and food dishes in a separate room. Confine your dog to this room for at least a week, or until you see your dog’s symptoms improve. Make sure your other pets are in a separate room if you need to let your dog out.
 A kennel cough is a very dry cough. Therefore, keep the air in the room, or the area your dog is staying in, moist. Use a humidifier or a vaporizer to keep the air moist. Place the humidifier near your dog’s sleeping area, or in the room your dog is staying in.Make sure to keep your dog away from smoke, as well as other irritating and noxious fumes., Steam is also an effective way to remedy your dog’s cough. Steam will open up your dog’s bronchial tubes and break up phlegm.With the door closed, turn on your shower as hot as it can go, and let the room steam up for 15 to 20 minutes. Bring your dog into the bathroom, and sit with it for 15 to 25 minutes to let your dog breathe in the steam.
 Honey will help soothe your dog’s dry throat. It also has anti-bacterial properties. Give your dog a teaspoon or two of honey per day until its symptoms improve. Buy an all-natural honey., Coconut oil is thought to have beneficial properties that may help combat your dog's kennel cough. Pour two teaspoons of coconut oil over your dog’s food daily, or let your dog lick it from a spoon.Remember, coconut oil is high in calories, so feeding a dog too much is not recommended. Likewise, dogs who need a low fat diet for weight loss or other health-related reasons should not be given coconut oil.
 Chicken stock is great way to soothe your dog’s throat while ensuring it gets important vitamins, minerals, and proteins. Before feeding your dog, mix your dog’s kibble or drinking water with the chicken stock.


This is a particularly helpful method if your dog’s appetite decreases because of the cough.
 While your dog is recovering, make sure it gets adequate rest. Try not to exercise or play with your dog too much. Also, try to provide a stress-free environment. Too much activity and stress can weaken your dog’s immune system and prevent it from recovering.Keep your dog calm and relaxed by being calm and relaxed yourself. Limit screaming and yelling in the house. Also, limit other activities that can cause your dog to stress, like trimming your dog’s nails or giving it a bath.
Because a leash can irritate your dog’s throat and make a cough worse, use a leash attached to a harness if you walk your dog.Kennel cough is usually treated with a week or two of rest., Probiotics are a great way to boost your dog’s immune system. Keeping your dog’s immune system up is critical when treating kennel cough. You can buy probiotics specifically made for your dog from your local pet supply store. Probiotics come in several different forms, such as powders, capsules, chews, and dog food.Sprinkle a recommended dosage of probiotics on your dog's food before they eat.
If your dog is on an anti-biotic prescribed by the vet, make sure to wait at least two hours before administering the probiotic. If not, the two will cancel each other out., Another great way to boost your dog’s immune system is to supplement its diet with vitamins. Particularly, vitamin C is a great immune booster. Make sure to buy vitamins that are made specifically for dogs. You can buy them from your local pet supply store.Dog vitamins usually come in the form of soft, chewable tablets. You can either place a tablet in your dog's food bowl with its meal, or give your dog a tablet after it is finished eating.
The recommended dosage depends on your dog’s weight. Check the back of the bottle to see how much your dog needs.

