 Sometimes, he simply won’t leave you alone. If you’ve tried discouraging him and it simply isn’t working, find a friend to delve into a conversation with or leave with. This tactic works best with a guy friend, as the flirter may assume he's your boyfriend.If he won’t stop monopolizing the conversation, say, “It was great talking with you, but I really need to catch up with my friend.” Then leave and go to your friend.
If possible, let your friend know what is going on so they won’t unknowingly leave you in a bad spot by leaving without you or slipping off to the bathroom at an inopportune time.
 If you’ve tried discouraging him, but he keeps pretending as if those things didn’t happen, lay it out. You’ve been polite, now it’s time to err on the side of crystal clear, even if it comes off as blunt. In other words, just tell him, "no," and reiterate why you can't be with him.Give a brief outline of what has been going on. Say something like, “You’ve been asking me on dates and saying suggestive things, and I’ve done my best to not encourage that. I told you I'm not interested in any relationship right now, but you keep trying to get me alone. Please stop. I’m not interested.”
Tell him in a public place. If he’s not taking "no" for an answer and you want him to stop, don’t allow yourself to be anywhere alone with him. You definitely want to think of safety first.
 If the situation is escalating and you are concerned about your safety, loudly say "no," and tell him you want him to leave you alone. Tell your friends what is happening. Walk away, and join your friends.Don’t take this step lightly. Read the situation and decide whether or not you’ve already made yourself clear in other ways and whether or not you are in danger.
Be prepared for the fact that he might play innocent or call you crazy.
 If you feel your safety is threatened, don't hesitate to call security. If you are in a place that doesn't have security, call the police, then talk to the management.It's important to put your safety first. If the guy is getting hostile or you think he might hurt you, it's important to get out of there and involve other people.

