 Organizing your own event may be even more effective, but it will involve a lot of effort and organization. You may find it more effective and time-saving to join an event that is already planned.;
, You will also need to discuss whether you can display posters, distribute fact sheets and pamphlets, and perhaps even have a stall with games and prizes.
 Here are just a few ideas for events at which you can raise awareness and communicate information, whether or not you organize them yourself:

Rallies and fairs: these are (you hope!) large gatherings with lots of stalls, activities and games.







Walks and marches: organized walks and marches are another good way of attracting attention. You can carry posters or banners and hand out information leaflets. You could also arrange a sponsored walk to raise funds.







Concerts: stage your own or ask for permission to hand out material at public concerts.







Sports events: many successful groups use sports as a focal point for activities







Theatrical events: short dramas, comedy sketches and puppet shows are a good way of communicating information without boring people!







, Make posters, flyers, badges, banners, signs, costumes and other informational material or display items to hand out and display at the event.
 Is there something different that you can do apart from the rest of the event to alert others to your presence? Maybe stage a skit, float 100 balloons above your table, present an award to someone special? Consider possible avenues for making your cause or project the centre of attention for at least a portion of the whole event.
 Seek volunteers from your class, school or community group to join in and make the awareness raising event a success. You will need people who can make the display items, people who can write and print the information and people who are willing to stand around at the event and actively engage people in discussion and explanation of the cause or project that your are promoting.
 There are some things that must be arranged before the event that may seem mundane but are very important to its success:
Ensure that everyone can reach the event; arrange transportation or collection of volunteers if necessary






Provide means for getting the promotional materials to the event






Be sure to have the right equipment. If you want to display things, make sure there will be a table or stand available, or bring your own






Check out the venue ahead of time, to make sure you know how to set up your own area






Consider clothing - will you be wearing something that distinguishes all of you? For example, you might all wear red t-shirts, or blue ribbons or have special patches on your arms to identify you and your cause to all the people attending the event






Ensure that the volunteers have access to refreshments and water; either ask them to bring their own or have some available






Check for restroom facilities; overlooking this can result in hardship for somebody!







, Always plan for weather contingencies. If the event is indoors, you won't have to worry. But if it is held outdoors and suddenly it starts to rain or blow a gale, you will want to be sure your volunteer team and the promotional material are protected from the elements.
 Always tidy up after your own event. It leaves a good impression in everybody's mind and you will be asked back again if you leave everything the way that you found it. This is especially important when you want to hold a regular awareness raising event and you are passing down the baton to younger classes or other volunteers.

