 There are many sub styles of gyaru that range from funky and wild, to cute and classy. Some styles are b-gyaru, hime gyaru, himekaji, banba, onee gyaru, rokku gyaru, and a newer style, mode gyaru.;
, The most popular magazines are pop teen, ageha, egg, jelly, and ranzuki. If you can't purchase any in your area, you can always go on websites like jmagazinescans.livejournal.com and vvshu.com

, It's important to know what you're getting into and it's best to be really familiar with the looks that come with this particular style, rather than just copying one picture that might not be most fit for your body type or the shape of your face.
 Most gyaru blogs are on blogspot and live journal some blogs are universal doll, moments like diamonds, and sushi cat. But don't limit yourself to those few, try to branch out and discover blogs that you like.
 some basic things you might like are hair accessories, a mini skirt, an a line skirt, a pleated skirt, a white blouse, a black blouse, two cute graphic tees, dark wash skinny jeans, colored skinny jeans, black skinny jeans, and a sun dress. Common gyaru accessories are sun hats, collars(by themselves), nerd glasses, and jewelry.
 The basic gyaru makeup includes pencil liner, liquid liner, white eyeliner, natural toned eye-shadows, concealer, foundation or a tinted moisturizer, nude lipstick pink lipgloss or clear gloss, false eyelashes, mascara, and blush.
 In most styles, gyaru hair is glamorous, big and puffy, often curled, it takes a bit more work than most people's everyday hairstyle. It's a good thing to show off that you put a lot of effort in your hair. Sometimes it might look wild but in many cases each strand was carefully arranged that way. there are also more "toned down" hairstyles like sock buns, half up, and curly ponytails. Most hair styles are dark blonde, long, curly, and have versatile bangs (bangs that can be worn straight, or side-swept).
 Post your pictures online and start a blog once you're confident with your look. There are always going to be people who don't like your look. Try to take it as constructive criticism and don't pay too much attention to people who just bash on you. Not all gals are positive gals!!

,