 Exercising should be a positive but goal-oriented experience. Suggesting that your child pick a goal, such as being able to run a 5K marathon, or learning how to roller skate, may be met with a better attitude than when you say that they should ‘get more exercise’.Remind teens that dancing and other simple movements do count as exercise.;
, If your teen has been largely inactive, it is important to help your child ease into exercising. Encourage your child to begin with short exercises that eventually will lead up to a longer exercise regimen.


Let your teen experiment with types of exercise, and lengths of exercise sessions, so that they can determine on their own what they can and can’t do just yet.
 If your teen has never played sports or done a lot of exercise, try to encourage your teen to warm up and cool down after working out.


Warming up will help to get your child’s body ready for physical activity, while cooling down will help to keep your child’s muscles limber so that they don’t get pulled or torn.
 When your teen is surrounded by other teens who all have the same goal, or are relying on your teen, your teen will most likely be more inclined to work hard. It will also give your teen an opportunity to socialize while also exercising.


Some team sports you might consider suggesting include soccer, lacrosse, football, tennis, softball, baseball, and swim team.
 Doing this will help to make your teen feel like they are not being singled out. A family bike ride could both encourage your child to exercise, while also serving as a family bonding experience.


You could also sign up for family events, like a relay, where you have to train as a group before the race.
 If your teen sees that you never exercise, or that you don’t live a healthy lifestyle, your teen may be less inclined to make the effort to exercise. If you are always moaning about exercise or complaining about all of the foods that you cannot eat thanks to your “lousy” diet, your teen is not going to want to join you.Instead, it is important that you use positive self-talk when talking about your body. It is important that you find an exercise program that you really enjoy and actually look forward to doing. Show your teen how much energy you have when you are done and explain the benefits of endorphins (they boost your feelings of happiness, and your energy levels).

