 Poor quality nails will bend and warp when you’re installing the trim, which will make the process more difficult. A regular hammer will work just fine on nails, but a rubber mallet or hammer covered in cloth will protect your upholstery should you miss a nail.


There are many different size, shape, and color nails you can use in this project. Check your local hardware or craft store to find unique nails for your trim.
For a more precise pounding tool, you might want to use a specialized tack hammer. These can be found at most hardware stores and craft shops.;
, When using individual nails to create your nailhead trim, you can be more flexible with its spacing and pattern. For instance, you can have the nails occur immediately one after another, or you might space these out so there are gaps between them.It may help to visualize different patterns, spacings, and styles for your trim by doing a rough sketch of the chair and drawing your desired trim design on it.
 Use painter’s tape to overlay the area you’ll be applying your trim. Trim is often used along edges and seams. With a pencil, mark the locations you’ll be pounding in nails on the tape. If you’re including spaces between nails, measure these carefully with a tape measure so the end result looks uniform.


If you’re planning on using nails without any spaces in between, it may be easiest to draw a straight line on your tape where the nails will be attached.Be especially careful that your marks are even. If the nails forming your trim are angled or otherwise out of alignment, it will be easy to see.
In some cases, you may be able to write directly on your upholstery and erase marks that are unaligned. However, to prevent damage to your upholstery, tape is recommended., Pound the nails into your upholstery following the marks on your painter’s tape. To protect your fingers and increase visibility so you can see the mark on the tape better, hold the nail with a pair of needle nose pliers, then pound it in with a hammer.


If using painter’s tape, pound the nails in most of the way, but leave a small space between the nail head and the tape. This will make removing the tape easier. Needle nose pliers aren’t a requirement for this project. You may be just as accurate holding nails between your pointer and middle fingers, sinking the nail partway into the upholstery, removing your fingers, then finishing pounding., It’s likely that while installing the nails a few will bend, warp, or become deformed. Don’t try to force these into place. Doing so can make them look unsightly and difficult to remove. Instead, use a tack puller to remove ruined nails.


Tack pullers are generally long handled tools with a prong on the end. Slot the nail inside the prong, then pry upwards with the puller to remove the nail., Once you’ve attached the nails for your trim, you’re nearly finished. Peel away the tape from the nails. Then use your hammer to pound the nails in the remainder of the way. Your nailhead trim is complete.You may need to tear the tape in certain places to completely remove it from around the nail. In the event tape sticks stubbornly to the upholstery, use your fingernail or a knife to gently peel away the tape.

