 Bonded leather and genuine leather are often cleaned in a similar fashion, but it is important to know what type of material you are working with for processes like spot treatments. Look at the tag on the piece to help you determine whether it is made of bonded or genuine leather., Before you start cleaning bonded leather, pick up any large debris including items like rocks, coins, food crumbs, or any other sizeable object that may have settled into the piece. Dispose of these pieces before vacuuming to avoid clogging your vacuum.
 Once you have removed all large debris, vacuum the surface of your bonded leather item to remove smaller debris such as dirt and pet hair. Use a soft brush attachment on a vacuum hose, or the low setting on a hand vacuum.You may want to further consider using a crevice attachment to get into folds and corners of pieces like bonded leather chairs and sofas.
 If you have not used your bonded leather piece in some time, or if it sits in an area that is prone to collecting dust, use a microfiber cloth or a disposable duster to wipe away any small particles from the piece. This prevents them from becoming caked on later., Use three to five drops of a mild soap such as a facial cleanser or a soap made specifically for leather, and dissolve them in one quart of warm water. Mix until some suds are visible on top.To make your detergent, consider using distilled water, which can be purchased at most supermarkets. Distilled water is free from chlorine and other contaminants in tap water that could cause markings on your leather., Using a clean microfiber cloth, dip a corner into the detergent and apply it to a small, inconspicuous area of the bonded leather piece. Use a dry portion of the cloth to wipe away the detergent, and check to see if it picks up any dye or causes the fabric to thin and fade.If the detergent impacts the leather in any way, do not proceed with cleaning. Contact the manufacturer for recommendations on how to clean that particular piece.
 Once you know your detergent is safe to use on your leather piece, soak a microfiber or other soft-textured rag in the detergent and wring it out thoroughly. Section-by section, wipe down the surface of the leather piece with the detergent-soaked rag. Then, rinse off the section using a second rag moistened with distilled water, but free of detergent.Continue this process in sections until your bonded leather piece has been completely cleaned.
You may need to wipe over sections multiple times with the non-detergent rag to fully rinse it. Continue to wipe down the surface until any sudsing has stopped and soap residue is no longer visible.
 Use a third clean, dry towel or cloth to wipe away any excess moisture from the surface of the bonded leather. Then, allow the piece to air dry in an area with limited natural light. If it is a furniture piece, consider closing blinds or curtains while the piece is drying.Minimizing exposure to sunlight helps prevent cracking and separation of the leather pulp from the backing.
 Once or twice a year, apply a leather conditioner to your piece to help keep it soft and durable. You can purchase a leather conditioner from many home improvement stores, or online. Most standard leather conditioners will work with bonded leather.Use a clean rag to buff the conditioner into the leather. It should not need to be wiped away. Simply allow it to dry for the amount of time specified on the packaging.
 If something spills on your bonded leather piece, blot it with a soft, dry cloth or paper towel. Avoid rubbing, as this could rapidly wear down your leather.If you are worried the spot may leave a mark or stain, use a bit of mild detergent and warm water to remove any residual coloring. Bonded leather is generally durable, and so will likely resist staining if spots are treated quickly.
 Bonded leather can quickly degrade and start to peel or flake when exposed constantly to sunlight. Move your bonded leather pieces away from the sun, or consider using drapes or blinds to keep too much sun from reaching the piece.