 To ensure accurate results, you need to take the following precautions in the hours leading up to the test:


Ask your healthcare provider which medications you should avoid on the day of the test.
Do not smoke within 24 hours of the test.
Do not drink alcohol within 4 hours of the test.
Do not exercise strenuously within 30 minutes of the test.
Wear comfortable clothing that allows you to breath easily.
Do not eat a heavy meal within two hours of the test.;
, A history of smoking, chronic coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath are a few of the symptoms that are important for the medical staff to consider as they analyze your spirometry test results., They may show you one or more breathing techniques that you will use during the test. Pay attention to the type of breaths they take and be ready to try them yourself., This clip closes your nostrils, ensuring that all of the air you expel during the test will exit through your mouth to be measured by the spirometer., A tight seal is necessary to prevent air leakage.It is important that all the air you are about to exhale goes into the spirometer for accurate measurements., Your lungs should feel filled to their maximum., Think of this as trying to get all of your air out as quickly as possible. It is important that you exhale quickly for an accurate measurement of the volume you can expel within the first second., Your lungs and throat should feel empty. It is important that you discharge all the air for an accurate measurement of how much you exhaled in one entire breath., The test can make you feel lightheaded, so make sure to breathe evenly when appropriate to prevent dizziness., Although breathing this way may feel unnatural, this pattern allows the spirometer to measure pulmonary functions such as lung capacity and airflow.
 You might need to increase your inhalation, the speed of your exhalation, or the duration of your exhalation for the next attempt.
 Multiple measurements give you a chance to correct performance errors, and provide the necessary data for the test results., The medical professional who administered the test may not be able to give you the results right away. It depends on the type of medical professional who is administering the test. You may have to wait to speak with your doctor about the results after they’ve been reviewed by a specialist., Your height, weight, age, and sex are some of the variables the specialist considered when comparing your test results against the standard measurements. Your doctor should be able to answer questions about how these variables factored into their diagnosis., Diagnoses may include asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, . Test results might also be used to determine eligibility for surgery. Your doctor will work with you to determine the right medications and lifestyle changes necessary to maintain and improve your pulmonary health.

