 Once you find a school program that works for you, make sure you also use technological resources to help you do well in school. Use apps to help you brush up on your Braille and to help you situate yourself in a space, like the Braille Now app or the AroundMe app. Have speech software installed on your computer so you can listen to printed texts. Listen to audiobooks and podcasts on how to study while blind.You can also ask instructors for technological resources that you can use to be a better student in class.
 Maintain open communication with your instructors so you are aware of what is expected of you as a student and do well in the class. Let your instructor know if you need additional support in class. Stay organized and on top of your assignments for class. Speak to your instructor if you need more guidance during a lesson or on an assignment.Do not be shy about letting your instructor know when you need more support. They should try to accommodate your needs and make you feel like you have as much opportunity as everyone else in the classroom.
 Look into disability resources at school, particularly if you are not going to a school for the blind or visually impaired. Most institutions will have disability services that provide materials and resources for the blind. Tap into these resources and use them when needed so you do well in school.You can also use these resources to socialize with other students who are blind or visually impaired. This may be a good idea if you are not going to a school designed specifically for the visually disabled but still want to connect with other students who are dealing with similar issues as you.
 It can be challenging to go to school if you are blind or visually impaired, especially if you are not going to a school for the blind. Being surrounded by sighted peers can take a toil on your emotional and mental health. Make sure you take care of yourself emotionally and mentally by talking to friends, family, teachers, and mentors about how you are feeling. Reach out to the school counselor or speak to a therapist if you feel you need help emotionally or mentally.


Building good relationships with your teachers and your peers can help you have good mental and emotional health at school. Socialize with others in class and spend time with friends so you do not feel isolated or alone.

