 A common non-confrontational way to bring this issue up with the person is to act as if you have this problem yourself. This is a great way to bring up the subject of body odor with someone, especially if the person is not someone you are very close with. Bringing it up in this way will make them think about their own smells, which may make them realize that they are a little stinky.Try saying something like:


“I’m so sorry if I smell a little; I went for a run during lunch and didn’t have time to reapply deodorant.”
“Do you think the office is hot today? It’s making me sweat, and I feel like I’m a bit smelly.”
“I’m sorry if you can smell my feet; it’s was raining outside when I was running errands and my shoes and socks are soaked.”;
, Another non-confrontational way to bring up offensive odor with a person is to couch your opinion in statements that put the blame on you, not them. Since it can be uncomfortable to tell a person that they smell bad or are wearing too much perfume, it can sometimes be easier to say you have allergies or are very sensitive to smells. This way you can plant the seed in their head that maybe they do have an offensive odor without actually saying it directly. To deflect the issue onto yourself, try saying something like:“What type of perfume are you wearing? I’m allergic to most perfumes, which makes me too sensitive to wear even a little bit of it.”
“I have such a sensitive nose that I can only use a little cologne. It’s like an allergy; even one spray makes me sneeze!”

, If your workplace allows you to bring in scented candles or air fresheners, try keeping them at your desk to see if this helps with the smell. Even if you can't light the candle due to safety reasons, an unlit candle will still give off a fair amount of scent. If these aren’t allowed, try putting a flowerpot or potpourri at your desk for some decoration that subtly refreshes the air around you. Your new scented decorations will mask bad odors and could even hint to the person that the air is in need of refreshing. If they ask, you can say, “I feel like it just sort of smells in the office lately, so I thought I’d perk my area up.” Some plants with pleasant aromatherapy smells include:Lavender
Jasmine
Lilies
Chamomile plant
Geraniums

, Another way to hint at a person’s body odor is to subtly remind them of good hygiene habits. Maybe they are a bit stinky because of a medical issue, a cultural difference, or a simple lack of awareness. Whatever the reason, your practicing good hygiene in front of them will be a subtle cue that your hygiene habits are different. By noticing that you and other people have hygiene habits unlike their own, this awareness could cause them to change their own habits. Try showing them good habits by:Talking about how you always have mouthwash and deodorant in your desk because you get so anxious about your odor before meetings.
Offering them some of your cologne or perfume by saying, “You’ve got to try this, it smells so good!” and handing them the product.
Offering them scented hand sanitizer or lotion after a meal saying, “I just hate when my hands smell like onions all day!”

, If none of your hints are helping with the person’s odor, and you don’t want to confront them about it, just try to avoid them as much as possible. This is really only an option if the person does not work in your immediate location or you don’t have to see them often throughout the day; otherwise, avoiding them will come across as rude and even damage your reputation in the office. If you can avoid them without issue, this is a good way to sidestep their body odor without having to take any additional action.