 Address any conflict your cat may have with other members of the household, furry or human. This might include providing separate sleeping areas for different members of the household. Make sure you have at least one litter box per cat. Ideally you should have one litter box per cat, plus an extra one.When you feed your cat, do so in a calm location. This, too, lowers your cat's stress., Enriching your cat's habitat can help relieve stress too.Spend more time with your cat. Cats love attention and affection.Give your cat access to windows for entertainment. Add perches where necessary. Set up a bird feeder near a window. Cats love watching birds, even when your cat is inside.Leave out things for your cat to explore. Cats are naturally curious, and need regular stimulation. Cats like scratching posts to stalk and pounce. Cats also like to be up high too., More water encourages your cat to urinate more often.There should be multiple bowls of water around your home. Cat fountains are also a useful way to increase the amount of water your cat gets.Alternatively, you can add unsalted broth or the leftover water from a tuna can to your cat's water. , While there are some downsides to this, since it increases your cat's stress, diet can significantly impact your cat's health. Give your cat more water-heavy food that is low in phosphorous. Cats who eat dry kibble are more likely to develop bladder problems. Strictly speaking, cats who eat dry food have less dilute urine, which is a more hostile environment for bacteria. However, that concentrated urine does favor urine crystals, they can scratch the bladder lining and cause a secondary infection. This usually means switching to canned food.It is not enough to insist that your cat drinks plenty of water. The food itself cannot be too dry. Cat's bodies do not make up for the lack of water in dry food. Most dry food is only, at best, 10 percent water.Changing your cat over to canned food often means changing the litter box more often.