 Seniors often have insight, patience, maturity, and wisdom that they did not have when they were younger. Unfortunately, there are a lot of fears about older people raising grandchildren that are stereotypes more than reality. In reality, older people are often in a very good position to raise children. Often just as much as younger people.


If you are reading this, you are likely in reasonably good health--you are not a frail old person in assisted living.
Senior citizens can and do use modern communication technology such as cellphones, the Internet, and so on. Perhaps it may not come as easily to you as your 9 year old, but that does not mean you cannot master the fine art of texting. In fact, the more sophisticated devices become, the easier they often become to use.
Older people are increasingly living longer, healthier lives. You may not have 50 years left, but there are no guarantees that a 30 year old will live to 80, either. It is a reality that you may not be around forever - but you are here now, and that is what matters.
You have experience. It is not easy to be a first-time mother. You, however, may know just what works for soothing a cranky toddler or comforting a teenager who has been dumped for the first time...because you have been there before. Some things really do not change over time.;
, Becoming guardian to a grandchild means you may have to re-think your plan. You may have been expecting to retire, and have the responsibility of child-rearing in the past. This also could be a sudden change, such as if an adult child cannot raise her child, or is killed in an accident. You may feel very positive about this change, or not so much, or maybe a mixture of a lot of feelings.


Your social life may change. While you bring your grandson to Little League, your friends may be hanging out at the Early Bird Buffet Special. Becoming part of the parent community will probably have you develop relationships with younger adults who are likewise raising children. This does not mean that you will never see your senior friends again, only that it will be a bit different.
Family dynamics may change. Suddenly, you may no longer be the grandfather who babysits once in a while. You have to deal with actual discipline issues, dealing with budgets, and so on.
You may have to resolve some longstanding issues if there were parenting issues in the past. For instance, your daughter and you fought a lot when she was a teenager, she ended up overdosing on drugs, and now you fear the cycle will repeat.
 Many families need a little help when big changes happen. It may be helpful to talk to other grandparents raising grandchildren, or attend a parenting workshop to help you refine your discipline skills. Also, if your children have had traumatic situations, they may benefit from therapy or counseling.


Check your local newspaper for support groups.
Craigslist.org can also be a source
Many churches and other places of worship can be a resource. For instance, your rabbi might be able to introduce you to a family who also is headed by a grandmother.
 Ask open ended questions and try to think hard how your grandchildren think, what matters most to them, what excites them, what they care for, what are their dreams and very importantly how they want to achieve their goals / dreams. Listen intently for some hints as to the concerns they might have; never ask for it (a child may be blissfully ignorant about it).
 This will help you to understand their world far better that you imagine, without talking to them.
 Remind yourself often that lecturing is not adequate and you need to deliver information and guidance in the way child needs it. Otherwise, you will make things difficult for the family, and more importantly, for the child. Define it as a purpose of life.
 Schedule your day around their activity schedules. For enjoying there company, your energy levels need to be high, and plan your schedule accordingly.
 Let the child know that he/she can depend on you, and see the world starts changing for them. Try to notice (don't ask) whether the child is willing to take up challenges similar to his peer group or is shying away. If she/he is shying away or unsure of taking up such challenges, you need to involve yourself more, as this is a clear indication that child is still not depending on you or unsure of your support.
 Don't forget to celebrate with them the successes that come your way. This will surely be a reminder for your grandchildren to rush to you whenever they need anything.
 Show readiness to go for it. Your grandchildren will feel the safety and security of their dreams and requirements in your being around them.

