 A letter can be a fun way to let someone know how much you love and appreciate them and that you care. This can be particularly helpful if you tend to get nervous with face-to-face discussions. Try writing a parent a thought out thank you letter letting them know you appreciate them.A thank-you card can be sent in direct response to something. You can, for example, send your mom a thank-you letter after she visits for the weekend. You can also send a letter for a parent's birthday, and make a point of expressing appreciation there.
However, don't hesitate to write a letter or send a card simply because you're feeling grateful. If you value your parents, it's important to let them know regularly. Don't hesitate to write a letter, or even an email, if you want to let your parents know you care.
 This can be great if you're expressing appreciation for a particular occasion. If it's your mom's birthday, for example, a homemade card telling her how much you care can be a great way to show appreciation.You can get art supplies at a local craft store and let your creativity run wild. Decorate the card with designs your parent would like. If you're not artistically-inclined, you can always get a blank card at a gift shop.
Inside the card, write a heartfelt letter expressing appreciation. Let your parents know why you appreciate them every day.
 The effort you put into an original poem will really show appreciation. If you're feeling creative, try to write a poem for your parents telling them how much you value them. Remember, you don't need to be a master wordsmith to write a nice poem. Your parents will appreciate the time and care you put in to writing them an original poem., Many people use social media to vent frustration and negativity. However, try to use your Facebook or Twitter page to express positivity. Try to post happy memories of your parents online, or post a Facebook status saying exactly why you appreciate your dad.Remember, this may not be as effective if your parents don't follow you on social media.

