 Holidays are centered around traditions, and your family may have some special cultural traditions as well. Ask your children what their favorite traditions are and continue to do that. Continue traditions from your childhood with your children. Explain to them what it was like when you were a kid at the holidays and why your family did those traditions. If your family has no traditions, make new ones.Think about the traditions that your family has and ask a grandparent or other older relative about the origins of those traditions. You can also ask grandparents and great grandparents about what their traditions were growing up and what traditions are special to them.
You can create traditions around anything. You may always get together and make the same baked goods, listen to the same holiday album while decorating, or go to the same place together.
 Make decorating an experience for your entire family. Go together to a tree farm to get a Christmas tree then go home and decorate it. Have everyone go outside and put up lights in the yard. Get your kids to help place decorations around your home.If you family does not celebrate Christmas, then decorate for the holidays you do celebrate, whether it is Hanukah, Kwanzaa, or Yule.
Encourage your kids to suggest themes for decorations. Give each of them a surface or a room to decorate in their theme.
 Advent calendars are countdowns to Christmas (or to the holiday that your family celebrates) that are usually filled with a piece of candy for each day. Instead of candy, make the countdown meaningful with an activity for each day leading up to it.For example, if you celebrate Christian Christmas, you can read a scripture some of the days leading to Christmas. Other ideas are doing something kind in the spirit of the holidays, baking something together, or creating a holiday craft together.
Come up with a set number of activities for the days leading up to the holiday. You can do seven, 10, or even 24.
 Even the smallest thing can be a meaningful experience for kids. Turn on music or a holiday movie, get some cookies and hot chocolate, and pile in the floor to wrap gifts.Let your kids wrap presents, put the tape on the paper, or place bows.
 The holidays can be a busy time, so taking the time to plan a special outing with your family can be a great way to make the holidays meaningful. Take your kids to see Santa, go look at a local lights display, or go see a holiday play or ballet. Make it a joint effort and let everyone have a say in what you do.You can make it a tradition where you do one special thing each year. You can rotate and let different family members choose the outing each year.
 Going out is fun during the holidays, but staying home can be just as fun. Buy your family holiday pajamas, socks, shirts, or hats, turn on Christmas music or movies, and do something festive. It may be baking, writing holiday cards, making gingerbread houses, or playing games.You can have multiple days like this at home with your kids. If you have multiple kids, let them each have a night where they choose what to do.

