 HDTV signals can only be displayed on an HD monitor or an HDTV (and modern computer monitors). A high definition television set (or "HDTV") consists of a monitor or display and a built-in ATSC (digital) tuner (the old and now obsolete NTSC tuners were for standard definition analog signals only). A monitor differs from a TV as it lacks a tuner. An HD monitor or HDTV is capable of at least 720 lines of resolution but many are capable of 1080 lines of resolution. An SDTV however, can only display 480 lines of resolution. The lines of resolution are further characterized as being scanned in either a progressive or interlaced manner (more on this later). The possible display types (in North America) are as follows: 480i, 480P, 720P, 1080i and 1080P. 480i displays are SD or Standard Definition; 480P were sometimes called ED or Enhanced Definition and the rest are HD or High Definition.

This chart compares the differences between common display resolutions sold mostly in the US and Canada. The values from top right to bottom right are the display's vertical resolution values. The values across the top are also resolution, but determine the display's horizontal resolution and are those that are often cited when advertised. The "PAL" box distinguishes the SDTV format that is used mostly in Europe and a few other places. The smaller, NTSC box is the original SDTV size used in the U.S. and represents the 4:3 or standard ratio. The rest of the boxes (except of course PAL) all represent a 16:9 or wide screen ratio, regardless if 720P or 1080P or 1080i.;
, The i after 480 and 1080 represents the older interlaced scanning method while the P after 480, 720 and 1080 represents a newer, more desirable progressive scanning method. The term interlace describes how the image is "painted" or scanned on the display. U.S. displays have either 480, 720 or 1080 horizontal lines. An interlaced display will paint the odd numbered lines (1, 3, 5, 7, etc.) first starting at the top left corner of the display - continuing to the bottom right. When complete, it will repeat the process for the even numbered lines (2, 4, 6, 8, etc.), and continue until the display is shut off. Progressive scanning is a method that paints all lines in a sequential (1, 2, 3, 4, etc.) order. Most people prefer the progressive scan display as it generally looks better than an interlaced display (click the image to the right for an example). 480 and 1080 displays can be either or both interlaced or progressive while 720 is only progressive.
 An HD monitor (and most HDTVs) will have a selection of input jacks consisting of one or more of the following:


HDMI - High Definition Multimedia Interface - a single connector cable that can deliver both stereo or surround sound and HD video.







DVI - Digital Visual Interface - a multi-pin / single connector & cable that delivers HD video only.







VGA - Video Graphic Adapter - multi-pin / single connector & cable used to connect computer video cards to monitors. If this jack is found on the monitor or HDTV, it can be used to display the computer graphics on the monitor or TV instead of a dedicated computer monitor. This is useful in a home theater computer setup if the installed video card lacks an HDMI port.







Component - Red Green Blue - an assembly of 3 color coded cables that delivers HD video only signals via three individual analog connectors. Both the DVI and component video cables will require additional cable(s) to bring audio signals to an amplifier and speakers (or directly to the red and white "L" and "R" stereo audio input jacks of the HDTV).






"S Video" - A cable that provides a superior signal than the yellow composite type shown below, but can not deliver HD signals. It provides video only.







Composite video and stereo audio - Like the S Video cable above, it can not provide HD video signals. Often times, it is bundled as a cable assembly including L (left) and R (right) audio signals. It too, has color coded connectors like the component video cable above. Left and right stereo audio is sent via cables with red and white or red and black connectors. The video signal is almost always via cable with yellow connectors.
 Since a monitor will only display the signals that are delivered to it, a stand alone ATSC type tuner and a standard UHF / VHF antenna system will be required to watch broadcasters. An HDTV already has a tuner built-in, so a stand alone tuner is not required unless it was equipped with only a legacy NTSC tuner. The older HDTVs may have either one or both the state-of-the-art ATSC or now obsolete NTSC tuner, while new HDTVs have the desired ATSC tuner only. NTSC tuners have been rendered obsolete for OTA (Over the Air broadcast) since June 2009 when the FCC moved broadcasters to digital transmitters, but can still be useful for receiving basic cable stations in standard definition (480i) or receiving signals from the modulated output of a satellite or cable tuner box or VCR. Like the monitor and ATSC tuner combination, the HDTV will also require a standard UHF/VHF antenna system.


Use of a cable TV or satellite TV provider will replace the need for an ATSC tuner and UHF / VHF antenna system. These providers however, will supply premium HD tuners in order to watch HD images. The standard offering of equipment from these providers is generally SDTV (standard definition TV) and is not capable of providing an HD image to view.






Check video players. In 2008, a battle between developers of two competing video formats (not unlike the one between "BetaMax" and "VHS" video tape technologies decades before); the HD-DVD and Blu-ray Disc was settled, with "Blu-ray Disc" becoming the accepted standard. Both formats are capable of delivering HD images, but the production of both HD-DVD players and the transfer of new movies for rental or purchase on this media has ceased. It is important to note that both the HD-DVD and Blu-Ray format provided backward compatibility to the older DVD standard. As such, both can playback standard DVDs. Unfortunately, neither the older "DVD" or "VHS" tape formats will be able to store or deliver HD video. Lastly, a lesser known format, S-VHS ("Super" VHS, not to be confused with the video signal format S-Video) provided better resolution than VHS but was still less than HD, and was not very popular.
 Having all the right equipment will not allow for HD image display if using the lower resolution inputs and associated cables. Use either the HDMI, DVI, VGA or RGB jacks and cables to connect devices. This will ensure that high definition signals are presented to the HDTV or monitor for display. The yellow composite "video in" jack should NOT be used if an HD signal input on the TV and output on a source or player are available. Never connect two devices to the same input group of the HDTV ("Input 1" should only have one device connected, "Input 2" should have a different device, etc.)
, Using the HDTV manual and device (Blue-Ray, Satellite Tuner, etc.) manual(s) as a guide, select an input. Review the highest supported resolution that is common to the device and HDTV. If the HDTV is capable of up to 720P, no input greater than 720P should be selected. Likewise, for 1080i or 1080P sources. Many HDTVs will "downrez" to the maximum supported by the HDTV, but it will need to process the signal to do so and result in some signal degradation. The objective is to not limit the resolution of the device's output to less than 480P (progressive scan for some DVD players), 720P or 1080i (for many CATV, satellite, HD-DVD players, etc.) or 1080P (all Blu-Ray Disc players and some satellite receivers), unless that value exceeds the display maximum resolution input.
 After tuning different channels or selecting SD sources, it should be readily apparent to the viewer which signal type is which. Live studio broadcasts and sporting events in HD are excellent sources to compare to those that may not be initially obvious. Beard stubble on men, individual blades of grass in golf or baseball, and other images that appear to be 3 dimensional or photo quality are typical examples of HD images. SD images by comparison could be described as "soft" or fuzzy looking - as if a thin coating of petroleum jelly was on the screen.

