 If your school makes you wear a uniform, then obviously wear that.If not, wear appropriate gym wear (t-shirt, athletic shorts, sweatsuits) that fits well. Avoid excessively tight clothing (which can restrict your movements or chafe your skin) as well really baggy clothes (which can get in the way of your hands and legs and, even worse, fall down).


Also make sure your sneakers’ laces are tied right. Loose sneakers can cause you to trip or even injure yourself.
 Gym class will make you work up a sweat, which can lead to body odor. Wearing the same outfit day-after-day can make you smell worse if you don’t wash them, since they’ve already absorbed your sweat. Bring a fresh change of gym clothes to school each day.


If the school makes you wear a uniform, see if you can get two. This way you’ll still have a clean change of clothes even if you didn’t have a chance to wash yesterday’s dirty outfit.Handwashing them in the sink with a drop of detergent is better than nothing at all if using a washing machine every day isn’t practical.
 Some schools may require you to shower after class, while others only recommend it. If you have a choice, it’s obviously up to you. Either way, bring a bar of soap to either wash in the shower or give your armpits a quick cleaning over the sink, as well as a towel to dry yourself.Alternately, you could use baby wipes to give yourself a quick wash down.
Applying deodorant or antiperspirant before and after gym is also a good idea.
If you are required to take a shower, just remember that everyone is just as embarrassed as you probably are.
 Ask your teacher what games or activities they have lined up ahead in the coming days and weeks. Lesson plans may change day-to-day due to the weather or other factors, but since teachers have to split space and equipment when more than one gym class is held each period, they can give you a general idea of what to expect. This way you can:Practice on your own, outside of school, if you’d like to improve your performance during class.
Bring appropriate clothing if needed, like an extra layer or waterproof clothing for outdoor activities.
Get extra pointers and advice during a private conversation instead of having them shouted at you during class.
Show that you take the class seriously, which proves that you are really trying.

