 Design how you want to experience the room before wiring anything or putting down speakers. Place a TV along the wall or in the corner, somewhere where there will not be a lot of glare or light. Place couches or chairs in comfortable watching position.


Make a note of your "main" couch. Where is the place you will watch TV the most often? This will help you place speakers later on.
 Once you’ve bought the speakers and receiver, you need to figure out where to put them. Make a simple drawing of your room highlighting where you are sitting and where your TV is placed. Make notes of your furniture, doors, and windows so that you can accurately plan out your system. You want the speakers to “meet” at your "main couch" to deliver the most realistic surround sound.


Plan the speaker placement before you begin running wires to make set-up as easy as possible.
 One speaker goes on either side of the TV and they both point inwards. If you are looking at the speakers from your couch they’ll be at a roughly 45-degree angle to you.If you were to draw lines coming from the speakers, they would meet at ear level in the center of the room.
 This speaker is usually smaller and is designed to deliver crisp dialog right to the viewers. It should be front and center so that it clearly broadcasts to the entire room.Many people mount this speaker just above the TV if they have room.
 Side facing speakers should be parallel to the viewer, offering sound from the right and left. If you cannot fit them in line with the couch, place them slightly behind the viewer and angle them towards the couch. They should always be 2 feet or more above the viewer, pointing downward., This allows them to work together to grab your attention. There are also alternate set-up ideas, such as separating the back speakers and pointing them inward, that help provide the feel of surround sound if you don't have dedicated side speakers.


If you are using only 5-speakers, prioritize side-facing speakers before rear speakers.
 The subwoofer brings the big, gut-trembling bass notes and works best up against a wall. Try to fit it near the middle of the wall if you can, but it can be to the side if the TV is in the way., Very complex systems, like 9.1 surround sound, come with extra speakers meant to add sound from up top, like in a movie theater. Mount these above your two front speakers, angled in and pointing down at the viewer.
 If you can’t see the speakers from where you are sitting, the sound is being blocked off. Reorganize your furniture and speaker position to get the maximum sound possible.


Bare walls and floors cause sound to bounce around, so you can improve your acoustics with rugs or furniture along the walls., Four speakers, two in front of your viewing area and two behind it, will provide high-quality surround sound, but at a price. They often come with auto-calibration as well, meaning the speakers will shift and change volumes to get the best possible surround sound.


Dolby Atmos speakers come in both ceiling and floor models, allowing you to mix and match them to make high-quality surround sound from top to bottom instead of from side to side.
 Most pre-packaged home theater sets come with the right mountings, casings, and stands, which makes installation easy. Once you’ve got your speakers where you want them, feel free to tweak them a bit to get the sound you love. Every room is different, so every room will have an optimal angle and placement for your speakers.

