 In order to motivate yourself to change the way that you feel when you are naked, identify some of the reasons why you want to feel good naked. Write these reasons down so that you can review them and decide if they are about you or about someone else. If your reasons are about you, then you have a healthy motivation for improving your body image. If they are about someone else, then you may not have a healthy reason for changing your body image and you may need to see a therapist for help.For example, reasons that are about you might be something like, “I want to feel good naked so that I will feel less self-conscious when I am with my boyfriend/girlfriend.” Or, "I want to love being naked so that I can visit a nude beach when I go on vacation this summer."
Reasons that are about someone else might sound something like, "I want to love being naked so that my boyfriend/girlfriend will like my body more." Or, "I want to feel good naked so that people will not be grossed out by me when I visit a nude beach.";
, One of the best ways to start feeling more comfortable being naked is to spend more time in the nude. You can expose yourself to being naked and the more you do it, the more comfortable you should become. Make sure that you stay relaxed while you spend time naked. Try deep breathing or even do a bit of naked yoga to stay relaxed while you are naked.Try walking around your house (or bedroom) naked for a little while each day. If you have your own pool (where no one can see you), go skinny dipping!

, Identifying your favorite features may help you to feel better when you are naked. Look in the mirror while you are naked and try to identify your favorite parts of your body. As you notice the parts of your body that you like, tell yourself out loud. Repeat this process every day and you should begin to notice more of your good features and feel better while naked.For example, you might say to yourself, “I really like the shape of my calves.” Or, “I have a great butt.”

, There are so many different types of bodies in the world, so it is important to remember that you have a unique, beautiful body. Try to focus on how different other bodies are to see that there is a lot of variation in body types.Pay attention to how other people’s bodies look when you go to a mall or, better yet, a public pool. Note the different shapes, sizes, colors, and other features of people’s bodies. Just be careful not to stare or you may get into trouble.
 Being compassionate towards yourself can improve your self-image and help you to feel better about yourself while you are naked. Self-compassion means being kind to yourself, even if you don’t feel deserving of kindness.This kindness can come in the form of kind thoughts, kind behaviors, or kind words. If you find yourself thinking unkind things to yourself, ask yourself the following questions to determine if you are having an unkind thought:


Does this thought make me feel good?
Would I say this thought to a friend or loved one?
Does this thought encourage me?

, If you have a hard time feeling good when you are naked, you may be falling victim to your own negative thoughts. Changing the way that you speak to yourself can also help you to feel better when you are naked. The next time you have a negative thought about your naked body, stop yourself and turn the negative thought into a positive one.For example, imagine you have a negative thought like, “I look like a pig.” You can turn this thought around by changing it to something like, “I may not be the thinnest person, but I have a lot of great features and I love how unique my body is.”

, Repeating a mantra can help to calm you down when you are feeling anxious and it can also help you to silence your inner critic. Your mantra can be anything, but you will get the most benefit if your mantra sends a positive message to you.Try something like, “I love myself and I deserve to love being naked.”

