 Before you make any throw, your entire body should be shifted into the “ready position” for throwing. Your feet should be shoulder width apart with knees slightly bent, your body should be relaxed, and your hips and shoulders should be lined up.









Start with the ball held in your glove near your chest. This places it in a good location for you to make a quick throw.
Make sure your feet aren’t staggered. You will start your throw with your feet at a level distance, and then take a step away as you throw. You should not take this step before beginning to throw though.
When you throw the ball, you will keep your feet and shoulders in line similar to in the ready position.
Stay alert and focused whenever you are preparing to throw. Even if you are waiting around before practice, avoid dawdling while you stand and practice your throwing stance.;
, Once you’ve gotten into position, the next step is to hold the ball. Although simply holding the ball may seem easy, it is necessary to use the proper grip. Place your index and middle finger across one of the rows of seems, with your thumb forming a third gripping-point directly underneath. Your ring and pinky fingers should curl slightly behind the ball and aid in supporting it.









Holding the ball along the seams correctly positively influences the speed and direction of the throw. When held this way, your throw is more likely to be straight rather than a curved lob.
Keep the ball out on your fingertips and not in the palm of your hand. Palming the ball will cause a slower release time, which worsens your accuracy and speed.
Ideally, your grip should allow you to contact all four seams at once. This is difficult at first, but practicing holding the ball in this fashion from the get-go will give you improved throwing over time.
At first you may have to look at the ball to line up the seams with your correct fingers, but as you practice you should be able to feel the correct finger placement without looking, using only touch.
 One of the most important parts of making a good throw is moving your joints in the correct manner. This includes your wrist, elbow, and shoulder. In good throwing, all three of these should be moved together. If any of these joints is stiff and doesn’t move when you throw, practice actively moving each during every wind-up.









When you wind-up for your throw, your arm should swing loose in your shoulder socket. To practice your ability to move your shoulder freely, do windmill arm exercises. Rotate your arms in wide forward-facing circles around your shoulder.
Make sure you keep a bent elbow during each throw. Although you use a windmill-like motion to bring the ball back and around your body, your elbow should bend in the process. A stiff elbow will limit the distance of your throw.
Think of your wind-up as a cross between making a windmill circle and pulling a bow and arrow. Your elbow should be bent, but will wind-up behind your torso in a circular rotation.
Your wrist should be incredibly flexible and used heavily in each throw. As the saying goes, “it’s all in the wrist.” Just prior to releasing the ball, your wrist should be bent back so that your palm is facing forward. As you throw the ball, you will flick your wrist downwards in a strong motion. This will give your throw momentum and increase its accuracy.\

