 In order to effectively restore your image, you need to act fast. Waiting too long can lead to irreparable damage. Move quickly towards a resolution by admitting your responsibility.Depending on the level of damage, you might release a public statement for the entire community. This may be appropriate, for instance, if you own a business and did something shameful that does not reflect well on your operation.
If you have trouble with written communication, it may be wise to ask for assistance on this so that your statement strikes the right chord.;
, In addition to making a public statement, you should contact those who were directly affected by your mistake to apologize. Try to do this face-to-face as you are more likely to convey your emotion and sincerity this way. If you cannot, contact them by phone.Outline why you are reaching out and extend your apologies. For example, you were recorded saying something hurtful about a colleague. Say something along the lines of “I realize how my actions have affected you. I hate that it seems like I took my relationship with you for granted. I am deeply sorry for hurting you.”
Sending an email or letter is less personal, so only do this is in-person or telephone communication is not possible.
 It reflects best on your reputation to try and put right what you screwed up. In most cases, there won’t be any direct way to “fix” the damage, but there may be something you can do to show you are serious about making amends.Say you were arrested for drinking and driving and your "after-work" behavior affected the way your company is perceived by clients. Ask your boss or team how you can make it better or help reach a resolution by saying “I know I can’t make it go away, but I really want to make this right. Please tell me what I can do.”

, Whether you are apologizing for a personal or professional misstep, you can use this situation to improve in the future. Seek out the advice of a few respected members in your community. Ask them what you can do to better your image moving forward.


For instance, you might seek out higher-ups in your company, esteemed retired individuals, or members of a religious organization for counsel. Say, “I respect your opinion a great deal. Can you offer some advice about how I can prevent this from happening again? I’d appreciate any feedback you might have.”
If you ask for feedback, you must be willing to hear negative perceptions about yourself. Don’t seek out criticism if you don’t feel you can handle it. Also, don’t defend what they say. Just listen, take notes, and thank them for their time.