 The primary ingredient in an egg white mask is egg, but there are a number of other things you can add to your mixture to help address specific acne issues. Gather the following supplies before you get started:1 Egg
Then, choose one of the following options: Carrot juice and milk to make an all-purpose mask
An avocado if you need to treat dry skin
One teaspoon of lemon juice and one teaspoon of honey to treat acne
Plain yogurt if you have sensitive skin

, Egg yolks can make for excellent hair conditioner, but won’t help clear your skin. Begin by separating the egg white from the yolks so you are left with only the whites. You can also purchase egg white that are already separated from most grocery stores.Make sure to remove the egg yolk completely.

It is recommended that you use an organic egg to ensure they are free from chemicals.
 Use a fork or whisk to beat the egg white until it adopts a thicker consistency. As you stir the egg, mix in any additional ingredients you laid out before you started. While egg white alone will suffice for a face mask, it can be too runny to actually stay on your face unless you increase its thickness.


Beat the egg white until it looks like foam.
Mix the ingredients into the egg as you beat it and ensure it is thoroughly mixed.
Stop beating the egg/ingredient mixture once it is evenly mixed and thick enough to be applied to the face.
 Once you have thoroughly beaten the egg white and added any additional ingredients to the mixture, it’s time to apply the mask to your face. Wash your face like your normally would prior to applying the mask.Use your hands to apply the mask evenly to your entire face.
Leave the mask in place until it dries completely or up to about 15 minutes.
 The mask will likely take fifteen minutes or so to dry. Once you feel it begin to crack, rinse the mask from your face completely. Your skin will look noticeably better immediately upon removing the mask!


Use a washcloth and warm water to remove the mask from your face.
Be sure to wash all of the mask from your face to avoid over-drying your skin.

