 Listen to your friends, and consider what kinds of things they would want in a new friend or romantic partner. Make sure to expand your circle of acquaintances as well, so you have a pool of people to draw from and bring together. Finally, make sure your intentions are clear with your friend as well. You don’t want to trick him into a relationship, and you should be sure that is something he wants.
 If you know someone who would be a good fit for an open job, or a friend asks you to be a reference, make sure you are ready to highlight her positive qualities. Look at the job’s description and requirements so that you can tailor your remarks to the company’s specific requests, highlight your friend’s strengths. Keep your remarks professional, avoiding personal comments, and use active verbs to describe how your friend will be a good fit for this job.


If you are writing a letter, make sure you proofread and edit before sending it off. A bad letter looks bad for you, along with your friend.
 If you are a good student, or even just if you have a friend struggling in a subject, you can offer to help them out. Make sure you identify what he does know well, or if there are particular areas he needs help. Try to create goals for gradual improvement that both of you can easily track. Also, at the end of each session you have, be sure to give him something to work on for next time so that you can pick up where you left off.
 Moving can be a very stressful process. If a friend or someone you know is moving, find ways to help. An extra pair of hands to carry items, or even a large vehicle (if you have one) are always helpful. If you can’t make it on the day of the move, offer to help pack before or unpack afterward, or to help clean the living spaces.
 Keep an eye out for symptoms of your friend’s health problems. Talk to your friend about what she needs from you when those symptoms appear, so you can know what to do and be ready to help. Encourage her to seek help from medical professionals, even offering to drive if necessary. Make sure you stay in contact during her treatment as well. Sometimes just knowing a friend is there for her can help the healing process.

