 When your mind is buzzing with all the different things you need to do in a day, it's harder to get things done. To help you focus, take the time to write or type out a physical list for the day. That way, you're not trying to keep them all in your head at once. Plus a list can help you see just how much you've done in a day, which can motivate you., When you're depressed, even small tasks can seem monumental; therefore, it's best to try to view tasks in smaller chunks, so that you can accomplish things piece by piece. Instead of thinking, "I need to send 500 emails today," think "I have one email to send in the next five minutes. I can do that."Making tasks smaller makes it seem easier to do them.
If it doesn't seem to be working, try even smaller chunks. You could say, "I just need to get through this one sentence. That's it."

, Sometimes, trying to figure out how to begin a task is the hardest part. Maybe you can't find the words you need to start a report, for instance. The key is to just start somewhere. You don't have to start at the "beginning." You just need to get started.Once you have some work done, you'll find it easier to go back and work through the beginning.
Also, you won't be paralyzed with indecision about how to "start."

, It can be tempting to give in to procrastination when you're feeling depressed. You have a tendency to get distracted, for instance, or you have a desire to get up and do something else; however, just promising yourself you'll work for a set amount of time can help get you started.Cut out distractions. Don't go anywhere else on the internet than what you need for work. Don't go talk to a friend. Just sit down and pay attention only to your work.
Remind yourself you can't do anything else. Even if you don't work, don't allow yourself to do something more interesting.
If you're in a more active job, try to cut distractions like talking to co-workers and just focus on the task at hand.
Set a timer if you need to. Set it for five minutes, then give yourself a short break and start again.
 A reward system can be as simple as, "If I get this task done, I'll get a cup of coffee." You could also try, "If I get this task done, I'll go talk to my friend for five minutes." Only give yourself the reward if you actually get it done.Another reward could be a task you enjoy more. Maybe you hate folding shirts but enjoy arranging ties. Try the task you hate first, and reward yourself with the more enjoyable task.
You can also set rewards for the day, such as, "If I get this list accomplished, I'll get Thai food tonight. If not, I have to stay in."
Make sure you don't make your tasks unattainable. You should be able to accomplish them if you get down to work.
 That is, when you're having an up day, try to be as productive as possible. That way, when you have down days, you can maybe take a little break. You'll still need to work obviously, but maybe you won't have to work quite as hard., Part of treating depression is trying to be more active. If your job is more active, obviously you won't feel like doing it. When you can, force yourself to go, as just being more active and being around people can help. When you can't cope at all, take a sick day if possible.Doing well at work can also help you feel better about yourself., It can be hard to say "no" at work to new projects and commitments; however, if you're overextended, due in part to your depression, you can calmly tell your boss that, or speak to someone in human resources. Some bosses will not understand, of course, but it's worth a shot for your mental health. Plus, some bosses may not even realize they're giving you too much to do, even when you are feeling better mentally.