 These fatty acids are important for maintaining your dog’s joint health. Look for dog foods that contain fish oil or fish products, as well as flaxseed or canola oil, which all contain high levels of omega-3 fatty acids. You can also purchase supplements that contain omega-3 fatty acids from your veterinarian or over the counter.Look for foods or supplements that are high in omega-3 fatty acids like eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). These are particularly important for your dog’s dietary health.
Flaxseed products can lower your dog’s platelets, so talk with your veterinarian if your dog has a chronic blood condition. Be sure to talk with your veterinarian before giving your dog any supplements.
There are particular dog foods designed for aging dogs in need of increased omega-3 fatty acids. You should be able to find them at your local pet food store.;
, If you are considering giving fish oil or any other omega-3 supplement, you should consult with your veterinarian. They will help you get the right dosage and ensure that you do not give your dog too much. Your veterinarian should also check to make sure that any symptoms your dog is exhibiting are not the result of another disease.Your veterinarian may also suggest supplements that your dog can take instead of fish oil.
Depending on your dog’s size, breed, and age, the amount of fish oil that you feed them will vary.
 Once you have visited your veterinarian, you can begin adding fish oil to your dog’s diet. If you are giving the oil in pill form, you will want to smear it with peanut butter or put it in a treat before feeding it to your dog. Your dog will not swallow the pill on its own. Be sure to give the dog a treat after the pill to ensure that it has ingested the pill.This step also applies to any other fatty acid supplement.
 If your dog will not take a pill regardless of how well your disguise it, you can also pour fish oil on your dog’s food. This will ensure that your dog gets some of the omega-3 fatty acids that you are trying to add to its diet. However, it is not as efficient as a pill.You can also follow this step when giving your dog any other fatty acid supplement.
 If you are having a difficult time getting your dog to eat the supplements, you can serve your dog some cooked fish. Salmon, herring, and sardines are great sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Consider giving your dog two cooked sardines a day to meet its fish oil needs., Fish oil can cause some negative effects to your dog’s health if the dosage is too much or if your dog suffers from chronic health problems.Be sure to consult your veterinarian and follow their dosage recommendations, and if you notice any side effects, stop giving your dog the fish oil.Possible side effects include:


Increased bleeding
Slow wound healing
Upset stomach or diarrhea
Insulin sensitivity in dogs with diabetes.
Weight gain
Pancreatitis
Toxin exposure due to eating contaminated fish

