 Yoga can help to relax both your body and your mind. The physical yoga postures that you practice can also help to stimulate you both mentally and spiritually. You can enroll in a yoga class, or practice yoga postures at home.
 This pose is done by lying on your stomach with your feet hip-width apart. Put your arms on the side of your body. Hold your ankles with your hands by folding your knees. Take a deep breath and lift your chest off the ground by pulling your legs up with your hands. Look straight ahead. Take long deep breaths when doing this pose.


Hold this pose for 15 to 20 seconds and then slowly bring your legs and chest back to the ground.
 Lie with your back on the floor so that your knees are bent and your feet are on the floor. Inhale while you lift your pelvis slightly off the ground. Slide your hands down and place them below your buttocks. Tuck your buttocks up on to the back of your hands.


Remember to place your forearms and elbows up close to the side of your torso. Inhale and press your forearms firmly against the floor. Press your scapula into your back and lift your head and upper torso away from your body.
Keep your knees bent or straighten your legs out on the floor. Hold this position for 15 to 40 seconds and breathe. Exhale while lowering your torso and back on to the floor. Draw your thighs up into your belly and squeeze.
 This pose can be done by sitting up with your legs stretched out. Keep your legs in front of you and your spine erect. Bend your left knee and keep the left foot opposite the right thigh. Keep your knee on the floor. Take a deep breath and bring both arms above your head and stretch up. Rotate a little to the right from your waist. Exhale and reach forward from the hip joints.


Maintain the proper posture of your spine. Hold on to your big toe and point your elbows forward. Maintain this pose for 15 to 30 seconds and then repeat on the other side of your body.
 Stand on your feet with your feet hip distance apart and place your hands on your sides. Make sure that your weight is carried by both of your feet. Hinge forward at the waist and plant the palms of your hands flat on the floor. With fingers pointing forward, step each foot back until you are in the top part of a push up.


Lift your hips up and press your chest towards your knees. Breathe deeply and exhale. Maintain this position for 15 to 30 seconds.

