 Fasting can bring health benefits and some believe that apple fasting can be a particularly good option. However, before you begin any fast you will need to consult with your doctor. Your doctor will be able to tell you if you are able to safely undergo your fast. Check with your doctor before beginning your fast to make sure it's a good fit for you.Detox diets can make you feel better but the direct cause is unknown. It is believe that simply avoiding unhealthy or processed foods may be responsible.
Fasting can bring side effects such as fatigue or vitamin deficiency.;
, Fasting has been shown to produce many beneficial effects on the body. While most fasting requires you to only drink water some believe that apple fasts can also carry health benefits. Look over some of the possible benefits of fasting to get a better understanding of what you can expect from the process:Increased cardiovascular health.
Weight loss
Prevention of type 2 diabetes.
Animal testing has shown a boost to longevity.
 Different types of apples will offer different types of nutrition and health benefits. Before you start you will want to look for some healthier types of apples so that you can get the most out of your apple fast. Keep some of the following information in mind when shopping for your apples:Organic apples won't contain pesticides and in many cases additives are forbidden.Granny smith, liberty, red delicious, honeycrisp, and braeburn are all good choices for apples that contain high levels of nutrients.
Some apples such as Golden Delicious have high levels of sugar.
 Although it may be tempting to eat one last giant meal before starting your fast it can actually hurt your efforts. Slowly reduce the amount of food you are eating as you enter into the fast to make it easier on your body.Try to eat light, healthy meals three days before the fast.
Avoid eating heavy foods or large meals before the fast.
 During the fast you are allowed to consume as many apples as you would like. It is recommend by some that you should eat apples whenever you are hungry, without concern for how many you are consuming. So long as you are eating only apples and drinking water you are properly apple fasting.Eat only apples during your three day apple fast.
You may also drink warm water during the fast.
Some believe that drinking apple cider or apple juice are acceptable so long as they have no sugar added.
 You won't want to suddenly resume your normal diet after your apple fast. The day you are ready to resume your normal diet, slowly add different foods throughout the day to allow your body to adjust once again to your regular diet.Try adding some other fruit to your breakfast.
Salads can be a good lunch item when returning to your normal diet.
Finish the day off with a light dinner, avoiding any heavy or unhealthy foods.
 After your fast, having focused on what you have been eating you can return to your normal diet. However, you may still wish to pay careful attention to what and how much you are eating in order to still enjoy the benefits that a healthy diet can bring.


Keep paying attention to what you are eating and drinking.
Avoid overeating after your fast even if you are feeling hungry.
 Occasional fasting can bring with it many health benefits. Some believe that these health benefits can be brought on by occasionally employing the apple fast as well. Consider setting aside time in the near future that you can return to your apple fast in order to continue enjoying the benefits that this diet is thought to bring with it.Intermittent fasting can bring health benefits with it.

