 Ask yourself what you would like your life will look like in 5, 10, and 20 years. Spend some time imagining your future. The situation you imagine should provide a clue to the person you'd like to become.This may be hard at first. When you try to imagine you future, your mind might go blank. But often, when a person thinks about this question there is an image that pops into his or her head momentarily.
Try to capture an image, however brief it may be. Did you have a brief image of sitting with a spouse in the living room of the house you own? Maybe you had a brief image of driving along a beach at sunset. Or maybe you saw yourself at the business you own talking to clients.;
, Once you've got a clear picture of the future you'd like to live in, think about the qualities or characteristics you displayed in your vision.


Specifically, think about what type of person you were in that image. This is the person you should strive to become.Maybe you were being assertive at your place of business. Possibly you seemed successful and carefree driving down the coast. Or you maybe you notice how giving, comfortable, and accepting you were as you sat with your spouse in your living room. These are the qualities you should try to take on as you reinvent yourself.
 If you are having trouble imagining a future self, try to imagine a present-day alter-ego. If you could lead a double-life and be anyone, who would you be? Spend some time thinking about this question in detail.


What does this person do, say, act, and wear that makes them your alter ego? How does your alter ego interact with others? What does she do for a living?
For example, imagine an executive who has a successful career at the top of her company. She went to college, got an internship, and started her career in the ordinary way. She approaches others in a considerate, professional manner. She always wears appropriate business attire. Her alter ego might be a strong, opinionated woman who wears leather and drives a motorcycle. She works at a tattoo shop and plays guitar in a band on the weekends. She doesn’t second-guess her opinions and will tell them to anyone. She is assertive with others, and typically achieves her end.
 Your imaginary alter-ego should give you clues about who your true self is. Some of the characteristics of your alter ego will suggest characteristics you wish to attain in real life.


The woman in the example might not change her entire life. But maybe she would develop a more daring fashion sense and attend rock shows on the weekends. Maybe she would decide a tattoo would make her feel edgy. Or, she might take an assertiveness training class so that she can feel more confident sharing her opinions.
You don't need to entirely become the person you visualized, unless you really want to. But, some of the characteristics you saw are part of your true self.
 Your next step is to develop a statement or goal about who you want to become. Use the insights you gained from one or both of the exercises above to develop this vision.


Turn your ides into statements such as: “I want to be an assertive business owner. I like the idea of being completely in control of my days and business choices.”
Once you have a general statement, ask yourself some questions to test it out and make sure it's right for you. For example:Does this statement sound interesting and meaningful to you?
Do you feel conflicted about it? What part of it has you feeling conflicted?
Do you downplay the importance of your quest to change when you talk to others about your plan?
Do you feel as though you should pursue this because other people think it is right for you? Do you feel this is the right change for you?
Does this statement seems to reflect who your really are?
After thinking about these questions, alter your vision statement as necessary.



