 Here's what you'll need to make chocolate truffles:


8 ounces chopped chocolate bars or chips
1/2 cup cream
1 tablespoon liqueur or a few drops of flavoring
Cocoa powder or nuts for coating;
, Place the chocolate pieces in a large ceramic or heatproof bowl. Put the cream in a small saucepan and heat it on the stove until it comes to a boil. Pour the cream over the chocolate and stir until the chocolate is completely melted and combined with the cream.
 If you want to add liqueur or another flavoring, such as vanilla or peppermint extract, stir it into the melted chocolate mixture.
 Pour it into a baking pan or cake pan and let it stand on the counter until the mixture thickens a bit. Stir it once more, then cover it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator. Let the chocolate cool for 2 hours.Check to make sure the chocolate has thoroughly cooled before moving on to the next step. It will be much more difficult to handle if it's still warm.






It's fine to melt the chocolate and chill it overnight if you want to make truffles the next day.
 Use a small ice cream scoop or a rounded teaspoon to scoop chocolate from the pan. Shape it into a ball with your hands, working quickly so the chocolate doesn't melt. Place the chocolate truffle on a baking sheet lined with parchment or wax paper, to keep it from sticking. Repeat with the remaining chocolate, taking care to make the truffles equal in size.


If the chocolate starts melting as you handle it, try coating your hands in cocoa powder, or running them under cool water and thoroughly drying them before continuing.






You can also place the chocolate back in the refrigerator to cool it down as necessary.
 Roll the truffles in cocoa powder, chopped nuts, sprinkles, or another topping of your choice to coat them. Be sure each side is coated evenly.
 If you aren't eating them right away, store the truffles in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Since they contain cream, they shouldn't be left too long at room temperature.

