 You can access this from the top menu through the Apple symbol, or in your Applications folder. It may be in your Dock as well.
 Type "Input" into the search bar at the top right corner of the System Preferences window. This should highlight one or more menu options. Select whichever of the following becomes highlighted:


Keyboard (choose this if your OS X is up to date)
International (for some old versions of OS X)Language & Text (early versions of OS X), Once you've opened the correct submenu, select the Input Sources tab. Depending on your OS X version, you should see a list of flags and country names, and/or an image of your keyboard.
 This option is at the bottom of the window. Once checked, you should see a new symbol appear on the right side of your menu bar, at the top of the screen. This may be a flag, or it may be a black and white image of a keyboard.
 Click the new symbol on your top menu bar, and select Show Character Viewer. This opens a window with a large collection of symbols (the same as the Emojis method above). Use it as follows:


Click a category name in the left pane.
Scroll through the middle pane to find the symbol you want. To see variations on the same symbol, click it and scroll through the right pane.
Double-click a symbol to "type" it, drag-and-drop it to a text field, or right-click and select Copy Character Info. On older versions of OS X, click the Insert button instead.
 Another option from the same menu is "Show Keyboard Viewer." Select this, and an image of a keyboard will appear on your screen. This is useful for tracking down symbols that aren't printed on your physical keyboard. For example, try holding down ⌥ Option and/or ⇧ Shift and seeing how your onscreen keyboard changes.


You can drag the keyboard window anywhere on the screen. Resize it by click-and-dragging any of its corners.
 If you type in multiple languages, return to the same menu in System Preferences. Hit the + sign and browse through the available languages, then click Add when you've selected the one you want. Even if you don't type in other languages, some of these layouts could come in handy:


For example, the English section may have a "U.S. Extended" keyboard. This unlocks even more symbols with the ⌥ Option trick described above.
Some languages have an option to mimic a PC keyboard layout. This typically only changes the position of a few symbol keys.
If you type on a non-English keyboard, a temporary switch to the standard English "U.S." keyboard allows you to use our list of symbol shortcuts below.
 You can have many keyboards enabled at one time. To switch between them, use the same top menu option where you found the character and keyboard viewers. Select the keyboard you want to use from the drop-down list.


You can also create a hotkey to cycle through keyboards. Search for "Shortcuts" in the System Preferences search bar and click the highlighted menu. Once you're in the Shortcuts menu, select Input Sources on the left and check the box next to "Select the previous input source."

