 To ensure that the oven is hot enough for the brownies, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Keep an eye on the oven so you know when it’s finished preheated. Your oven will likely beep or flash an indicator light to alert you.;
, You’ll need a 9 x 13-inch (23 x 33-cm) baking pan for the brownies. Grease it lightly with butter, shortening or a nonstick cooking spray.While you’re going to place parchment paper in the pan as a liner, greasing it first ensures that the paper will stick to it.
 After you’ve greased the pan, cut a piece parchment paper to line the pan. It should be long enough to cover the bottom and two of the sides. Press it down in the pan so it sticks to the greased surface.If you don’t have parchment paper, you can substitute foil. However, you will need to grease the top of the foil so the brownies don’t stick to it.
 Add ¾ cup (75 g) of cocoa powder and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of baking powder to a large bowl. Stir the two together until they’re completely blended.If you’re out of baking powder, combine ¼ teaspoon (.5 g) baking soda with ¼ teaspoon (.5 g) of cream of tartar to add to the batter., When the cocoa powder and baking powder are fully mixed, stir in ⅓ cup (75 g) of melted butter. Blend the mixture until the butter is fully incorporated.For best results, use unsalted butter. However, if you only have salted butter on hand, just omit the added salt later in the recipe.
 Once the butter is incorporated into the batter, add ½ cup (118 ml) of boiling water to the bowl. Stir the mixture until it’s completely blended and smooth., When the boiling water has been mixed in, add in 2 cups (450 g) of sugar, 2 large eggs, and the remaining ⅓ cup (75 g) of melted butter. Stir well until the ingredients are fully incorporated.It’s a good idea to break the eggs in a separate bowl before mixing them into the bowl. That way, if one is bad, you won’t ruin all of the batter.
 Once the sugar, eggs, and butter are blended into the batter, add 1 ⅓ cup (167 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract, and ¼ (1.5 g) teaspoon of salt. Mix well until the ingredients are fully incorporated and the batter is as smooth as possible.If you usually make boxed brownies, this batter may be thicker than you’re used to. Don’t worry -- that’s the proper consistency.
 When you’re finished mixing the batter, fold in ½ cup (65 g) of coarsely chopped nuts and 2 cups (350 g) of semisweet chocolate chunks. Make sure that they’re fully blended throughout the batter.Walnuts and pecans are typically used in brownies, but you can use whatever type of nut that you prefer.
You can substitute other types of chocolate chunks, such as milk chocolate or bittersweet, for the semisweet chunks if you prefer.
If you don’t have chocolate chunks, you can use chocolate chips instead.
 Once the nuts and chocolate chunks are mixed into the batter, transfer it to the prepared pan. Use a spatula to smooth it into place so it’s in an even layer., Place the pan of brownies in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake for 35 to 40 minutes. You’ll know that they’re done when they are set and start to pull away from the sides of the pan.For the best results, bake the brownies on the center rack of the oven.
 Remove the brownies from the oven, and place the pan on a wire rack to cool. It should take approximately 30 minutes for the brownies to cool to room temperature. Cut them into squares, and serve.If you like, you can garnish the brownies with powdered sugar.
