 Periodontal disease is a leading cause of receding gums. See your dentist every six months for cleanings and check-ups. If you haven’t had it done, ask about fluoride treatment. Having regular professional care can help prevent diseases of your mouth and gums.Gingivitis, periodontitis, and plaque all cause inflammation in your gums, which causes gingival recession. Your dentist can help you prevent these or treat them before they get worse.
Having misaligned or crowded teeth can cause or worsen gum recession and may warrant orthodontic treatment.;
, If you have dental problems that your regular dentist can't fix, they can likely refer you to a periodontist. Periodontists specialize in preventing and treating periodontal disease, and may be better equipped to help you with gingival recession., Take the time to thoroughly brush your teeth two times per day. Brush in the morning when you wake up, and before bed. Use toothpaste that contains fluoride. Use a soft-bristled or medium-bristled toothbrush; avoid hard-bristle brushes.Consider purchasing an electric toothbrush, which may reduce plaque more than brushing with a regular toothbrush.
Be sure to brush the inside, outside, and tops (chewing surface) of your teeth. Brush your tongue, too.
 A big mistake people often make is brushing their teeth too hard. Brushing in a rigorous horizontal (back and forth) manner can cause trauma to your gums and can wear away the enamel, causing gum recession.Ask your dentist to show you the right way to brush your teeth.


Tilt the head of your toothbrush at a 45° angle towards your gum line. Use small circular vibratory strokes. Brush with gentle pressure. The bristles of your toothbrush can actually go 1 mm below your gum line to remove plaque that gets stuck there. Do about 20 strokes in one position before moving on to the other surfaces of your teeth.After doing 20 strokes, do a sweeping motion towards the biting surfaces of your teeth to move the plaque out. Do a back and forth horizontal movement to clean the biting surfaces of your teeth.
 Always rinse your toothbrush after you brush your teeth and store it upright – not lying down in a drawer or on a counter. Do not keep your toothbrush in a closed container often, because this can encourage bacteria to grow. Keep each toothbrush in your household separate.Get a new toothbrush every 3-4 months, or if the bristles get frayed.
 Flossing should go hand in hand with brushing.Flossing further removes plaque that was not reached by the bristles of your toothbrush.


For effective flossing, get an elbow-length string of floss and wrap both ends around your middle fingers. Leave an inch of floss that you can work with.
Starting from the back tooth, slide the floss very gently in between your teeth with the help of your index fingers. Do not force the thread to go down, which can cause damage to your gums.
Repeat the same procedure for all your teeth, taking care not to damage your gums. If your gums bleed when you floss, you need to be gentler.

