 The peace sign and symbol have complicated historical meanings that can resonate differently in cultures and religions.


Today, the drawn peace symbol is often recognized as a general symbol of peace or anti-war statement.
In Britain, this symbol is often recognized as representing nuclear disarmament, although elsewhere it’s seen as a general call for peace. However, throughout history, it’s been used for darker purposes.
For example, Hitler’s 3rd Panzer Division used the drawn peace symbol, and it exists on the tombstones of some SS soldiers.
 Some Christians do not like the drawn peace symbol because of its historical meanings.


It was used as an anti-Christian symbol in 711 AD by the Saracens. They used it to send the message that they could break the Christian cross when they used it on their shields.The upside down cross was first used by Christians because Peter the Apostle asked to be crucified with his head hanging down. However, anti-Christian groups then took the upside down cross and used it symbolize the opposite of Christianity.
Some heavy metal groups have used it. And the symbol has been used to indicate Communist support. The Founder of the church of Satan used the symbol on an altar.
 The peace symbol is often used in artwork, tattoos, and on T-shirts and signs. It’s commonly an anti-war symbol when used in this manner.


An artist famously drew the Eiffel tower inside the circle after the Paris terrorist attacks to emulate the peace symbol. The artist called it “Peace for Paris.” It’s also the number “2” in American sign language. In Asia, the sign is popular because of a peace activist ice skater who used it. There were also Japanese television commercials in the 1970s that used the symbol. The peace sign started to appear in Japanese photos even before that, dating to the 1960s when it appeared in the hippie movement.Today, Japanese people commonly flash it in photos.
Those who see religious significance in the peace sign or "V” sign link it to rejection of authority and the Roman “V” for the number 5. 