 First, wet your lips with your tongue just enough so that they're soft. Then, gently kiss any part of your partner's neck with a closed mouth, as if you were giving your partner a close-mouthed kiss on the lips. You can start by kissing the area where your partner's neck meets her shoulders or collarbone, resting your lips on the curved groove.
 Slowly open your mouth in between kisses, and begin to kiss your partner's neck with an open mouth, separating your lips as you gently kiss her skin. You can also move up and down your partner's neck to add some variety.


Breathe some hot air on your partner's neck in between kisses. This will drive your partner crazy with pleasure.
If you're really getting into it, lick your partner's neck from the bottom to the top. Use only the tip of your tongue and be very gentle. Make sure your partner is enjoying this sensation.
Do not do this if it's your first time kissing this person. Confirm it with them first if you're interested, but only do this if you've kissed their neck before or you have some experience with it. This goes for blowing air or using your tongue, and especially for biting and sucking. If it's your very first time, just stick with open and closed mouth kisses. Do this so that you and your partner can discuss anything else that the two of you would be interested in doing.
 Give your partner slow wet kisses so she can really feel the sensations. You can focus on kissing one area of the neck or move all around her neck. Try kissing near her ear -- this is another sensitive area. Blowing hot air near the ear will drive your partner wild as well.
 Gently suck on your partner's neck for just one or two seconds at a time. Just don't do it too quickly or you'll leave a hickey, and your partner may not be into that. You can suck on your partner's neck in between close-mouthed or open-mouthed kisses.

Be very careful of hickeys. Sucking and biting is very likely to result in a hickey, and that may get both of you in some very serious trouble.






You can also blow some cool air onto the spot that you sucked when you release your mouth.
 After you've been kissing your partner's neck for a while, try gently biting her skin. If you're careful, you can bite a little bit of skin in between your teeth and gently lift it before lowering it. Remember to take it easy with this one -- at first, you may catch your partner by surprise.

