 It is important to stay hydrated to keep your kidneys healthy. Not drinking enough water can lead to kidney stones. Make sure that you are drinking between six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day to maintain your kidney health.


You may need to drink more or less water depending on your kidney health, sex, and activity level. For example, some men may need to drink 13 cups of water every day to stay hydrated.
Check with your doctor if you have experienced kidney failure. You may need to be on a restricted fluid diet., High sodium intake is bad for your kidneys as well. If you consume a lot of sodium, then work on reducing your intake. You can reduce your sodium intake by choosing low-sodium foods, avoiding processed foods, and keeping a diary of the amount of sodium that you consume on a daily basis.


Consume no more than 2,300 mg of sodium per day if you are under the age of 51 and no more than 1,500 mg per day if you are over 51., Getting adequate high-quality protein is an important way to maintain your health. Avoid high-protein diets and eat a moderate amount of protein instead. While high-protein diets are popular for weight loss, eating this way can make existing kidney problems worse.Try to get about 20 to 30% of your overall daily calories from high-quality protein sources. Some high-quality protein sources include:


Beans
Nuts
Fish that contains omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, mackerel, and cod
Skinless poultry, such as chicken and turkey
Grass fed beef and bison

, Make sure that you include lots of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in your diet as well.These complex carbohydrates are much healthier for you than simple ones like white bread, white pasta, candy, and sugar. Some good choices include:


Apples, bananas, grapes, oranges, berries, cherries, pineapple, mangoes, papaya
Broccoli, cauliflower, carrots, sweet potatoes, Brussels sprouts, spinach, kale, onions, garlic
Whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta, barley, brown rice, quinoa

, Using herbs to season your food is a great idea, but it is important to consult your physician and a naturopath first if you are interested in taking any herbs as medicine. Some herbs can have negative effects on the kidneys, especially if your kidney function is already poor.

