 Also, make sure your bow isn't leaning in either direction, but is perpendicular to the strings.;
, Your elbow should be approximately the same height as your shoulder when the bow is placed on the A or D string(this may differ on how you hold your violin and what style of teaching you use, most students that use the Suzuki method of teaching are sometimes told to put a book under their shoulder to use more wrist and less arm, however this can result in not using a full bow on louder notes resulting in poor projection which can make one press too hard on the bow causing it to give a scratchy sound.) Sometimes it is helpful to lean your shoulder against a doorpost so that it cannot move.



PP =Pianissimo. Put on enough pressure to not make a wispy sound but light enough so that the audience (or you) can hear it clearly, and softly.
P = Piano. Use a bit more pressure but not so much that it sounds like F. It should show contrast from PP so that they don't sound exactly the same, but not too loud. It should be a little bit less pressure than MF.
MP = Mezzopiano. Medium soft, a mix between P&MF. Many violinists make the mistake of thinking that MP is quieter than P, but it is actually louder. The Mezzos (MP&MF) are difficult to analyze, because they are the most unique dynamic and are used to show small contrast.
MF = Mezzoforte. Medium loud, give it a light, airy sound that does not hold too long, and then crescendos or diminuendos(decrescendos) in a piano sound.
F = Forte. Loud, try to use your full bow if the passage you are playing allows you to. It will give it a full sound. The sound of Forte.
FF =Fortissimo Very loud; don't hesitate to play the loudest sound your instrument can produce! And yes, there are FFF(fortonoando)& FFFF(sometimes referred to blastissimo), but you do not see them often. FF is extremely loud. Considered the opposite of PP, use a lot of pressure for this loud dynamic. Also, increase speed of your bow.



Trills- Make sure to have plenty of bow to give it a full sound, and make sure it resonates. Try to trill fairly fast also.
Slurs- A slur is more than one note played in the same bow stroke. String crossings are sometimes difficult when you slur, so it's recommended that you let you bow flow to the the next string. Do not jerk your hand/arm; it will hit the other string too early, or you won't leave the other string in time.
Staccato - Very quick, short notes. Jerk your hand, not your arm. Think of it as a "bouncing a ball" motion.
Spiccato - Spiccato is done near the frog of the bow (on the balancing point), never near the tip as this is very difficult. Allow your bow to leave your string. Spiccato is like many fast lifts, so remember, move your arm a concave curve. You have to use your fingers to propel the bow to move. Always bounce the bow near the string, lest you get a short, scratchy sound. Try to make the sound lush and longer. Spiccato requires lots of practice and listen to how your teacher describes doing it.
Play a full bow, but there are times when one may have to play at the frog for a strong sound, or play at the tip for a soft sound.
Be very particular with the section of the bow and the speed at which you are playing.

