 This can assist greatly in its identification. Each continent has its own array of species of parrots, and of course each type of bird lives within certain regions on a continent. Take note of where the bird was spotted, being as specific as possible, and compare that region to what you know about where different kinds of parrots live.


Some species are found in places where they are not native, having been imported or otherwise introduced to these areas. Consider this possibility before you rely on location as a means of identifying a parrot, and ask a local expert if you think this might be the case.;
, This continent is home to the majority of macaws, conures, Pionus parrots, 'typical' parrots, some hanging parrots, parrotlets, amazon parrots, and the atypical hawk headed and Quaker parrots.
 Africa is inhabited fairly sparsely with the well known African Grey parrot, along with all of the lovebirds, all of the Poicephalus parrots, and the black or Vasa parrots (from Madagascar). There is also the African ringneck, Africa's only member of the psittacula genus.
 The resident species include the Psittacula parakeets and hanging parrots. The tropical regions of Indonesia and surrounding islands is home to parrots similar to those in Australia. These include lorikeets and lories, fig parrots, tiger parrots, Eclectus parrots, pygmy parrots, the Geoffroyus genus, small Corellas, palm cockatoos, some white cockatoo species, and some true parakeets.
 This crazy region is home to all of the black cockatoos, a subspecies of the both the palm cockatoo and eclectus parrot, the majority of larger corellas, the grey cockatoos (Galah, cockatiel and gang gang cockatoo), the greater sulphur crested cockatoo, two rainbow lorikeet subspecies, the endemic 'southern lorikeets', Rosellas (platycercus), Polytelis parrots, grass parrots(neophema and neopsephotus), one fig parrot, a geoffroyus parrot, the rare swift and ground parrots, and the mysterious and elusive night parrot. Nearby New Zealand is home to the enigmatic Kakas, the Kea, the world's only Alpine Parrot, the heaviest (and technically largest) parrot, the flightless Kakapo, the cyanoramphas genus (the kakarikis). New Zealand is also home to some of Australia's native species, but these are all introduced and will not be discussed further.

