 One of the main ways to build bridges instead of walls is by recognizing shared humanity. That means, we all have much more in common than not. Find a way to relate to others and you’ll limit judgments.If you catch yourself criticizing or judging others, find three things you have in common with that person or the situation. For instance, your partner didn’t stand up for themselves at work. Rather than judging them as weak, think about three different times when you had trouble speaking up for yourself.
 Acceptance is necessary for overcoming a judgmental attitude. Acceptance implies letting a person be who they are; not trying to change them. When you are able to recognize that another person is human—and all humans make mistakes—you can choose to accept the person.

Acceptance also implies lack of total control. When you judge, there’s an underlying desire to control others, or make them into who you would like them to be. Acceptance means allowing them to be who they are, and recognizing that you have no power to change them anyway.To demonstrate acceptance, you might remind yourself "I am not in control of who she is. Her behavior does not reflect on me. I can help her by being loving and accepting."

, Sometimes we get stuck in the mud of flaws and refuse to see the good in others. Counteract this negative tendency by purposely identifying the positives in those around you. Do this daily.


Start a practice of listing 10 positive strengths about yourself and others each day. This helps you train your mind to see the good rather than the bad., Your judgments of others often come from an inner need to avoid your own flaws. People who judge others are also often very judgmental of themselves. Don’t use others’ problems to cover up your own, or place yourself on a pedestal. If you notice yourself being judgmental, remind yourself that you are flawed, too. Therefore, you have no place to judge.Increasing your self compassion will help you gain a natural compassion for others.
You might repeat silently, “I am human. I make mistakes, too” when you find yourself judging others.
 If you catch yourself being judgmental, try to override the habit by immediately apologizing. When you apologize you reinforce the action as being inappropriate and you extend an olive branch to those you judged.

An apology can be simple and straightforward. Say, "I'm sorry, Charlie. I judged you just then and I shouldn't have. I hope you can forgive me. I'm working on overcoming my judgmental tendencies."
Work on your openness and honesty. By being candid about your judgmental nature, you can usually take note of it and help decrease it.

