 Relaxation technique may help you work through academic challenges. Whether it is test anxiety, social anxiety, an inability to focus, or something else, relaxing and reducing your stress can help refocus your brain. Having a clear brain can help you perform better academically. A counselor can help teach you stress relieving techniques that you can do at school or at home to prepare for school.Relaxation techniques that you may learn in counseling includes deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, guided imagery and visualization, and meditation.
For example, guided imagery is a technique where you visualize yourself in a non-stressful place. This helps you calm. You can also use guided imagery to help you visualize positive outcomes and success.
 Another thing you may learn in counseling is how to overcome damaging and negative self-talk. These statements are the ones where you mentally put yourself down, calling yourself stupid or something similar. Through counseling, you can learn how to stop using this abusive language with yourself and instead use positive self-talk.For example, you may tell yourself often, “You are so stupid.” Instead of this kind of damaging self-talk, your counselor will help you learn how to be less critical and nicer to yourself. You will learn how to change that phrase into something like, “You are not stupid. You studied and you will pass this class” or “You have a learning disability, but that doesn’t mean you are stupid. Your brain is different, and that is okay. You are still smart, and you can do this.”

, One thing you can learn through counseling to help with your academic challenges is effective study skills. A lack of study skills may lead to poor academic performance, lowered self-esteem, and feelings of inferiority. By getting help with your study skills, you can work to improve your grades and performance.Many school counselors will help teach you study skills. It doesn’t matter if you are in middle school, high school, or college.
You may be able to get information about good study skills in one counseling session, or you might meet with a school counselor multiple times to discuss your progress.

