 The potatoes should be roasted before you add them to the dish. To do so, you will need to cook them in the oven at 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) for 20 to 30 minutes, or until they are cooked through.


Toss them with a drizzle of oil and a dash of salt and pepper before transferring them to a small baking dish.
If using large potatoes instead of bite-size potatoes, quarter the potatoes into bite-size pieces before cooking them.
 Meanwhile, heat 1 Tbsp (15 ml) vegetable oil in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat on the stove.


If you do not have a Dutch oven, you could also use a large stainless steel stockpot or pan.
Wait a couple of minutes so that the oil has sufficient time to heat up.
 Sprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper on all sides. Add them to the oil in your Dutch oven and brown on all sides.


You will need to turn the chicken periodically to brown all sides evenly.
When browned, transfer the chicken to a plate. Set aside.
While drumsticks and thighs are usually used for chicken Afritada, if you prefer it, you could a whole chicken cut into separate pieces, instead. Keep the bones in and the skin on. Also keep in mind that white meat tends to cook faster than dark meat.
Browning the chicken beforehand improves the color and enhances the taste.
 Add the chopped garlic and onions to the remaining oil in the Dutch oven. Sauté, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes or until they become tender and fragrant.


At this point, you should add the chicken back to the Dutch oven.
 Add the chicken stock, tomato sauce, fish sauce, and bay leaves to the Dutch oven and bring the liquid to a boil over medium-high to high heat.


Leave the pan uncovered and stir the contents periodically.
 As soon as the liquid reaches a boil, turn off your stove and transfer the pan and its contents to the oven. Braise the chicken in the oven for about 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until all the chicken pieces have cooked through.To prevent the chicken from drying out, use a baster or spoon to baste the chicken with the sauce every 10 minutes or so.
 During the last 10 minutes of cooking, add these ingredients to the contents of the pot and stir them in. Finish cooking as before.


If desired, you can also add salt and black pepper to taste.
 The chicken Afritada should be pulled out of the oven and enjoyed while still hot and steaming.

