 Neurons are specialized cells in the body of living organisms such as mammalians. In particular these cells are important in humans. Neurons are of two types in humans. One of them is called neurons and the other type is called glial cells. Neurons are the functional cells of the nervous system. On the other hand glial cells have secondary supporting function in the various parts of the nervous system. These glial cells are of different types that depend on the branch of the nervous system.;
, Neurons in humans do not have capacity to divide and multiply. This is important clinically because these cells do not undergo mutagenesis or transform into cancerous cells. Also this fact is important for the maintaining of proper function of the memory in humans. On the other hand, their inability to divide and multiply has the clinical disadvantage of irreversible damage to the nervous system in injuries of this biological system. Therefore injury to the nervous system such as spinal cord injuries can be irreversible. Manifestations of this type of injury can be paralysis of the extremities or gait disorders or walking problems in affected individuals.
 The nervous system in general and its neurons in particular are very crucial for the sustaining of life of the individual. Neurons are the mediators of cellular communication between muscle cells and the cells of nervous system. This is important for example in the processing of memory and the mediation of logical reasoning. In addition other processes are involved such as the secretion of neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft between neurons. These neurotransmitters are the main chemical mediators of cellular signaling between cells of the nervous system and between neurons and muscle cells.
 Sensations such as heat and cold sensations are perceived in organs of the body such as the skin through free nerve endings which are specialized types of neurons in the body that are specialized for sensory functions. Neurons are divided functionally into motor neurons and sensory neurons. Most cells in the nervous system are of these two types. Sensory neurons are the source of incoming information into the body such visual and hearing signals. Motor neurons are responsible for the muscles contraction and relaxation in the various parts of the body. Special parts of the nervous system in humans that are important for the motor function of neurons include the basal ganglia and the cerebellum of the brain. Also the cerebral cortex has motor neurons that carry motor function in the body.
 The spinal cord in humans has both motor and sensory neurons. Disorders of movement in humans are mostly disorders of motor neurons in either the brain or the spinal cord. For example, gait disorders can be caused due to dysfunctional cerebellum or dysfunctional basal ganglia. Also dysfunctional motor neurons of the brain cortex can cause gait disorders. In addition injuries to motor neurons of the spinal cord can trigger gait disorders such as dysfunctional spinal reflexes. Pain sensation is mediated through special type of neurons in the body. These neurons are not adaptive in its function. This means that the strength of their signals is constant in its value.
 Pain in the nervous system is of two types. One of them is physiological that is caused due to organic cause such as tissue injury. The other cause of pain is due to psychological undefined causes. This is triggered for example in people who are depressed or suffer from psychological conflicts. This type of pain is ill defined physiologically that does not have an apparent organic cause. Neurons of the nervous system in humans are much more developed than other neurons of other living organisms such as the reptiles.
 Humans neurons have capacity to translate electric signals into logical and predictable behavior in contrast to animals who can have unpredictable ill-defined behaviors. Also neurons in humans have the capacity to store large amount of memory in their structures. This is possible due to the morphological changes that these neurons undergo in their chemical structure such a change in their axons and their cell bodies.

