 Simply developing better “sleep hygiene” will likely lead to more ease and comfort falling asleep.Make time to prepare your body and mind for sleep. Avoid exciting, strenuous, or otherwise stimulating activities just before bed. Here are a few more tips to help you wind down:


Don’t fall for the temptation to hang out in your bed. Don’t get in bed until you’re committed to going to sleep.Reduce your screen time. Turn off ALL of the screens; TV, video games, computer, and even cell phones an hour before you want to be asleep.Stop cramming for your test! You need sleep to perform well in class. Wrapping up the day with a more relaxing activity – such as listening to music or reading for enjoyment – will make it easier to fall asleep.;
, Commit to a regular, relaxing routine just before you get in bed. This will send a cue to your body that it’s time to rest.


After getting homework out of the way, or concluding any other evening activities, perform your bedtime ritual in a consistent order of operations.
For instance, first take a shower, then dim the lights, brush your hair, read for 20 minutes, and turn out the light. Choose an order of operations that you prefer; it’s the consistency that matters.
 Adjust temperature and lighting to help with this. Keep the lights dim in the evening hours, and make your bedroom dark, cool, and quiet.Further:


Don’t sleep in too late on the weekends. Getting too much sleep will disrupt your internal body clock.
Let in the morning sunlight! This will help you wake up, and will keep your body clock calibrated.
 Count sheep. Imagine yourself calmly sitting in your favorite fantasy realm. Whatever works! Here are some ideas:


Picture a beautiful outdoor vista you’ve seen or would like to see someday. Imagine the associated sounds and smells. Feel the breeze on your skin. (And start dreaming!)
Try softly playing the audio of the setting you're envisioning. Avoid audio with words or other distractions elements. Look for an ambient, calming sound.

