 The sheet metal shown is galvanized.

Visualize the process: draw an outline of the simple design/shape you wish on the surface of the plywood that you already faced with Masonite (either regular Masonite used for plain, brown clipboards, or double hardened Masonite). Cut out and remove the inner shape thus leaving the die (the outer part). Bolt/Screw your desired sheet metal onto the die, with nut, to cover the side to be hammer-tooled/worked downward into the die, to form the metal into the die; unbolt it; trim off margins (or not if will be framed); finish the "metal art" as desired (smooth or texture, burnish or polish, clear coat or paint (or both), etc.).

Another die forming technique is to form sheet metal with hydraulic pressed in die forming, instead of hammering.;
,

When you get your Masonite sheets, either the Regular Masonite that is used for clip boards (only one side is hardened while the other side is not and also is not smooth) or double hardened Masonite (each side is hardened and smooth) which produces sharper edges on the sheet metal than regular Masonite because the unhardened edge will become rounded off.


The thickness of the built-up layers of plywood will be equal to the desired depth of the finished product.
Example: if the design is 4" in diameter and the finished product desired will be 1" deep the plywood with the Masonite face(s) should be 8" square and 1" thick. If the end product is going to have two sides make sure each side is a mirror image (opposite) of the other -- or like the back/or other side of the object -- bolted to the opposite side of the die -- or completely separate as a somewhat different shape, e.g.: the back or other side of a head or body is an opposite/mirror image.
On a face (head) one might have an eye nose and/or mouth shape as a final (added) layer to carefully hammer into those, for dull features (not detailed).
, The paper should be the same size as the plywood.,,, If the blade isn't kept straight and vertical -- but at different angles on each edge, the outside edges of the design hammered into the sheet metal will not be identical for each half to match to form a 2-sided, 3-D object.,,,, Drill these holes in each corner. Drill through both the metal and the plywood at the same time., (This is opposite of tempering for adding hardness by suddenly cooling in cool/cold water for example.),, Be sure to not do too much along one edge at once -- but instead, work around and around to keep the forming consistent and aligned., Or if you made the die deep enough, then you can have metal on both sides, and so hammer into each side, but less than halfway, if you have the metal sides mounted back to back for convenience.,