 If you're writing a love letter to someone you're already dating, the tips above may still be useful to you, but you may find that you get the best results when you use a slightly different approach. Since you've already won this person's affection, you don't have to worry quite as much about being intriguing or exciting. Instead, you can use a tone that's a little more intimate and familiar — closer to pillow talk than to high-intensity flirting.


For example, if you're writing to Mike Greene, your boyfriend of a year, you might begin thusly: "Mike, my love. Has it already been a year? 12 amazing months? 52 tremendous weeks? 365 earth-shattering days? How the time has flown."

, After you've been with someone long enough, you'll probably have your own "vocabulary" as a couple — terms, references, and jokes that only the two of you understand. To give your letter a personal touch, try sprinkling these throughout the beginning of your letter — it will show you remember and value your shared experiences.


We'll leave this one up to you — only you and your S.O. know each others' inside jokes, pet names, and obscure references.
 No relationship is perfect — after an initial "honeymoon" period, the members of basically every couple will slowly but surely begin to notice each others' flaws, get on each others' nerves, and sometimes even have arguments. This is a normal part of being someone's significant other. Don't be afraid to touch on these things lightly in your letter. After all, they're just as much a part of your relationship as the happy moments that are hopefully much more frequent.


However, no matter how serious the content of your letter gets, you'll want to let your reader know that you're confident in your relationship. Never give your boyfriend or girlfriend the fear that you're considering breaking up. This can make a relationship tense and uncertain and potentially even lead to an actual breakup.
For example, let's say you're writing to Kim Jones, your girlfriend with whom you've recently had an argument. You might want to include a sentence or two like this: "I know we argue sometimes, Kimmy. In a way, our tiffs have a silver lining. After we have a chance to cool down each time, I'm more and more convinced that I've made the right decision."

, Don't be afraid to be funny in your love letter — there's a lot of evidence to suggest that humor can be a very sexy trait to both men and women alike.Although humorous openings are difficult to pull off, and probably shouldn't be attempted if you don't have a knack for humor, they reinforce your lighter side. In addition, since you're already dating your letter's recipient, you don't have to worry quite as much about being "proper" or "nice". As long as you're not terribly rude or cruel (and you can pull the humor off), you can usually joke around without much fear of giving the wrong impression.


For example, here's an example of a ridiculously overwrought opening that's consciously cheeky:



Frozen though it may have been that night, I marched on undaunted. Harsher grew the snow. Could I go on? Despair. With every step that touched the icy ground, I grew more decrepit. My skin was starting to turn black from frostbite. I knew now that in this sullen time, I was to die, left to languish in this tomb of chill. But lo, what was this? Could it be? A light descends from the sky! Effervescent pearlescent luminescence shone through a sublime sheen of a figure most brilliant. It couldn't be. It was. You. There you were, the one thing to cast me out of the gloom, this curse, this affliction, this anathema.
 Still stuck? Don't sweat it — history is full of literally hundreds of great love letter writers, each with his or her own unique style. Below are just a few examples from the world of literature you may want to check out (there are many more from all walks of life):


Early 21st Century writer Katherine Mansfield was a great love letter writer who was able to use her literary skills to pen beautiful passages to her lovers — both male and female (Mansfield was bisexual). Here's a short passage from a letter to her second husband John Murray Mansfield: "You are all about me - I seem to breathe you, hear you, feel you in me and of me."If you're willing to get raunchy (very, very raunchy), the love letters of Irish author James Joyce to his wife Nora Barnacle may be great sources of inspiration. Here's a tamer passage written before the two married: "I am like a fool hearing you call me 'Dear.' I offended two men today by leaving them coolly. I wanted to hear your voice, not theirs."Not all love letters need to be syrupy, poetic musings. The letters of Austro-Hungarian writer Franz Kafka to his lovers were often erratic, bordering on bizarre. Here's a passage from a letter to his fiance (but never wife), Felice Bauer: "If only I had your answer now! And how horribly I torment you, and how I compel you, in the stillness of your room, to read this letter, as nasty a letter as has ever lain on your desk! Honestly, it strikes me sometimes that I prey like a spectre on your felicitous name!"