 Sometimes you can find a great sale for those. V-necks and crew-necks are useful, but try as many styles as you want. Get short sleeved, long sleeved and maybe one or two three-quarter sleeves. Get them in lots of colors, but black and white are a must.;
, Camisoles or thin tank tops are a must for layering and making your outfit look put-together. Get them mostly in solid colors but a couple of prints are great, too. Tank tops such as scoop neck tanks and racerback tanks are a nice addition to your wardrobe, but don't go overboard with them because they aren't as versatile as the must-have cami.
 These are also a must have. First, you should have a simple black dress. Have about 1-2 more "formal" dresses and depending on your personal preference, 3-5 casual dresses.
 Tunics, which are basically extra-long tops or extra-short dresses, are not a basic but it is nice to have one to two tunics to wear with leggings or jeans. They make a nice party outfit. You should have at least 1-2 dressy tops that can be dressed up or down with accessories.
 For summer months, shorts are also a basic. You should have at least 2 pairs of shorts, one preferably denim. Have one knee-length or slightly above and one shorter one.
 If you like, high-waisted skirts go well paired with camis or basic tops and are cute, but not a necessity. Longer, flowy skirts are beautiful and feminine, but also not a necessity.
 They are such a basic! Two or three pairs are preferable.
 You will want to have a thicker coat or raincoat or windbreaker.
 Have one good-quality pair of tennis or running shoes. They are definitely a basic and current trends have them paired with everything, even skirts. Have one pair of sandals or heels, also.
 They are the best part of getting dressed and the most fun part of fashion! Even the simplest wardrobe can be expanded with accessories, so load up on them! Jewelry is first. Have at least one pair of basic, good-quality stud earrings for everyday wear. They don't have to be expensive. Also have two or more dangly earrings. Headbands and clips are nice for hair accessories. A colorful scarf from Old Navy or another store is great to add a pop of color to a plain outfit. If you like, hats are also great and come in a variety of cute styles and colors. Have at least one or two. And have at least one basic handbag/purse that goes well with most of your outfits. It helps to have a smaller purse or clutch for formal events where you don't want to be lugging around all your things.
 When they go out of style or wear out, you can rely on your trusty basic wardrobe to literally keep you covered!

