 Remove the skate park grime and grease from the board, as you don't want this transferring to the wall. Gentle mild detergent and warm water should do the trick. Also decide whether you'd like to keep stickers intact or not and remove or touch up any stickers or emblems on the bottom of the board. The bottom of your board will be on display so if you have any rad stickers you wanted to display or new artwork, add them now.;
, You won't need the wheels, so remove them using an electric drill. Also remove all screws from the deck as you'll be adding new screws when mounting it to the wall.
 Plan where the hats will best fit (perhaps an even three or four hooks across the board will work well). Attach as instructed by the hook packaging, either by screwing in or adhering to the board. Avoid placing hooks over the deck holes, as these are going to be needed for the mounting process.


If drilling holes to add the hooks, take care to find areas of the board firm enough to handle the drilling without breaking the board.






Another alternative to attaching hooks is to use hooks that are usually hung over a door or similar high spot. Such hooks could simply hang over the top of the board and can be easily shifted for adjusting the weight and placement of hats as needed. This leaves the board intact too. On the downside, these hooks might not be as stable as ones firmly attached to the board.
 The idea is to drill a longer screw through the deck hole and into a wooden block. This block will then be mounted to the wall. To make the block:


Obtain mounting blocks that will be used for the skateboard deck. You can either head to the hardware store and explain that you need two or three 2” (5cm) chunks of wood for mounting a skateboard, or you can grab some scrap wood for your project and measure it for yourself.
Ask the hardware employee to cut three 2” (5cm) x 1.5” (3.8cm) chunks from the piece of wood you choose. Either way, confirm that you have 2” (5cm) pieces of wood, which tend to be the best size for mounting.
Sand the blocks. If the hardware store doesn’t do this for you, use sandpaper to sand down the blocks until smooth before proceeding.
 Typically you will need two or three holes for the most secure fit.
 You will need to create holes on one side of the mounting block in order to screw them into the wall.
 Drop the screws through the deck holes and drill them into the wooden blocks. Be sure you drill them into the side that does not have the pre-drilled area.
 Use a stud detector, or knock on the wall. If you knock to hear hollow sounds, then it's good. The stud detector will beep if there is a stud. If you come across a stud, move your wall placement out or in accordingly.


Check the wall for before mounting the board for stability beams or other areas of construction that may impede mounting the board on the wall.
 Match up the pre-drilled holes to the area where you will mount the board.


Using the same screws, line up where the blocks will be located on the wall. Use a pencil as your guide and a level to ensure they aren’t crooked.
Drive the screws approximately 3/4” into the wall so they are slightly protruding. This will provide a shelf to hang your blocks.
Push the skateboard up against the blocks into the wall. Use a hammer to gently tap the board into place. For extra hold, consider placing one drop of liquid nails inside each block hole for a more permanent fit.
 Go and find a favorite hat and hang it up. The result should be a firmly held hanging hat and your wonderful old skateboard on display for all to see.

