 If you are getting divorced, you will be going through a difficult and emotional period. It is important, however, that you pay attention to how your children are experiencing the divorce. Your kids will have their own perspective on what is happening and it’s helpful if you can try to see things from their perspective.


Children, especially young children, will have a hard time understanding the situation and the complicated reasons behind your divorce.
Children will try to figure out an explanation, and this often lead to them blaming themselves.
Try to understand how strange the situation is for your kids and always shield them from any animosity you feel towards your ex.;
, For older children, the experience of parents getting divorced can be quite different. Teens and adolescents will have a better understanding of the emotional complexities of the situation, and they might situate this major change within the context of their own changes as they grow up.


Teens are more likely to hold their parents accountable for the divorce than younger children.
They might require more a thorough explanation of what has gone wrong, and they may seek to apportion blame to one party over the other.
You should understand that anger is a natural reaction to someone’s parent’s getting divorced, but the cause of this anger is pain about the perceived breaking up of the family.
Teens may also interpret your divorce as an indicator that they will struggle to build lasting relationships in their lives., To help you get a clearer view of how your children are experiencing the divorce, it’s important that you encourage them to explain their feelings to you.If your kid is struggling to explain his feelings, help him by asking questions and legitimizing his emotions. You might say something like “I know you’re sad. Can you tell me what’s making you feel sad?”


Let him know his feelings are valid by saying “I know it’s lonely without Dad here”.
Pay attention to what he says and ask him what will help him to feel better.
This can be a very difficult experience, but the more you can talk about it, the better you will understand each other., To try avoid any behaviour or reactions from your kids in which they seek to take advantage of your divorce, or play one parent off against the other, it’s crucial that you recognise how much of an impact your behaviour has on their responses. Children learn by watching and interacting with their parents and others around them, and young children in particular will find it hard to separate themselves from their parents.If you start to blame your ex for the divorce, or criticise him in front of your kids, they might start doing this too.
Don’t fight or argue with your ex in front of your children. This can be very distressing for them, and will foster a negative atmosphere.Talking with a divorce counsellor or mediator is one way to air your grievances without involving the kids., It can help to think of your actions as setting a positive example for your children. If you show patience and flexibility, as well as being polite and friendly, your kids will see you and your ex respecting each other. Having clear examples of good behaviour can influence how your kids respond to the situation. You’re the adults so it’s up to you to create a positive and cooperative atmosphere.


If you can make it clear that you and your ex are not competing over the kids, you will help create a more cooperative and less conflictual environment.
If your child sees you and your ex challenging each other and competing for his affection, he is more likely to adopt these behaviours and take advantage of the situation.

