 Diabetic ketoacidosis is a potentially fatal condition. It happens when blood sugar levels are too high for an extended period of time. When high blood sugar does not get treated, ketones gather in the blood and urine, which can cause major problems. Symptoms include:Excessive urination
Extreme thirst
Abdominal pain
Extreme fatigue or weakness
Breath that smells slightly fruity
Nausea
Vomiting
Breathlessness
Dry mouth
Disorientation and confusion
Loss of consciousness
Pain in the abdomen

, One of the main problems that occurs with diabetic ketoacidosis is dehydration due to excessive urination. To help reverse the DKA, drink large amounts of non-calorie or low-calorie beverages, such as water. This should be done as soon as you suspect you have DKA.Because you lose a lot of electrolytes with DKA, try diluting low-calorie Gatorade or Powerade or drinking electrolyte children’s drinks to replace electrolytes.
Try to drink at least eight to 12 ounces of fluid every half hour.
 With diabetic ketoacidosis, your blood sugar becomes too high due to the lack of insulin. You may consider taking an increased dosage of insulin to help try to lower your blood sugar. Generally, you will need 1.5 to 2 times the normal insulin dose. If this doesn't help, do not increase anymore because it can be unsafe. Instead, contact your doctor immediately.Try to get your blood sugar below 200 mg/dL and a negative reading of ketones in your urine.
You should have discussed the potential for DKA with your doctor, so you may know how to administer an increased dose of insulin in case of increased blood sugar levels. If you haven't, call your doctor first before increasing your dosage.
 If you have type 1 diabetes, you should have an emergency plan in place for diabetic ketoacidosis. You should discuss this with your doctor so you can be prepared in case you have diabetic ketoacidosis.Your plan can outline steps to take to rehydrate yourself. You may keep Gatorade or an electrolyte drink around just in case of an emergency.
You should discuss with your doctor the procedure for increasing your insulin dosage to quickly get down your blood sugar levels.
Your emergency plan may also include instructions on how to check your urine for ketones.
Your plan should also include any numbers for doctors or hospitals in case you can't get your DKA reversed.
 This is a life-threatening condition that needs a quick response. If you believe you have diabetic ketoacidosis and the at-home treatments have not worked, you should immediately go to the emergency room or call emergency services.If your blood sugar doesn't lower, your at-home treatments are not working, or your symptoms worsen, you should seek immediate medical attention.
You should also see a physician or emergency services if you have been nauseous for four hours or the nausea is severe. If you have started vomiting or cannot keep fluids down, seek medical treatment immediately.

