 Having a non-serious or serious medical condition can put you at a higher risk of developing an upper GI bleed; however, you may be unaware of the condition until you notice bleeding.This is why it is important to see your doctor if you have identified any signs of GI bleeding.


If you have had a non-serious condition such as hemorrhoids or an anal fissure, or have experienced GI bleeding in the past, then you are at a higher risk of GI bleeding.Serious conditions, such as colon cancer and intestinal polyps, can also cause GI bleeding.
 You may be more at risk of developing an upper GI bleed if you have already been diagnosed with another condition. Consider any medical diagnoses you have received that might increase your risk of a GI bleed. Some conditions that may cause an upper GI bleed include:Peptic ulcers
Esophageal varices
Esophagitis
Gastritis
Mallory-Weiss tear
Malignancy
Portal hypertension from liver issues

, Some medications can also increase your risk of an upper GI bleed. Think about the over-the-counter and prescription medications that you take on a regular basis as well as any prescription drugs that have warnings about an increased chance of gastrointestinal bleeding.NSAIDS, such as ibuprofen and naproxen, can increase your risk of an upper GI bleed.
Some prescription medications may also increase your risk of an upper GI bleed. For example, taking a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant along with an NSAID can make your risk of gastrointestinal bleeding 15 times higher than normal.Check the warnings to determine if your medication might put you at risk of an upper GI bleed.
 Certain lifestyle factors may increase your risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. Think about your lifestyle and be sure to share any relevant information with your doctor. If you drink alcohol, smoke cigarettes, or eat acidic foods, then these lifestyle factors may be increasing your risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.


Consider your alcohol consumption. Alcohol can increase the level of acid in your stomach and this can lead to bleeding in your gastrointestinal tract.
Take smoking into account. Smoking can also increase stomach acid and this may increase your risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.Think about your diet. Some foods may increase the acid levels in your stomach, such as coffee and spicy foods, and this might also increase your risk of a gastrointestinal bleed.