 It's easy to let paperwork pile up on your desk, but this ushers in a sense of clutter, which bogs you down. Get a filing cabinet, small paper organizer with shelves for your desk or some other type of file holder to sort your papers into. Once you're done with something, file it, shred it or throw it away. If you have to keep a document but have no use for it at the present time, put it in storage.;
, Sort pens and pencils into plastic organizers that sit on your desk or inside a drawer. Do the same for extra staples, paperclips, pushpins and other small objects. If you need extra lighting, instead of putting a lamp on your desk, get a floor lamp or place a smaller lamp on top of your file cabinet.
 Your computer monitor, keyboard and phone should be the focal points of your desk if you use them most. Keep a scratch pad close by, along with a favorite pen. Other items that are used less often, like a stapler or Rolodex, can be pushed out to the perimeter so they're still easy to access yet not cluttering the space closest to you. Make sure you still have enough space to work by hand if you don't use your computer for everything. Clean the table before leaving the office

,, Alternatively, enter meetings and events into a handheld planner, PDA or your phone.
 Bundle them up and try to hide them along the wall or behind something, then tie them up with a zip-tie or something similar. You can have your IT person help you with this if you're not sure which cord is which.
 If your desk is positioned facing a window and you know you tend to get caught up in what's going on outside, see if you can turn your desk in the opposite direction. Your file cabinet should be next to your desk so you can access files as necessary; your printer, fax or scanner should also be within reach. Getting a rolling chair can help you move about your office with ease.
 Put them where you can see them but try to avoid taking up precious desk space with pictures. You could also make one collage with all your pictures and hang that on the wall so you have fewer frames to deal with.
 You can store your cell phone in your top drawer so it's close to you in case you get a call. If you're a woman, add a hanger to a wall or the back of your door for your purse.

