 Look for a hollowed shell that is big enough to house a succulent plant and some dirt. Succulent plants don’t require as much water as other indoor houseplants and can thrive in a smaller habitat like the inside of a seashell.Look for larger clamshells or other seashells that are of a suitable size. Scour beaches and try to find a hallowed shell.

There are also online stores that sell hallowed seashells.You can also find man-made synthetic seashells online.
 You can use soil that you’ve found in the yard or fertilizer. Succulents thrive in loose soil that has good drainage. When choosing a soil choose things like coarse sand or perlite with potting soil to create good drainage.Make sure to fill your shell outside or over a sink so that you don’t make a mess.

You can also purchase succulent specific soils at most home and gardening stores.
 Use your finger, or a chopstick to create a hole in the soil. Place your succulent into the holes that you make. Place more holes for more succulents until you have a full arrangement within your planter. Once your plants are in the holes, you can put more soil to fill the remainder of the holes and hold your plants in place.When placing your holes, make sure to do so strategically so that your arrangement is aesthetically pleasing to you.
 While this step is optional, decorating your planter with paint or small gems is a good way to enhance its look and make it more unique. One method of painting your shell is to use watercolor paint. Mix colors together to create a tie dye seashell planter.Another method of painting is to use a metallic spray paint and spray the shells to give them a shiny, metallic look.Lastly, you can hot glue small gems or stones onto the surface of the shell to give it a more glamorous feeling., Because these planters are more delicate and are likely to get destroyed if placed outside, it’s probably a good idea to keep them inside your house. Find a place, like a window that leads to outside, where the succulents can get enough sunlight.

Allow the soil to dry out before watering your seashell planters., Find the small holes that are usually found in many shells and thread a fishing line through them in order to hang them. If there are no holes in your shells, you can drill small pilot holes using an electric drill.Hang the planters in areas that won’t obstruct people’s walking paths.

Good locations to hang your miniature planters include the porch or a shed.

