;
, Consider the following when choosing: natural views and landscape, accessibility, the availability of marked hiking trails, the length of the hike based on your personal experience and ability. Consider the terrain of the area as well. Hills and mountains are beautiful but even a short steep hike can be too challenging.
 Even if you plan to hike for just a couple of hours, you do not want to run the risk of becoming dehydrated. Plan 1 L per person per hour of hiking.
 Hiking boots are best. If you do not have boots, wear comfortable shoes with thick supportive soles. Make sure to take an extra pair of socks as well, particularly if you are going on a longer hike.
 If you are hiking in an area where the weather is changeable, pack rain gear.
 Pack additional sunscreen.
 GORP doesn't have to be raisins and peanuts. Cherries, almonds, M&Ms, walnuts, cranberries, and peanut butter chips are all good. Anything non-perishable and bite-sized will do. If you are eating a meal on the trail, pack light, and as spill-free as possible. Sandwiches, bite-sized vegetables, beef sticks, fruit leather, and apples are also good trail food. Pack a small bag to contain any trash that you make. Do not leave any trash on the trail.
 Normal work-gloves are good too. Hiking or walking sticks are also helpful for getting up a steep slopes, particularly if you carry a heavy pack or do not have good balance.
 Tell them you will check in with them when you return. Then check in with that person when you return. Just in case anything goes wrong (for example, you get lost), that person will know where to look for you, or know to contact help if you do not return as expected.
,,, For example, if you are going on a 9-mile hike, try a 5-mile hike a week or two before, carrying the same gear on your back that you will have for the 9-mile. This gives you time to get comfortable with your bag, and to fix any weight-distribution problems in your packing, and also time to find a comfortable strap adjustment.

