 A macho guy can take care of himself and his family. If you want to cultivate a macho persona, learn to do more things for yourself and rely on others less for basic tasks. Can you change the oil in your car or do you take it to the shop? A macho guy should know how to intelligently approach any situation that calls for it without panicking. Here's a brief list of macho stuff it would be good for any guy to know:


take care of your car



 



fix a leaky faucet







throw a knife







cook a steak properly







shoot a gun







drink whiskey







shave with a straight razor







find water







butcher meat







survive in the wilderness







win a fight





;
, Playing Xbox is fun and all, but there are probably more macho things you could be doing. A macho guy gets outside and does things with his hands. Masculine hobbies can be a great way of bonding with other men and feeling the testosterone flow freely. Try out a few macho activities to see what you like:


fishing







soccer







golfing







boxing







motorcycling







reading







skeet-shooting







, A macho guy is an intelligent guy who makes learning as much as he can about something a big priority. Whether it's for work or a hobby, you should actively try to learn and master a subject. People should want to come to you for help because of your expertise in a particular subject, not the other way around.Never take others down for knowing more than you do about something. It doesn't make you macho to treat ignorance like it's some kind of "cool" thing, it just makes you stupid.
If you're really talented, you'll be able to back up your talk with action. Bragging to your friends about how great you are in the sack, how fast your new car goes, or how great your outside jump shot is may be macho, or it may just be a load of lies. Brag about something worth bragging about.
 Being macho is no fun if you don't have an A-team of like-minded macho dudes ready to stomp around the woods getting wild and howling at the moon with. Every man needs other men to bro-down with and get in touch with their jerky-eating, beer-swilling, shadow-boxing, knife-wielding genes. Get some macho friends and do macho things.

Find masculine role models that you respect and learn from them. If you're learning a trade, apprentice yourself to a man that you admire personally and professionally and learn everything you can from him.
Spend time with your male family members to get to know them a little better. Try to strengthen your relationship with your father, your uncles, and your male cousins. Blood between macho men should be thick.
 When a macho guy scores a touchdown, he calmly walks over to the referee, hands him the ball, and gets back to the scrimmage. Business as usual. Showing off is for guys who have to compensate, because macho guys are cool and detached and unaffected. A macho guy should look like you'd want to give him the leadership role when the post-apocalypse goes down, because he's the one staring into the crowd of zombies with a bored smirk. Macho guys should neither be crushed by a failure or overcome by a success. Treat anything that happens, good or bad, as a curiosity.

If you ever have to cry in public, be stoic and calm, speaking without a cracking voice. Macho tears are like rain in the desert: it should be shocking, but not unappreciated. People will know the situation is serious if a macho guy like you is shedding a single gravely tear.
 Being macho doesn't mean you have to drive your car recklessly, drink too much, and treat everyone like dirt. A real man acts like himself, stands up for what he believes in, and is a genuine person, first and foremost. A real macho guy isn't putting on an act, he's just being a man.

