 The Extended Year-End Technical stops (EYETS) is the only part of the year when the underground facilities are open for tours, including the Large Hadron Collider.These breaks are when the collider is shut down, and they generally happen just before Christmas., Tours are available six days a week, Monday through Saturday. CERN also closes for certain holidays, so check ahead of time for dates it will be closed.Tours last for about 3 hours apiece.
 Tours are conducted in both French and English, but more tours in English are available. For example, two tours a day are available in English from Monday to Saturday (with more available during high traffic times), but tours in French are only available once a day on Wednesdays and Saturdays., While the tours are free, you must book ahead of time to make sure you get a spot. Tour reservations open up 15 days ahead of the date, and a few more spots will open up 3 days ahead of the date.Spots fill up fast, so decide on a date as soon as you can. You can make a reservation for up to 11 people at a time with individual tours., To book a visit, fill out the form on CERN's website. You'll need to include your name, your email address, the country you live in, and your phone number. You'll also need to include the number of people in your party, as well as the date (and an alternative date) you'd like to visit.If you are reserving spots for more than 11 people, you'll need to reserve a group tour. You can make a reservation for up to 48 people, using the form on the website., School tours are generally half a day, and you can request a specific tour, though tours are dependent on what's available. School tours sometimes even include performing experiments. You can even use provided materials to help get your students ready for the visit.Only 12 to 48 people can visit at once, including teachers and students. The tours are free. In general, students must be 13 and older.
Fill out the reservation form online. You'll need information like the number of people attending, contact information, your preferred language, and the preferred date.