 Imagine how you will feel in ten minutes, ten months and ten years. In this way, you can get some perspective on how the important decision could impact your short, near and long term future., Although you may feel you have a good grasp of the problem you are trying to solve with your decision, it can really pay off to describe it in more depth. You will benefit from describing the underlying problem or situation to a friend. You could also write it down in your journal. At the end of the day, it is a lot easier to make a decision that solves a well-defined as opposed to a poorly understood problem.For example, if you are trying to decide whether to quit your job, try writing down your reasons for wanting to quit. If the problem is that you like your vocation but not your boss, this understanding of the problem can help inform your decision-making. In this case, you may want to find a job that allows you to do the same thing but with a better boss.
 If you feel stuck between two choices that both feel inadequate in terms of meeting your goals, you may want to generate a list of alternatives. Give yourself five minutes to brainstorm a list of alternative solutions to your problem., You may want to consider what your life or career will look like if you choose a particular path. Go through all of the alternatives you have considered for your important decision and think about the future consequences.For instance, you could think about how much money you would make or what opportunities the choice could open up for you.
 Although it may seem obvious, you may want to figure out the priorities that you want to honor at the end of the day. You may want to honor a goal of making more money or living in a particular place, which could help you come to a decision.For instance, money, balance between life and work, location and recognition are a few of the things people commonly want to achieve through career transitions.
If you are trying to decide between staying in your current position or pursuing a new job opportunity, consider what you want to achieve at the end of the day. Once you have determined your underlying goal, such as money or location, you will be better equipped to make a decision.
 Important decisions often involve some tradeoffs, such as between making more money and living in a desirable location. If you feel like you are comparing apples and oranges, you may want to revisit your objectives and related priorities. After looking at your main objectives and the priorities you want to honor, the decision may be a little easier to make., On a blank piece of paper, make a column for “pros” and a column for “cons” of a particular choice. Take a few minutes to write down all of the possible “pros” and “cons” of a particular decision. Look at your list and see which column is the longest. This process should help you come to an appropriate decision.If you don’t have time to make a list, you can visualize a pros and cons list.
 Chat with a close friend or colleague about the decision. Explain your strategic goals and criteria for making the decision. Ask for their opinion on what you should do. By talking through the decision and explaining your overall goals, you should be able to get some worthwhile perspectives on the issue.