 If the urine is fresh use an absorbent cloth and blot away any wetness. Use adequate pressure to soak up the moisture. If needed, use several cloths so you can get as much of the substance from the floor.


You can also use absorbent paper towels but use enough to dry the areas as thoroughly as possible.
Keep rags handy until your cat no longer pees outside of his litter box.;
, There are a number of chemical cleaners on the market and it is best to research what chemicals will work best depending on the type of wood and the severity of the damage. Test the product on a very small and hidden area of your wooden flooring before tackling all the stained areas because it’s best to be sure that the product is safe for your floor’s finish., Some products including Nature’s Miracle and Urine Gone are recommended by some sites because the latter removes the odor and prevents pets from peeing in the same place, but does leave a musty scent behind unless cleaned up afterwards., Moisten a rag or paper towels thoroughly with the hydrogen peroxide mixture. Cover the stained area with the moistened paper towel or rag.Let the peroxide sit on the stain for a couple of hours or over night depending on the severity of the stain.Ensure that the rags or paper towels don't dry out. Check the area every so often and apply more peroxide regularly as you see fit. You can also cover the stain with plastic, creating a seal by taping down the edges.After several hours, remove any excess liquid with an absorbent material like baking soda or cat litter. First, remove the paper towels then cover the area. Look for products that will remove both moisture and odors like baking soda or cat litter.Once all the moisture and odor had been absorbed, scrape away the material or baking soda and let the area dry.,


For smaller stains, make sure to pour the peroxide only on the stain, checking it every ten minutes, and wiping up the excess as soon as the stain is gone., This bleach is made up of hydrogen peroxide and sodium hydroxide. This type of bleach will remove all color variations in the wood, which is the downside to the two-part peroxide bleach.


Two-part bleach has very specific instructions. The two components are to be mixed together so always read the manufacturer's warnings and instructions as these chemicals are very strong. It is best to wear rubber gloves and safety goggles to do the job and to keep your home ventilated.
 Vinegar neutralizes ammonia that creates the odor from your cat's urine. It is also better for the environment relative to stronger chemical compounds.
 Old urine may have been absorbed into the wood so the damage and odor may be removed by sanding down and refinishing your floor. Sand the floor and apply touch up wood floor stain using a paint brush.Consult a professional regarding what type of sandpaper to use depending on the type of wood and the degree to which the urine has been absorbed.
Use a wood floor stain that is the grain of your wood floor.Contact the company that sold you your floor because they often offer finish “touch up pens” that allow you to restore the level of detail that you want.Consider applying another coat of sealer to your floors once you have cleaned and resealed it to prevent further accidents from getting trapped into the subfloor., It may take several tries to fully remove the stain.If you smell urine but can’t find its source, try using a black light. Sometimes the urine is trapped so deep into the subfloor that it can't be removed without replacing your floor. If you do decide to replace your floor, seal the surface well.Apply an odor remover that you can find in pet stores. Look for one that has enzymes in it to attack any remaining bacteria.Be sure all the odor is gone so the smell doesn’t draw your cat back to that same spot., Cats pee for two reasons: to mark their territory with a general splatter or to clear waste with a large puddle.When cats eliminate waste they look for flat horizontal surfaces, that’s why floors are a perfect target.


Provide separate living areas if you are in a multi-cat household., Cats will urinate more when marking their territory when they feel the need to get possessive. When cats mark their territory they will lift up their tail and usually spray vertical spaces like walls.Cats will mark their territory to give other cats information like the right time to mate. Getting your cat spayed/castrated (neutered) may help this problem.Close windows, blinds, and doors so your indoor cat doesn't see other cats and become threatened, otherwise they may begin marking their territory.Be vigilant especially if your cat is in new surroundings. Address the urination before it becomes normal behaviour.Attach a motion-detection device to your lawn sprinkler and place is close to your windows or doors to prevent other cats in the neighborhood from getting too close to your home., Cats are naturally very clean and picky so providing a clean and comfortable litter box is key to preventing them from peeing on your floor. A litter box should be about 1 ½ times the length of your cat.They should have enough room to turn around once done their business.


Don’t use a covered litter box. A covered litter box will make your cat feel confined and will keep the odor within the box because it does not let air in to dry the soiled litter.In a multi-cat house it also limits a cat from having escape potential if confronted by another cat. This is integral because a cat may avoid a covered litter box if it feels it will be ambushed while inside.Make sure the sides of the litter box are not too high for your cat to easily step over. This is especially important if your cat has gotten on in years., So remember the equation one cat=2 boxes, 3 cats=4 boxes, and so on.


If you are in a multi-floor home you should have a litter box on each floor. Think about it, if you were on the fifth floor would you want to have to go all the way down to the first floor to pee?

, Make sure your litter box is at a convenient location for your cat’s needs. Just because it may fit your decorating needs, does not mean your cat will adjust to you. If your cat is peeing in the same spot, it may be wise to place the litter box there and gradually move it back to the spot that you want.Choose a location that is secure and convenient for your cat. Don’t place it near food, in a damp basement, in a closet or close to an appliance that will scare your cat.In a multi-cat home, spread boxes around the home making sure not to place them in a line in a single room because you don’t want a cat avoiding his litter box to avoid another cat.Place a box in each cat’s preferred area.
Make sure there is a litter box for every cat in your home and add one extra. If you have just one cat but live in a home with multiple floors, have a litter box on each floor., At minimum, scoop the waste twice a day and wash out the entire box once a month. If you’re not using scoopable litter, wash out the box at least once a week.Strong-smelling household cleansers can drive your cat away from their litter box. When you clean the box use bleach that is heavily diluted in hot water or you can even use dish soap that is very diluted.Check the type of litter. Cats like unscented, sand-like substrate for the softness and ability to dig and cover up.They also do not want scented substances because their sense of smell is highly sensitive.
Studies have shown that most cats favor loose, clumping, unscented clay litter containing activated charcoal.Make sure there is enough litter by keeping it at about 3 inches high and replenishing periodically after each cleaning.Do your research for high-tech self-cleaning litter boxes as they offer many drawbacks. These litter boxes may scare off your cat or easily clog. The main drawback is that it doesn’t allow you to monitor your cat's health as it will clean away large clumps before you have a chance to investigate., There are many factors that can cause your cat stress and avoid his litter box including moving, renovation, multiple cats, and generally any sudden change. Address these environmental factors to give your cat a sense of security and comfort in his own territory.Observe the social dynamics in a multi-cat home. Conflicts may cause inappropriate urination especially if they occur close to the litter box allowing one of the cats to associate it with bad memories.Do not punish your cat for urinating outside the litter box. Punishment will not only make your cat afraid of you but will make him think that peeing will get him in trouble. You should figure out why he is peeing outside of the litter box as punishment is counterproductive., Your veterinarian will perform a physical exam and urinalysis to find out if the problem is a result of your cat’s health. Urinary tract infections and kidney problems are common issues that cause your cat to change his urination patterns.Age can also play a big factor in urination problems and the older the cat, the smellier his pee.

