 In order to play the game, make sure you use a standard 52 card deck. Make sure to count the deck ahead of time to make sure no cards are missing. You'll need all 52 to properly divide the deck for a game of speed.;
, You and your partner will each have a stock pile of cards you draw from throughout the game. You should count out 20 cards for yourself, and 20 cards for your partner. When you need new cards during the game, you'll draw from your stockpile.Some variations of speed may use 15 card stockpiles instead of 20 card stockpiles.It does not make a huge difference in the game, but if you find you and your partner go through cards fast, a bigger stockpile may make more sense.
 The "spit cards" are two cards set out in the middle of the table. These are the cards you'll be playing off of when the game begins. As you learn more about how the game works, this will make more sense. Before the game starts, the spit cards should be face down at the center of the table. Take 2 cards and place them face down side-by-side at the center of the table where you're playing speed., At certain points in the game, you will have to draw new spit cards. You will need reserve piles from which to draw the new cards. On either side of each spit card, set down 5 cards face down. These are your reserve piles.If you're using 15 cards in your stockpiles instead of 20, your reserve piles would consist of 10 cards each.As stated, the number of cards in your stock and reserve piles does not make a huge difference to game play.
 You and your partner should always have at least 5 cards in your hand. Before the game begins, you should each draw 5 cards from your separate stockpiles. Do not let your partner see your cards.It's a good idea to take a moment to familiarize yourself with your cards. You and your partner may want to take a minute or so to look through and organize your cards.
 In speed, you focus on the number on a card. Suit is not important for speed. You have to play your cards in ascending or descending order, so it's important to know the proper numerical order of cards. When playing speed, the order of cards is as follows: aces, twos, threes, fours, fives, sixes, sevens, eights, nines, tens, jacks, queens, kings.It's a good idea to organize your deck in ascending or descending order, as this will come in handy when the game begins. For example, say you have a jack, a queen, a two, an eight, and a seven. From left to right, order your cards like this: two, seven, eight, jack, queen.
This may sound confusing, but the rules will become clearer as we go over a typical game of speed.
 To start the game, flip over the two spit cards in the center. You will be playing off of these cards as the game starts. Once you flip over the card, you and your partner simply play cards as fast you can, striving to get rid of your hand. You do not take turns, so be prepared to start playing once you flip the spit cards.
 Now, you can begin to play. The object of speed is to get rid of all your cards, including your stockpile, before your opponent. You play by placing cards from your hand on top of the spit card in the center. You can only play the next highest or next lowest card on top of the spit card.This can be confusing when speaking in the abstract, so let's return to our example. You have a two, seven, eight, jack, and queen in your hand. You flip over the spit cards. One spit card is a six and the other is a queen.
You can get rid of three cards in your deck quickly. You can place your seven over the six, and then your eight over the seven. On the six spit card, you are working in ascending order. You can work in descending order on the other spit card, by placing your jack over the queen.
However, you do not take turns in speed. If you don't play your cards fast enough, you can miss your chance to win. Your partner could very well block your play by working faster than you. For example, while you're placing your seven and eight cards down, your opponent may place his own jack over the queen.
 You always have to have 5 cards on hand when playing speed. For each card you set down over the two spit piles in the center, draw a new card from your stockpile., In most games of speed, you'll eventually run into a scenario where you and your partner have run out of plays. This means you and your partner both have 5 cards in your hands, but no cards can be played in the spit pile. In this case, you'll draw two new cards from the reserve pile to serve as the new spit cards.Remember, the reserve piles are the 5 cards stacked face down next to the spit cards in the center. Draw two new cards from the reserve piles and place them on top of each spit pile. You can now resume playing.
In the event you and your partner still have no plays after drawing new spit cards, you'll have to draw new spit cards again.
 You may eventually run through the spit card reserve pile. In this case, you would take the two spit piles in the center of the table. Turn the piles upside down and draw two new cards from the top of each pile., You win speed by being the first player to go through your stockpile. Keep playing speed until you're completely out of cards. The first player to finish off his or her cards wins.The best strategy to win a game of speed is to think fast. You want to make sure you play any eligible card you have before your partner tops the spit pile.
Try to play a few practice rounds of the game first. Just play through one hand of five cards and go slowly, allowing you and your partner to figure out the rules of the game. Speed often sounds complicated at first. It's not a bad idea to practice before attempting an actual game.

