 If you do it, you will be traced and legal action will be taken against you."Swatting" is a relatively new trend that involves reporting a fake crime to the police that could result in a SWAT team being sent out. Never engage in this behavior. It can be punishable by prison and has been referred to as an act of terrorism.
There are so many other people and businesses out there to prank call – there is never any acceptable reason for pranking any of these organizations.
 Your chances of getting traced increase substantially if you impersonate law enforcement, and you can get in big trouble for doing it. Most people who impersonate law enforcement are doing so in order to commit a crime, so if you get caught doing this, you'll be assumed to be a criminal until proven otherwise and you will be arrested.
 It’s not funny to prank call a suicide hotline and pretend you’re on the verge of killing yourself, and it’s been done a million times before anyway. In fact, you should avoid calling any kind of hotlines designed to help people.


It may seem like the perfect set up for hilarious pranks, but people can and do get arrested for this.
Within the past few years the DJ of a prank call radio show was arrested for pranking an anger management hotline. The police were at his house within 15 minutes., Threats of all kinds should be off-limits during prank calls, including bomb threats and physical threats. Even insinuating a threat is risky. When people feel threatened, emergency services and police officers usually get involved pretty quickly.
 Surprisingly, it’s not that difficult to trick people out of their personal information, even their credit card numbers and other account numbers, by pretending to be someone’s bank or a legitimate sounding bill collector.


Even if you never intend to use any of this information and didn’t even write it down, your victim will probably realize their mistake not long after the phone call and assume you’re an identity thief.
They will call to the police to report attempted identify theft and you’ll be found out pretty quickly., Doing so may seem harmless to you, but law enforcement considers it to be wiretapping. Currently, federal law on the subject states that it's not illegal if one or both parties have consented to the call. However, the state laws vary. Some of them are far stricter than the federal law, considering it to be illegal without written authorization from your victim. Since many pranksters make out-of-state prank calls, this can be a problem.If you want to share a prank call recording publicly, such as on social media, the law requires that a “Recording Release and License” be signed by all participants on the call.
If you have a collection of recordings that you want to release and sell, things become even more complicated. Not only do you need the above-mentioned license, but doing this may also be considered copyright infringement, since the recorded call is a "joint work" and your victim technically owns half of this enterprise. Essentially, you would then owe them royalties.Because of the extreme amounts of legal red tape surrounding the recording of prank calls, the best thing to do is avoid it completely.

