 Grab the knife high up on the handle. For the Thorn technique, you can use either a thumb grip or a modified hammer grip for increased stability. Since you’ll be using your entire arm to throw, so you should make sure that you have a secure grasp in order to control the path of the blade.The Thorn method of no-spin throwing was invented by and named after knife throwing instructor Ralph Thorn.To modify a hammer grip for no-spin throwing, wrap your whole fist around the handle of the knife, the way you would a hammer. Then, uncurl your pointer finger and rest it along the spine of the blade.
Whether you choose a thumb grip or a modified hammer grip, your grasp should be firm but not too strong. The tighter you hold on, the more difficult and unreliable your release will be.
 The key to the Thorn technique is the windmill-like motion of the arm. This can put a lot of strain on the tendons and ligaments of the rotator cuff if you’re maintaining a lot of tension. Shake out your arm and loosen up a bit before you start throwing. If you’re not careful, you may be setting yourself up for injury.Warm up before your knife throwing sessions with some basic mobility exercises and a little light stretching.
If the Thorn method causes pain in any part of your shoulder or arm, stop and switch to a less strenuous technique.
 Bend your throwing arm slightly and lock it into place. Your upper arm and elbow should only form about a 35 or 40 degree angle. Raise your arm until it’s above and slightly behind your head. With the Thorn technique, you’ll use your entire arm to throw, not just the momentum of the forearm.


Stand up straight and fully extend your back as you start the windup.
 To perform the throw, drop your arm fast in a circular arc, not letting the elbow bend. Release the knife right before your hand falls level with the target. Thrust your index finger forward during the release and follow through to prevent the knife from spinning. When executed correctly, the knife should sail in a smooth, direct line toward the target.It may be helpful to practice the Thorn technique in two separate phases: the wide, looping motion of the arm and the timing of the release.
Most no-spin techniques, like the Thorn method, are a combination of a traditional knife throwing motion and the heaving action used to throw spears.

