 They can rid you of common misconceptions and teach you how to be a good ally.;
, Tell people about Autism Acceptance Month via social networking or in person. Share links to autistic-run organizations, such as Autism Self-Advocacy Network and the Autism Women's Network.


Be wary of organizations that aren't run by autistic people and talk about "curing autism" or how autism "ruins families." This rhetoric is damaging to autistic people, and only adds to the stigma and shame that they face.
 Autistic writers can offer great insights into their differences, their needs, and how life feels to them. Here are some excellent blogs by autistic people (and a few positive parents):


Musings of an Aspie
The Caffeinated Autistic
Real social skills
Autistic Hoya
Emma's Hope Book
We Are Like Your Child
Parenting Autistic Children with Love and Acceptance

, Many non-autistic people hold stereotypes of autistics as intentionally rude, lazy individuals who are mentally five years old. Here are some examples of information that is useful to non-autistic people:


Many times, autistic people don't realize that they're being rude. The best way to deal with this is to ignore it, or take them aside and politely explain why their actions were inappropriate. If they hurt your feelings, say so. They will probably feel surprised and remorseful to hear it.
Stimming (flapping hands, rocking, etc.) is a normal and healthy behavior. Don't treat people differently because of it, and definitely don't tell them to stop.
Talking down to someone is always rude, whether they're autistic or not. Assume that your autistic friend is capable of understanding just as well as their peers.
Meltdowns aren't fun. Autistic people don't like them either.Sometimes, the best meltdown cure is some quiet time alone.
Listen to autistic people. If they say they can't do something, then they can't do something. If they say something hurts, then stop it. If they say their therapist is abusing them, they mean it. Autistic people know themselves.
 Many autistic people are used to hearing that they're burdensome and inferior. Portray an alternate picture of autism, where autistic people are different but equal members of the human species. Give evidence that autistic people can succeed and live happy lives.


Look for autistic writers, scientists, activists, etc. in news and entertainment articles.
Blogs such as Disability Fest share lovable characters in fiction who are disabled. Sharing cool autistic characters also helps.
Knowing of other autistic people greatly improves autistic children's (and adults'!) self-esteem.
 Maybe you have an autistic friend who blogs, or maybe your autistic sibling really wants to share a quote with the world. Offer to promote them on social media.


Always ask first! Never out someone as autistic without their explicit permission.
 Autistic people have organized many different online community activities, and you are welcome to join in and show your support (whether you are autistic or not).


#RedInstead—take a selfie wearing red to show your support of autism acceptance.
Take the autism acceptance pledge.
Search autistic-run websites to see what they're sponsoring or participating in.
 It was developed by autistic people and is all about accepting diversity.


The puzzle piece and "light it up blue" are associated with harmful groups and are controversial/disliked in the community.

