 Remove any previous makeup so that your new makeup looks fresh. Moisturize the eye! Many people ignore moisturizing the eye, even though well moisturized eyes are more likely to stay looking youthful for longer. This also helps to prevent the creasing of other products you may apply on your eyes.;
, Use a concealer that suits you best in terms of color and texture. Use a brush or your fingers, depending on what you are comfortable with. Well concealed eyes help the colors of the eyeshadow pop better.
 This works best with black eyeliner. The eyeliner can be extended in four directions to give the illusion of larger eyes. You can extend the tail (the flick of the eye liner).
,,, The outer 'V' is the perceived 'V' shape formed at the outer corner of the eye. The eyeshadow should form a 'V' here, then start fading out beyond this point. The socket line is formed where the eyeball meets the eye socket. It is lower for small eyes and higher for larger eyes–-the eyeshadow should start fading out beyond the socket line. For droopy eyes, you can draw a socket line above the natural line, to fake a higher socket line.
 Choose a green color palette of eyeshadow, one that suits your taste. Begin with applying the darkest green on the outermost 'V' that you have located from the previous steps. Add different greens in a gradation of your choice as you move inwards in the eye. In the innermost corner (the inner 'V'), add black for more intensity to the gaze of the eyes.
 Clean any fallen eyeshadow from the face with the help of a makeup removing tissue or an ear bud (or fingers).
 As directed in step one of the eyeliner part of this article, extend the eyeliner in all four directions to give the impression of larger eyes. Other colors of eyeliners that go well with this look are purple or blue - in case you don't prefer black eyeliner. Extend the tail.
,, The tutorial has used black mascara.
 No eye look is really complete without well groomed eyebrows. In fact, badly shaped brows can ruin a look by making the face look shabby. Brush through the brows with a brush. Use an eye pencil to make light feathery strokes on the brows that mimic real brow hair (make sure to use a pencil that best matches your real brow hair). Finally fix the brows with brow gel.
,, This is the final look.

