 You can get these fairly cheap from a clothing outlet. Sort through their selection and try to find a black headband or a color from your color scheme. Use a cheaper headband because you’ll be gluing or sewing onto the headband., Select two types of fabric, the inside and outside of the ears. The inside fabric should be lighter than the outside fabric. Cut four bigger triangles from the darker fabric and two from the lighter one.You can either glue or sew the triangle together.


Attach one inner triangle to one of the bigger triangles, and repeat for the other ear.
Attach your spare triangles to the backside of each ear. Leave a small opening on the bottom to insert a wire frame into the ear.
 You can use an old coat hanger to create smaller wire frames to be used in the ears. Use pliers to cut two strips off a coat hanger. Fold the wire in the shape of an acute angle. Thread your wires into the ears.


If the wire is too long, make adjustments.
You can also purchase craft wire from a hobbyist store.
Use glue to secure the wires to the ears.
 Sew or glue the ears together and then onto the headband. Use a mirror to determine the best location for the ears. A hot glue gun will hold the ears to the headband the best., Use a coat hanger as the frame for the cat tail. Cut off a side of the coat hanger using wire cutters or pliers. Keep the hanger portion to use as the curly tip of the tail. Wrap the hanger in a fluffy fabric or old tights. To secure the fabric, use a hot glue gun while wrapping the tail.You can find furry fabric at craft and costume stores. Some fabrics are sold to be used for tails and are already the proper size.
Cut off any excess fabric from the hanger.
 Attaching the tail is one of the simpler steps to the costume. All you need is black string. First, wrap the string around your waist to figure out what length to use. Cut out the desired length of string. Use a hot glue gun, stapler, or tape to attach the tail to the middle point of the string.


It’s better to cut out a longer piece of string opposed to a shorter one.
You can alternatively attach the tail to a belt using tape.

