 It’s a good idea to consider the perspectives of many transgender people, especially if you are not transgender. This may help you figure out the best ways to fight for transgender rights.


Inform whomever you’re talking to that you want to get involved with the fight. You can give her an idea of the issues you’d like to address or what your knowledge of those issues are.
Ask questions if you have them. Remember to keep your questions informative rather than nosy, and don't ask questions to people who are not comfortable answering, as discussing discrimination can be potentially triggering to some transgender people.
Be honest with the person. If you are not transgender, most individuals will be receptive and explain their experiences if you are open about your intentions and knowledge level. You can say something like “I’ve recently witnessed discrimination against a wonderful colleagues who is transgender. It made me realize how difficult her life can be and I’d love to promote transgender rights. But I don’t know anything about the issues and am worried about offending someone. I’d love to hear your perspective and get some tips about how best to approach this.”
Remember that you share the same goal of equality, even if you don’t agree on the best way to get there.;
, Your efforts to fight for transgender rights are very admirable. But if you don’t have much experience with the issues or advocating for them, it’s important to inform yourself so that you can be a strong and convincing advocate for rights. Remember that a the civil rights and equality of transgender people are at stake.Getting improper information before you begin your fight can have serious consequences, including offending people or hindering your ability to fight for equal rights in the future.
 There is a wide and complex variety of issues related to transgender rights including workplace discrimination and difficulty getting gender acknowledgement from legal institutions. Staying on top of the latest information about transgender issues can help you better understand them and make you a much more effective fighter for equal rights.Sign up for news updates from organizations that fight for and promote transgender rights.Groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Lambda Legal, Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and the National Center for Transgender Equality provide a broad array of resources on their websites that can help you learn more about specific issues or initiatives.Many of these groups have mailing lists you can join that provide information.
Consider reading information put out by groups opposed to transgender rights. This might be counterintuitive, but informing yourself on their viewpoints can help you undertake initiatives to counter their efforts. For example, if you attend a rally for transgender rights, there are likely to be participants demonstrating against them. Anticipating their arguments through research can you effectively craft counter-arguments.
 Concentrate on a couple of issues that interest you. This will allow you to become especially well-versed and active in your fight. For example, maybe you want to ensure transgender people have a safe and welcoming workplace and equal access to healthcare.Focusing your efforts deeply on a couple of issues may be more effective than tackling a broad range of them. However, you should keep yourself informed of general themes and issues within the transgender community.
 Many people and organizations, such as the ACLU, have engaged with transgender issues for decades. Talking to individuals or representatives who actively fight for transgender rights can broaden your understanding of issues and how you can best participate in the fight for equality.Find other advocates by contacting organizations that fight for transgender rights. Most of these groups have ways to contact them including phone and email.They may also have local chapters or advocates with whom you can work.
Expand your understanding of relevant issues by networking at transgender events. Ask other participants about how you can best contribute to the fight for rights.
 Many transgender groups organize rallies to promote political awareness at key moments in legislation or even simply at local events. Find a local, national, or international demonstration as a way to publicly show your support for transgender rights.Check for rallies or demonstrations on the websites or social media accounts of transgender groups or organizations that fight for transgender rights. Many list upcoming demonstrations and ways you can participate.
Ask a fellow advocate or friend if there are any political events you can attend and if there are any organizational tasks that you can do in support of it.
Be aware that while many countries allow persons to demonstrate in support of transgender rights that some do not and this may put you at risk of arrest or prosecution., Transgender rights are a hot button issue in the politics of many countries. If you are able, contacting your local legislators or representative to discuss their position and presenting yours may help the person understand difficulties transgender people face. In turn, this may set in motion the wheel of change in your local area or beyond.Bring notes on specific points you’d like to discuss. This can keep the conversation focused and provide information if the representative has questions. Don’t push your agenda too much by being overly argumentative. Remember that you can win more bees with honey than vinegar.Participate in the campaign of an elected official who fights for transgender rights. Attending her person’s political events can create awareness about transgender rights. In many places, you can also demonstrate against officials who hinder transgender rights through their voting record.
 In addition to political rallies, there are often events to raise awareness and funds for the transgender community. Attending lectures, galas, or even fundraisers can not only show your support for transgender rights but also help make a difference to transgender people struggling with issues such as medical bills or bullying.


Check the websites, email updates, and other social media of organizations and persons who support transgender rights. Most keep a list of events throughout the US and world that you may want to attend.Be aware that many events require that you pay something or make a donation towards such items as decreasing their administrative costs or promoting transgender rights.
Consider organizing a local event for transgender rights. There are many different types of things you can do from having a fundraising banquet to inviting a speaker to give a lecture on transgender issues. Use the proceeds from your event to make a donation to an organization that fights for transgender rights. You may also want to post your success on social media or in the local news.
 Personal or professional commitments may keep you from dedicating significant time to fighting for transgender rights. However, donating money to a local or national organization can also show your support and keep the fight going.Dedicate as much money as you are able to the organization of your choice. Many will give you a subscription to their newsletter or magazine in return. Remember that your donation is tax-deductible.Specify if you want your donation to support a specific issue or event. For example, you can say you’d like your donation to help at-risk youth or public education.
 Depending on your training and commitment to fighting, consider applying for a job with an organization that supports transgender rights. This might help you make a bigger difference in the fight and give the organization much-needed support and skills.


Figure out how your skills could benefit an organization that advocates for transgender rights. Many groups work on legal, educational, and advocacy issues. For example, if you are a great writer, consider a support role that includes composing letters to legislators.Send a letter of interest and resume to different organizations and express your desire to work towards transgender rights.
 Consider volunteering with a group, organization, or other institution that supports transgender rights. Give as much time as you can to help continue the fight for equality.


Consider some of the issues that confront many transgender persons including poverty and harassment. These may help steer you towards organizations or local groups that help transgender persons and fight for their rights.For example, you could work for a local suicide hotline or at a health clinic that specializes in supporting the LGBTQ community.
 If you’ve made the decision to actively fight for transgender rights, make sure you follow through in supporting transgender individuals and issues. Taking the opportunity to defend transgender persons or educate colleagues about transgender rights confirms your willingness to be an advocate for rights.


Be confident in standing up for transgender rights. Every human deserves equal rights irrespective of their gender or sexual identification and defending this principle keeps the fight alive. For example, if hear someone making inappropriate comments or jokes to a transgender friend, say “I’m sorry to interrupt, but Barney, that’s just not an acceptable way to talk to Alan.” You might find that Barney appreciates your support and Alan learns something from the situation.
Discuss the importance of the equal rights. In many cases, the negative attitudes come from ignorance. Explain the injustices many transgender people face and answer any questions that might arise.
 Unfortunately, it is still common for transgender people to encounter discrimination.If you see or know of any discrimination, such as harassment, violence, or not hiring a person specifically because she is transgender, let a superior or local organization know about it.


Tell an immediate superior about the discrimination in written form. This registers the incident in writing and obligates the supervisor to address it.
Contact an organization such as the ACLU if you wish to confidentially report discrimination. Many organizations, including the ACLU, have local chapters or groups with whom they work that can further help you.Be aware that there is different legislation about discrimination in different places. For example, in the United States, only some states have nondiscrimination laws.This may help you get the right type of support in reporting discrimination.
 One great way to fight for rights and raise awareness is to publish about issues on the web. Consider starting a blog or posting stories or pictures relevant to transgender right to your social media accounts.


Ask a friend or advocate for help in setting up your online presence. They may have useful additions or suggestions on expressing your message to fight for transgender rights.

