 Flea dirt resembles small specks of ground black pepper. Look for these specks along your carpet and floor, especially in the areas where your cat rests. If you see the black specks, rub them with a damp, white cloth. If tiny red specks appear on the white cloth, then this is a sure sign that you have a flea problem.You can also identify a flea problem by putting on a pair of white socks. Walk around your home shuffling your feet to create warmth. If you see black or brown specks on your socks after doing this, then you can be sure that you have a flea problem.;
, Vacuum the areas where your cat spends most of its time like its bed or the couch. Also, thoroughly vacuum carpets, rugs, couches, and upholstered furniture in your house. Make sure to vacuum underneath your furniture since fleas thrive in dark environments.Vacuum your house every three days to remove organic material that fleas feed on such as dirt and flea feces.
Remove and throw away the vacuum bag each time you finish vacuuming.
 Since fleas can live in your baseboards, make sure to mop wooden and tile floors regularly. Mop them every 10 to 15 days to keep the flea infestation at bay.You can use a household cleaner or detergent of your choice to mop your floors.
 Wash removable upholstery, including curtains, per the instructions on the instruction manual. Also wash infested clothing and bedding on a hot cycle in your washing machine. Use the dryer to dry your clothing and bedding.The heat from the dryer will kill any remaining fleas and/or flea larvae.
 Before using the spray, make sure the room is well-ventilated, i.e., open the windows and doors. Spray your carpet, rugs, curtains, upholstery, and areas where your cat sleeps like its bed.After using the spray, take yourself and your pets outside to let the room air out for 30 minutes to an hour before returning.
You can also purchase boric acid-based powders to control flea problems. Sprinkle the powder in between the floorboards and on your carpet and rugs. These powders are not harmful to your pets and/or children.
 You can either hire a professional to flea bomb your house, or you can do it yourself. Before you flea bomb your house, remove your cat’s food and water bowls, as well as household plants. You and your pets will also need to leave your house while the flea bomb works.You can purchase flea bombs from your local hardware store or pet store, or online. Make sure to follow the instructions on the canister. You may need to buy more than one flea bomb.
It may be up to eight hours before it is safe to go back home, so plan a fun day with your cat before flea bombing your house; for example, you could take your cat to the groomer to have it bathed while your house is getting flea bombed.

