 That is, use "I" when you get in a disagreement instead of "you." If you're upset that your sister always hogs the bathroom, talk about how it makes you feel instead of pushing blame.For instance, you could say, "I feel disrespected when I don't get enough time in the bathroom because then I don't have enough time to get ready. I feel unprepared for the day."Using "I" helps soften the tone. It helps the other person understand why you're upset without pointing fingers, which can make everyone get defensive.
 Everyone gets a little heated when he or she gets upset. The trouble is, that can make you not think as clearly and say things you may regret later. If you feel your emotions taking over, ask to take a moment to calm down. Try focusing on breathing in and out for a few minutes or counting numbers until you feel yourself calm down., That is, don't throw stuff at the other person from past arguments. Don't remind them of the last time they said something wrong or did something wrong. It only heightens emotions and doesn't help the argument at hand., In an argument, you tend to just want to make your point of view known; obviously, you think you are correct. However, you should take the time to really listen to what the other person has to say. Even if you decide to keep your point of view, you show respect to the other person by giving his or her view credibility and time.Truly listening means actually considering what the person has to say. Don't just sit there thinking up arguments against it., Yelling can scare children, and it teaches them to yell, too, instead of talking about what's bothering them. Similarly, when you yell at an adult, it creates some amount of fear, which shuts them down, meaning they won't be able to actually listen to what you have to say., Whether you're the parent, spouse, child, or sibling, sometimes the other person will have a point. That means that you need to be willing to change your mind if you realize you are wrong.This step also includes being willing to admit you've made a mistake. Sometimes you make a mistake, and you need to apologize. For instance, you could say, "I realize now that I was wrong. I truly apologize for the mistake I made."