 You need to complete Form I-539 to request an extension of your B-2 tourist visa. You can download the form and the instructions from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website.You do not have to complete a form for every person in your family. Instead, you can include your spouse and unmarried children under age 21 on your form. Everyone must have a B-2 tourist visa.
Unfortunately, USCIS is no longer accepting online submissions, so you need to complete the paper application.;
, You should complete your form by using a typewriter or printing neatly using black ink. You can also download the form as a PDF and type your information directly into it. The form will ask for the following information:name
Alien Registration Number
mailing and physical address
date of birth
travel details
I-94 Arrival-Departure Record Number
passport number and expiration date
country which issued your passport
information about your criminal history
signature under penalty of perjury (required)

, In order to provide complete and accurate information, you may need more space than what is supplied on the form. In this situation, you can type additional information on a separate sheet of paper, which you can attach to the application. Each additional sheet should have the following information at the top of the page:your name
your Alien Registration Number (if any)
the page number, part number and item number your answer refers to

, You should file at least 45 days before your visa expires.Accordingly, don’t delay. If your visa expires while USCIS is reviewing your application, then you can still stay in the country.


USCIS will not begin removal proceedings unless your application is denied., You can still apply for an extension even if your visa has expired. However, you will need proof of circumstances beyond your control. For example, the following circumstances may qualify:A medical emergency prevented you from applying for an extension in time.
Someone stole your passport and other travel documents, or you lost them.
You attempted to file a request for an extension but it was returned to you.
 You need to submit a written statement along with your application. You can format the statement as a business letter. Ideally, you should type up your letter so that it is easy to read.
 You need to tell USCIS why you want to extend your tourist visa.Go into as much detail as possible. For example, you may want to spend more time with your family.


If you need to extend your stay because of an emergency, then state that reason as well.
 When you applied for your visa, you had to show USCIS your plans to eventually leave the country. You will have to provide this same information when you apply for an extension.Give USCIS the date and flight number for your new departure flight. Of course, you can’t book it until your visa extension is approved, but you can tell USCIS the day and time you intend to leave.
 In your letter, make sure that you explain what effect your extended stay on a tourist visa will have on your life back home. For example, make sure to explain whether it will impact your employment or residency.Generally, it should have no impact. You can explain that you are not intending to move permanently to the U.S. and that your job and home still wait for your return in your home country.
 The U.S. government wants to make sure that you can support yourself during your extended stay in the country. For this reason, you should provide proof that you can fund your stay. Provide the following:Bank accounts showing that you have enough money to support yourself. If you have online banking, then you can access this information from a computer in the U.S.
Pay stubs or other proof of income. You might not have this information with you. Instead, you might need friends back home to mail you this information, so plan ahead.
Proof that you have a permanent home in your home country. USCIS wants to make sure you aren’t trying to stay in the U.S. indefinitely.
A letter from a friend or family member stating that they will provide you support while you are in the U.S.
 Form I-94 is your Arrival/Departure Record. You need to submit this form with your request to extend your visa. Find the form for each person whose visa you are trying to extend.You will have to download your Form I-94 if you entered the U.S. at an air or sea port of entry. You can get a copy for free by visiting the U.S. Customs and Border Control website. You will have to provide your name, birth date, and passport number.
USCIS still issues paper I-94 forms if you entered the U.S. at a land port of entry.
 You have to pay $290 to file your application for an extension. You can make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Do not use abbreviations like “USDHS” or “DHS.”Your check will be converted to an electronic funds transfer (EFT).
 Gather your completed I-539, supporting documents, and your check or money order. Make a copy of the complete packet for your records. Then put the entire packet in a secure envelope.


To find the correct mailing address, you can call the National Customer Service Center at 1-800-375-5283., USCIS may determine that it needs additional information from you. Alternately, they could request that you show up for an interview.You should provide requested information as soon as possible.
 USCIS will let you know in writing if it has approved your request. If USCIS denies your extension request, then your current visa immediately becomes void, even if you haven’t reached the expiration date.Accordingly, you need to make immediate plans to leave the United States.
 If you applied for entry to the U.S. under the Visa Waiver Program, then you are not travelling under a visa. For this reason, you can’t extend it. However, in certain emergencies, you may be able to get a 30-day extension.You should visit the InfoPass website at USCIS and schedule an appointment.At your appointment, you can explain your situation.
 You are not eligible to extend a B-2 tourist visa if you have done something that would make you ineligible for a B-2 visa.For example, the following would disqualify you:


You committed a crime in the U.S.
You spent time in the U.S. doing something other than being a tourist. For example, you might have started working a job, which a B-2 visa does not give you permission to do.
 If you stay in the U.S. without permission, then you are breaking the law. Depending on your circumstances, you may want to meet with an immigration attorney to discuss your options.


See Find an Immigration Lawyer for tips.
Schedule a consultation and take your papers or proof of emergency to show the attorney.

