 Make an effort to go out. Isolating yourself will make homesickness worse. In addition to pet therapy, make the effort to meet new people.You can try using websites like MeetUp to find new people. This will direct you to groups you can attend based around a particular interest.
If you're in college, try joining a club. Campuses usually have hundreds of organizations to choose from.
Be sure to contact family in friends on a regular basis. Set aside times when you can have long conversations with them on the phone, or using FaceTime or Skype. Avoid just having text exchanges with them.
 When you first move to a new area, you may not know many people. Try to take advantage of alone time. Use to learn a new skill, take time to read, or do something you enjoy to relax.Look into activities you can only do alone. For example, reading is usually a solitary experience. Try taking up reading as a hobby.
Use alone time as a means for self improvement. Teach yourself a new skill, like knitting or cooking.
Work on changing the way you talk about alone time, even to yourself. Try to talk about it as something positive and related to personal growth instead of something sad.
 Being in a new place can cause homesickness. Instead of seeing a new environment as a burden, try to embrace new people, things, and experiences. If you immerse yourself in new experiences, this will help distract you from feelings of homesickness.


Explore your new area. Look into local attractions, like museums, and explore local bars, coffee shops, and restaurants.
Make an effort to leave your home at least once a day and go exploring your new area.
Try keeping a journal about all of the new things you learn about you area to help build your appreciation and excitement for it.
 If you're in college, the drop out risk can increase if you're very homesick.This is why it's important to manage feelings of homesickness. See if you can find a regular therapist if pet therapy is not effectively treating your homesickness.


You can find a therapist through your insurance provider. You can also check with your school's counseling center. You may be entitled to free counseling as a student.

