 You probably would not be interested in becoming a music teacher if you did not already enjoy and play music. If not, now is the time to start! Join your school’s chorus or band to see if you enjoy and excel at the serious study of music.;
, In addition to a music background, this career requires that you enjoy working with children, which is not for everyone. Do you have the patience, enthusiasm, and positive attitude to inspire the next generation of musicians?


Look into teaching music at a summer camp or in an after-school program. If you continue to pursue this kind of work during and after college, it can also count as teaching experience when it comes time to apply for jobs.Ask the music teacher at the elementary, middle, or high school you attended if you can interview them and/or shadow them for the day. Be sure to ask them what the most challenging and the most rewarding parts of the job are.
 If your school offers them, take classes in music history and theory, including AP Music Theory. Child psychology is also a natural fit for people interested in becoming music teachers.
 You might be surprised at the others kinds of classes that may be helpful. Since so much of music is now technology-driven, make sure you take the necessary classes to become computer literate. Aspiring composers in particular may find that they enjoy advanced math classes and that these classes help them think about music in new ways.
 It’s great to play in your school’s band or sing in the chorus, but if you want to attend a good program, you will need to do more than that. Private lessons can be pricey, but the right teacher can help take your skills to the next level.


Your teacher can also be a useful resource in identifying the best schools for you and preparing for auditions, which most music programs will require.
 You should be familiar with a range of styles, from classical to musical theater to rock. This doesn’t mean you have to shell out a lot of money to attend concerts. If you live near a college or university, you can likely find free or cheap live music, and almost everything is available on the internet., Most schools will not hire you without a degree in music, music education, or elementary education with an emphasis in music. You can determine which is best for you by thinking about what you want to focus on.


Music programs will focus on performance or composition.
Music education programs will include a combination of music and pedagogical (teaching) training.
Your pedagogical training will include both coursework and student teaching.
 Music and music education programs exist almost everywhere, so this can be an overwhelming process. Look for schools that are accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) and the National Association of Schools of Music (NASM). Narrow the field by thinking not only about the “best” schools, but also the best schools for you.


Research tuition and scholarships, both those offered by the school and by outside organizations.
Think about location. Each state has its own teacher certification process, so you might want to think about attending a school where faculty and advisors can guide you through this process in the state where you want to teach. At some schools, you can receive initial certification by completing the curriculum.
Visit the campus. University websites can tell you a lot about size, geographical location, and even courses, only visiting the department can really tell you whether the culture and feel are right for you.
 Most music and music education programs will require not only an application with test scores, grades, personal statements, and letters of recommendation, but also a live audition. This can be nerve-wracking!


Be prepared. You probably already know to practice, practice, practice your pieces, but practice the conditions of audition day, also. Do this by performing your pieces for family and friends, making sure you think about all the aspects of the audition—dressing professionally, greeting the committee, maintaining poise, etc.Stay excited about your pieces. Practice them in lots of different ways so that, on audition day, you are focused on the music rather than your nerves.The day of the audition, focus on your breathing. Make sure you are doing so deeply, from your diaphragm. This is especially important for singers, but it will also help to calm your nerves and so applies to everyone.
Don’t rush! When you are nervous, you tend to speed up. Your committee wants to see someone who can really interpret the music, not just pound out the notes.Know that mistakes will happen. This is OK! Your committee members are looking for potential, not perfection. You are auditioning to be a student, after all. You still have a lot to learn, and they know this., Your coursework will largely fall into three categories: musical practice and knowledge, pedagogy, and general liberal arts requirements.Musical practice and knowledge courses will likely include instrumental or vocal training, ear training and sight reading, music theory, and music history.
Pedagogy courses will likely include development psychology, methods for teaching elementary and secondary school students, and advanced study on special educational topics of your choice.
Liberal arts requirements are more open, but they will likely include writing and/or literature courses.
With these complex requirements, you should meet with your advisor early on and before each semester’s registration to make sure you are on track for graduation.
 You will need to hold at least a master’s degree if you wish to teach at the college level. Doing this immediately has some drawbacks, though. If you attend a graduate program without any teaching experience, you may price yourself out of the market.
 The state where you wish to become certified will look at your coursework and transcripts to make sure you have fulfilled all of their requirements. You might need to take more classes before you can receive initial certification. , This test will assess will test your knowledge of both core liberal arts and sciences topics and teaching skills, and you will need to pass it before you can move on., You will also need to demonstrate your master of the subject area you will be teaching.While these vary by state, there are some things you will probably need to know anywhere.


Testing areas will likely include music theory, music performance, listening skills, and music history and culture.
Questions will likely be a combination of multiple-choice and essay format.
 Many people who train to become music teachers are primarily interested in finding full-time work in schools, but this is not always easy to do. For starters, funding for the arts regularly comes under attack.Moreover, many teachers are waiting longer to retire. For these reasons, aspiring music teachers need to be proactive on the job market. Start applying for jobs before you graduate. It can take a while, so be patient.
Be prepared to relocate. The uncertainties of the job market might mean that you are not able to get a job in your first choice of location.
 With many more applicants than there are positions, you will need to find a way of setting yourself apart.


Maintain your own musical chops. You’ll be better prepared to educate others if you stay excited about performance and are constantly improving your skills.
As you deepen your skills, make sure you broaden them as well. In a crowded market, a singer/saxophonist/virtuoso improviser will be a more attractive candidate than someone who can do only one of these things.
Stay up to date on technology. It is rapidly introducing not only new ways of producing music, but also new methods of teaching it.
 Whether due to financial exigencies or preference, many music teachers end up giving private lessons. Teaching out of your home or studio can offer more flexible hours, the chance to connect with students one-on-one, and the opportunity to work with many different ages and ability levels, but there are also some drawbacks.


There is no required certification process for individuals who wish to teach music privately, although the Music Teachers National Association does offer a certification. Moreover, the people paying you for your services are depending on your skills, talents, and patience. If you cannot deliver, they may take their business elsewhere.
If you are a performer, it can be easier to balance rehearsals and performances with a private teaching schedule. You can also decide how many students you want to take on.
However, you will need to create individual lesson plans for each of your students. While it can be freeing not to be beholden to a curriculum, it can be very time-consuming, as well. You also cannot rely on a steady income the way teachers in schools can (at least on a year-to-year basis).
Your business will grow largely through word-of-mouth.

