 Sea monkeys begin life by feeding off the nutrients in their egg sac. Check on the eggs daily to see if they've begun to hatch. Once they have, wait five days before you start to feed them.Newly hatched sea monkeys can be extremely small. Move your tank to a well-lit area and examine the water closely for tiny, pale, moving dots. Use a magnifying glass if necessary.
If the sea monkey eggs do not hatch within 48 hours, move the tank to an area with stronger light. Keep the tank away from direct sunlight, however, as this can cause it to overheat;
, Use the smaller end of the feeding spoon to pick up the food, and move one of these small spoonfuls into the tank.If you do not have a feeding spoon, try using a clean plastic straw as a scoop. It's better to give them too little food than too much.
 Different handbooks vary in their instructions, but most sea monkey tanks will thrive when fed at intervals of five to seven days.Only increase the feeding rate or amount if your sea monkey population grows much larger than the initial packet's population, and if there is no sediment on the base of the tank.
 If the water becomes cloudy or dirty-looking, stop feeding the shrimp. Wait until the water becomes clear again before adding food.This cloudy appearance is usually the result of too much algae, bacteria, or other organisms that can suffocate the sea monkeys if they continue to grow., Adult brine shrimp digestive tracks become dark when full. If you see this dark line running across a sea monkey's body, it is probably eating well.If you do not, consider feeding them more often, but only as described below.
 If you acquire more sea monkeys, or if the population grows, you may need to increase the amount of food or the frequency of feeding. Adjust slowly to avoid killing the tank's population through overfeeding. Reduce the interval between feeding sessions by one day at a time, returning to the old feeding schedule if the water becomes cloudy or the sea monkeys start acting sluggish or uninterested in food. Alternatively, keep the same feeding schedule but switch to the large end of the feeding spoon.

