 You should look for wire with 19, 21, or 49 strands of stainless steel wire that is coated with nylon. This measurement will ensure that the strands won't kink and that the necklace will be durable. This wire will be clear or light-colored, and won't show through the necklace unless that's your intention.;
, You can determine the length of your necklace by measuring your neck. If you want a choker, it should be tighter, and if you want a looser necklace, the string will be longer. You should always make the necklace a bit longer than the length of your neck.


If you're not using a clasp, you should still add 3-4 inches (7.6-10.1 cm) to the length to account for the string you'll be tying together, and if you're using a clasp, you should add an extra 4-8 inches (10.1-20.3 cm) to the length of your necklace.
If you're not using a clasp, remember that the necklace will have to slide over your head so you should account for that in your length. If you're determined to make a choker without using a clasp, then you can tie and untie the ends of the necklace every time you put the necklace on and take it off, but that can be a bit time-consuming.
 You should choose the pattern of beads you'd like to use for your necklace before you start stringing them onto the wire. If you create your pattern as you string the beads, you may find that you've changed your mind in the middle of the project. If you're using just one type of bead, then this part is easy.


If you're using a variety of beads, then you should pick an eye-catching pattern that either repeats or emphasizes the center of the necklace.
You can lay the wire horizontally below the beaded pattern to ensure that you're using the right amount of beads.
You don't have to cover all of the wire with beads -- you can leave a few inches of string on either end, or even leave half of the string un-beaded. It's up to you.
 This knot will keep the beads from falling off the necklace. If the beads have bigger holes, you can even tie the knot twice. Make sure to leave at least 2-3 inches (5-7.6 cm) on the other end of the knot so you can use this length to tie the necklace together later.
 Run the wire through the eye, or the hole, in the needle. The needle will make it easier for you to attach the beads to the necklace. You can also bead the necklace without using the needle, but that will be trickier and will require more dexterity.
 Just poke the needle through the beads, one at a time, and then slide them down the necklace until they stop at the knot. Continue this until you've threaded all of the beads onto the necklace. Then remove the needle and tie another knot at the other end of the necklace. You should have tied a knot at the same distance from the other end of the necklace -- about 2-3 inches (5-7.6 cm).
 You can use a square knot, a double knot that will secure the ends of the necklace together. Now that you've made your necklace, you can put it on and start wowing your friends and start spicing up your everyday outfits.

