 Before treating a wound, it's reccomended that you do so with clean hands. This can prevent bacteria from your hands affecting the wound.If you have access to running water and soap, use this to clean your hands. However, wounds often happen when camping. In this case, you may have to improvise.


If you have any kind of clean, disposable gloves, try using these. However, do not use regular gloves, as these probably contain a lot of bacteria. Only use previously unused disposable plastic gloves, that have been stored in a sealable bag or container.
If you have some kind of hand sanitizer, you may want to use this. It can get some of the bacteria off of your hands.;
, You want to stop bleeding, as blood loss can lead to serious complications. Most minor wounds will stop bleeding if you apply a small amount of pressure to the wound.You should apply pressure for 10 to 15 minutes, then examine the wound. If it's still bleeding, apply pressure for another 10 to 15 minutes.Ideally, you would use a clean cloth or band-aid in this situation, as all materials should be sterile. Without proper supplies, however, you may have to improvise.


If you have clean gloves, direct hand-to-wound contact may be safe in this case, and even preferable to using unclean cloths or clothing.Without gloves, however, things can get complicated. You could see if you have any supplies on hand. Sterile bandaids can help. Tampons are generally sterile, and some soldiers and campers have used them to apply pressure or dress a wound. This can also be an option in a bind.Keep in mind there is no substitute for safe, sterile material you would find in a hospital or in a conventional first aid kid. If you have to apply pressure to a wound with questionable material, you should seek medical attention as soon as you are able. If you're camping in a group, it's a good idea to have someone seek out medical help while you're applying pressure to a wound.
 Once the bleeding stops, examine the wound. You want to assess how serious the damage is, as this information can be useful when you receive medical care. The area outside the wound should be pink. The wounded party should not be experiencing loss of sensation.If you notice loss of sensation, or any major discolorations, this is a sign of a serious infection. Your top priority should be seeking medical help. Do so before proceeding. Untreated infections can cause serious, possibly deadly, complications.
 If the wound does not look seriously infected, proper cleaning can prevent infection. Ideally, you would should use saline, tap water, or disinfected water. Do not use water from a stream to clean a wound.In a bind, tap water is fine. If you're camping, see if you have any bottled water on hand to clean the wound. Iodine, rubbing alcohol, or hydrogen peroxide should be avoided, however, as these can cause tissue damage.
Pour water over the wound to wash away any dirt and bacteria. Be careful. Pour with enough force to dislodge any foreign materials, but do not pour so vigorously dirt and debris gets further lodged in the wound.
 Covering a wound can greatly help prevent infection. If you have sterile material, you can use this to bandage the wound. Ideally, you should use sterile bandages or gauze from a first aid kit.You may have to improvise, however, and make temporary use of sterile materials like tampons.


A minor cut or scrape can probably be left uncovered. It may be safer to leave minor scrapes uncovered if you do not have proper supplies.