 You probably already exfoliate your face, but do you include your lips in your routine, too? Lips tend to get dry and flaky, so they need to be exfoliated every few days to stay in good shape. You can exfoliate your lips the same way you'd exfoliate your face, using a gentle scrub or brush to remove the dead skin cells that have built up.


Be gentle with the skin on your lips, which is fragile like the rest of your facial skin. Don't use a harsh body scrub. Choose one that's formulated specifically for use on the face.
If you want to make your own gentle lip scrub, mix 1 teaspoon of honey with 1 teaspoon of granulated sugar. Rub it on your lips to smooth away the dead skin, then rinse it off.;
, After exfoliating, apply a gentle moisturizer so that your lips stay smooth and supple. Look for a nourishing lip balm made from natural and organic ingredients like shea butter, almond oil, aloe, tea tree oil and beeswax. When you wear lip balm, you end up licking your lips and ingesting a little, so you want to choose one with ingredients aren't harmful if ingested.


Avoid lip balms that contain alcohol. Alcohol is often used as a preservative in cosmetics, but it's drying to the skin. If you apply lip balm that contains alcohol, your lips will actually dry out more quickly than they otherwise would. Alcohol-free lip balm keeps your lips in good condition without making the problem worse.
 The skin on your lips is susceptible to getting damaged during extreme weather. A sunburn or a bout of cold weather can leave them dry and cracked. Be sure to protect your lips all year round to keep them looking soft and supple.


When the sun is strong, wear a lip balm that contains sunblock with SPF 15 or higher.
During the winter, protect your lips with a lip balm that contains a thick humectant such as shea butter or coconut oil. This will keep moisture in and protect your lips from dry, cold air.
 If your lips tend to get extremely dry and chapped in the winter, you may want to consider using a humidifier to add moisture to the air, especially while you sleep. During the winter, the combination of cold air outside and dry, hot air indoors wreaks havoc on lips (and the rest of your face, too). Do yourself a favor and use a humidifier to keep your lips moisturized all winter long.


If you don't have a humidifier and don't want to buy one, you can add moisture to the air by boiling a pot of water on the stove. Let the steam from the boiling water travel throughout your house.

