 You and your doctor can discuss how a specific supplement or supplement mix may impact your health based on your prior medical history and your current medication regimen. If your doctor approves your supplement use, be sure to find out the name, brand, and concentration of the supplement you can take.If you’re considering altering your supplement mix — for instance, by moving up from 500 mg capsules of fish oil to 700 mg capsules of fish oil — let your doctor know.
Only your doctor is qualified to help you find a supplement mix that works for you.;
, Lots of supplements don’t contain what they say they contain, or don’t contain it in the quantities that is supposed to be present. Other supplements contain harmful additives. Talk to your doctor for recommendations as to which supplement brands can be trusted.Always check for an expiration or “best by” date before buying.
The Food and Drug Administration doesn’t review herbal supplements.
Don’t believe the hype. Lots of supplements have only a minimal effect — if any — on the condition or symptom they are meant to cure. Even if your doctor approves the use of a certain supplement, don’t expect it to be a silver bullet.
 The best way to avoid risky supplement mixes is to avoid taking supplements at all. Instead of popping supplements to solve your health problems, adopt a healthy lifestyle by eating right and getting regular exercise.A diet based primarily on fruits, vegetables, and whole grains is the best way to eat. About 20% of all calories should come from lean proteins like soy, poultry, nuts, and seeds. Avoid eating processed foods high in sugar, salt, and fat. Limit your intake of red meat and alcohol.
Stay active. Adults should get at least 2.5 hours of moderate exercise per week. You can start out by walking, biking, or jogging at least ten minutes each day to improve your health. As your endurance improves, spend more time exercising. Invite a friend to double the fun!If you’re overweight, identify the weight you should be at, and reduce your caloric intake while at the same time increasing your physical activity levels. Talk to your doctor about what your ideal weight is.
 Certification ensures that the supplements you’re buying are safe and high-quality. Only trust valid certification and verification organizations when deciding what supplements to purchase.Don’t confuse vague certifications or appeals to authority with legitimate certification processes. For instance, some supplement mixes have phrases like “physician approved” or “physician tested.”
Trusted supplement verification organizations include the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), U.S. Pharmacopeia, NSF International, Underwriters Laboratories (UL), and ConsumerLab.com.
 Powdered drink mixes are especially risky for young people, who may experience liver damage after ingesting them. Hydroxycut, for instance, can cause your metabolism to go into overdrive and damage your body.These powdered drink mixes may be advertised as protein supplements, vitamin supplements, or energy supplements.
They might also be advertised as metabolism-controlling supplements.

