 Unlike outdoor polo, arena polo only requires three players, mostly to keep the safety of the horses and riders in mind.The players' jerseys should indicate their number as Player 1, 2, or 3.
Having alternative players is allowed for each team, and the substitute players must be qualified to play.
Players' handicaps usually rise by one for arena polo because it requires different skills. This means that if a player's outdoor polo handicap is 1 goal, then his/her arena polo handicap is 2 goals., Arena polo requires fewer ponies per player.Players can alternate two ponies for each chukka, giving one a break while the other is ridden for the current chukka.
Ponies can be any breed or size for arena polo.
Ponies must not be blind in either eye and must be able to be controlled for the entirety of the match, or they may be excluded.
 While these rules are similar to that of outdoor polo, there are some differences.Arena polo has four 7-minute chukkas, with 4-minute breaks after most chukkas. The end of the second chukka is followed by a 6-minute break.
A bell or signal will sound 30 seconds prior to the end of each chukka.
Game officials include two umpires, a referee, a timekeeper, a scorekeeper, and goal judges. However, it is the responsibility of the umpires to signal when a goal is scored.
An arena should be 300 feet long by 150 feet wide, with goals at each end that are 10 feet wide by 12 feet tall.
 Most of the game is played the same, but since it is played in a smaller space, a few differences arise.


A goal is scored when the ball hits the boards within the goal area and counts as one point. A small, air-filled ball with a circumference of 12.5” to 15” is used.
The match begins with a throw-in, which is when an official rolls the ball in between the teams, who are lined up parallel to each other. The throw-in occurs after the umpire does a coin toss, with the captain of the winning team choosing which goal their team will defend first.
A goal is scored by driving the ball into the opposing team's goal with the mallet. Teams switch end goals after each chukka.
The player with right of way must follow the line of the ball (i.e. the direction in which it is rolling as part of play), and if the line of the ball changes, other players who may be in the way must be given time to clear the new right of way. Players are not allowed to obstruct the right of way unless they are far enough away from the player with the right of way to avoid collision.
In the event of a tie, play will resume with the usual time periods after a 10-minute interval. The first team to score will win.
 This system is also slightly different from outdoor polo.An umpire can call a foul on any violation of the rules of play. When a foul is called, the umpire must call a time out to announce the foul to the players.
There are a variety of different penalties that can be awarded based on the foul committed. These include a free goal to the fouled team, free hits at varying distances from the goal, removal from part or the remainder of the game, disqualification, and forfeit.
Players may not argue with the umpires when fouls are called, and vulgar language or disrespectful attitudes are not tolerated.

