 Of all the different things that can impact your credit card decision, the interest rate on the card is probably the most important factor. What makes interest so important? The interest rate your card charges will make a huge difference in the amount of money you end up paying over the long term. If you carry a balance from one month to the next, a card with a low, single digit interest rate is best.The impact interest has on what you spend is simple math. Charge $1,000 on a card with 6% interest, then pay it back at the minimum payment ($30 per month for this calculation), and you’ll spend $1097 by the time you pay it off. Charge the same amount, $1,000, on a card with 24% interest and you’ll spend a whopping $1,332 by the time you finish paying. Your interest rate can have a big effect on what you end up paying for the items you buy using a credit card, so pay attention and get the lowest rate you can.;
, In addition to interest that is calculated each month, a card can come with an annual fee that needs to be paid each year. Decide if this fee is worth it to you – are you paying a fee to have an otherwise good credit card with lots of perks? Then it might be worth it for you. If the card comes with a high interest hate, huge penalty fees and no perks, then it is likely not worth paying extra for.
 Look for a card with low penalties and fees for late or missed payments, especially if you are absent-minded when it comes to payment dates. Miss the payment deadline by a single day and you’ll fork over up to $35 in late fees. Other hefty fees can include those for over the limit charges, so watch your spending if you choose a card with high penalty fees. Better yet, choose a card without high fees in the first place and save both worry and cash.
 Higher credit limits are generally better, since your credit score is impacted by your utilization. Put $250 on a card with a $5,000 limit and you’ll be fine. Run that same $250 on a card with a $300 limit and your credit score may take a nose dive, since you’re utilizing more of your available credit.If you have good credit, you may be offered different credit limits from different companies; looking at the company’s application can yield information on the maximum credit levels they offer. If you really prefer a $5,000 credit limit, then don’t bother applying for a card that has a maximum limit of $1,000.
 What are your credit goals, or why do you want a credit card in the first place? Are you trying to build your credit for the first time? If so then a student card may be a good bet, particularly if you are in college. You’ll get a low, starting credit line and the ability to build your credit history; pay on time and build your credit.


Do you travel a lot and need a card to make reservations or rent a car? If you are putting big purchases on your card, then look for a card with reasonable interest rates and a credit limit that is high enough to be able to spend what you need to as you travel for work or play.
Want to buy a house or car soon? You’ll need to maximize your credit score to get a good deal on your mortgage or car loan. To help your score, look for credit cards with high available credit lines, even if it means paying an annual fee. Keep the card with a very low balance, and you’ll get a score boost for having, but not using available credit. It is an odd feature of the FICO scoring system that the ability to get credit, without needing to use it, will boost your score.
 If you travel frequently, then a card that allows you to rack up airline miles to use for a trip is a good idea. Love Disney World? Choose a Disney sponsored Visa and you’ll earn cash back for your next trip. If you use services or products from a company that has a major credit card, you’ll likely get some kind of reward for using the card. If you don’t have a specific reward in mind, look for a card that offers some kind of cash back or other savings plan. Cash out once a year – or use your amassed rewards to pay the annual fee for the card. Rewards cards are handy, but the miles, coupons or cash back offered for the card shouldn’t be your primary reason for choosing it. Make sure you double check the interest, penalties and fees before you sign up.
 Your personal preferences, credit history and the way you want to use the card will have the biggest impact on both the card you’re offered and the best card for you. Apply for the card that seems to suit your needs best, and make sure you review any credit application or agreement thoroughly before you sign anything. Sign first and you may end up overpaying — and regretting your hasty decision – later.

