 Many experts on dog behavior recommend that a dog be exercised before travelling, or before being engaged in any activity that might get the dog restless and agitated.


A well exercised dog will be very inclined to rest because it has burned off its excess energy. Therefore, it's a good idea to schedule a brisk 30 minute walk before taking off.
 Your dog’s favorite blanket or toys contain a lot of familiar scents, and will reduce anxiety when the dog is brought to an unfamiliar place.
 Do this by placing a few drops of lavender oil on your hands and massaging the dog at the back of its head, or the base of the spine. Lavender oil has a calming scent and is used in spas for humans.
 Studies have shown that pheromones are present in all mammals during the nursing stage. In dogs, this is the hormone secreted by the puppies’ mother, so when the puppies smell this hormone it calms them and re-assures them that mom is around.


Examples of products that contain this hormone are: Adaptil ®collar and spray, Sentry ® Calming collar, and Comfort Zone ® Diffuser with Dog Appeasing Pheromone.These products are very easy to use, the collars are simply placed on the dog’s neck to provide a sustained release of the pheromone which lasts for a month.
For products like the diffuser, it is simply plugged into a socket, and the pheromone is slowly and continuously released for a month. This type of product is ideal for rooms. Spray preparations can be used to spray cages, cars, or any carrier where the dog is placed.
 Melatonin is a hormone produced by the pineal gland. It is a sleeping hormone that causes the animal to have a good rest at night. It has a seasonal variation in animals and humans, increasing when there are fewer hours of daylight in winter.


Melatonin has sedative properties, anticonvulsant properties, regulates body rhythms and reproductive cycles. It is mainly used in the treatment of separation anxiety in dogs, and other stressful or frightening conditions like noise anxieties brought about by fireworks or thunder storms.
Give this drug to your dog before travelling and or before introducing your dog to a potentially frightening situation. An example of a product containing Melatonin is K9 Choice ™ Melatonin 3 mg tablets.
The dose is 3 mg for every 35 to 100 pounds body weight, twice a day. For smaller dogs below 35 pounds the dose is 1.5 mg of melatonin, and for larger dogs greater than 100 pounds the dose is 6 mg twice times a day., Herbal pills and oils prepared specifically for dogs are commercially available, examples include Dorwest Herbs ™ Scullcap and Valerian tablets. This herbal medicine preparation can be used for the relief of anxiety, restlessness, excitability, and travel behavioral problems, and can even be used as a supporting supplement for epilepsy. It has been been proven effective in dogs with noise phobias, travel anxiety, and hyper activity.Skullcap and Valerian Tablets are safe for long term and short term use and can be given from 2 months of age onwards. The dose for Dorwest Herbs ™ Scullcap and Valerian tablets is 1 to 2 tablets per 5 kg of body weight daily. For one off occasions, use 2 tablets per 5kg of body weight 12 hours before and again 2 hours before the desired effect is required. Note: Not recommended for pregnant or lactating females.
Vetzyme Stay Calm Liquid ®: this herbal oil is composed of a unique blend of Chamomile and Ginger oils. Research has shown that these two herbs posses calming, soothing, and relaxing properties. The dose is at 2.5ml of the oil mixed into the dogs food daily., Do this by mixing one teaspoon each of German Chamomile, skullcap and catnip. Place these in a cup and set aside.


Heat half a cup of water to boiling level, and pour this over the cup of herbs. Leave and let it steep for 6 minutes, then strain the liquid and pour three tablespoons of honey into the concoction.
Store it at room temperature for 24 hours before giving it to the dog.