 Wrist-rolling push-ups are easier on the wrists while simultaneously strengthening your wrists and forearms. With stronger wrists and forearms, you'll be able to do regular push-ups without wrist pain.Make a fist and start your push-up with your knuckles on the floor. Roll your fist forward, trying to touch the tip of your thumb to the floor. Your arms will be straight in that position.
When you roll back, reverse the same rolling motion but this time, try to get the base of your fist to the floor. Your elbow will bend, engaging your triceps, and you should feel a stretch in your wrists. To do a wrist-rolling push-up, simply continue this rolling back and forth for the same number of repetitions you had planned for push-ups.
You may want to start this push-up variation on all fours so that your body weight is more firmly supported. Gradually move your knees further and further back until you are able to do this variation in full push-up position on your toes.
 To do this push-up variation, when you get into push-up position you want to pretend as though you're trying to hold a basketball, pushing into the floor with your fingertips.Keep your palm flat, not cupped. You're simply distributing your weight away from your wrists, which won't put as much pressure on your wrists to hold your weight or absorb the force of your push-ups.
Be careful to keep your fingers flat as well, rather than curling them into the floor. Doing so can cause undue pressure to the finger joints.
 Changing the position in which you place your hands can help limit wrist pain during both push-ups and planks. Raising your upper body naturally lessens the percentage of your body weight that your hands and wrists are being made to support.For example, you can place your hands on a bench or a step that is raised a few inches over the ground. The rest of the movement is the same as with a normal push-up.
Take care that you are still observing good form. Your elbows should be bending back, close to your body, and your back should remain flat so that your entire body moves raises and lowers as one unit.
 Holding dumbbells as you do push-ups will keep your wrists straight, putting less pressure on them. The size or weight of the dumbbell doesn't matter, since it will be resting on the floor. You just want something large enough for you to comfortably grip and that weighs enough it won't easily move as you exercise.Set one dumbbell under each shoulder. When you come down into push-up position, wrap your fingers around the handles of the dumbbells with your palms facing each other.
If the handle of the dumbbell is burning your palms, wrap a small towel around them first to make them easier to grip.

