 Adjust your calorie intake so you are not overeating or eating empty calories that can only add more fat to your arms. Once you calculate your calorie intake per day, which is based on your age, your weight, and your fitness level, try to consume enough calories every day to do exercise.


Eat more vegetables, healthy fats, and lean protein. Each meal should include a serving of protein, one or two vegetable/fruit servings, and one complex carbohydrate serving such as a whole grain serving. Make sure your carb intake is in the recommended range of 20 to 50 grams (0.71 to 1.8 oz) per a day.Reduce your consumption of carbs, sugars, and animal fats. Consuming foods high in carbs and sugars will cause your body to secrete insulin, which is a main fat storage hormone in your body. When your insulin levels drop, this allows your body to burn fat. Lower insulin levels also help your kidneys shed excess sodium and water, which will help you reduce any water weight you are carrying.Cut out foods that are high in starch and carbs like French fries, potato chips and white bread. Avoid foods high in artificial sugars like soft drinks, cakes, candy, and junk food.
 Create a seven day meal plan that covers three main meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner), scheduled at the same time of day, and two small snacks (between breakfast and lunch, and lunch and dinner), scheduled at the same time of day. A set meal plan will ensure you eat at a consistent time every day and do not skip or miss a meal. Consuming about 1,400 calories a day, combined with exercise, can help you to achieve healthy weight loss.Write up a grocery list based on your meal plan and go food shopping at the beginning of the week. Keep your fridge stocked with all the necessary ingredients to make your meals for the week so you can prepare each meal easily and are not tempted to cheat or skip a meal., Staying hydrated with water will keep your immune system healthy and ensure you are hydrated during your daily workout.You can substitute sugary drinks like soda with water flavored with slices of lemon or lime.
Try unsweetened green tea as a healthy substitute for sugary drinks. Unsweetened green tea has a healthy amount of antioxidants and promotes overall health.
 To maintain your weight loss, you should always eat healthy before and after you do any exercise. Have a small light snack one to two hours before you work out so you have enough energy during your workout.


Your post-work meals should be high in protein and carbohydrates and you should always eat within two hours of your workout. A meal like low-fat Greek yogurt with a few tablespoons of granola and fruit or a peanut butter and banana sandwich made with one slice of whole grain bread can help your body to recover after a workout and improve your muscle strength.

