 On the flip side, when your purpose is clearly defined, it’s easier to move forward into the action phase.


If you have become detached from your purpose, sit down and reevaluate the principles, people, and causes that drive your life. Make a point to fill your day with activities that bring meaning to your existence. If they don’t, toss them or delegate them.
For instance, public speaking might fill you with anxiety, but you are more likely to push past this fear when you are speaking about a cause close to your heart. Add meaningful challenges to your day to take action against anxiety.If public speaking still fills you with anxiety, take on smaller challenges first and build your way up to speaking in public.
Do not start with your biggest fear or worry. Instead, start with smaller concerns to help yourself build confidence.;
, Goal-setting is another way to use your anxiety as fuel. Take notice of your anxious thoughts and worries. What are you most concerned about? What are your biggest fears? Instead of shaking in your boots, get to work developing a plan that allows you to overcome these fears.Let’s say you are worried about failing your algebra class. You can take action against this anxiety by creating an action plan to minimize the likelihood of it coming true. You might have steps like “Find a math tutor,” “Ask the instructor for extra credit,” or “Spend two hours studying each day.”

, After you have determined what your goals are, you must immediately move forward into fear. Oftentimes, anxiety-sufferers spend too much time planning without ever bringing those plans into fruition. To prevent yourself from getting stuck in analysis paralysis—that is, worrying about which next step is the right one—just take a step forward. Identify one small action you can take to move you closer to reaching your goal and do it.For example, in the previous example, you might need to “Find a tutor” to improve your math grades. Don’t spend too much time analyzing how to obtain a tutor. Consider the simplest route forward and take it. Send an email to the tutoring lab at your school. Ask a clever classmate. Or, catch your instructor’s eye after class to see if they have a recommendation.
 Anxiety often debilitates us because we keep quiet about it. We keep our worries and fears close to the vest out of concern that others will think less of us, or take advantage of our shortcomings.


It requires vulnerability, but you may find that talking about the source of your anxiety with a trusted friend or acquaintance may help you view it more objectively. As a result, you might receive advice or encouragement that propels you from paralysis into action.Reach out to someone you trust and speak candidly. You might say, “Hey, Tom, I know this might come as a surprise, but I have a fear of heights. Our flight next week is really freaking me out.”
Don't stop yourself from confiding in other people by overthinking it and assuming your friend will judge you. Choose someone you trust, and try talking to them.
 Think of your resilience to anxiety as a muscle. The more you use the muscle, the stronger it becomes. Rather than avoiding those situations that provoke anxiety, gradually expose yourself to them more often. When you do this, you will find that, over time, they lose their power.Don’t let fear and avoidance make you complacent. Make an effort to build resilience by challenging yourself to face your anxiety regularly. For instance, if you loathe public speaking, you might benefit from signing up for a local Toastmasters club. Doing so will allow you to practice speaking in front of a group more often, which will reduce your anxiety.
Don't necessarily start with your greatest fear. Getting over smaller anxieties first can build your confidence.

