 Chances are that people at your place of work, school, or other commitments make routine requests of you. Take some time when you're not under pressure to consider situations that might call for quick thinking and plan out how you could respond to these questions.


For example, your teacher might ask you a question related to something you read for class, such as, “What was the name of the main character?” or “What did you think of the book?” Consider questions that your teacher might ask and try to prepare your answers in advance so that you do not have to pause for an answer.
 Clear communication will help you quickly share information with others and avoid misinterpretation.


Work to eliminate vocal tics such as excessive "ums" and "uhs."
Utilize non-verbal cues such as eye contact and well-placed pauses.
Use proper grammar.
Gauge the formality of a given situation and determine how to respond appropriately., Be aware of project details and background information so you aren't caught off-guard. Gain experience in your particular field and you'll have the foundations to quickly draw informed conclusions.For example, if you are a nurse who works with psychiatric patients, then learning as much as you can about psychiatric nursing interventions may help you to respond quickly in different situations.
 If you know a situation will call for fast thinking, eliminate distractions that may draw your focus from the task at hand.


Eliminate extraneous noise such as the radio, television, or music playing through headphones.
Close out of social media accounts and extra tabs in your Internet browser while working., Concentrating on one task at a time will keep your mind focused and allow you to respond more quickly when faced with a question or a problem. Try to stay focused on only one task at a time, even if you are busy.


For example, if you have a line of customers waiting for service and the phone is ringing, then choose one thing to focus on. For example, you might want to focus on the customers in front of you first and allow someone else to get the phone, or even let it go to voicemail. Or, if you have lots of homework to do, then pick one assignment to work on. Complete that assignment, and then move on to the next one.

