!, you may want to choose the "Mushroom Cup" as it is the most basic and easiest to learn of all the circuits. Then you want to choose the 50cc level, because 100cc and 150cc are much more challenging. These "cc" levels determine how easy your kart is to control, so, the lower the number the easier your kart is to navigate.;
, It's true, the racer you choose will affect what kind of kart you can drive, but we'll get to that later. There are three kinds of drivers you can choose from: Light, Medium, and Heavy. Light drivers can ride in any kind of kart. Medium weight drivers can ride in medium karts and heavy karts. And Heavy characters can only ride in karts that are heavy as well, so choose wisely.

Light Characters: Diddy Kong, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Koopa Troopa, ParaTroopa, Bowser Jr., Toad, Toadette.






Medium Characters: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Yoshi, Birdo, Waluigi.






Heavy Characters: Donkey Kong, Bowser, Wario, Petey Piranha, King Boo.
 Depending on your selection, you will be able to race in certain karts.

Light Karts: Have good acceleration but lower overall top speeds. Only light characters can ride in these karts.






Medium Karts: Average in all aspects of racing. Light and Medium characters can ride in these.






Heavy Karts: Have poor acceleration but have the highest overall top speeds. Heavy, Medium, and Light characters can ride in Heavy Karts.
 In the game, there are 16 courses divided up into 4 cups: Mushroom, Flower, Star, and Special. Each cup holds 4 tracks and you have to select the entire cup to play in Grand Prix mode, or a single course in the other modes. There is another cup that allows you to play all of the courses at the same time in Grand Prix mode only and that's the All-Cup Tour.
 For a big power boost at the start of the race, you must press "A" (which acts as the gas pedal) exactly when the screen says, "Start!". This can be done easily since the screen counts down from 3, 2, and then 1, at a steady pace. You should be able to get the timing right with practice if at first you don't get it. There is also the Double Dash starting boost and it works the same way as the rocket start, except that you and your teammate must press the gas pedal button at the same time.
 Learn which can be used for you own benefit, or to slow down other racers. Here are some basic items to know:


Green Shells: Move in straight lines and will roll over a kart briefly. Can be thrown backwards or forwards.
Red Shells: Home in automatically on the Kart in front of you and flip them over when it strikes if thrown forward. If thrown backwards it acts as a green shell traveling in straight lines only.
Banana: Can be dropped for other karts to run over, causing them to spin out.
Spiny Shell: These blue colored spiny shells fly above the track at ultra-fast speeds until it finds the leader and explodes them and anyone near them.
Fake Item: These look like real item boxes from afar but shocks anyone who is foolish enough to touch them.
Mushroom: Can be used to give your kart a short speed-boost.
Star: Makes you invincible for a period of time and makes you faster. Karts that are touched by a star-kart will be sent flying.
Thunderbolt: Shrinks everyone but the user in size and speed.
 These fun extras can be fireballs, eggs, bombs, and others depending on your character!

, Also look out for Dash Panels. Your kart will go much faster when driving over one!

, This allows your car to "drift" or steer around without losing speed.
 You're not going to win your first race unless you've had a lot of other Mario Kart experience, so the more you practice the better you get, just like with everything else.

