 Many home remedies rely on anecdotal evidence, meaning someone's personal experience, and not scientific evidence. Be aware that many home remedies have no scientific backing that they are effective in treating gingivitis. This is why it is important to still visit your dentist and only combine home remedies with dentist-recommended advice. Do not use home remedies solely as a substitute for dental treatment.
 Oral probiotics contain "good" bacteria that assist in restoring the natural balance of bacteria in the mouth after use of oral antiseptics found in mouthwashes and toothpastes.


Some oral probiotics (such as ProDentis) contain a bacteria called Lactobacillus reuteri, which is naturally found in breast milk and saliva. This bacteria is recommended especially during non-surgical therapy while maintaining other gingivitis treatments.Ask your doctor for a brand recommendation.
 Ubiquinone, also known as Coenzyme Q10, may help convert fats and sugars into energy. In addition to being used to treat diabetes and congestive heart failure, ubiquinone may be used to treat gum disease.The FDA, however, has not cleared ubiquinone as medically-appropriate to treat any disease, so ubiquinone should not be used solely to treat gum disease.
 An oral rinse that contains hydrogen peroxide, such as Colgate Peroxyl, is an antiseptic and antibacterial that may help treat infection and relieve inflammation when it comes in contact with an enzyme in the mouth.


Use this rinse no more than twice a week for three weeks in a row as it can cause tooth sensitivity.
 Corsodyl spray is a powerful spray that contains chlorhexidine gluconate, which has antibacterial and antiplaque properties.Corsodyl spray may be used to treat any pain or discomfort associated with mouth ulcers, inflammation and infections of the mouth.


Corsodyl spray can be used when brushing the teeth becomes difficult and/or painful, such as after surgery. Be sure to keep spray out of ears and eyes.
 This gel contains hyaluronic acid, which is naturally found in the body and may be used to heal certain wounds and stimulate the production of new tissue.For best results, apply at night before going to sleep.

