 It will be much easier to be nice to an ex if you don’t spend too much time together. Remember, you aren’t trying to get back together. You’re just trying to be nice. So, keep conversations short. Be polite, courteous, and no flirting or complaining.


Greet your ex when you see them, but avoid extended conversations.
For example, you might say hello when you see your ex at the local café. But, you don’t need to sit down and have an hour-long talk.
You might say, “Hi, Carlitta. Nice to see you” and then go ahead to your table and sip your latte.
If, and when, you do need to have longer interactions, be polite, but stick to talking about the topic at hand.
For instance, if you all are working on a project together, you can politely talk about the project, but limit the conversation to that.
You could say something like, “Hey, Michael. Mrs. Hasim said we’re working together on the report. Which section would you like to have?”

, Although you want to be nice to your ex, you also have to set some limits to your kindness.Without boundaries you could find yourself in an awkward situation, or even back in your old relationship.


It’s okay to ask your ex how they are doing, but it’s crossing the line to talk about your old relationship or who each of is dating now.
For example, it’s alright to say, “Hello, Alicia. How have you been?” But, it’s too much to add, “Are you dating anyone right now?”
Don’t allow your ex to take advantage of you or treat you bad because you are trying to be nice.
For example, you shouldn’t be picking up their weekly dry-cleaning or washing their car.
Make sure that the things you are doing and saying to be nice aren’t beyond the scope of casual friends or acquaintances.
For example, saying ‘hi’ to your ex when they come in the room is being nice. Saying ‘hi’, saving them a seat, and copying your notes for them is too much.
 Even though you want to be nice to your ex, they may still do or say things that upset you, even if they don’t mean to.Instead of losing your cool, stay calm and remind yourself that you are trying to be nice.


For instance, if you see your ex out with their new love, don’t explode or burst into tears (right then). Calmly give a nice hello to them both and then walk away.
You could smile and say, “Hi, Tasha. Hi, Marie” and then continue on your way.
For example, if you ask your ex how they are doing and they respond, “I was fine until I saw you”, then take a deep breath and remain calm.
You could then politely say goodbye and walk away. For instance, you might say, “Oh, ok. Have a nice day then.”

, Depending on the situation, you may want to have someone close to you around when you interact with your ex.Having someone there for support can make it easier for you to be nice to an ex by diffusing any tension and offering you encouragement.


For instance, if your ex dumped you and want to punch him, you might ask your friend to go with you to get your belongings from your ex.
You could ask your friend, “Would you mind going with me to pick up my stuff from Ron?”
Or, for example, if you know your ex will be at a party and don’t know if you can handle seeing them, then ask someone to join you.
You might say, “Brittany is going to be at this party. Could you come with me for moral support?”

