 Your county recorder’s offices will have information on all of the homes in your area. You can find the phone number for your area’s designated office by searching online., Most banks run a searchable database of foreclosed, pre-auction homes. You can narrow your search by state and city or county to see a comprehensive listing of each property a given bank is selling.


Use an online search engine to find banks with foreclosure listings in your area.
Narrow your search by selecting the city or county you reside in.
 You can ask for information about the property if you know the address. There's no guarantee that your local tax office will know about all of the impending foreclosures, but some tax authorities will know based on whether or not a mortgage lender has inquired about that property's taxes., Some real estate agencies deal extensively with foreclosures. Find out which agencies specialize in foreclosed estates, then ask a real estate agent about the address that you believe is going into foreclosure. There is a good chance that the agents at that office will know about any impending foreclosures in your area, and can provide you with more information., In the United States, the Department of Housing and Urban Development maintains a comprehensive listing of foreclosed homes in a database that can be easily searched online.Visit http://ushud.com/ if you're searching for a home in the United States.
Enter your zip code and browse the listings to see if an address you're worried about has been included in the list.
If you live outside the United States, search online for your national or regional housing offices.
 Many auction companies advertise recent foreclosures and upcoming auctions in print ads in order to draw more potential buyers. Check the paper on a daily or weekly basis to look for updates on foreclosed properties and auctions.


Newspapers in the property's county are required to publish a listing of homes slated for auction. Typically listed as a Notice of Sale, these listings run regularly over varying periods of time, depending on where the auction is held. In some states the listing will run for a period of three weeks,while in other states the listing must run at least once every week for a period of five weeks.