 Most of the time, people use emotions to assert control over each other. This can take place in the form of anger, guilt, or withholding approval. If you want to break the grip of a controlling person (parent or otherwise), you may have to distance yourself from him or her, such as by spending less time together and calling less often.


If you still live at home (especially if you are a minor), then building distance might be hard. However, you can set boundaries between you and your parent. Seek help from a school counselor or teacher.
 Cutting down on the time you spend with your parent may cause him or her to get upset and lash out at you. If your parent complains that you are not spending enough time with him or her or accuses you of not loving him or her, then try not to get defensive.Try saying something like, “I am sorry that you are upset. I understand how that might be upsetting.”
Keep in mind that things may get worse with your parents before you start to see any improvement. However, it is important to maintain your distance and avoid being drawn in by threats. For example, if your mother threatens to kill herself if you do not come over, then tell her you are calling 911, hang up the phone, and follow through. Do not rush over to her house or give in to her demands.
 Another form leverage often used to control a child is money. If you have the ability to make your own money, separate your finances from your parents. It might be difficult, but you need to pay your own bills, buy your own things, and budget for yourself. Not only will this make you more responsible, it will also lessen the grip of a controlling parent.This can be hard for minors also, but not impossible to do in small steps. Even if you don’t pay your own rent and utilities, try to earn your own money for extra outings that you would like to do. This doesn’t mean your parents have to say yes, but having earned the money to go to the movies eliminates one more barrier that a controlling parent can use.
 Asking a favor of your parent puts them in the position to bargain. If you want them to fulfill your need, you’ll have to do something in return. While this isn’t inherently bad, it can quickly lead to you giving up your decision making power to them. Ask friends or other family members if you need help., If you are a child who is being subjected to abuse, call your local child protective services or talk to someone at your school, like a teacher or counselor. Abuse may take many forms, so if you are unsure about whether or not you are being abused, then try talking to a school counselor. Some of the different types of abuse include:


Physical abuse, which includes slapping, punching, restraining, burning, or injuring you in other ways.

Emotional abuse, which includes name-calling, humiliation, blaming, and making unreasonable demands.

Sexual abuse, which includes fondling or touching in inappropriate ways, sexual intercourse, and other sexual acts.

