 Ask as many questions as you can. Find out the following information:


What the child has been suspended for
What exactly happened
Why suspension has been the chosen punishment
Were other students involved in the incident, and if so, have they also been suspended; if not, why not
How long will the suspension last
What your child will be expected to do during the suspension
How this will affect your child academically;
, The schools much prefer an involved parent who wants to know what is happening to their child over a disengaged one.
 Suspension is a very common punishment in schools. In some schools as many as 30% of students are suspended each year. It does not mean your child is being rejected.
 If they are doing extracurricular activities at school usually they will be banned from doing these while on suspension. Some schools will call the police if a suspended student is on school property; however, most will force the parents or guardians to pick them up as soon as possible.
 It is easy to let it become a matter of sleeping in and doing nothing all day. This will just make their return to school harder. Have a set time to get up each day and if the school has not set work to do, set some of your own. There are lots of online resources available.
 This will help your child's return to school. They will not be as far behind on their classwork, and the school will be more willing to have them return to normal schedule.
 Take away their privileges and possessions such as watching TV, using the computer (unless your child needs to do research and/or projects assigned during suspension days), and going out with friends. This also applies if there will be a break between suspension days such as weekends, holidays, class suspension, etc.
 They may be angry, upset or emotional about what happened, or possibly even gloating about it. You will probably be angry and upset too. Talking about it straight away can lead to a pointless battle. Wait until you both calm down (perhaps the next day) to discuss the issues.
, Role playing often helps with this. Many kids will not want to participate, but cooperative participation can be linked to their punishment.
 Don't assume that they do understand why; teens and kids can be very self-centered and they don't always see how their behavior can negatively affect others.
 They could hurt themselves, and they could hurt others. If they repeat the behavior, they could be expelled from school.
 Upon reentry to school, you may be required to attend a meeting to discuss how further behaviors will be prevented. Often the school will impose further sanctions such as a loss of participation in sporting teams, a behavioral contract, or a behavior monitoring sheet.

