 You can make your pencil pouch whatever size you’d like, but using these instructions, your pouch will end up measuring 8”x5”.In order to make a Duct Tape pencil pouch, you will need the following things:


A cutting-board
One patterned roll of duct tape (duct tape comes in different colors and some with pattern designs)
One orange roll of duct tape
One green roll of duct tape
A pack of gallon-sized Ziploc bags
A ruler
A pair of scissors
An Xacto knife;
, You can do this by using your scissors to cut along the bottom and top of the zipper on your bag, so only the zipper remains. Make sure to do this slowly and carefully, so as not to cut into the zipper itself.









If you mess up, grab another bag and start again.
Leave 1” of baggie space on either side of your zipper. You will use this space to attach your zipper to your pouch.
 Spread out your patterned duct tape so you can measure it. Cut a piece of duct tape that is 9” long. Do this five more times so you have six strips of patterned duct tape, each measuring 9".
 Using your scissors, trim the edges off your zipper on either side so you can pull your zipper apart. Place one half of the zipper face up on a solid surface, like a table. Lay one of your strips of patterned tape across the top of your zipper so they attach. Flip your tape and zipper over. Fold the extra tape over the zipper, like a hot dog bun.








When attaching your tape to your zipper, try to do so in a straight line.
Make sure when you’re attaching the zipper that you’re attaching the tape to the extra baggie and not the zipper itself. If you tape the actual zipper, the pouch will not be able to zip.
 Take your taped zipper. Flip it so the zipper side is face down. Lay another piece of patterned duct tape on top of the zipper tape, overlapping by 1”. Add your last piece of patterned tape below the first piece of tape, also overlapping by 1”.









Try to line up your pattern as much as possible, otherwise your pouch will look off.Repeat these steps. You still have another half of zipper left, so repeat the last two steps exactly the same to attach your zipper to your remaining three patterned tape strips. When you’ve finished, you should have two completed duct tape sheets, each attached to a zipper.
 Use them to line the back of one of your duct tape sheets. This will reinforce your pouch and make it stronger and sturdier. Lay your tape as close to the zipper as you can, without actually covering the zipper.If you cover the zipper, the pencil pouch will be unable to close.
If you have extra tape hanging off the bottom of your sheet, you can trim it off using your Xacto knife. Make sure to be incredibly careful while using this tool, as it is very sharp.Don’t trim too much, though. Your Duct Tape sheet should have a small amount of sticky tape at the bottom of the sheet. Make sure to leave this there, otherwise you will not be able to attach your sheets together.
 Use them to line the back of your other Duct Tape sheet. You should now have two Duct Tape sheets attached to zippers, lined by strips of solid Duct Tape.
 Set your Duct Tape sheet so the green lining faces up. Take your orange lined sheet, with the orange lining facing up and use the sticky bottom to connect it to the green sheet. Fold the pouch in half, making sure that the zipper lines up and can close.
 Unzip your pouch. Place the pouch lining side face up on a table. Using your ruler and Xacto knife, trim off the uneven edges. Repeat this on the other side of the pouch. When you finish, your pouch should measure 8” long.


Cut one 8” strip of patterned tape. Tape this strip to the bottom of your pouch, making sure to line up the pattern. Fold the tape over, like a hotdog bun. By doing this, you are reinforcing the bottom of your pouch and making it stronger.
Trim off any extra tape on either side.
Measure two 5” strips of patterned tape. Tape the strips on both sides of the pouch, laid vertically. Fold both pieces of tape like a hotdog over the edges of your pouch to reinforce the sides of your pouch., Your pouch is now complete. Fill it with pencils, pens and markers or use it as a makeup bag. However you choose to play with and enjoy your pouch, it should last for a long time and serve you well.


If you used non-patterned Duct Tape, decorate your pouch with stickers for a little added pizzazz. Or try adding a chunky button. Be creative and have fun with it!