 Banks and other credit card companies often have specialized hotlines you can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to report a lost or stolen card. U.S. federal law limits your liability for any unauthorized charges on your card to $50, and most credit cards come with policies that leave you liable for no unauthorized charges at all. But those policies usually only apply to purchases made after you report the card as lost or stolen. So if you wait until someone starts using your card in a fraudulent manner, you may be liable for $50 worth of purchases you didn’t make.Contacting your bank immediately is especially critical if you have a debit card. If you report the card missing between 2 and 60 days of when it was lost or stolen, you may be liable for up to $500 worth of unauthorized purchases. If you wait more than 60 days, you may be liable for all unauthorized purchases made during that time.The process for replacing a lost or stolen debit card is the same as it is for replacing a credit card. But be aware that you may be without a debit card for up to a week while you wait for a new one. That would mean you wouldn’t be able to withdraw cash from your bank account during that time.
You can generally find the correct number to call if your card is lost or stolen on your most recent credit card statement. If you have online access to your card’s account, many banks and credit card companies will allow you to report the loss or theft online., Details like where you last remember possessing the card, as well as the last purchase you remember making, are critical in any communication with your bank or credit card company. You may also need to provide the operator with your Social Security number or your credit card number., A thief who steals your credit card information may make a small purchase of $20 or less to see if you notice. If you don’t dispute that charge, the thief may make bigger and bigger charges. A common variety of this scam is to place a charge of $9.84 on your card, as this value is small enough to avoid detection while also appearing legitimate.Remember that in some cases legitimate charges may show up under different names on your credit card statement. Therefore, don’t dispute charges that seem fraudulent without at least doing an internet search for the name under the charge. In some cases the charge may come with a phone number, which you should consider calling to ask about the charge., Use the customer service number located on the back of your card. Your credit card company may require you to contact the merchant first to ask them to cancel the charge. If they do, keep records of your communication with the merchant such as copies of emails or phone records to prove that you called them. Otherwise the credit card company will likely just cancel your card and replace it.Consider contacting the police to report an unauthorized charge first. Your credit card company may need a police report to find you not liable for the charge, and credit card fraud is a serious crime in any case.