 If you just bought a new TV you may find that your old cables and sources cannot handle the new addition. They’re either too old or incompatible with your HDTV. To get the best picture you’ll need HDMI cables that may also connect to your sound system. Old DVD players, VCRs, and other sources also play a big part in picture quality. You may need to replace really old tech but newer devices may simply require settings adjustments in order to improve picture quality., To get a better picture while watching DVD's, you'll need a DVD player that can do your plasma TV justice. Look for one with progressive scanning or a high quality up-convert processor. (The up-conversion in *low*-cost DVD players is likely not as effective as the up-conversion built in to more-expensive plasma or LCD TV). Alternatively, you could invest in a Blu-Ray or HD-DVD player. Set up your DVD player, cable or satellite box for 16x9 image output to improve picture quality. Use HMDI or component cable to hook up DVD player to your TV., To fully appreciate the high definition picture that your plasma television is capable of, you need to be using quality video cables that can handle HD (high-definition) signals (Digital Visual Interface or DVIs are comparable but don't carry audio signals ). High Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) and Component (Red-Green-Blue colored) cables are the best for getting HD signal from satellite box or cable to your TV. Don’t spend more than $10 on them as pricier cables offer no added benefit., Fingerprints, smudges, dust, and hair on the screen can all lessen your picture quality. Clean your TV by wiping it with soft microfiber cloth regularly once a week. If you need to get rid of more stubborn spots a TV cleaning kit will run you around $10 and will contain a special solution for your screen aside from cleaning cloth or glove. , Bright lights will wash out the picture on your plasma TV. This is especially true with fluorescent overhead lights or sunlight. Dim your room lights and, if possible, block any sunlight entering the room by closing the blinds or placing your TV into a windowless room.

