 You need to relax before you even approach the girl. Even if you know you want to get her number as soon as you spot her, you won't be able to do it if you don't chill out first. She'll be able to sense if you're nervous from a mile away, and if you're nervous, she will be nervous too or you might scare her off.


Though it's normal to be nervous if you're feeling scared or shy, the girl may wonder, "What's up with this guy?" She may think that there's something off about you even if you're having an ordinary case of the jitters.
Calm yourself down by considering the worst-case scenario. The worst thing that can happen is this: you ask for her phone number, and she won't give it to you. Can you survive that? Probably.;
, Once you've calmed down, it's time to come up to the cutie and crank up the charm. Make eye contact, smile, and go up to her to show her what a great guy you are. If you want to keep her talking, you have to make a great first impression as quickly as you can. Here's how to do it:


Be confident. Show her that you love who you are, that you're happy with what you do, and that you love meeting new people. If she thinks you feel good about who you are, she'll feel good about you too. Chances are, she will be excited when she finds out you are interested in her,
Give her all of your attention. This doesn't mean that you should creepily stare into her eyes. It does mean that you should turn your body toward her, put your phone away, and make her see that what she says matters to you.
Make her laugh. The easiest way to make her like you is to charm her with your wit.
 Once you get the basics out of the way, like your names and where you're from, you should start to connect with the girl on a deeper level. This doesn't mean that you should ask her about her life philosophy or about the most meaningful experience of her childhood, but it does mean that you should move past the introductions. Here's how to do it:


Ask her some questions about herself. Don't interview her. Just ask about her siblings, about a movie she's seen, or what she thinks of her job. Let her see that you care about her opinions.
Open up. Make sure that you're both talking about the same amount. You don't want to put pressure on her by asking a lot of questions without revealing anything about yourself, but you shouldn't hog the conversation either.
Tease her. Once you build a good rapport, start to playfully make fun of her a little bit. If she's wearing an obviously decorative chunky gold necklace, hold it and say, "Is that real gold?"
Compliment her. Don't tell her she's the most beautiful woman you've ever seen. Just tell her she has an amazing laugh, or that her eyes are striking. Don't go overboard! Make sure to stay cool.
 Once you've moved past the introductions and have charmed her initially, it's time to get her to like you enough to want to spend time with her again. She doesn't have to think that you're the man she's been waiting for all her life; all she has to think is, "Hey, this guy is cool. I want more of this." Here's how to get her to want to see you again:


Build witty banter. Show her that you like to tease her, have her tease you, and keep up your end of a sharp conversation. If she says something funny, answer back with a funny quip instead of just laughing and saying, "That's funny." This will show her that you can keep up with her if you hang out again.
Reveal something a little more personal. Don't get so personal that you make her uncomfortable, but tell her something that makes her heart melt just a little bit and see that you're not just all about the jokes, but that you really do have a softer side.
Have her open up to you. Lean in a little closer, and encourage her to tell you something about herself that she doesn't tell just anyone. Start building a strong connection.
Bring up something from earlier in the conversation. Women love this if you do it correctly. If something from the beginning from your conversation comes up again, you can impress her by showing that you remember everything she says.
 Don't wait for things to lag, or you'll lose. Just when you're having the most fun talking to the girl, or when you're laughing the hardest, is exactly when you should ask. When you reach the point where you think, "I'm having such a great time talking to this girl that I don't even want to interrupt it by asking for her phone number," you should ask immediately. Here are the two best ways to do this:Ask her out. Instead of asking for her phone number, ask her out on a date. In the middle of a great conversation, just say, "I have to go, but I really want to keep up this conversation over dinner or drinks next week. Would you like that?" If she says she would like it — and at this point, she should — then you should ask for her number to coordinate.
Ask for her number directly. Just when the conversation is going as well as it can, say, "Hey, I really like talking to you. Can I get your number so we can keep talking?" Make it clear that you're asking for her number because you want to hang out again, not because you want to send her creepy texts or because you get a rush from getting girls' phone numbers.
React appropriately. Don't cheer and pump your fist in the air and say, "Yes!" when she gives you her number. Just say, "awesome, thanks," and tell her you'll call her soon. Then say goodbye and walk off with your head held high. And if she says no, shrug it off and say it's not a problem — it was great to meet her anyway.

