 Get planting trays from a local gardening center and fill them with sterile gardening soil. Use soil that is advertised as a seed starting mix for the best results.
 Create rows in your soil for seeds to be dropped in. Each seed should be planted two inches away from the next nearest seed. Lightly cover each planted seed with a bit of soil pinched together over the top, and follow with a bit of gentle watering.


If you are planting more than one variety of seeds, plant each type in its own individual row and label each row. When the plants begin to sprout, it will be very difficult to tell them apart otherwise.
 In order to germinate, the seeds need a source of light and heat. Place them in a large south facing window or use a heat or fluorescent lamp placed a few inches above them. The seeds will need at least 6-8 hours of light and warmth per day prior to sprouting.


You can also place a heating mat under the tray to heat up your soil, which will increase the germination rate.
 Water your tray of seeds daily, making sure that they get adequate light and heat. Keep them in an area that doesn’t drop below 70 degrees at the coldest point. When the seeds have sprouted and formed true leaves, they are ready to be picked out. The seeds will sprout baby leaves after about a week, but won’t form true leaves until about a month after germinating.
 Transplant each seedling into its own container in order to give it the space it needs to develop fully. Use a fork to scoop out the soil under each seedling, and gently pull them from the seed tray using your fingertips.
 Place each seedling into its own individual quart size container of potting soil. The separated plants will still need about 8 hours of heat and sunlight on a daily basis in addition to daily waterings.
 After about two months, your tomato seedlings should reach maturity and look like small, fully formed plants. Before these plants can be moved to your garden, they need to be hardened off - made used to the weather outdoors. Start by placing your plants outside in sunlight for 2-3 hours, and then bringing them back indoors. Continue this process by adding more time each day, until they are left outside for an entire day by the end of a week.
 When your plants are hardened off and ready to be planted outdoors, prepare them to be introduced to your garden. Plants that are over 6 inches (15.2 cm) tall need to be trimmed down. Use gardening shears to cut off the lowest level of branches around the plant. If your plants are smaller than 6 inches (15.2 cm) high, then they are ready to go and don’t require any further maintenance.However, you can also cut off the lowest branches on small plants, which allows for deeper planting and promotes a stronger root system.

