 Laptops are typically much more restrictive than desktops when it comes to upgrading RAM. There are usually stricter limitations on the amount you can install, and most laptops only have one or two slots for memory. You can usually find the types of memory supported in the documentation or on the manufacturer's support site.


Laptops use SODIMM modules, which are smaller than standard desktop memory.
RAM is measured by two different numbers: the PC/PC2/PC3 number and the MHz speed. The PC number (ex. PC3 10600) refers to the maximum "bandwidth", or maximum amount of data that can be transferred at once (e.g. 10600 = 10.6 GB maximum bandwidth). The clock speed of the RAM, which is a measure of how quickly the RAM can perform functions, is signified by the number after the DDR specification (e.g. DDR3 1333 = 1333 MHz).
 This includes the power adapter, USB devices, and any other devices.
 This may be marked by a small image depicting RAM modules, or you may need to refer to your laptop's documentation.


Not all laptops allow you to access and upgrade the RAM.
 Chances are that with the limited space you'll be replacing your original RAM modules. Release the latch on the side of the socket and the module will pop up at a slight angle. Raise the module to about a 45° angle and the pull it directly out of the socket.
 Make sure that you only touch the RAM along the side edges so that you don't get oils on the contacts or circuitry.
 Line the new module up with the notch in the RAM socket. Press it in firmly and then press the RAM down into the bay so that it is flat. The latch will snap into place.


Unlike desktop RAM, most SODIMMs do not need to be installed as matching pairs. They will need to have matching speeds, however.
 If your laptop boots normally, chances are everything went fine. You can check that your operating system is recognizing your RAM by opening the system properties window:


Windows - Press ⊞ Win+Pause


, If your laptop doesn't boot after you install your RAM, you encounter errors, or experience any other problems, click here.
 There are a lot of housekeeping tasks you can perform on your computer that can significantly increase performance without spending a dime. Click here for detailed instructions.

