 Unemployment benefits are cash benefits to eligible workers made possible through a joint program between state and federal governments.Generally speaking, the unemployment insurance program provides you with temporary financial assistance if you became unemployed through no fault of your own.For example, if you were fired because you violated your employer's attendance policy by coming into work an hour late three days in a row, you would not be eligible for unemployment benefits.
The federal government provides minimum guidelines for unemployment insurance benefits. However, each state may set additional eligibility requirements and amounts of benefits available, as well as how long you may continue to receive benefits and what you must do to remain eligible., You should contact the appropriate office in your state as soon as possible after you lose your job.


Find out if you must apply in person or if you can apply online, through the mail, or over the phone.
You also should find out the specific requirements for eligibility in your state and what documents you will need to prove your eligibility., Before you go to apply for unemployment benefits, make sure you have all documents and other information you will need to fill out the application.


You must have proof of where you worked and how much money you made, as well as the reason you lost your job. Generally you must be able to prove that you lost your job through no fault of your own. Your employer typically will provide you a form indicating that you are eligible for unemployment benefits.You will be asked for certain information, such as the dates you were employed and the address and phone number of your former employer. If you don't know this information off the top of your head, you should find it out and write it down before you start filling out your application., Once you have all the documents and information you will need to complete your application, you're ready to fill out your application and file your claim for unemployment benefits.


Answer all questions on the application as completely and accurately as possible. The information on your application will be used to determine how much money you will receive, and for how long., Generally, you will have to wait two to three weeks to receive your first check for unemployment benefits. Some states also have imposed a minimum one-week waiting period.