;
, Pull off the negative battery cable. This is a safety precaution since you will be doing electrical work.
 Do not attempt to place neon lights near brake lines, fuel lines, electrical lines, hot areas, moving parts, or areas where a lift jack may be used to raise the vehicle.
 Go under the vehicle, and do a test fitting with the neon tubes. Reference the kit diagrams for optimal placement.
 Sometimes visible tubes are against the law.
 Mount the small plastic or metal brackets, which are included in the kit, onto the tubes. Lift the tubes back onto the chassis, and carefully mark the position where you will be drilling holes. Center-punch each hole to get a head start on your drilling.
 Apply a small amount of silicone sealant to the holes before placing the screws into them. This can help to prevent rust.
 Hold each bracket in place, and screw them in until they barely hold the brackets. You will finish securing the screws later. Position all the wires that come from the side tubes so that they face toward the front of the vehicle.
, Oftentimes the transformer is located near the battery. You will need to drill mounting holes, so be absolutely certain that you will not damage anything under the area you will be drilling. The kit you purchased will have detailed instructions on how to mount the transformer.
 You will probably use solder, silicone sealant, and shrink-wrap tubing.


If the instructions call for cutting and/or joining of wires, strip back the wires you will be joining about .25 inch (0.6 cm), slip shrink-wrap tubing over 1 end of each wire, solder the stripped ends of the wires together with a soldering gun, add a small dab of silicone sealant to the soldered area, and slide the shrink-wrap tubing over the entire wire. Use a heat gun to make the shrink-wrap tubing form a watertight seal over the joined wires.
 You must attach an in-line fuse no more than 18 inches (45.7 cm) away from the battery. Connect the transformer's earth wire, which is also called the negative ground wire, by screwing it into the vehicle chassis to complete the power circuit.
 Run the wiring for the switch through a grommet in the firewall that goes into the engine compartment so that it can be connected to the battery. Make sure the switch and fuse are connected between the transformer and battery and not to the side of either.
,