 Symptoms include a dim screen, lackluster backlight, poor sound, and the watch randomly resetting itself.;
, Note it will be many times more expensive at a store. You will need a CR2032 battery. You can find a five pack on eBay for $1. Usually cheap ones have a lot of life.


, Find a good clean surface to work on. Wash your hands as best you can. You don't want to get any dirt and especially any oil into your watch, as it can rust it slowly over time. Clean your pointy object.
 Small watch threads are easy to strip, so be as careful as possible while still using the necessary force.
 Set aside the screws and be sure not to lose them. Be careful not to get grease or dirt on the inside of the caseback.
 If you do not, make sure that your hands are clean. When you have the case back off, do not rotate the watch so it is vertical or flipped over. You will usually lose the small gold springs on the inside of the watch which are key for many of its functions. Once they are lost they are very hard to reattach.
 It is attached fairly well though, so don't worry very much. There is an indentation, usually with black plastic on the inside of it around the battery.


The plastic should not be covering it. Slide your small flat screwdriver or pointy object into it and pry the battery out. Don't worry about damaging the battery, but try not to do it quickly and damage the electronics below the battery.
, Try not to dirty it. If you have a voltmeter, check its voltage. New ones should be between 3 and 3.3 volts. Otherwise, proceed. Slide the battery under the plastic and into its slot. Be sure to insert it with the side stating its battery type and voltage up, look how the old one was.
 Do not put it vertical or flip it over. If it isn't, make sure the battery is properly snapped into place.
 Greasing the gasket will help ensure your watch remains waterproof and will keep the gasket in good shape, so it won't need to be replaced.
 Be sure not to tear it. Do not use motor grease, axle grease or anything else that isn't designed for gaskets.
 Be sure it is in the right way.
 Be sure it is aligned properly, as it is easy to mess up. Start screwing the screws in, and don't tighten them down if the case looks off. Try to put them down firmly, but not extremely hard. If you tighten them as hard as you can, you will probably strip them.

