 To tie their hands, pull them behind their back and wrap the rope relatively firmly around both of them, which will keep them tightly together. Cinch the rope between their wrists to ensure that they can't wiggle their hands free. Make sure that the rope sits right below their thumb joint, with the knot well out of reach of their fingers and try to finish your rope work with the knots as far away from their fingers as possible. Always ensure that their palms are facing each other, as this makes it extremely difficult for them to get to the knots as well.


If you are tying them to a chair, each wrist can be tied and secured separately with one wrist tied to one arm of the chair and the other wrist to the other arm of the chair as well, as this makes it quite difficult for them to try to get free - especially when the rope is cinched. Be careful, though, that it doesn't cut off circulation. Feet should always be tied above the ankle, either firmly together or if they are being tied to a chair, tie each ankle separately to each of the chair legs. Ensure that the rope securing their ankles is also cinched either between their ankles or between the ankle and the chair leg, depending on how you've tied them up. If you want to make sure your victim cannot move their feet or squirm very much, use another length of rope to tie them securely underneath the chair. It's important to remember though, that this can become quite uncomfortable after a while. If their ankles have been tied together, you can also tie another length of rope around their knees to keep them together.;
,, This will help prevent them from trying to get up, squirming too much and trying to escape. While this rope can be cinched between the chair and the victim's back, it should not be cinched too tightly as it can become very uncomfortable. This rope will place additional pressure on your victim's abdomen and bladder, especially if they have had a lot to drink and have not been allowed to use the bathroom before being tied up. (the body continually feeds liquid into the bladder, so even if a person hasn't had much to drink, they will still need to use the bathroom after being kept tied up for a few hours).


After a while, you may want to consider freeing them for a bit so they can relieve themselves - however, you will need to keep a sharp eye on them to ensure that they don't try to get away during this time! In most cases though, a person who has been tied up for more than a few hours and needs to relieve themselves will normally start to squirm their abdominal areas and wiggle their legs up and down or side to side - depending on how they have been tied up. If their legs have been tied separately though, they will usually be trying to squeeze their thighs together. If they are constantly wiggling their legs and squirming, there is a good chance that they are pretty desperate to get to the bathroom - by this time, they will usually not be able to keep holding for longer than a few minutes at the most.
 If you struggle to do so, then the rope is likely too tight. It's always good to ensure that knots do not pull too tight, as this will restrict blood flow, and cause nerve damage if left tied for too long - not to mention be extremely uncomfortable for the person who has been bound.
 One of the best ways to keep your victim immobile if no chair or pole is available is to roll them on to their stomach and bring their bound ankles up towards their bound wrists. Join these two bound areas together with another length of rope, effectively placing them in a hogtie. He or she will not be able to squirm much or move anywhere in this position. Be aware though, that this position can impede breathing, and you should never leave your victim in it unsupervised. If you are tying him or her to a pole, ensure that the hands are tied quite well above the head so they cannot reach the knots binding them.If you intend gagging your captive, this can be done either with a piece of tape, a bandana or even (clean) socks.
 If it is a chair that you can weave rope through than you can tie their abdomen using that. You could similarly tie their upper arms to the chair using that method. If it is a tall chair and you didn't want them to look around than you could tie their head back but again this could only really be done with a chair you can weave rope through.