 You cannot force them to love and accept you. While you may have an ideal of what you want your parent-child relationship to be, your parents' behaviors are not likely to change overnight. Learn to let go of what you cannot control.Focus on accepting and loving yourself. Focus on what you can do to better. While this may not change your parents, it will help you to find strength in yourself.
Believe in yourself.
 If you feel like your parents are not able to understand who you are, reach out to other family members such as aunts, uncles, or grandparents. Consider finding other adults in your neighborhood or through your school. Find ways to talk with them openly and honestly about yourself and what you're feeling. Through the support of other adults and family, you may find healthier ways to deal with your parents. Consider asking them for advice about how to handle feeling unappreciated. Consider having them talk with your parents directly.
If your parents appear to be unresponsive to your needs, ask to spend more time with family or other adults that appreciate, love, and respect you.
 Sometimes you may feel like opening up to your family or others around you is too difficult, and talking to a counselor may help you to overcome your anger, anxiety, sadness, or fear related to your parents. Counselors can help to identify what needs are not being met, and help you find ways to heal.


Consider talking with a school counselor or asking your school about counseling resources in your area.
Discuss with a counselor about family counseling options so that you can get your parents involved in this process. Family therapy could include one or more of your parents in a counseling session. These types of session focus on how to communicate more effectively.
 You can only do what feels right to you. If your parents are pressuring you to do something that you disagree with, consider if they are looking out for you, or simply have their own interests at heart.


For example, let's say your parents think that if you're a girl, then you need to wear dresses and look pretty when out in public or with your parents' friends. You may prefer to wear jeans and a t-shirt. Explain to them that you dress in a way that feels right and comfortable for you, and that you wish them to respect that.
Be true to who you are. And know that you're not alone.

