 If you find it hard to schedule an entire hour at one time, break the hour up into smaller increments. Try instead to set aside a half an hour or fifteen minutes multiple times a day. This will still help you find time to learn every day without having to carve large chunks out of your day at once.


You can either keep the same subject over these smaller increments or choose different topics at each. This will keep you interested and make you want to take the learning breaks.For example, you take 10 minutes in the morning to read about a topic. At lunch, you may read 10 more minutes about the topic, then check out an interactive website for 20 minutes after work and then watch 20 minutes of a documentary after dinner.
 A good way to make sure you include your learning time into your routine every day is to include your loved ones. If you have kids and a spouse, find something that you can learn as a family. If you have a significant other or roommate, include them in some of your learning time when he or she are around for it.


For example, you and your children may watch a documentary on giraffes on the Discovery Channel. During commercials and after the program, you can discuss what you learned.
Discuss what you have read with your spouse or friends. Tell them interesting facts or share with them stories about historical figures you have learned.
This has the added bonus of getting your loved ones to set aside time for learning every day as well.
 A way to keep your learning interesting is to turn it into a game. Make yourself flashcards of facts you want to learn. Create trivia cards for things you have been learning and get a friend, family member, or significant other to read them to you.You can even create a Jeopardy! style game for you and your family and play together.


For example, you can use flashcards to learn world capitals, the names of composers and authors, or even facts from history and mythology. Keep score with yourself and see if you can beat your previous day's score. Compete against your friends and family to see who gets the highest score.
This will also have the added bonus of testing your knowledge of what you’ve been learning and helping you remember what you’ve learned longer.
 As time progresses and you learn more, you can give yourself small rewards for reaching a goal or completing a task or activity you learned. These should be small, helpful rewards that are meaningful for you.For example, you can take yourself out to lunch at your favorite restaurant, buy yourself a latte during a coffee break, or buy yourself the new book you’ve been wanting.

