 It’s obvious to any employer that if you’re working a side business, you’re a self-starter. So simply by founding your side business, you will appear more attractive to employers.You can prove just how driven you truly are by making your side business successful. Grow your side business by adding employees, increasing revenues, placing advertisements, and securing grants.
This experience will help you when you decide to switch to a better-paying job or seek a raise.;
, If your main employer sees your side business as a distraction from your main career, redouble your efforts in your main career and limit conversation regarding the side business. If possible, find another employer who correctly perceives that your side business indicates that you are possessed of dynamism and creativity., If you have a side business – especially a side business that you could scale – you will be less tied down by your main career. This allows you to take bigger risks in your main career that could pay off down the line.For instance, if you did not have a side business, you might feel disinclined to propose a daring idea at work, or to offer criticism of a certain individual or company policy.
But if you have a side business, you should feel that you have more leeway at work. As the proud proprietor of a side business, you will then be able to free yourself of the strictures that previously limited your ability to express yourself or “think outside the box.”

, Being less tied to your main career might also mean that your risks lead to recklessness. Second-guess yourself and run your plans and projects by others if you think that your side business is starting to undermine your ability to make rational decisions in your main career.Ask a superior or coworker, “What do you think I need to work on?” or “Do you mind looking over this project? I’m interested in hearing your thoughts on what I’m doing.”

, The newfound freedom you have in your main career, coupled with the financial rewards that come from running a side business, will boost your confidence. The confidence boost you gain by running a side business can help you handle criticism well and work without constant praise. Employers appreciate these qualities. A confident attitude, therefore, can help you advance your main career.Plus, with increased confidence, you might feel more willing to apply for a promotion or change jobs to advance your career.
To operate with greater confidence in your main career, remind yourself regularly how great your side business is.
Reflect on how, despite the sacrifices of time and energy it requires, your role as leader of your side business energizes you and gives you greater confidence in yourself.

