 The first patrol you unlock is patrol the Cosmodrome which is on Earth. By doing patrol, you can pick up missions. This missions are set on beacons. To identify a beacon, they will flash green. In order to locate one, pull out your Ghost and it will navigate beacons in your area. To identify this one, when you pull out your Ghost, there will be a gray mark with numbers next to it. That is where you would want to head for a mission. The numbers indicate how far away you are from that specific beacon.;
, The campaign in Destiny is quite entertaining and enjoyable. But also a good way of leveling up. You can do a story mission more than once. However many times you want. The first story you unlock is A Guardian Rises on Earth. The second one you unlock is Restoration. You can do these missions over and over killing enemies for the XP. XP is what you are aiming for. Also remember that meleeing enemies gives you extra XP rather than shooting or throwing grenades at your target.
 Upgrades on your weapons and gear give you a great amount of XP. They give a couple of XP, depending on how many upgrades you have of course. But not just that, you can also gain XP from upgrading subclasses.
 Bounties are one of the greatest ways of actually leveling up.You can choose between two sections of bounties: Vanguard or Crucible, depending on what level you are to reach Crucible. But for starters, stick to Vanguard bounties. Bounties objectives you have to complete. All bounties come in different tasks. By completing these Vanguard bounties the don't just give you XP to level up. But also reputation towards your Vanguard. That is also great for leveling up too. You can get bounties from the bounty tracker.
 Strikes are a better way of trying to level up than doing stories. Simply because strikes are much longer and have more effect. The first strike you unlock is the devils lair. Your target is the Sepiks Prime. There is always a boss to face in a strike, and you kill enemies along the way . Better and stronger enemies possibly. In the Devil Lair strike, at the beginning when you enter the terrestrial complex and go further on, then you will encounter great enemies to kill and will give you the XP you deserve. Remember, you can always do a strike more than once too. Just make sure you have at least three people on your fireteam; if not, then the game will search a fireteam available.
 Crucible is competitive multiplayer in Destiny. Once you start getting settled and welled enough into the game then you should start getting used to doing Crucible. Crucible will earn you XP and even weapons and gear. Crucible can be very effective to your Guardian.
 This is when a mission at random is selected and chosen as the daily heroic mission. The mission will apparently have the heroic modifier activated. When the heroic modifier is active, enemies will appear in greater numbers and are more aggressive according to Bungie.

