 Are they acting as if they can't hear you when you ask them a question? Or do they ignore your remarks and comments? Or maybe disagree with everything you say? The ongoing lack of engaging with you is a sign of distancing from you.;
, Do they act weirdly when you come around, such as they all stop talking when you show up near them? Or, maybe they constantly whisper while you are around. They may also keep hugging each other in your presence but don't hug you.


Do they go in a corner without you and talk for some time which you guess is about you and then they try to avoid you? Or do they whisper to each other , then walk away?







, Do they sign off when you get on the internet? Or go offline on Messenger or WhatsApp when they see you online? These sudden disappearances signal a desire to be away from you.
 If they previously did it all the time, then you can be sure they're no longer wanting to talk to you.
 When communicating with them, have they stopped sharing personal information about themselves and started speaking about less personal and more superficial things? Do you hear silent pauses in the conversation where something should actually be said, like giving constructive criticism or some type of emotional support or agreeing or disagreeing with you? Friends share secrets with each other and give constructive criticism or support, but if they don't, they're trying to ditch you.
 If the "leader" hates you or says something about you, does the rest of the group think just the very same thing? If you know the leader hates you, it may be a possibility that the others think so too.
 Do they say they will meet you somewhere, then fail to show up? They may then follow this up with making an excuse like: "I had chores". Did they stop calling and texting you lately?

, Have you asked them to come over and they always seem to always be busy? Do they always make excuses? The constant busyness and excuses are a form of keeping you at arm's length.
 If they are making excuses not to hang out with you, then they may be trying to ditch you. Or, maybe they exclude you from group outings, or fail to invite you to parties.
 They may be having a lot of parties without you, whereas before you would be invited to all parties. This shows they're tired of you.


If you have a group, is everyone together always and excluding you in group meetings or outings?







, Do they continuously go the other way when you come toward them? Or, do they turn away or ignore you? These are serious signs they are trying to ditch you.
 Friends grow apart after some time. We are taught that friendships are rock solid, most flow on their own, even though it's not your mistake. Yet, this just isn't the case. There are many reasons why some people choose to let go of a friendship and few of those reasons are something you could change their minds about.
 If your so-called friends have been doing some or all of the above discussed behaviors, then they're not your real friends. They're trying to ditch you. Go ditch them and make friends with others.
 The first thing to do if they do ditch you is to figure out whether you were obnoxious enough to deserve the behavior or whether they are being unfair. Sometimes we drive people away by trying to prove too many things, becoming suffocating or being rude. Other times, people are just mean-spirited. Or, maybe you were a boring person or maybe had a fight with them. Figure out what went wrong so that you won't repeat any contributory errors from your side of things.
 Getting a new friend is the first step on getting life back on track. Don't rush things, give it time and it will sort out in the long run.

