 Avoid shaving every day or every other day, and try to work in a skip day in which you don’t shave on a day you would normally. Your skin needs a couple days to recover from the shaving process. Whether it’s removing facial or body hair that causes your skin irritation, give your skin a break when possible and use moisturizing and exfoliating products in between shaves.Do your best not to shave skin that’s already irritated: more shaving will make razor burn worse.If you are required to be clean shaven or your hair grows too fast for you to comfortably go without shaving for more than a day, consider using an electric razor, which is easier on your skin. Make sure any electric razor has new, well-oiled blades for the least irritation. , Shaving during or after a shower is preferable, but if you’re not showering, wash your skin with warm water and a mild cleanser before shaving. Use a clean, sharp razor and a shaving cream or gel to lubricate your skin. Try not to shave using only a razor, soap, and water.Don’t overuse dull razors, and wash your razor with soap and hot water after using it. Change blades or throw away disposable razors after 5 to 7 shaves to help minimize irritation.
Shave in the direction that the hair grows, whether you’re removing facial or body hair.
Rinse your razor out with warm water every few strokes. This will help keep hair from becoming caught between the blades, keeping it sharper and cleaner.
After shaving, use a moisturizing lotion or balm, and if you’ve removed body hair, wear loose fitting clothing made of a natural fiber, like cotton.
 Consider using a cleansing product that will exfoliate your skin, or provide gentle abrasion to remove surface dirt and buildup. You can easily exfoliate using baking soda by adding it to your face wash or shaving cream, or rubbing your skin with it before shaving.Exfoliating before shaving will raise individual hairs from your skin, making shaving easier and preventing future irritation or ingrown hairs.An after-shave moisturizing lotion or balm will help soothe your skin, and using an oil-free daily moisturizer will help it recover from the shaving process., If you routinely suffer from shaving rash and it doesn’t respond to home treatments, consider seeing your doctor or dermatologist. They can assess your symptoms, and if necessary, offer antibiotic, retinoid, or cortisone medications available only by prescription.