 They should bring personal belongings, a change of clothes, and the decorations for the venue, if they are not already there.;
,, You can use a Word Document or a Google Doc, or even a typed and printed document, as long as you make sure that every member of your team has the breakdown along with a checklist. By doing this, everyone will be on the same page and know what needs to be done. Make sure everyone is completing his or her task and everything is being done at the right time. If anything is off schedule, it will throw off your day and may make your show start later than the correct time. This meeting should take no longer than thirty minutes to discuss.
 Have each executive member be in charge of these groups to let them know what needs to be done.
 Thirty to forty minutes after the models have arrived and put their stuff backstage, have them practice on the runway stage for an hour, doing the full rundown of the show with music and lights.
 All decorations should be displayed and worked on before the show begins. Make sure your volunteers are working at a good pace to get things done at least two hours before people start arriving. The decorations should go with the theme of your event.
 This way, the make up and hair artists can set up their stations while the models are practicing.
 Group A should get their hair and make up done while group B gets their hair done. After two hours, both groups should switch. Make sure all of the models have gone through the hair and make up process after the two hours.
 Allow designers to set up at their stations for their scene(s). Designers should arrive on time with all of their garments, props and music (if the DJ doesn’t already have it). Designers should talk with the light technician if they want any special lighting for their scenes as well.
 This break should be no more than an hour. After their break, have volunteers finish any last minute work.
, By this time, you and your executive team should be ready to let people into your venue. Have your volunteers settled in their required spots and allow people to come in the show. By this time, some of your executive members should be ready to get back to work and in their required spots as well.
 If everything backstage is organized, situated, and everyone is ready to start the show, then you are ready to begin.
 Make sure there is an executive board member with the DJ, light technician, and a couple of members backstage helping with models and designers.
 Some shows allow performances, videos, etc. as their opening act.
 After every scene let the models walk back out all together by walking around the perimeter of the stage clapping their hands. The designer should be behind them and take a bow once they get to the center of the stage.
 Intermission should be no longer than fifteen minutes. Intermission allows models to have time to change for any other scene they may be in. Your intermission can consist of a mini contest or a musical selection either by a performer or your DJ.
 Make sure the audience go back to their chairs and let them know the show will continue.
, Once the show is completed, the executive team should come out and thank the audience, volunteers, models, and designers.

