 Your cell phone provider should be committed to keeping your cell phone safe from unwanted calls.Your provider may be able to offer you a means of blocking the calls, for a fee. Depending on your provider, this block feature may fall under the header of Parental Controls.
AT&T has a feature called Smart Controls and charges $5/month for the service.
Verizon has a free call block service that can block five callers at a time. They also offer a $5/month option called Usage Controls with more features.
T-Mobile does not have an official call block feature but you can call 611 and ask customer service to block a particular number.
Sprint offers its users a manage blocked calls option from their My Sprint account settings.
 If the spam calls turn aggressive or harassing, consider contacting the FCC about the number. Under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the FCC has established rules that address unsolicited telephone marketing calls. These rules include:Anyone making a telephone solicitation call to your home must provide his or her name, the name of the person or entity on whose behalf the call is being made, and a telephone number or address at which that person or entity can be contacted.
Telephone solicitation calls to your home are prohibited before 8 am or after 9 pm.
Telemarketers must comply immediately with any do-not-call request you make during a solicitation call.
In 2003, the FCC worked with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to establish the national "Do-Not-Call" service.
 This free service is provided by the Federal Trade Commission. You can register landlines, cell phones and handsets.


You can register for this service on the phone or online. You'll need a valid email address for confirmation when registering online.
Read How to add your name on the national Do Not Call Registry for more details.
If you have already registered, and a company is violating the "Do Not Call" rules by texting you or calling, you can file a complaint.
You will have to prove that the company had no relationship with you before, and that you are either getting pre-recorded calls, paid text messages or calls after 9 PM. All cases filed will be taken seriously by the FTC, and the company calling phones without authorization will be held accountable for their actions.Ensure you make a note of the call time of the spammer and the phone number of the spammer to get your complaint registered.

