 You will need to prepare yourself differently if you want to teach meditation at a master level than you would if you only plan on teaching meditation to a room of beginners. Additionally, while most meditation students are adults, some teachers are now expanding their practice to children. Children require a less structured, less formal type of meditation that focuses primarily on relaxation techniques.;
, If there is a certain style you already practice and feel dedicated to, that is likely the best option. If you are not presently dedicated to one style of meditation, however, you should consider practicing a few different types to determine which appeals most to you. There are many types available, but some are more common or easier to teach than others.Transcendental meditation (TM) relies on the use of mantras to achieve a state of "transcendental consciousness," or a settled mind.
Guided visualization is the practice of guiding the mind through a series of images to achieve a balanced state of mind and is especially useful in overcoming stress or fears. It is also one of the easier types of meditation to teach since teachers can guide students through these visualizations.
Zen meditation is the practice of focused seated meditation in order to practice one's connection with the true nature of reality, or emptiness. A great deal of emphasis is placed on posture and technique.
Osho meditation begins with physical activity, like a nature walk, and concludes in silent time.
Taoist meditation relies on quiet stillness and concentration. One usually focuses on breathing techniques in order to achieve a better sense of concentration.
 Before you can become a teacher of meditation, you must first be a student of it. Regularly attend meditation classes of your chosen discipline with a certified meditation teacher. Taking classes with a meditation master is one of the best ways to learn a meditation technique thoroughly, and you will also be able to see, first hand, how a meditation master teaches students. Continue your classes for as long as necessary until you are able to master the discipline without assistance, even if it takes you several months or years.
 Your own mediation teacher is a good person to start with, but you should talk with others about their own experiences teaching meditation. A good way to go about it is by connecting with meditation experts through online forums and blogs, but you can also contact meditation masters in your area and talk with them in person about their experiences as long as you make it clear to them that you will not be hiring them for their services.


Work at establishing long-term relationships with as many meditation teachers as possible. If you build a relationship, you can continually go back to the more experienced teacher for advice and guidance. This also allows you to network with other meditation masters, which makes it easier to stay up-to-date about various practices and ideas.
 Find a legitimate, professional certification program for your chosen meditation style. Both online and in person programs exist, and they can range in both expense and time. Classes can last for several weeks to several years. For best results, look for a program that is, itself, certified or backed by a professional organization, such as the International Meditation Teachers Associationor the American Institute of Health Care Professionals.


Consider applying for membership with one of these meditation associations after completing your certification. Doing so will allow you to network with other meditation teachers and will also make it easier for students to find you.
 The space you need will largely depend on whether you plan on teaching individual students or classes. For individual students, you can set up a space in your home or meet them in theirs. For classes, you will probably need to rent a building or a room large enough to accommodate a 10 to 15 people.
 Some forms of meditation require little more than a mat to sit on, but others require more. Visualization meditation, for instance, can occasionally benefit from the use of guided visualizations on CD, even though these are not always necessary. Materials you can use to create a fitting ambiance, like candles or calming music, can also be beneficial to have.
 These are the basic tools used to advertise any business. The business card should state your name and contact information as well as the type of meditation you teach, your level of certification, and your website address.
 Tell your family, friends, neighbors, and acquaintances about your new meditation classes. They may not be interested, but they might know someone who would be.
 Newspaper ads and digital ads on Internet classifieds can reach a large number of people, but for a more focused advertisement campaign, post ads in mediation newsletters, at New Age stores, or on meditation message boards online.
 This is especially important if you teach meditation on an individual basis. You may have the time to meet with 15 students a day, but that doesn’t mean you should, at least not right away. Start with a small, manageable number of students to get an accurate idea of the demands of teaching. If you get stressed, it make you less balanced and less able to demonstrate to your students the proper way to be balanced.
 A good student never stops learning, and you need to be a good student in order to be a good teacher. Keep yourself updated on the latest news, research, and techniques regarding meditation. Continue to meet with your own meditation teacher or to expand your knowledge of meditation to other techniques.

