 Admit it--sometimes you just don't want to be seen. Even on your worst days, try to make yourself exist. If he acts like he doesn't notice you, he probably doesn't. Go to places he'll be. Put yourself in the center of attention. Make him know that you're alive.;
, It's probably the most clichéd move in the book, but it actually works! Smiling can make you seem more approachable, and also more happy and fun to be around.
 If he's shy, chances are he won't come to you first. Bring some of your friends to make the situation more comfortable, and sit by him.
 Start a conversation with him the same way you would with another friend. Say hello. Introduce yourself, if he doesn't already know who you are. Ask him how his day is going. Talk, talk, talk.
 If you just throw yourself at him and drag him into a conversation he doesn't really want to be a part of, he'll get creeped out and most likely leave. Be calm. Stay relaxed, and don't be loud. Anyone who is shy most likely enjoys things being quiet.
 If the conversation is still going well, dig deeper. Ask him what kind of music he listens to. Ask him who his friends are. Letting him know that you're interested in knowing the real him and not just to find out if he's single or not will definitely help him open up.
 Make small jokes to show him that you're comfortable around him, so he should be comfortable around you, too. Talk about annoying teachers or classmates. Point out something funny that's happening on the other side of the room. If he laughs, you've succeeded.
 If you leaving him hanging by saying, "Well gotta go bye", he'll feel used and probably suspicious. Chances are he won't talk to you again. Instead, slowly build up to an end to the conversation. Say something like, "My friend looks tired. They're supposed to be studying. I'd better go wake them up before the test so they won't fail." When leaving, smile and let him know that you want to talk to him again. Giving him your number is a drastic move, especially for a first conversation, but if you feel it went well, go for it!

