 It’s the highest peak on the land of Skyrim. From the city of Whiterun, head southeast just a couple of miles and you’ll see a snowy peak mountain on the horizon. This is the Throat of the World. Make your way to its foot and you’ll a find a series of old dilapidated stone stairwell called the Seven Thousand Steps.;
, This is the monastery of the order of Greybeards, masters of the Thu'um, or “the Voice.” It lies on the upper regions of the Throat of the World. To get to High Rothgar, simply follow the Seven Thousand Steps staircase until you get to the top, where you’ll find a large stone building.
 Arngeir is the highest priest in the Greybeard order. He wears a dark gray hooded robe. Enter High Hrothgar and talk to Arngeir about how to defeat Alduin, and he will eventually speak and teach you a dragon shout called Clear Skies, which clears rough weather of a large area.
 Arngeir will tell you that if you wish to find out how to defeat Alduin, you need to talk to a dragon, called Paarthurnax, residing at the top of the Throat of the World. Head outside High Hrothgar through the door Arngeir will point you to.
 Once you step outside, you’ll find that a very strong wind is blowing, and you’ll have a very hard time to walk. Open your in-game menu and select “Magic.” Choose “Shouts” from the menu panel on the right-hand side of the game screen, and select “Clear Skies” to calm the weather and make it easier for you to walk.
 Once the wind has calmed down, follow the path you see on the area, which leads to the top of the peak. At the top of the Throat of the World you’ll see a dragon sitting on top of a large, broken stone wall. This is Paarthurnax.


If the wind becomes strong again as you climb up, just use the Clear Skies shout to calm it down once more.
 Approach the dragon and talk to him. Paarthurnax will tell you the story of who Alduin is and how he was defeated through the use of an item called the Elder Scrolls many centuries ago. After that, he will speak and teach you the Dragonrend, a shout capable of bringing down airborne dragons.
 After you learn the Dragonrend, Paarthurnax will talk a little more about the Elder Scrolls but then tell you that he doesn’t know its whereabouts. Instead, he advises you to talk to Arngeir or Esbern, which concludes the mission.

