 The best way to give yourself a sexy butt is to build a sexy butt. This takes a lot of time. Once you start lifting, you won’t see a noticeable difference for 3 weeks. Other people won’t start to notice until 6 weeks into working out. There are many exercises that will help you tone your butt., Bridges can also be done with or without weight. Lay on your back with your knees bent. If you wish to add weight, have a partner place a bar across your hips. Lift your butt toward the ceiling and then slowly lower it back down. Donkey kicks are a basic exercise too. Find an open area and get on all fours. One leg at a time, lift your heel up toward the ceiling. Hold at the top for 3 seconds and then slowly bring your leg back down to match up to the other one. To make it harder, add some ankle weights.
 Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Keeping your back straight, bend your knees to a 90 degree angle. Rise back up. Performing them properly with weight on your shoulders is one of the best butt exercises. Explosive lunges require balance, coordination, and patience in order to get them right. Stand with your feet together and hands on your hips. Lunge forward with your right leg. As you come up from the lunge, jump, switching legs in midair, and landing a forward lunch with your left leg in the front.
 Doing core exercises will help cinch your waist. This gives the illusion of sexy curves. The smaller your waist, the sexier your butt will look.Planks are a great way to build up your core muscles. You can easily hit your glutes with this exercise at the same time. Start in a pushup position, on your hands and toes with straight arms. Hold this for as long as you can. Keep your back straight and core engaged the entire time. Squeeze your butt for an easy bonus.
Supermans are another great way to shrink your core while you grow your butt. Lay on your stomach on the floor, arms outstretched in front of you. Squeeze your core and butt to lift your arms, shoulders, and legs off the ground so that you’re balancing on your hips. Hold for 5 seconds and release.
 While cardio is known to help you lose weight, it is detrimental to any work that you’ve done to grow a sexy figure. It eats away at your muscle before fat. This will make you lose the curves that you’ve been working for. Stick to strength training. If you want to do some form of cardio, you can do circuits with intervals of body weight exercises., Volleyball, gymnastics, rollerblading, and basketball are all great sports to help tone your butt. They focus heavily on the glute muscles and they’ll help tone your core for better curves.
 This is another double benefit move. Focus on your posture as you walk. Keep your shoulders back, core engaged, and back straight. Doing this will naturally accentuate your butt. Walking like this will naturally tighten your core as well, helping you obtain a smaller waist.

