 Comedonal acne consists of small whiteheads and blackheads that are the result of oil and dead skin cells that clog pores. Inflammatory acne is a step beyond comedonal acne, where the blackheads and whiteheads gain an inflamed, red halo and also lead to red bumps and pimples.Comedonal acne is most commonly found on the chin, nose, and forehead.;
, Oral antibiotics work by reducing inflammation caused by bacteria that lives on your skin. Some antibiotics may not work if build up a resistance to them; in that case, your doctor will change your prescription.Common side effects of oral antibiotics include upset stomach and dizziness. A particularly concerning side effect of antibiotics for those with fair skin is increased sensitivity to sunlight., Benzoyl peroxide comes in the form of topical lotions, creams, and gels. It is effective at treating mild to moderate acne because it causes the outer layer of the epidermis to shed.


When applied on the skin, benzoyl peroxide breaks down into benzoic acid and oxygen that are toxic to the bacteria that cause acne.Apply the benzoyl peroxide to the affected areas with acne after washing your face with a gentle cleanser and warm water. It should typically be applied twice a day or as described by your dermatologist.Side effects include mild skin irritation, tingling, and dryness. The side effects are usually more severe if your skin is already dry.
 Products containing salicylic acid are especially helpful for comedonal acne and are available over-the-counter.It can unclog pores and help slow the shedding of cells.


Salicylic acid is most effective when used regularly, but make sure you read the directions so you don't over-use it and cause irritation.
 Retinoids, derived from vitamin A, are and effective acne therapy that have been used for over 30 years. Retinoid creams reduce blackheads and whiteheads by preventing hair follicles to become clogged with dead skin cells and sebum.Retinoids are available as topical acne treatments (ointments, lotions, creams) and may be associated with mild side effects that manifest in the form of skin irritation, mild skin flaking, and burning.
The different retinoid products include tretinoin (e.g. Avita and Retin-A), tazarotene (Tazorac and Avage), and adapalene (Differin).Apply your topical retinoid treatment as directed by your dermatologist. Typically, this means applying your retinoid three times a week in the evenings at first, then every evening when your skin gets used to it.If you have sensitive skin or a sunburn, as fair-skinned people are prone to developing, then you are more likely to experience side effects. Consult your doctor if you experience side effects.
 Retinoids and antibiotics may be used in conjunction to treat more severe comedonal and/or inflammatory acne. A topical retinoid is applied in the evening and antibiotics are taken in the morning to do double duty while managing acne-causing sebum and bacteria.Your dermatologist may also recommend combining your antibiotic treatment with a benzoyl peroxide cream.In addition, your dermatologist may prescribe a topical antibiotic. This is often already combined with a retinoid or benzoyl peroxide for easy and convenient use.
 Thick makeup and hair gel can cause your acne to get worse. As your skin and hair naturally secrete oil throughout the day, residue from makeup and gel can get moved across your skin and clog your pores.


Use only a light layer of makeup or consider going natural during some days. Always wash your makeup before bedtime (see last section).
Choose makeup that is oil-free and noncomedogenic. Water-based or mineral-based makeup is usually a good choice.

