 FRAPS and newer versions of Windows do not get along well. FRAPS technically does not support Windows 8 or newer, and has a few problems with it. The biggest issue is that FRAPS cannot take screenshots of the desktop or desktop programs in Windows 8 or 10. It can only take screenshots of games. If you are running Windows 7 or Vista and are using the Aero theme, you can take screenshots of your desktop with FRAPS.The free version allows you to take screenshots in BMP format, but you can convert them later.
 This will allow you to adjust some of your screenshot settings. Note that the free version is restricted to BMP format, but you can batch convert your BMP screenshots to JPG or PNG in the next section.
 By default, FRAPS will save screenshots to C:\Fraps\Screenshots. This isn't a very convenient location, so consider changing it to something like your Pictures folder. Click the "Change" button to set a new location.
 By default, FRAPS uses F10 as the screenshot hotkey. You can change this to any key or combination of keys by clicking in the field and then pressing the key or combination you want to use. F10 should work fine for most games.
 You can have FRAPS automatically take screenshots after a set interval of time, and continue to do so until you hit the hotkey again. You can set the interval if you decide to enable this feature.
 By default, FRAPS will display the current FPS (frames per second) for the game you are playing in the upper-left corner of the screen. This won't appear in your screenshots, but it can be distracting while you're playing. If you don't care about the FPS counter or don't need it, open the "FPS" tab in FRAPS and select "Hide overlay".
 Once you've adjusted your FRAPS settings, you can start up your game. The FRAPS window will not appear over your game, unless you are playing the game in Windowed mode.
 Press your hotkey to take a screenshot. If you have the FPS overlay disabled, you won't receive a notification that the screenshot has been taken. Your screenshots will appear in the folder that you set earlier.

