 You must be clean. But wear bathing caps so you don't get your hair wet every day, as it can be just washed twice a week. Also use a good quality deodorant and a good quality perfume.;
,, Take care of your hair well. Wash it correctly with shampoo and conditioner twice a week. Also every once in a while put on hydrating masks on your hair and use good creams so it looks always nice. Brush it a lot so its always spotless. You can also get a new, stylish haircut. Do something different with it every other day ex: straighten, scrunch, low-side-ponytail, etc.
 You must always eat well and healthy food. Also eat a lot of fruit everyday, and drink a lot of water. It makes your skin healthier and more clear. If you have zits, get a good acne cream and use it often so your skin is always pretty.
 Foundation, face powder; eye shadow, eyeliner and mascara; light blush and a lip gloss. All applied correctly and in light colors, and you'll look simply fabulous.
 See what the hottest celebrities and the most popular girls are wearing, and inspire yourself. Get yourself new clothes that are stylish and look sexy on you and a little bit revealing, but not way too revealing, ok? To rock the scene you have to look and dress sexy, not trashy!

, You can be as hot as humanly possible, but without a confident attitude, you will hardly shine. So stand straight, lift up your chin and walk with confidence. It is a huge plus in your looks and will definitely attract a lot of attention to you!

, Get yourself introduced to many people and talk to them. In classroom, in hallways, at lunch time. Just play it cool, act natural and don't try too hard to please.
 Just because you are the queen, it doesn't mean you don't need a future. How will you be able to be super fabulous in the future if you can't afford it? The best way to have a great future and afford an IT girl style and life is to have a good job that pays well... which you can only get if you have graduated in school and in college. So always take at least an hour to study. Smart can be sexy too!

