 A diabetes diet focuses on eating healthy foods in moderation, and controlling blood sugar and weight. It is important to eat meals at regular times, which will help keep your blood sugar levels steady. Ask your doctor for a recommendation for a registered dietitian or certified diabetes educator to help you develop a meal plan.Choose healthy carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates should be a staple in your diet. Your carbohydrates should come from fruits, vegetables; whole grains; legumes (beans, peas, and lentils); and low-fat dairy products.
Eat fiber-rich foods. Fiber is essential to moderating digestion and can help control your blood sugar levels. Vegetables; fruits; nuts; legumes (beans, peas, and lentils); whole wheat flour and wheat bran are all examples of high-fiber foods.
Eat heart-healthy fish at least twice a week. Salmon, mackerel, tuna, sardines and bluefish all have high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids, which can lower triglycerides. Cod, tuna and halibut all have less total fat, saturated fat and cholesterol than poultry or meat.
Look for good fats. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (in moderation) are healthy choices that can lower your cholesterol. Choose avocados, almonds, pecans, walnuts, olives, and canola, olive and peanut oils.;
, While you may know that you should avoid highly processed foods and foods with added sugar (such as candy, sodas and other sweetened drinks, frozen or microwave foods, fast foods, and simple "white carbs," like pasta, white bread, white rice, and crackers), you will also need to be aware of foods that affect your heart health. Diabetes can increase your risk of stroke and heart disease. In addition to processed and sugary foods, watch out for foods containing the following:Saturated fats (full-fat dairy products and animal products such as beef, hot dogs, sausage and bacon)
Trans fats (processed snacks, baked goods, shortening and stick margarines)
Sodium (frozen meals, canned entrees, canned vegetables with added salt, lunch meats, salted nuts)
Cholesterol (full-fat dairy products, high-fat animal proteins, egg yolks, liver, and other organ meats)

, Regular exercise is essential for cardiovascular health and managing diabetes. It helps keep your weight under control, can help lower your blood sugar, and reduces stress and your risk of heart disease. Start slow and work up to 30 to 45 minutes of moderate exercise (like walking or swimming) five day a week.Make it safe. Always check with your doctor before starting a workout plan. Also, listen to your body. If an activity feels too strenuous, stop and rest. Drink plenty of water before, during, and after exercising. Wear an ID bracelet or necklace that says you have diabetes, and inform trainers or exercise partners that you have diabetes.
Make it easy. A little bit of moderate exercise every day is better than vigorous exercise once a month (or less). Start by walking for five to 10 minutes a day.
Check your blood sugar before you exercise and immediately after. Never inject insulin into a part of your body you are going to exercise. Keep a snack nearby that can quickly raise your blood sugar, such as five or six hard candies or a half cup of fruit juice.
Check your feet often, before and after you exercise. Diabetes can decrease sensation in your feet, so you may not notice a sore or blister on your foot. Do not ignore small issues, as they can become serious if left untreated.
 Individuals with diabetes who smoke have been shown to have more trouble with insulin dosing, and more trouble controlling their disease. Smoking is a major obstacle to achieving good health. If you are a smoker, particularly if you have been diagnosed with diabetes, now may be the time to quit.


Choose a starting date and make a plan for how you will quit.
Figure out what triggers you to smoke, and try to be ready when those things happen.
Get support from others before you begin.
Consider using prescription medication from your doctor or nicotine replacements (like gum or patches).
Focus on your goal and stay committed.
 Beyond just taking care of your body, exercising your mind is crucial to senior health. Make time every day to help keep your mind sharp and slow down the mental signs of aging.Keep learning. Try a new hobby or learn a language.
Challenge your brain. Work on crossword puzzles, play card games, or try Sudoku.
Get plenty of sleep. If you have trouble sleeping long hours at night, try adding a short nap during the day.

