 Are you making a Halloween gift basket for a boy or girl? A young teen or an older teen? What are their interests and hobbies?;
, You will need some kind of container for the gifts. This does not have to be an actual basket. Some ideas to consider are:


a black or orange basket
an old fruit crate
a backpack or tote bag
a plastic popcorn bucket
a trick or treat bag

, The size, shape, and number of gifts you choose should depend on the size and shape of your container. If you choose only big gifts, you won't be able to fit many and there will be enough gaps in between the gifts that it looks strange, and the size of the gifts may eclipse the container. If you choose only small gifts you may need dozens to fill the container. It is best to get gifts in an array of sizes, and always consider how they will look in proportion to the container.
 Halloween is a harvest festival and primarily about food. Candy is traditional, and individually wrapped fun-size candies are perfect for tucking in between gifts. You can also include popcorn balls, candy apples, crisps or chips, cookies, cakes, granola bars, and individual packets of nuts.
 Books, movies, magazines, and CDs are all good basket fillers. Horror would, of course, be traditional for the holiday, but you should only get things in genres or by artists the teenager enjoys.
 Include things that you know the teenager will like and use. These could include but aren't limited to:


Stickers and a shaped hole punch for the scrapbook enthusiast
Cookie cutters, sprinkles, oven mitt, or utensils for the cook or baker
pens and a journal for a writer or sketcher
Paints and brushes for a painter
Guitar picks, straps, strings, sheet music, or electronic tuner for a musician.
 Perhaps a small candle that looks like a jack-o-lantern, a gargoyle statue, a plastic skull, or Halloween printed socks would be appreciated.
 Fill the container approximately 1/2 way with crumpled news or scrap paper. Add a thin layer of shredded tissue paper, excelsior, or ripped up sheets from the Sunday comics. Arrange the larger gifts, such as DVDs or books, towards the back of the container. Add the medium gifts, such as CDs or guitar straps, next, just in front of the larger. Tuck the small gifts, such as fun size candies, into any gaps left.
 You may want to seal the basket in plastic for a "professional" look. You can buy plastic for this purpose from a craft store. You may also decide to place the basket in a gift bag, or simply to tie a ribbon to the container.

