 While keeping your emotions entirely under control is often challenging, you do need to take responsibility for how your emotions affect your behavior. Recognize that the state of mind, or attitude, with which you approach an ongoing or imminent argument is a significant determinant in your ability to stop arguing.Monitor how you’re feeling physically.
If a knot develops in your stomach, you’re holding your breath, or your tear ducts are gearing up, check yourself to make sure you are not about to act based solely on emotion.
 When people say things that are ultimately beside the point, you have the power to choose not to let it bother you. Make the decision to ignore statements that are irrelevant or stated during another’s fit of anger.Try to keep a discussion that needs to happen on track, while limiting the extraneous material that may arise with heightened emotions.
Don’t allow someone who may be looking for an ego-boost by dragging you into their own emotional turmoil the satisfaction of making you upset.
Clearly and simply state that there is no need for insults or irrelevant points to be made.
If something is said that needs to be addressed, save it for a different discussion once you both have calmed down.
 Anger is a powerful emotion that will make it harder to prevent behavior that may be destructive to you and your relationships with others. You can literally feel anger build, as your body releases chemicals when strong emotions develop.Recognize that anger alone is not destructive – it’s the behavior that anger sometimes leads to.
Be prepared to process anger and resist its physical and emotional effects.
Don’t try to avoid or deny your anger. Attempting to quell your anger may lead you to boil over with emotion down the line.
Watch your voice. A sure sign that anger might have permeated into your behavior is the volume of your voice. If you catch yourself shouting, know that it’s time to step back and address your emotions before worsening an argument.
 If your or someone you’re speaking with becomes angry, take a few moments to remain silent, and simply breath. If you’re both able to do so respectfully, state how you’re feeling. Take twenty minutes or so apart to think about things and plan to return to the discussion, even if only for a few minutes to make a decision about how best to move forward.Accept that you may not be able to solve the problem right away.
Make specific plans to return to an unresolved discussion again, once you’ve both fully calmed down.

