 While there are different types of materials that go into these types of strings, they are generally called nylon strings or classical guitar strings. Like steel strings, there are different options for nylon strings like the following:


Clear nylon strings are the most popular and are known for their rich and clear tones.
Rectified nylon strings have mellower and have a more rounded tone than clear nylon.
Black nylon strings produce a warm, pure sound with more treble overtones. These are popular with folk guitarist.
Titanium strings are exceptionally brighter than the other strings.
Composite strings are bright and have a strong projection., Like the steel string guitar, you must remove all the strings to restring your acoustic guitar. If you plan to change one string, don’t worry about changing all the strings. Change all the strings for consistent tone and wear. Unwind the strings until the strings get loose enough to remove from the tuning pegs.


Pluck the string and turn the peg in one direction. If the tone becomes higher, turn it the other way to loosen the string.
If the strings are old then consider just cutting them off with a wire cutter.
 Open the package and uncoil the first string (the thinnest high E string). Look for the string labeled 6th string and uncoil it. Each brand of string makers use different legends to help users.
 The proper looping of the strings is the most difficult and unique part of attaching strings to a classical guitar. Insert the string into the hole farthest to the right of the guitar, and leave about three inches of slack. Loop the free end of the string under the string just behind the saddle and pull it down towards the bottom of the bridge. Pass the free end under the loop below the back corner of the bridge creating a second loop., Loop the free string around the tuning peg twice. Separate the two loops for room to pass the string through the hole. Tighten the string to secure the hold., Tune the guitar tighter while stretching out the string with your free hand. Do not tighten the string fully until each string is attached.
 String each string in your packet using the same process. Be sure to take time to create a proper and secure loop around the bridge for each string.
 After attaching the rest of the strings, use a tuner to tune to EADGBE. Classical guitars with fresh strings will take a longer time to hold tune. You’ll need to constantly adjust the tuning with the first handful of times using the new strings.

