 Have specific goals of what to talk about during this conversation. Help your partner ease into the conversation and talk about the “process” first and what you’re hoping to walk away with at the end of the discussion. Once you’ve done that, bring up the specific issues surrounding your addiction. End the discussion by asking for help from your partner and how he or she can best support you.Having a format in mind can help keep the conversation on track, minimize distractions, and stay goal-oriented.
It’s up to you what you want to share or keep from your partner. If something brings you great shame or embarrassment, think about whether now is the time to discuss it or not. However, if there are big things involved, such as pregnancy or medical problems, it may be best to include them in this discussion.;
, Before the discussion, you may want to think about how you’d like your partner to contribute to your recovery. Some people may want to take charge of your recovery for you, while others may completely distance themselves from you and your addiction. Know what kinds of things you want help with beforehand. For instance, say that you don’t want to hear your partner bribe, threaten, or preach to you. Above all, recognize that you are the only person who can make changes to your addiction. Support is appreciated, but having a dictator as a partner may not be appreciated.If you’re going to make changes, make them together. For instance, if you plan to dump out alcohol bottles, do it together. Tell your partner it’s not okay for him or her to make changes without letting you know first.
 Know that your partner may react strongly to finding out you have an addiction. He or she may be shocked, angry, or sad. They may even be embarrassed or ashamed. Remember that you are sharing something that may come as a surprise, so the initial reaction may be in response to the news, and not a response to you personally.Allow your partner to react as he or she sees fit. Don’t immediately jump to the conclusion that this reaction is personal or offensive.


Allow your partner time to process the discussion. He or she may need some time or space. Once your partner has worked through the emotions, he or she may be better able to support you.
 Pick a time and a place to discuss your addiction. Choose a time when both of you are available and allow for enough time to have a thorough discussion. Don’t choose a day when both of you are really busy or have things to rush off to afterward.Choose a location that makes you feel comfortable and that does not include many distractions.
 Once you’ve set aside time to have the discussion, you’re ready to begin. Starting this kind of discussion can be the most difficult part. For this reason, you may want to practice what to say beforehand or know what you want to say to open the conversation. Talk about why it’s important to have this conversation and what you’re hoping to get from it.For example, say, “There’s something I want to share with you, and it’s not easy for me to talk about it. I’d like you to listen to me and understand me as I tell you about what’s hurting me right now.”
Another option you can say is, “I’m struggling and I’ve realized I need to get help. It’s not easy for me to admit these things or talk about them, so please listen to me. I’d like to have your support.”

, Express to your partner how your addiction is affecting you. You may even have mixed emotions about having an addiction yet not feeling ready to stop.Talk about what emotions the addiction makes you feel, and how you cope with them. Talk about how you feel when you think about quitting or seeking treatment.


Say, “I’m scared it’s got to this point and that I don’t feel like I can do this on my own.”
You can also say, “I feel so lost and confused. I never thought I could be addicted to alcohol. When I think about treatment, I want it, yet I’m scared of what will happen if I stop drinking.”

, Talk to your partner about why you are concerned about your alcohol addiction. Say what is hurting you and the impact it has on your life. Addictions can affect many aspects of your life, including your social life, emotional well-being, and physical health.You can include some examples that you can comfortably share with your partner.For example, say, “Since I’ve started drinking regularly, it’s getting harder and harder to go to work, and my manager has become suspicious that something is up.”
Say, “Alcohol is affecting my ability to finish school, and I’m nervous I might flunk out. I want to finish my education and succeed in my life.”

, Addictions can cause distance between partners and lead to unhappiness in the relationship. Alcohol addiction can lead to fights and disagreements in relationships, and sometimes can lead to violence.Take responsibility for how your addiction has affected the relationship. You may also choose to apologize for how your addiction has negatively impacted your partner and the relationship.


For example, your addiction may have led to embarrassment from your partner, financial problems, or shirking responsibilities at home or with children.
 If you also struggle with mental health issues, you can share these with your partner and how they affect you and your addiction. You may never have mentioned mental health problems before, so it can be scary to bring them up. Yet, it’s important for your partner to understand what you are going through. Your mental health may influence your addiction, and vice versa.Ask your partner to support you in your struggles with mental health. This may mean helping you find a therapist, going to a treatment center, or getting medications and taking them regularly.
If you suspect you may have mental health problems yet have never received a diagnosis, ask for help in seeing a therapist or psychologist to receive an official diagnosis and treatment.
 Discuss together what kind of treatment to pursue. Does it make sense to go to residential treatment? Should you find a local therapist? Should a medical doctor be involved? Have you considered self-help groups or group therapy? Think about what options to pursue, and ask your significant other to help you with these choices.


Say, “I’m wanting professional help for recovery. Can you help me find treatment?”
You can ask your partner to accompany you to appointments or participate in treatment with you. Think about what would be most supportive for you, and make a request.
 Ask your partner to encourage you to seek treatment. Tell your partner that you want support in facing recovery, not judgment or shame. Tell your partner how you would like to be encouraged.Gently remind your partner that nagging does not help you.


For example, you may want encouragement to do healthy activities such as visiting friends or doing activities that don’t involve alcohol.
 You may want your partner to specifically help you in certain ways. For example, you may want help in going to social events or engaging with certain people, or getting to and from therapy sessions. If you’d like your partner to participate in specific ways, let him or her know. Communicate your wants and needs clearly.When asking for help, make the request recovery specific. Say how the request will benefit you (and the relationship) as you work on recovery.
 While it can be hard to be in a romantic relationship with an addict, ask your partner for patience. While you are making steps forward, remind him or her that changes cannot happen overnight. If you relapse, ask your partner to be patient and kind, not angry and judgmental.Remind yourself that this is not easy for your partner. It’s important for both of you to be kind and compassionate during this time.
 Recovery is a process that can take a long time. It may be a bumpy road with ups and downs and lots of in between victories and upsets.Let your partner know that while it may be difficult, you are committed to recovery and to the relationship.


Say, “Are you willing to go through this process with me? I’d like your support.”

