 You can find this in the Apps list on your Android. Tap the ⋮⋮⋮ on your Home screen to view all of your apps.

If you don't have this Google app installed, you can install it from the Play Store.
If you're using a Kindle tablet, you can find movies through the Amazon store instead.;
, When you launch Play Movies & TV for the first time, you'll be prompted to select which Google account you want to use. Purchases will be made with that account's payment information.

If you don't have a Google account associated with your Android device yet, you can add one from the Android's Settings menu.
 When you launch Play Movies & TV, you'll see a variety of categories that change on a regular basis. You'll always find the New Releases at the top of the list, followed by the most popular titles and personalized recommendations., Each category in the list will have a lot of different titles to choose from. Swipe left and right to view them all.,, You can search by title, actor, director, or even the release year., From either your search results or the category list, tapping an item will bring up its description and prices., You'll see the lowest rental price and the lowest purchase price. These prices are typically for the Standard Definition (SD) versions, while High Definition (HD) and Ultra High Definition (UHD) will usually cost more.

Buying a title will allow you to watch it as much as you'd like, as well as download the movie to your Android to watch offline.
Renting a title allows you to watch it as many times as you'd like for 48 hours once you start watching. You have thirty days to start watching.
 Choose SD if you don't want to spend a lot of money, will be watching on a small screen, or want to conserve data while streaming. Choose HD if you don't mind paying a little more for higher quality and more data usage.,, Depending on your region, you can add credit and debit cards, PayPal, cellular service billing, and redeem a Google Play gift card., Type in the payment information from the method of payment you want to use. This could include the debit or credit card number, billing address, or gift card number., Your payment method will be charged and you'll be able to start watching the movie., This will load the movie in the player and begin playback. If you are renting, your 48 hour timer will begin.

If you choose to watch later, you'll be able to find the movie in your Library.
It is recommended that you connect to a wireless network before watching your movie, as streaming video eats up a lot of cellular data. Video quality may improve over a wireless connection as well.
,, You'll see all of your purchases and active rentals listed here.,