 Find out when and where the nearest bee is. If you can, sign up and ask for information. If you can't find a spelling bee, ask your school, just in case there is one and check around your community. When you find a bee make sure to get all the information, mark your calendar, and start working.;
, Are you within the age and grade limit? Are you able to participate? Has your school spelling bee already gone by? If you are too late on the bus there is always next year unless you are too old.


Read the rules to see if you are within the guidelines. If you are, you are ready for the next step.
If not, help others achieve their dreams by becoming a spelling bee coach!

, One of the spelling bee coordinators should be able to give you or at least tell you where you can find the spelling list. If not then there are lots of good resources to find word lists and other helpful things like www.spellingbee.com and the Merriam Webster site. Also check out Dictionary.com for spelling help. Go online and find good word lists that fit the level.
 There are plenty of studying software out there, my favorite is www.learnthat.org but there are tons of things you can do. If you don't want to buy software then you can just type up the words or write them down. Do this as many times as you can as well as asking others to give you words. Put words on the bathroom mirror so that you can see them while you brush or wash your hands. Play words across the screen of your computer if you can. There are dozens of creative ways to get ready for the spelling bee. Make up your own and get studying!

, Look or skim through the dictionary you have, or if you have it, study with your spelling list. Day by day, take out a few words you need to study. Study them hard. Sometimes it helps when a parent gives you a word and you spell it orally. Beware of pronunciation.
 To narrow the list.
 Occasionally review words you already know.
 When you study too hard, you will find yourself drifting off to sleep or getting bored. Be sure to stretch in between long bouts of studying.
 Before the bee make sure to eat right, exercise, and get lots of rest. This will keep your brain running better. Just like any athlete you have to prepare. Remember to take care of yourself before the bee.

