 Confidence is practically a no-brainer when it comes to attracting a girl. Virtually all women are interested in a guy who feels confident in himself and his abilities. As a general rule if you're confident, others will be confident in you as well. This can be a tough road depending on your current level of self-esteem, but it is possible if you put your mind to it. Keep your thoughts focused on positively, and don't be afraid to tell your brain to "Cut it out" if you start dwelling on negative thoughts.Make a list of things you're proud of. No matter how small or big, you should try to fill a page with things you've already done. Don't be modest in the slightest, and don't let yourself underrate the things you've done.Sometimes "faking it 'til you make it" can be a good option, especially if you have issues with social anxiety.
 Being proactive will help your life in a lot of ways, and many of these will directly affect your chances with women. If you make a habit of leaping into opportunities as soon as they present themselves, you'll find your life becomes a lot busier. You'll have more chances to meet women if you're out doing things all the time and your life will seem more attractive. Don't depend on anyone but yourself to get the job done, whether you're talking about your job, hobbies or social life.Confidence is a natural bonus from being productive. If you struggle with confidence, you may find yourself feeling better once you set your sights on action.
Procrastination is the enemy of all good things in life. Don't let any chances slip you by.
 "Be yourself" is easiest the most common advice in self-help, but it still rings true in most cases. There's no one in the world you can be better than yourself. Even if you think you're not attractive enough to get a girl interested in you, you should never try to put on an act as someone you aren't. Rather, put that energy towards being the best version of yourself you can be.Take time to think about what defines you as a person, and work on doing things that maximize your best traits.


Being yourself is very sage advice if you're on the dating scene. If you try to be someone you're not, you'll probably end up interesting a different sort of woman than the type you want.

