 Most privacy door knobs, also known as "bed and bath" door knobs, either have a pushbutton or twisting lock mechanism on the inside Doorknob. The outside Doorknob will have a small round hole in the center that is intended to allow for emergency access. If possible, ascertain which kind of lock mechanism (push button or twisting) you are dealing with.
If the outside Doorknob has a keyhole instead of a hole, you will need to proceed to the method for picking a locked entry door.;
, You need to find a long, thin object that is small enough to fit into the hole, but sturdy enough to put pressure on the locking mechanism. Ideal choices include a small screwdriver or hex wrench, a hair pin, or a heavy-duty paperclip. You can even use a bamboo skewer from the kitchen, or a cotton swab with the fluff removed from one end.


If using a hair pin or paper clip, first bend it open so you have a long, straight bit of metal.
If you are having trouble finding a suitable object, get creative. Open up a ball-point pen and use the ink cartridge, or check the bottom of your purse for a toothpick. You can almost always find something that will work!

, If the lock has a push button mechanism, just insert the tool straight into the hole until you feel some resistance, and push. You should immediately hear a click indicating the lock has been released. If the lock has a twisting mechanism, you will need to insert the tool, and sweep it around in a twisting motion until it catches on something, and then apply a bit of pressure. You will then hear a click that means the door is unlocked.









When opening a twist-lock, you may need to try sweeping the tool both counter-clockwise and clockwise until the lock releases.
 If you cannot get the knob to unlock using the above method, most privacy door knobs are held together with two, visible screws. Find a screwdriver that fits, and simply undo these screws. Within a few minutes, both doorknobs will come off. Simply pull any remaining locking mechanism out of the hole and open the door.








It is best to alternate back and forth between the two screws as you go.
You may have to apply some tension to the Doorknob by pulling on it as the screws loosen.
In some cases, the screws will be hidden under a decorative collar. If so, this collar must first be removed by either inserting a paperclip into a small hole on the collar that releases it (if there is one) or gently prying up the collar with a flathead screwdriver.