 When your cat first starts meowing at night, you want to make sure she is okay. If you decide that she is not sick and has enough water and food, she may just want your attention. If the behavior keeps up every night, you have to ignore her. This may be difficult at first, but it will pay off in the end. If you come to her every time she meows, you will be reinforcing the negative behavior.


Don't punish her or give her any attention at all. She is looking for any acknowledgement from you, even it you are disciplining her.
If she won't stop, leave a toy hanging off a scratch post at the end of your bed for her to play with instead of bothering you.
If your cat doesn't stop, you can buy earplugs or headphones so you cannot hear her until she gets the hint., You can feed your cat right before bed if she wakes you up to get fed in the middle of the night. Don't worry about giving her a full meal, but make it large enough that it feels like more than a treat. This mirrors a cat's natural rhythm. They hunt, eat, groom, and then sleep to get more energy for the next hunt. If you feed your cat before bed, she will be full and want to sleep to regain her energy for her next hunt. It will also train your cat to know that late evening food means bedtime.


You can also buy a timed feeder that will release food for them in the middle of the night. Instead of waking you up, your cat will learn to go to her bowl on her own instead., One of the main reasons your cat may be awake at night is because she is bored. If your cat is alone all day, she will want to play and expend some energy when you are home. Try to make time to play with your cat every day. Drag a toy across the floor and let them chase it. You can even give them something distracting to play with alone. As long as she uses some of her built up energy, she will be more likely to sleep better at night.


Get toys that mimic the movement of animals such as birds or mice. Play fetch with ping pong balls or furry mice toys. You can even leave toys out with catnip in them during the day so she can play by herself when you aren't around.
Play with your cat until she seems to tire out. This will ensure that she will sleep better every night.
If your cat is social, try incorporating playtime with other cats. You can also get another cat to help her be more active during the day., If your cat likes to bite your fingers or toes, try to deter it from happening at night. Before you go to sleep, cover yourself completely with the sheet or blanket. You can also wear socks on your feet to keep your cat from seeing your toes move and thinking they are prey. Give her something else to nibble on.


Give her access to catnip toys, sisal balls, scratching posts, or anything she likes to chew on.
 Don't waver on your decision for your cat. If you do decide to shut her out, whether it's from the bedroom or from a whole range of rooms in the house, stick to your plan. Once the cat realizes you mean business, she will put up with the new arrangement. If you cave in, the cat knows things are back right to the way it wanted them to be all along.

