 Every day, find the opportunity to compliment her about small things: tell her that she's beautiful, or that you love it when she sings, or that you admire the way that she stood up to her frustrating boss. Don't just recycle the same compliments! Try to think of something new to say. This is not just about giving her a compliment – it's about challenging yourself to continually appreciate your girlfriend for the unique, beautiful, and always-growing human being that she is.


Find unique and genuine ways to phrase your compliments. Don't just say, "You're really beautiful." Say, "Sometimes I am just so captivated by how gorgeous you are. I can't stop staring at you today."
Don't just appreciate her physical beauty. Show her that you appreciate her personality, her creativity, her intellect – the things that really make her who she is. Try to compliment her on the qualities that you know are important to her.
 A romantic declaration isn't always as playful as some of the other flirting methods, but it can make your girlfriend feel warm, safe, and loved. She might even respond to your words with a physical demonstration of that love! It's always important to check in with your partner and affirm your feelings, especially if you think that she might feel insecure about the state of your relationship. Tell her that you love her, or that you really like her, or just that you think she's awesome. When you feel it, say it!

, Send her a sweet "good morning" text message to wake up to. Leave a physical note on her bathroom mirror, her car window, or her locker at school. Make her a card, or draw her a picture, or write her a poem. Tell her that you love her, or that she is awesome, or that you're thinking of her. The medium and the message don't matter so much as the act of showing her that you care.

If she is having a big day, write her a note that encourages her and inspires her. "Go get 'em, tiger! You're brilliant, and you're going to ace this test today!" or "You've got this. Play hard and good luck!"

, Bring her flowers, or a box of chocolates, or a book that you think she'd like. Bake something for her, or make something for her, or give her something pretty that you've found. You never need a reason to give your girlfriend a thoughtful gift.

The gift can be something incredibly simple. When you meet up with her, bring her favorite snack or a bottle of her favorite drink. It is truly the thought that counts.
Ask her what her favorite flower is. Not every girl has a favorite flower – but many do. You can use this knowledge again and again, or you can surprise her with new flower types that make you think of her.
Consider hand-making something for her. Write her a song, or paint her a picture, or fold a piece of origami, or whittle her something from a piece of wood. She will appreciate the time you spend.

