 Wash your face in the morning and before you go to bed. Also wash your face after you exercise or sweat a lot. Use your fingertips to apply your cleanser.Use washcloths or sponges gently, scrubbing too hard can damage skin. Keeping your skin clean and healthy can prevent acne and the potential spots when your acne heals., Your skin care products should be alcohol-free, water based, and non-comedogenic. Avoid cosmetics, hair products, acne concealers, and sunscreens that are oily or greasy, that is, products that are not non-comedogenic.These products are more likely to cause acne.Preventing acne will reduce your chances of getting spots.
 Sun damage is the main cause of dark spots for people with lighter skin. Your skin may look blotchy or patchy from sun damage. Apply sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30 every day. Look for sunscreen that offers broad spectrum protection against both UVA and UVB rays. This will help prevent dark spots in the future and protect your skin from sun damage.Individuals with darker skin should also use sunscreen daily. It will protect your spots from further darkening.If your skin is acne prone, look for non-comedogenic, oil-free sunscreen.
Do not go to the tanning bed. Tanning beds expose your skin to UV rays as well and can damage your skin., Allow your acne to heal on its own. While popping your pimples may make them go down faster initially, they will take longer to heal and are more likely to leave a spot.Picking your acne can also cause an infection and injury to your skin which leads to hyperpigmentation (i.e. dark spots), Exfoliating can make your topical treatments more effective and improve the appearance of your skin. When you exfoliate, you remove the layer of dead skin cells. You can do this chemically (e.g. using an acid) or mechanically (e.g. scrubbing or brushing).Exfoliation is best if you have whiteheads and blackheads. If you have inflammatory acne, like cysts and pustules, you should speak with a doctor before you exfoliate because exfoliating may make your acne worse.If you are a person of color or get dark spots after burns or bug bites, exfoliation may actually result in hyperpigmentation., Over-the-counter medications can get rid of excess oil, kill acne causing bacteria, and speed up the growth of new skin cells. Look for products that contain benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, alpha hydroxy acids (e.g. glycolic acid and lactic acid), and sulfur.Start with a benzoyl peroxide product if you are unsure as it is effective for most people.Always apply the product after you wash your face. Follow up with an oil-free, non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 If you are having trouble managing your acne or are unsure about a skin care regimen, go see a dermatologist. A dermatologist can help you prevent acne and get rid of any existing acne.There are many treatment options available. Be patient. It may take time to find a treatment that works best for you.

