 Tell your child your reasons for searching his room and be upfront if you found any questionable evidence.Don't try to set him up in a lie by asking if he is doing anything wrong; he will probably lie to protect himself. If you found unsettling evidence, present it to your child in a straightforward manner and ask him to explain it.


For example, you might say, "You have recently been being very secretive and staying out late. I searched your room because I wanted to make sure you are not involved in anything that can be harmful to you or others. During the search, I found this... Can you explain why you have it?"
When you follow this method, the practice is upfront and honest and your child understands that it is happening as a result of his own actions.
 If you suspect that your child is lying, explain to her that lying is unacceptable and outline the repercussions (e.g. loss of privileges).Here's how to spot a lie:Surprised expression (i.e. raised eyebrows, open mouth or dropped jaw horizontal wrinkles across forehead, etc.) when a certain subject is broached or question is asked.
Fearful expression (i.e. open mouth with tension, brows drawn together, raised upper lid, but tense lower lid, etc.) when a certain subject is broached or question is asked.
Relief when the subject is changed.
Answers that sound rehearsed.
Answers that dodge the initial question.
Answer that give a surplus of detail to fill the silence.
Discrepancies in how she says she feels versus her facial expression and body language.
 There are times when your child may inadvertently share details about himself or his friends that you find alarming. You immediately rush to telling your child why this is wrong. Unless your child tells you information that is life-threatening, pass up the lecturing and listen instead.
 Then, if you must go back to something she discussed, frame it as a nonjudgmental question that is seeking for understanding rather than a nagging statement.


For example, "You mentioned Randy may be using drugs. What is your opinion on that?"
Asking your kid a question helps you to determine his frame of mind without doing unnecessary nagging that causes him to shut down. This also gives your child the opportunity to show that he is capable of making responsible decisions or reading dangerous situations.

