 Now that you have some articles and a paper, you need to know who is most likely to read it. Search online for articles that are similar to yours and see who reads them, and talk to local businesses or vendors where other newspapers are distributed.


Take your audience's suggestions to heart and respond to their needs and wants when you can.

Build a social media platform by posting content regularly and searching for like-minded individuals who would be interested in your paper.
Don't be afraid to republish some of your early articles in other newspapers and news blogs -- just make sure they credit your original paper!

, Printing machines can be expensive and take up a lot of space, so if your paper is in low circulation you probably wait to buy your own. Call local print shops or other local papers to see how they print their newspapers, and be ready to spend some money.


Color ink will always be more expensive than a purely black and white paper.
Think about how many pages you want or can afford before collecting articles.
There are online newspaper printers that sell 300 newspapers for roughly $300, but they may not be your best deal if you can find a local printer who will set up a regular contract. , Many blogging platforms offer intuitive controls for designing a website to use, but if you are really serious about starting a news platform you need to invest in a custom built website. Until you have serious readership, however, consider a free site like Wordpress, Blogger, or Tumblr to get the ball rolling.


Consider buying the domain name for your paper, like www.TheWikiHowTimes.com, so that you look professional to readers and potential advertisers.
 No matter what your platform, you're going to need to keep writing articles and publishing pictures to keep readers coming back. Skipping a week's print edition or abandoning your blog for a few days tells people that you aren't serious about reporting the news and they will find other sources that post more frequently.


The more you produce, the more likely it is that someone will read it and be entertained. This means more viewers, referrals, and readers in the future. 