 Never assume a situation that involves aggression of any sort to be harmless; if someone feels threatened the situation must be taken seriously, regardless of whether it’s verbal teasing or threats of physical harm., People who are bullied often feel isolated and unsupported. Make sure to tell the person who is being bullied that you are there for him or her.Ask the victim what would make him or her feel safe.Assure the person that bullying is never his/her fault.
Consider role-playing under safe conditions to help the victim learn safe ways to respond to bullies., If there is a weapon involved, serious threats of physical harm, or you feel unsafe in the situation get help by calling the police or other authorities before stepping in.
 It’s best to intervene as early as possible, before a situation has time to escalate. Get help from another person not involved in the situation if possible.


It's important to note that certain groups are more at risk than others. When dealing with bullying targeted towards lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender youth (LGBT), youth with disabilities or special needs, or bullying based on race, ethnicity or religion, special considerations should be taken. You can find information specific to these groups here.
 Get the facts and sort out what happened only once you’ve separated those involved and can talk to them individually. Discussing what happened with both parties in the same room may lead to the bullying victim feeling overwhelmed or embarrassed.


The bully may also intimidate or threaten his or her victims so that they do not feel safe talking about what has happened. Talking with each person separately will help reduce this possibility.
 All schools have policies for dealing with bullies and many have implemented cyberbullying strategies as well. It's the job of school administration to resolve these issues but first they have to know they're going on.
 Victims of bullying can suffer long-term emotional and psychological effects.Seeking professional help early on can help mitigate these effects.Older children and teens often try to deal with the emotional consequences of bullying on their own, which can lead to depression and anxiety disorders.If an older child or teen becomes withdrawn, or shows signs of depression or anxiety, such as sudden changes in school performance, sleep patterns, diet, or a reluctance to take part in social activities, it is important to seek professional help.Consult with a social worker or counselor at your child's school or another mental health professional.
 Bullying involves a perceived or actual imbalance of power – one person is bigger than the other, a group of people gang up on a single person, one person has higher status and control, etc. Fighting back can put victims at risk of more harm or leave them feeling to blame for the situation.