 Fruits never contain gluten (since they are free of wheat products), and make great snacks.If you’re not in a hurry, buy a selection: apples, peaches, plums, nectarines, and grapes can be eaten in any situation, and provide plenty of healthy vitamins. You can also purchase dried versions of most popular fruits, which are well suited for eating in a car or at work.

Most supermarkets will stock dried apricots, raisins, and dried mango, among other dried fruits.;
, Like fruits, vegetables will never contain gluten, and so are a reliable snacking option. Carrot sticks, celery, sliced bell peppers, and broccoli are a few popular vegetable snacks.If you’d rather not eat your vegetables plain, you can easily find a gluten-free dip to eat them with.

Pairing vegetables with hummus, nut butters, flavored cream dips, salad dressing, or chunks of cheese can offer healthy gluten-free snack options.
Whole fruits, nuts, rice cakes, and salads are healthy, filling, and often gluten-free.
 These products are typically gluten free, since they do not contain wheat or any grain products or byproducts. Nuts can be found in either salted or non-salted variety; either makes for a tasty snack.If you have access to a large grocery store, you should be able to find plenty of varieties of nuts: peanuts, cashews, macadamia nuts, walnuts, pecans, and almonds are a few popular varieties of nut.

Rice cakes are generally light and low on calories, and can be found in a variety of flavors.
 Meat does not contain gluten, so look for snacks that contain meat and minimal added ingredients.Jerky is by far the most popular meat-based snack (followed by the “slim jim” style of long, thin sticks of processed meat). Beef and turkey jerky are the two most common types of jerky, and can typically be found in the snack aisle of a grocery store. These products are gluten free, as long as they have not had a flavoring added which contains gluten (e.g. soy sauce or teriyaki).

Specialty stores or natural-foods supermarkets may carry an even larger variety of jerky, including animals like buffalo, bison, or ostrich. These are likely to cost more, though.

