 Wear suitable clothing for the weather. If it's raining, wear a rain jacket and boots; if it's blowing a gale, wear a windproof jacket. By keeping comfortable, you'll enjoy the experience a whole lot more.;
, If something happens and you need to either get your dog to come to you quickly, or you would like to reinforce good behavior, treats can make a difficult situation much less stressful. For example, if your dog hates walking near major roads, a treat can be used to reward the good behavior and the effort that the dog makes.
 This can be a part of walking that seems most unpleasant but it's essential for ensuring a comfortable and enjoyable urban environment and for ensuring that nobody, including you, treads in stinky do-do. Clean it up and avoid the glares, and the pleasant reactions from other people will bring more joy to your walk.
 This is a special time to bond with your dog and it's also a chance for you to keep healthy through the exercise. Appreciate watching your dog and seeing its happiness as it runs around having fun.


View walking the dog as free time and me-time. If you lead a busy life, it can be hard to get away from everything and everyone, and a dog offers a ready-made excuse to escape it all and still be doing something beneficial.
 Dog walks provide the perfect way to make new friends. The next time your dog is running around with another dog, try approaching the owner and start chatting. You already have a topic in common––dogs. Just take it from there.


Dog walks are also perfect times to catch up with existing friends, so consider inviting them along and catching up on all the latest gossip.
If you have been meaning to call a family member or a friend, but your busy life keeps getting in the way, ring them while your walking; it's a great way to fill time and if the conversation gets tiring or awkward, use needing to cross the road or catch the dog as an excuse to end the call quickly.
 If the dog's got too much energy for you, find a bench, sit on it, and through a load of balls. Doing this uses up a lot much of your dog's energy, without depleting yours, so it's easily sorted!

, Change the walks so that you get to know the wider neighborhood, rather than trudging down the same old path each day or night. This is a great way to keep fit, explore new places and walk the dog all at the same time.


Bring your smartphone with its map app, in case you get lost.
 Have a coffee and read the newspaper for a short break. Be sure to give Fido a bowl of water too.

