 There are numerous subcategories of skilled work visas offered by the Australian government, but only two main categories. One is the employer-sponsored work visa, which involves Australian employers supporting visa applications due to the applicants’ relevant skills.In this instance, you will be lining up a potential job before completing your visa application process.;
, This is the other of the two main categories of of Australian skilled work visas. As the name indicates, it involves testing to determine your skills and thus suitability for a work visa.This, and every work visa category and subcategory, has some unique requirements. That said, all skilled work visas require, among other things, that you be under age fifty and possess “competent English” language skills.
 An EOI is not a visa application in itself, but rather a way to bring yourself to the attention to Australian employers and government entities, who may in turn choose to support your subsequent visa application. If you have the right mix of attractive skills and qualities, an employer or government agency may nominate you for an appropriate work visa.A completed EOI is required in order to apply for a points-tested visa.
A completed EOI is not required of, but is available to, applicants for an employer-sponsored visa.
Visit SkillSelect at http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Work/Skil#.
 Before you can complete a work visa application, you must provide documentation of a completed health examination. You must also demonstrate proficiency in the English language by scoring adequately on one of several recognized exams.


For more on health exam requirements, visit http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visa/Heal/meeting-the-health-requirement.
For more on acceptable language tests and scores, see http://www.border.gov.au/Lega/Lega/Form/Immi-FAQs/aelt.
 Consult the Australian Skills Recognition Information website to find out if your qualifications will need to be confirmed by a relevant professional organization. Depending on your profession and place of study, it may be necessary to complete a bridging course or additional study.


When you apply for jobs, it will be important that you can state your qualifications in terms of their Australian equivalents.
 If you do not qualify as a skilled migrant, you may encounter some difficulty obtaining a visa. If this is the case, consider undertaking a professional qualification or gaining some work experience before applying. If your English is not fluent, you may consider taking a language course with a recognized provider.


Some work visa subcategories are regionally-focused, so it may help to apply for a visa in a region where there is less job competition and/or more demand for certain job categories.
Take the time to make sure you understand the intricacies of the visa process; a wealth of information is available on the government website., If you require a visa to work in Australia, submitting an application to the relevant government authority is your first priority. Prospective employers will ask about your immigration status, and having your visa (or at least having started the application process) is a prerequisite for most job vacancies.


You can apply online at http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visa/Appl.
Remember, visa priority is given to people who have skills, qualifications and experience in shortage occupations.
 If you are a foreigner who has just graduated from an Australian higher education institution, you may be eligible to for a special visa that will enable you to stay and work in the country. Among other qualifications for the Temporary Graduate Visa, you must be under age fifty, have an existing valid visa (e.g. a student visa), meet language and education requirements, and have eligible and relevant skills.


There are two “streams” of this visa available to graduating students, based on factors like your skills and the nature of your educational experience in Australia.
For more information on and application materials for the Temporary Graduate Visa, see http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visa-1/485-.
 Say, for instance, you are under age thirty and would like to travel across Australia and make a bit of money to cover your expenses. In this case, you may be eligible for either a Work and Holiday Visa (subclass 462) or a Working Holiday Visa (subclass 417). These visas may permit you to stay and work in the country for up to a year.


Requirements include (but are not limited to) travelling without dependent children and having enough money (roughly $5000 Australian) to cover expenses and a plane ticket home.
See http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visi/Visi-1 for more application details.
 Be wary of offers for help getting an Australian work visa, because there are unfortunately many visa scam artists out there. The Australian government keeps a list of common and current scams at http://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visa/migration-fraud-and-scams. For instance, don’t fall for scam phone calls demanding immediate payment for a visa renewal, and be very cautious regarding promises of an Australian visa and job (with an initial payment) on job websites.


It is illegal for third parties (employers, etc.) to financially gain from nominating or sponsoring someone for a visa. In other words, a potential Australian employer cannot ask you to pay a fee ahead of time for sponsorship, or deduct from your paycheck after the fact. Legitimate professional service fees can be charged, however., If you haven’t decided on the industry you’d like to work in, choose wisely. The major industries in Australia are agriculture, mining, tourism and manufacturing. The industries of highest recent growth are mining, financial services, tourism and telecommunications.


Keep an eye out for “Skills Australia Needs” events or information booths at skilled migration conferences worldwide., Millions of vacancies are posted online. You can use common online job sites, or government-supported sites.Some advertisements are not published online, so also check newspaper listings. Consult the job supplements in major papers like The Age (Melbourne), Sydney Morning Herald (Sydney), The Courier-Mail (Brisbane) and The West Australian (Perth).
To learn about vacancies in a particular organization of interest, consult the recruitment section of its homepage.
 It is important that your CV (also called a résumé in Australia) is in the Australian style. While it won’t look completely different from a CV elsewhere, Australian CVs tend to be longer than, for instance, American versions.Despite often being longer, however, Australian CVs highlight essential information on the first page in categories like "Career Summary" (a brief statement), "Key Skills," "Key Qualifications," and sometimes "Key Training" and/or "Key Affiliations."
Look online for samples or templates of Aussie-style CVs and cover letters., Generic, one-size-fits-all cover letters work as poorly in Australia as they do everywhere else. In addition to tailoring each letter, make sure to state that you have been granted permission to work in Australia (or are in the process of applying). Provide an Australian postal address and telephone number in your CV if possible., Even today, many jobs aren’t advertised through the media, so personal contacts are key. Take advantage of networking opportunities and expand your networks through joining professional associations. If you establish a contact within a company, inform the contact when you make an application – it may get your CV to the top of the pile.Whether it’s someone you worked with during a college internship or someone you met surfing, networking contacts can pay big dividends in finding a job.
 Target every potential employer and recruitment agency in the region in which you plan to settle. Speculative ("cold") applications are common in Australia, so apply even if there’s no advertised vacancy, especially if you have made contact with someone within your network.


When in doubt, send in an application. Remember, your goal at this point is to secure interviews., If you do not receive a confirmation of your submission, contact the human resources department. Likewise, don’t hesitate to contact the company if you have not received a response within a couple of weeks.This is common practice in Australia, and is not considered inappropriate; on the contrary, it demonstrates your enthusiasm.
 If you are called for interview, try to be in Australia to attend in person. Very few employers will engage candidates on an unseen basis, although you might suggest a videoconference (e.g. Skype) interview if you can’t be physically present. Remember to bring (or send along) copies of your work visa and references for employers to examine.


When it comes to interviews, Australian employers value punctuality, optimism, and the ability to provide concrete examples to illustrate a point. So be on time, upbeat and ready with examples!
They also like to gauge your personality by asking about your hobbies, strengths and weaknesses, and so on.