 If you are suffering from social media jealousy, it is probably a good idea to reduce the amount of time you spend scrolling through social media feeds. One easy way to do this is to logout of your social media accounts. This will make it more difficult to access social media. Alternatively, you could delete social media apps, such as Facebook and Pinterest, from your phone or tablet. This way if you only have five minutes to kill, it will be more difficult to spend that time surfing social media sites., Plan how you'll use social media in a way that supports your mental health. For example, designate a time to catch up with friends and family and set a time limit for how long you'll spend on social media each day. Choose a time of day when you're less likely to get derailed by social media or depressed about what others are doing.

For example, don't start scrolling through social media when you're bored at work or school because it may cause you to spend more time scrolling. Additionally, you may feel worse about yourself since you're not having a fulfilling work day.
Try a time that precedes something you enjoy. For example, check your social media accounts before you head to your dance class at the gym or to meet a friend for coffee. You'll be more likely to stick to your time limit and have something fun going on in your own life.
 If you are beginning to feel depressed as a result of social media jealousy and you constantly find yourself comparing your life with people on your Facebook, Pinterest, Instagram, or Twitter accounts, you should unplug from social media. This will allow you to focus more on your own life. You may find that you don’t even want that handbag your friend posted last week, and your small apartment is the perfect size.If you are not bombarded with images of people living amazing lives, you will begin to appreciate the things that you have in your own life. Make a habit of identifying things to be grateful for each day. Consider incorporating them into your journal, prayers, meditation, or therapy. You can also post a gratitude list in your home.
If you're not sure if you're feeling depressed because of social media, take time to ask yourself how you feel after you use it. Ask questions like, "How do I feel about my life right now?" and "Do I feel satisfied with myself?"
If you're feeling down, see if it traces back to social media. Try journaling your thoughts to see if you're quietly comparing yourself to the people you follow.
 This may sound old fashioned, but one way to manage social media jealousy is to build and develop relationships without using social media. Getting together with friends face-to-face will help you get to know what is really happening in their day-to-day lives. You are more likely to feel compassion for your friends if you develop real and meaningful relationships. Try these tips to maintain friendships without social media:Call or text a friend to make plans, rather than send a message through a social media platform.
Get together with a friend to show them photos of your latest vacation, rather than just posting the images online.
Meet with a friend to congratulate them on their new job, engagement, wedding, or birth of a child rather than just “liking” or commenting on a social media post.
If you have friends or family who live out of town, consider using Skype or FaceTime to have face-to-face visits or communicating via telephone.

