 If the idea of facing a group of kids and parents makes you sweat, let your child decide on the level of engagement they’d like. Rather than assuming you aren’t providing adequate opportunity for socialization, seek your child’s involvement.


Work with his or her personality and preferences to determine the right level of engagement. Your child may not necessarily be an extrovert, so don’t assume they want non-stop interaction with other kids.You might do a trial and take them to a setting where other children are playing nearby. Then, ask, “Do you want to go and join them?” See if your child is interested. Maybe you can help make introductions or perhaps they would rather warm up first by playing alone before making any new friends. You don't want to force your child to interact, but you also don't want to act shy or uncomfortable yourself and unintentionally turn them off of the interaction.
 Going to the local park offers a wonderful opportunity for your child to play with other children.However, simply because your kid desires social interaction doesn’t mean you are forced to fake small talk. If you want to send the message to others that you’d prefer to simply observe, bring a book or creative project along.
 The best case scenario for introverted parents hoping to socialize their young kids is by finding other parents with introvert qualities. That way, you can fulfill your need for intimate, one-on-one social connection while also giving your child the opportunity to meet and bond with other children.Not sure how to spot other introverted parents? You could always start a Meetup for introverted parents. Open the group to other parents in your area and see who joins. The parents can engage in one-on-one or small group gatherings that are introvert-approved like book clubs, film reviews, or baking. Meanwhile, the children are free to socialize as they please. It’s a win-win for everyone!

, If fulfilling your young kid’s social appetite means draining your introvert batteries, be sure to fully charge before the outing. Create a calming ritual to perform before leaving home to meet friends or before having company over for play-dates.


Grab in a bit of alone time to relax prior to entering draining social situations. You might read a chapter of your current novel. Do deep breathing. Get in a workout to release endorphins and boost your mood. Or, simply watch an episode of your favorite TV show.