 Breaks and lunch increase your chances of being approached by bullies or others you don’t want to talk to. Keeping your head down and avoiding eye contact will deter others from approaching or addressing you. If you do happen to make eye contact with another individual, simply look away and continue walking.Have an excuse ready if you do happen to get stopped. Try using excuses like “Oh no, I forgot I had to meet with (your teacher’s name),” “I forgot something in my locker,” or “I think I lost my keys, I better go look for them in class.”

, Getting on your teacher’s good side will help you have an authoritative ally in cases where you are being bullied. Teachers may also have a better understanding of social dynamics in class and can help you avoid someone who is harassing or bullying you.


Ask your teacher if you can stay in during break or lunch and help with preparing a class lesson or organizing the classroom.
Being on time and doing well in class will help keep you on your teacher’s good side.
 Withdrawing or avoiding those who are flirting or harassing you can sometimes perpetuate the problem. Speak confidently and authoritatively when approached by others you wish to avoid to clearly express how you feel and what actions are unwanted or inappropriate. Stand in front of the individual, make eye contact, and speak clearly and calmly.Use statements like, “We are just friends and I would appreciate it if you stopped flirting with me,” “They way you interact with me makes me uncomfortable,” or “I think that your behavior toward me is inappropriate” to clearly express your intentions.
Immediately tell a teacher, administrator, or family member if there are any signs of abuse, like unwanted contact, inappropriate touching, or forced intimacy.
 Looking busy will deter others from approaching you. Try using free time in class, breaks, or lunch to do homework or read a book. Seek out quiet places or places generally uninhabited by people on your school campus, like the library, to study, read, and avoid others.


Spending time doing homework or reading also helps you do well in school and learn new things!

