 The music starts up before the dance does. Instead of breaking into the dance “cold” or from a standing position, feel the music and groove to the beat in your own style by swinging arms around or rocking slightly from side to side for an eight-count, until the dance actually starts.;
,


As soon as your feet hit the ground, count the step as step one of a four-count step. Bounce, wobble or shake your booty for the remaining beats of the four-count.
 After wobbling your hips to the front, you need to get ready to do it to the back. Jump backward with both feet, landing roughly at your original position with both feet landing on the ground simultaneously.


As soon as your feet hit the ground, count the step as step one of your next four-count step. Again, bounce, groove or shake your hips for the remaining counts.
 Step back with your right leg so that the foot points straight to your original left. The left leg should remain in its original position with the foot twisted so that it is only partially facing the left.


Your torso should be slightly twisted, as well, so that you are facing the left. Lean back with your torso just a bit to the right.
Wobble to your right side by leaning toward that side and swaying your hips and shoulders. Do this for a four-count beat.
 This time, you will need to step back with your left leg so that the foot points straight to your original right. The right leg should remain in its original position with the foot twisted so that it is only partially facing the right.


Your torso should be slightly twisted, as well, so that you are facing the right. Lean back with your torso just a bit to the left.
Wobble to your left side by leaning that direction and swaying your hips and shoulders. Continue for a four-count beat.
 Keep your body loose and your hips swaying as you step to avoid losing the fun and losing the rhythm as you step. Your arms should also sway or swing loosely.


On beat one, step forward one pace with your right leg.
On beat two, step forward one pace with your left leg, bringing it together with your right leg again.
On beat three, step back one pace with you right leg, returning it to its original position.
Finish up with beat four by stepping back one pace with your left leg, returning it to its original position and bringing it together with the right leg again.
 Your body will need to follow.


The turning should be natural, so you will need to turn to the beat and turn without taking deliberate steps. Keep the swaying or wobbling the focus of this part, rather than the actions of your feet.
 Once you are facing to the left, you will repeat each step all over again.


Jump forward and groove to the beat.
Jump backward and groove to the beat.
Twist and wobble to the right.
Twist and wobble to the left.
Do your steps.
Sway from side to side as you glide to your left. At this point, you will be facing a full 180 degrees from your original position.
Continue wobbling until you make a full rotation or until the song ends.
 Sway them from side to side. You should be able to complete a full sway that goes from left to right within one count of the four-count beat.


Your arms should also cross in front of each other as you wobble your hips. Keep your arms crossing to the beat, as well.
 Your shoulders and hips will take turns swaying from front to back, causing your torso to wobble from front to back. When the hips are toward the front, your shoulders should be toward the back, and vice versa.


Think of a waving flag. Try to mimic the way the flag waves, wiggles, and wobbles in the breeze using your torso.
 The easiest way to occupy your hands while you twist is to do a hand roll, in which your two hands circle each other front and back at the front side of your body, roughly at chest level. Do this hand roll to the beat.The hand roll is not the only move you could use, though. You could also point side to side, wave your arms, or do whatever else feels natural with your own personal groove. This part of the wobble is usually just improvised.
 Once you have the basic steps down, you will want to work on your moves in between each part. You can add more style to your wobble by developing more complex footwork, wobbling different parts of the body, and using your arms.
 Once you get the hang of the four-step, considering adding the cha-cha to your wobble repertoire.


As before, keep your body loose and your hips swaying as you step to avoid losing the fun and losing the rhythm as you step. Your arms should also sway or swing loosely.
On beat one of the four-count beat, step forward one pace with your right leg.
On beat two of the four-count beat, step forward one pace with your left leg, bringing it together with your right leg.
Between beats three and four of the four-count beat, do a cha-cha step. Essentially, you will rapidly step back with your right foot, left foot, and right foot again, taking three steps in two beats. Make sure to sway your hips a bit more during this cha-cha step to emphasize it.
 The final way people often do the steps for the wobble is to do their cha-cha steps in place. As with the other techniques, you should keep your body loose and your hips swaying as you step to avoid losing the fun and losing the rhythm as you step. Your arms should sway or swing loosely, as well.


On beat one of the four-count beat, step forward one pace with your right leg.
On beat two of the four-count beat, step backward one pace with your left leg, bringing it further apart from your right leg.
Between beats three and four of the four-count beat, you will do a cha-cha step. Rapidly step in place with your right foot, left foot, and right foot again, taking three steps in two beats. These steps will not change the ending position of your feet, however. You should also make sure to sway your hips a bit more during this cha-cha step to emphasize it.
 You will need to repeat the steps twice during this part of the wobble. As a result, you can mix things up and use a combination of different stepping techniques described above for each turn. You can also mix up how much or little you wobble different body parts, and how animated your arm movements are. Keep it interesting and have fun!

