 Though female condoms typically cost around $4 per condom and can only be used once, you should practice using the condom on your own instead of using it for the first time right before sex. Though inserting the condom is easy once you get the hang of it, you should try it on your own at least once or twice to make sure that you can get it right when the time comes.
 Once you've determined that the condom is ready for use, just tear the arrow at the top of the package and remove the female condom.
 Using spermicides along with the female condom can further reduce your risk of pregnancy. Though the female condom will already be lubricated, extra lubricant can make it easier to insert and use the condom.
 To insert the female condom, you'll have to find a position that works for you. It's just like inserting a tampon -- you have to get comfortable and have access to your vagina before you can insert the condom. You can try squatting on the ground, laying down, or placing one foot on top of a chair.
 Hold the sides together similarly to how you would hold a pencil. Though the condom will be a bit slippery because of the lubricant, make sure you have a reasonably firm grip before you insert it.
 Insert it like a tampon. Push it up with your finger.
 Once it reaches the cervix, it will naturally expand and you won't be able to feel it anymore. Again, this is much like inserting a tampon -- if you can still feel it inside you, then you didn't put it in correctly.
 Make sure that the outer ring is hanging at least an inch outside the vagina. If it's hanging much further out, you may need to check if the inner ring is really inserted correctly.
 Once you've inserted the condom and are ready for sex, have your partner guide his penis into the outer ring that is hanging outside of your vagina. You can help guide his penis into the condom correctly. Make sure that his penis is actually going into the condom instead of touching one wall of your vagina as well as the condom.
 It's normal for the female condom to move from side to side once you're having sex. As long as the inner ring is still inserted and your man's penis is in the condom, you're good to go. If his penis has slipped out or the condom has come loose, you can comfortably reinsert it as long as the man hasn't ejaculated yet. Once the man ejaculates, you can remove and throw out the female condom. If you hear a loud noise because of the condom during sex, you can apply more lubricant.

