 Acetone works very well for getting crazy glue off of the skin. Wet a cotton ball or Q-tip in the acetone, then gently rub it on the dried glue. Give it a few seconds to soften the glue, then wipe with a rag and repeat. Rinse with water when finished.Using a nail polish remover that contains some percentage of acetone is probably your best bet. You can use pure, 100% acetone, but this can be somewhat harsh on the skin, causing dryness and irritation.If the glue is stuck somewhere where using acetone may get it into your body, like your mouth, your nose, your eyes, and so on, don't use acetone. Instead, scroll down for additional tips and tricks.;
, If you don't have acetone or you're worried about drying your skin out, don't worry — you can get rid of crazy glue with plain old soap and water (though it will take a little more time.) Wet the dried glue in the warm water, then gently rub with a rag, an old toothbrush, or another mild abrasive. Be patient and the glue will eventually start to peel off.


If two fingers are stuck together, one way to get them apart is to gently ease a pencil between them and start rolling it back and forth. This slowly opens a gap, freeing the fingers.
Never force apart two pieces of skin that are stuck together. This can cause painful tearing or irritation.
 When glue is stuck to part of your body where harsh chemicals like acetone shouldn't be applied, use alternative fixes. For instance, if your lips are glued together, press them into warm water to loosen the glue. At the same time, use saliva from inside your mouth as you roll your lips together. The constant heat and gentle motion should separate the lips fairly quickly.Leftover glue on the lips can be annoying, but don't worry — it will break down within a maximum of one to two days., As with the lips, acetone should not be used on or near the eyes. Instead, delicately apply warm water (minus soap, which can irritate your eye) with a gentle rag. If the eyelid does not eventually open on its own, do not force it eyelid open. Apply a gauze patch to protect the eye. The glue will break down within 1 to 4 days and your eye will be able to open.
 Crazy glue that dries directly on your eyeball can be seriously irritating, but since touching your eye can make matters worse, it's best to leave it alone. Luckily, the glue bond will release within several hours as the protein in the outer membrane disassociates from the eye.Your eye will probably water during this period and you may experience double vision or blurriness.


See a physician after the glue has broken down to ensure there is no permanent damage to your eye. Crazy glue shouldn't cause permanent damage on its own, but major eye irritation can have long-lasting effects., A special type of glue remover advertised under the name "de-bonder", "super solvent", or "glue remover" is sold in craft and hobby stores and online for fairly cheap — usually less than $10 for a bottle.De-bonders are often made with chemicals like nitromethane, which can be gentler on the skin than acetone. However, not all de-bonders are the same, so check the product's packaging carefully for safety information before making a purchase.

