 While it may be tempting to wear minimal clothing to beat the heat during outdoor activities in the summer, exposing that much skin to the sun will result in tanning and possibly sunburn. Keep in mind that densely woven, lightweight fabrics will provide protection and shade the skin while running, biking, playing golf, and other outdoor activities.
 Depending on the type of outdoor activity you are participating in, different measures can be taken to increase protection against harmful UV rays.


Golf: With long hours on the course and increased UV reflections from the ponds and sand traps, you experience higher exposure to UV rays. Be sure to always wear a broad-brimmed hat (not a visor or a baseball hat!) and sunglasses, along with long pants or longer shorts and a shirt that minimally covers your shoulders and upper arms.
Tennis, Running, and Hiking: Due to the excessive perspiration that accompanies these activities, participants are at an increased risk of sweating off their sunscreen. Because of this, reapplication of sunscreen is not enough protection, and clothing and hats with a UPF of 30 or higher are necessary to provide extra defense from prolonged sun exposure.
Biking: Because of the posture your body is in while riding a bike, the back of the neck, the forearms, and the upper thighs receive much more sun exposure than the rest of the body. To avoid tanning or sunburn during a long bike ride, wear to-the-knee bike shorts, long sleeves, and a wide-brimmed hat and/or cover your neck with the collar of a shirt or a bandana.
Sailing and Swimming: These activities have some of the highest UV exposure levels due to excessive reflection of UV rays off of the water. In addition to protective clothing and liberal reapplication of sunscreen, sailors and swimmers are recommended to choose sunscreen brands that include zinc oxide or titanium dioxide because they block and reflect UV rays better than other types of sunscreen ingredients that absorb UV rays.
 It’s easy to forget to reapply sunscreen when you’re whipping down a bike trail or raising the jib on a sailboat, but sunscreen reapplication is one of the most important ways to prevent tanning during excessive outdoor activity. While the rule for normal activity is reapplication every two hours, be sure to apply more UVA/UVB sunscreen to all exposed skin areas after swimming, sweating, or toweling off.

