 Unfamiliar places can cause your dog to run away to “get back home.” If you have recently moved to a new home or are travelling with your dog, acquaint your dog with these new places so it doesn’t feel like it needs to “get back home.”Lead your dog around a new or unfamiliar house so that it can sniff everything and become familiar with the place.
Also, surround your dog with its blankets and toys, or something with your scent, like a t-shirt or pillow case, so the place becomes familiar to your dog.;
, Many dogs, particularly male dogs, will attempt to run away if they feel the urge to mate. You can prevent your dog from running away to mate by neutering it.Take your dog to your vet or the ASPCA to have it neutered. Neutering your dog is cost-effective; it is generally $40 to $100 dollars depending on its sex. The best time to neuter your dog is when they are six to nine months old., Many dogs attempt to run away because they are bored or lonely. You can prevent this by providing your dog with interactive exercise and regular walks.Take your dog on regular, daily walks. Walk them once in the morning after they have use the restroom, and once in the evening, after you get home from work.
On the weekend, take them to the dog park. If you don’t have time for the park, play fetch with them in your backyard. By associating your backyard with fun activities, you can also prevent your dog from wanting to escape.
If you don’t have time to walk your dog regularly, hire a dog walker to come by once a day to walk your dog.
 Especially during the holidays, loud noises, caused by fireworks for example, can scare your dog and cause them to run away in order to escape the noise. Desensitize your dog to loud noises by training them to relax at the sound of the noise. Also, provide your dog with a safe place to escape to if they hear a loud noise, like thunder. For example, if your dog runs under the bed when it hears thunder, make your bedroom available during a storm.On a tape recorder, record the sound of fireworks. First, play the tape at a low, non-frightening volume. While the tape is playing at a low volume, give your dog a treat, feed it dinner, or play its favorite game. Keep repeating this activity. Gradually increase the volume of the tape over a period of weeks or months. If your dog is frightened at any point, stop immediately. During the next session, start at a lower volume., Make your place a home your dog loves to be. By doing this, you will prevent your dog from wanting to escape. Make your home a happy place by:Regularly cleaning your home.
Giving your dog an area that is especially designated for them, for example, a corner with their bed and toys.
Playing with them in the backyard regularly.
Feeding them and give them treats regularly.

