 The Habitarium can be found under "games". Once you have reached the main page, click "Play".;
, There really isn't much difference between them, so this is just a personal preference.
 Professor Milton Clodbottle will guide you through this.
 Once you have a nest, a house, and a storage, spend your remaining resources on the cheapest decorations, the Mossy Twig. These will prove useful later on.
 All your structures should be placed so that there is a space 2 blocks away from the structure where it can be accessed.
 All jobs of P3s can perform the task of building, so while there is nothing else to be done, put them all on building the structures.
 This will prevent them from being damaged by pests, and in the case of the storage, allow your P3s to harvest faster. Be sure that there is a space on the other side of the decoration that is empty.
 Place your workers and nesters next to the resources to harvest them. The best resources to harvest are stone, wood, and mud.
 This will allow you to create eggs, which can then be discarded or hatched into another P3 of the same species as the nester. To do this, drag a nester onto a finished nest.


Once the progress bar below the nest has been filled, drag the nester off the nest and back to the resources with the workers and other nesters. Then, click on the egg. In the status it should show you the species and job of the P3, have a button to discard, and a button to hatch. Discarding will yield 200XP while hatching will yield 30XP and a new P3.
 Pests will appear randomly while the Habitarium is running, and will attack P3s, decay structures, and decay resources. Your soldiers should automatically walk to the pests to fight them, although you can speed up the pursuit by dragging them next to the pest. All jobs can fight, but soldiers are the best for defending.


When a pest is defeated, they drop a gem. Click it for 30XP.
 As you gain resources or gain more capacity, buy structures and hatch more P3s to maximize your XP.

