 As a student with ADHD, you are entitled to learning accommodations at your school. Talk to your teacher about accommodations in class and for your assignments that can help support you as you complete your studies. Your school may offer accommodations for you as a student with ADHD, which can help you focus and do better in your classes.You can also talk to your school counselor and administrators at your school to find out about possible learning accommodations for students with ADHD.
Accommodations may include getting an extension on assignment due date to accommodate your ADHD as well as different learning options, such as doing oral presentations instead of written papers to make doing assignments easier for you.
You might ask your teacher to help you set daily or weekly goals to help you keep focused., A professional tutor can help you learn how to study and stay focused while in school. Look for a professional tutor who has worked with students with ADHD in the past and who has experience working with students with disabilities or disorders. Ask them for guidance on how you can study better and more effectively.The tutor may work with you one on one and share tactics that you can use to study better on your own.
 Your school or university may offer counseling services with experienced counselors, therapists, and coaches who can help you schedule and manage your time effectively. They can teach you healthy organization and study skills. They may also offer positive reinforcement that can help you build confidence.If you are a university student, your university may offer these services as part of their psychological services or as a part of their accessibility and disability resources.
A school counselor can help you with the process of applying for accommodations. You might qualify for help with note-taking or test-taking. You may even get permission to record lectures., If you are still finding it hard to study with your ADHD despite adjusting your study habits, speak to your doctor. Discuss your struggles with studying and focusing with your doctor. Your doctor may refer you to a mental health counselor who can then help you identify what is holding you back. You may also be given talk therapy or medication to make it easier for you to focus.Your doctor may also try to rule out other issues that may be causing your lack of focus, besides ADHD. Sometimes the symptoms of ADHD mimic the symptoms of anxiety and other disorders. Determining your disorder will ensure you get the proper help and support that you need to succeed in your studies.

