 If you are often marked as a scapegoat, your self-talk may be belittling and unhelpful. You may catch yourself repeating internally the same claims others make about you. Boost your self-esteem by shifting your thoughts in a more positive direction.Spot negative thoughts and learn to reframe them. For example, you may have come to believe, “I don’t deserve happiness.” Rephrase this positively by saying, “I deserve happiness and fulfilling relationships.”

, If you are an easy mark for scapegoating, you may have developed the tendency of dwelling on the negatives. Start bringing your attention to the positive strengths you have to offer the world around you.Make a list of good qualities, such as “helpful,” “compassionate,” “great listener,” and “intelligent.” Pull out your list when you find yourself playing into negative, self-defeating thought patterns.
 You set the standard for how others should treat you by having a positive relationship with yourself. Perhaps others discount your positive qualities or treat you unfairly. But, this doesn’t not have to be how you see yourself. Begin to see yourself as worthy of fair treatment by treating yourself with compassion.Self-compassion means recognizing when you are feeling negative and being gentle on yourself. Remind yourself that you are only human. Give yourself a hug or soft caress. Say soothing phrases like “There, there” or “You are in pain now. But, you’ll be okay.”

, Anxiety and depression are common in scapegoats. It can be challenging to promote a positive self-esteem when you have been stuck in this role for most of your life. Reach out to a counselor or therapist who can help you overcome the victim role and recognize your untapped potential.


You might work with a therapist individually and/or with others to stop scapegoating behaviors., Search for support groups in your area or online for people in dysfunctional families or relationships. It’s likely that others in these groups will have taken on the scapegoat role. Sharing your feelings and concerns with the group may offer some release. You may also hear about effective strategies for developing your identity so that you are no longer such an easy target for scapegoating.