 Every pregnancy is different. Use the advice in this section as a starting point for discussion with a medical professional. Always obey your doctor's instructions, even if they contradict this information.


Take drugs exactly as prescribed. Skipping or adding a dose could cause harm.
 Ask your doctor for a recommended dosage, typically about 5 mg a day. This can have a beneficial effect on the development of the baby's nervous system, and prevent "neural-tube" defects.
 Your doctor may advise you to take iron and calcium tablets. If you were taking iron supplements before, you may not need as high of a dose, as you will be losing less iron to menstruation. If your doctor recommends iron and calcium supplements, take them according to the following restrictions:


If you suffer from heartburn, vomiting, or stomach upsets (all of which are common in pregnancy), never take iron on empty stomach. Taking iron on empty stomach increases its absorption, but can cause severe stomach upsets.
Try not to take Iron and calcium tablets together. Both are positively-charged molecules, and they tend to compete with each other for absorption.
Avoid taking iron tablets after drinking tea or coffee, or eating green leafy vegetables. These foods contain tannates and phytates respectively, which decrease iron absorption in the gut.
Iron tablets can cause dark stools and constipation in some. Up your intake of fiber (salads, fruits, bran, etc.) and stay well hydrated to minimize this effect.
 You can find special supplements that provide vitamins and nutrients for the fetus. Even if the product is clearly intended for pregnant women, talk to a doctor. You may need to take certain precautions, or wait for a different stage in the pregnancy.
 If you suffer from pregnancy-related nausea or similar symptoms, your doctor may prescribe something to help. Here are a few options, which you should only take if doctor-approved:


Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is typically safe, but only if taken in dosages approved by your doctor.
Over-the-counter nausea drugs (e.g. Pepto-Bismol) may or may not be safe. Talk to your doctor.
While Zofran is sometimes prescribed for pregnant women, there is recent evidence that it may cause birth defects.