 New phones, cars, laptops, and other electronic devices can be very expensive. While having the latest model might be nice, it is not necessary, especially if your current model is still functional. Unless your phone, car, or laptop is completely falling apart, try to keep your money in your savings account instead.
 Gas can get expensive, especially if you are driving your car to and from school. A fancy car that uses a lot of gas may look nice, but your bank account won't look so nice after a few months. Instead, opt for a smaller car that uses less gas or a car that is known to be very fuel-efficient, and one that will get you to and from school safely.
 Student bookstores don't always have the best prices when it comes to textbooks. Instead of buying a brand new textbook, consider buying a used one; the price is often half of a new textbook. You may also be able to find cheaper editions online.


Some colleges have bookstores close to them that sell textbooks. They are not part of the school or student bookstore, and their prices are often much lower.
Buy used textbooks with caution. Some professors require the latest edition, and the used textbook you are buying may or may not be the right edition.
To earn back some of your money, consider selling your textbooks at the end of the semester. Keep in mind, however, that if a new edition comes out in the meantime, you may not get very much money back.
You can also rent textbooks as well. This is often the cheapest option, and you do not have to worry about the sell-back value plummeting at the end of the semester.
 When you get money, plan on distributing it between three accounts: your regular account, an account for college fees, and an account for emergencies. When you deposit your paycheck, transfer a small portion of it to your "college fees" and "emergencies" accounts. Whatever you have left over will go into your regular account, and will have to last you until your next paycheck.
 Some high schools offer classes (such as AP and Cambridge) that will give you credit for college.
 Save the special major courses for your college, and take the regular, general education courses at your local community college. Community colleges are often much cheaper, and you can finish your entire college education sooner.
 College is often associated with freedom, but this does not mean that you have to move out and live on your own. Rent is expensive, and the cost of living in an apartment or a dorm room can really add up after a year. If you have parents or relatives who live close to your school, consider living with them. You will also end up saving on other things, such as: internet, heating/water/electrical bills, and food.
 Even if they cannot pay for your tuition, they might be willing to chip in a little bit when it comes to buying other necessities, such as textbooks and school supplies. They may request that you pay the money back, but unlike with a loan, they are unlikely to tack on interest.
 Cars can be a quick and convenient way to get to school, but they can also get expensive, especially if your school requires you to buy monthly parking passes. Instead, see if you can walk, bike, or skateboard to school.


If there is public transportation near your school, try to take advantage of that. Many schools offer student-priced public transit passes to their students. One advantage to taking the bus to school is being able to do your homework while you ride.
If you absolutely must take a car to school, consider carpooling instead and have everyone chip in for the parking and gas costs.

