 Don't wait until the night of the party to figure out what you are going to wear. It is helpful to plan at least a few days in advance to prevent rushing around to find an outfit. If you can, ask the host of the party or a friend what the dress code is like so you know if you need to dress formal or casual. Here are some key pieces of your outfit to plan.If it's casual, consider jeans and a nice shirt.
If it's formal, wear a fancier button up shirt or blouse, dress, slacks, or a tie.
If you're outside on a warm day, dress in lighter fabric so you don't get too hot.
 If you can't figure out exactly what the dress code is because you don't know the host or you don't want to ask your date, there are looks you can find that are timeless and work for almost any occasion.Girls can always depend on the little black dress. Find a simple black dress that is knee length. You can add a necklace and heels to dress up the look or wear flats to keep it casual.
The "go to" for guys can be a button up collar shirt with nice dress slacks.
Depending on the season, be sure to dress appropriately to the temperature outside.
 If you have friends or a date who are also attending the party, you can plan together so that you look good as a group, but don't match too much by wearing the same outfits.


If going with a date, try matching the color of his tie to the color of her dress.
 Think about the types of clothes that are most flattering on you. Everyone has a unique body type and finding the clothes that best suit you will help you look even more amazing.Be sure to wear clothes that fit well and aren't too tight so that you don't have to tamper with them all night.
Pick something that makes you feel confident.
Don't choose anything that has a stain or tear in the fabric.
Black is flattering on every body type, but don't be afraid to wear color!

, If you have a favorite pair of shoes but they hurt your feet, leave them at home. Whether you decide on heels, sneakers, or flats, make sure your feet are comfortable, especially if it is a dance party. Chances are you will be keeping your shoes on and you want to be able to feel good at the party.


Coordinate your footwear with the rest of your outfit. If you're dressed more formally, your shoes should also be formal.

