 Sometimes you may feel sad or lonely and that is normal. Try not to let your sadness affect your college or high school experience, though. It is essential for you to get involved with campus and school activities and to make new friends. Don't let your schoolwork slide, even though you might feel lonely at first. Try to make friends in each of your classes.
If you are feeling down, get together with a friend or call your partner.
 If you are in a relationship with someone, you need to trust them. This will be one of the biggest challenges of maintaining a long distance relationship when your partner goes to a different school.
It's easy to assume your partner is out partying or cheating on you if you aren't seeing them everyday. Try not to allow negative thoughts to affect your trust in the other person.
Know that long distance couples who stay together are statistically more likely to stay together than traditional couples. Their relationship has been tested by long distance and couples who have been in a long distance relationship are more likely to have developed strategies for working through difficult times. , This is especially important, as college will be a challenging new experience for both of you. College is a very emotional and challenging time, especially for new students.
You and your partner are going to have new experiences. Talk frequently about what is going on with each other.
High school is a particularly challenging phase of life involving new social situations, new experiences, and new freedoms. Communicate with your girlfriend/boyfriend about what is going on.
Classes and new social situations can be particularly hard for new college students. Know that your partner is going through the same thing and talk about your experiences.
 College is about finding new passions, learning new things, and making new friends. Join a club or social group that deals with your interests. Most colleges have societies or clubs religious groups, the arts, sports, and other hobbies.
Get to know your roommates and classmates. You will find people with common interests and make lasting friendships.
Dive into your schoolwork. Remember, you went to high school or college to get a diploma/degree and you will need to work hard. Take classes seriously and challenge yourself!

