 VisualBoyAdvance-M (VBA-M) is a new version of the original VBA, which has not been in active development. VBA-M includes additional features not present in the original VBA, including linking between virtual Game Boy systems.Click the green "Download" button on the SourceForge page and then wait for your download to start.;
, This is a free, open-source archive program that will allow you to open the 7z file that you downloaded for VBA-M.


Click the Download link at the top of 7-zip.org for your version of Windows. If you aren't sure, pick the "32-bit x86" version.
Run the installer after downloading it and follow the prompts to install 7-Zip.
 Once 7-Zip is installed, double-click the 7z file you downloaded in Step 1. This will open it in 7-Zip. Click the "Extract" button at the top of the window, and then click "OK."

, By default, the emulator will extract to the same folder that you downloaded the file in. The program doesn't require any installation, so you may want to move it to a more permanent location on your hard drive (i.e. C:\VBA-M, C:\Emulators\VBA-M, or whatever other location you'd like).


Putting VBA-M in a dedicated folder will make it easier for you to store and find your ROM files.
Right-click in any location on your computer and select "New" → "Folder." Once you've created a new folder for VBA-M, simply drag the file from where you extracted it into its new folder. There is only one file for VBA-M.
 ROM files are copies of Game Boy Advance games. It is illegal in most areas to download ROM files for games that you do not own. One of the most popular sites for GBA games is emuparadise.me:


Visit emuparadise.me and click the "GBA ROMs" link in the "Popular ROM Sections" list.
Use the letter links at the top of the page to browse for games, or enter a specific game into the search field.
Click the "Download Links" link at the top of the ROM's details page, then click the download link that the page scrolls to.
Click the "Click here" link next to "Trouble with our captcha?" beneath the captcha. This will let you bypass the captcha and go straight to the download.
Click the game link in the "Direct Download" section. This will begin downloading the game.
 This isn't strictly required, but things will be a lot easier if your keep all of your downloaded ROM files in one easy-to-find spot.


Consider creating a folder called "ROMs" in your VBA-M folder (i.e. C:\VBA-M\ROMs. Then, place all of the downloaded ZIP files into this folder.
Game Boy Advance ROMs typically download in ZIP format. They do not need to be extracted to load into VBA-M

, This is the entire VBA-M program, and it will start immediately without needing to be installed like most programs. You'll be greeted with a black screen with a menu at the top of the window.
 Telling VBA-M where your ROM files are located will allow it to open to the correct directory when you go to load a ROM file:


Click the "Options" menu in VBA-M and select "Directories..."
Click "Browse" next to the "Game Boy Advance ROMs" field.
Browse for the ROM folder your created in Step 6 and then click "OK."

, Click the "File" menu and select "Open." A list of all of the ROMs in your ROM folder will appear. Select the game that you want to launch.
 Below are the keyboard controls you can use to start playing immediately:


A - X

B - Z

L - A

R - S

Start - ↵ Enter

Select - ← Backspace

Directional Pad - ↑↓←→

Speed Up - Space

Screenshot - F11


, If you don't like the default controls, you can change them to whatever you'd like.


Click the Options menu and select "Input" → "Configure"
Click the field for the button you want to change, then press the new key or controller button.

