 Come up with a story and set down the general overview without worrying about how to execute it just yet. Include characters, settings, and action.


Keep it short. Animation takes a while. If you’re a beginner, aim for a two-minute video or less.
Keep it simple. Save the epic space battle for when you have more experience. Start with a low-key exchange between two characters in a single setting.
Watch HISHE’s Super Cafe segments for a great example of a short and simple cartoon.;
, Take the basic ingredients from your treatment and specify exactly what you would like to see onscreen. Include dialogue, sound effects, establishing shots, fade-ins, fade-outs, etc.


Specify elements that are essential to your story, especially if you’re working on a team. Keep everyone clear on the specifics. For instance, if at the end your cartoon a character flattens an empty soda can on his forehead, specify from the start that they’re drinking from a can of soda, and not just “drinking soda.”

, Map your story out visually by drawing panels for each shot, like a comic strip. Keep it simple for time’s sake; use stick-figures for characters and simple geometric shapes for objects., Determine which elements are in the background, middle-ground, and foreground respectively. Also determine which elements will remain static throughout a shot and which will be in motion.


Think in terms of labor. More elements in motion will require more time spent animating them. Minimize the amount of work you have to do by recomposing shots to minimize the amount of movement within each one. For instance, if two characters get into a fistfight while others watch on, have the shot focus on the onlookers’ reactions while using sound effects to indicate the brawl off-camera.
 Draw each element that appears in your storyboard until you’re happy with how it looks. Once you’re happy with it, draw it a few more times for practice until you can replicate your design perfectly.


For each element that moves from panel to panel, draw it from every angle in which it’s seen. For example, draw each character facing the “camera,” then with their back to the camera, and again in profile; if any aspect of their appearance is asymmetrical (like a side part in their hair), draw each side’s profile.
Keep your designs simple. Again, think in terms of labor. Refrain from drawing too many details that will need to be replicated again and again.
Watch The Simpsons for an example of simple, easy-to-replicate designs.
 Either record each line separately on your computer or tablet and save it as its own audio file, or record the whole conversation and then splice each line into its own audio file.

