 To make a magic ring, loop the yarn around your finger twice and then slide it off while retaining the ring shape. Then, slipstitch once around the ring to anchor it and hold the shape.To secure the ring, insert the hook into the center of the ring, then yarn over and pull through the circle. Then, loop the yarn over with the hook on the top side of the ring and pull the new loop through the one on the hook.
 To fill out your magic circle, you will need to single crochet into the center five times. After you finish the last single crochet stitch, gently pull the loose thread of the ring to close the circle and tighten the center.To single crochet, insert the hook into the stitch and yarn over. Pull this yarn through the first stitch on the hook to create a new loop. Then, yarn over again and pull through both loops to complete a single crochet stitch., To connect the first and last single crochet stitches, chain one and then do a slipstitch into the first single crochet stitch.To slipstitch, insert the hook into the first single crochet stitch in the round chain with the last stitch you made still on the hook. Then, loop the yarn over and pull it through both loops., To start the first petal, do one half double crochet stitch into the same stitch that you just slipstitched into. This will create the upward slope of your fist petal., Next, double crochet three times to fill out the petal. This will make up the body of the petal.To double crochet, yarn over the hook, then push the hook through the same stitch as the half double crochet stitch and then loop the yarn over again. Pull through the first stitch, and then yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the next two stitches, then yarn over again. Pull through the last two stitches to complete one double crochet.Repeat twice more for a total of three double crochet stitches.
 Finish your fist petal with another half double crochet stitch. This will add a slight downward slope and curve to the petal.This will complete the first petal and you will need to repeat this process four more times for a total of five petals. When you complete the last petal, secure the last stitch to the first stitch in the round with a slipstitch. Then, cut the yarn a few inches from the last stitch and pull it through to secure it.
 After you have completed your flower, thread the tail through a darning needle and sew it to the band. You may sew it to the band so that it is centered, or at a slight angle. Tie the yarn in a knot around one of the band stitches to secure the flower and then cut the excess.


If desired, you can add a bead or sequin to the center of the flower to add a decorative touch.

