 Butter is best fresh, and in a perfect world, you'd purchase and consume the butter weekly.However, this isn't realistic for many people, so the key is to stick to small amounts, and fast consumption, fitting this in with your usual shopping routine. If you have found butter for a bargain price and don't want to overlook the savings, consider freezing the bulk of any excess butter.
 Butter easily absorbs the odors of other foods, thus it's important to provide a guard against this possibility., Alternatively, if you don't wish to wrap the butter, place it straight into the sealed container in its original packaging; the seal will prevent the transfer of odors and exposure to air.


Left unopened, salted butter will keep for several weeks., Once you start to use it, aim to work through it quickly.
, While butter can be frozen as a whole block, it is probably more useful to cut it into usable chunk sizes, which will make it easier to thaw quickly and provide just the amount you need each time.
 Ensure that the foil completely covers the butter and overlaps for added protection.
 Alternatively, place it inside a freezer-proof container which is airtight.,, Unsalted butter has a shelf life of three months in the refrigerator (unopened), while it can be frozen for up to six months.Once opened, it will keep for two to three weeks in the refrigerator., If you cannot consume it within this time, you will need to freeze the unsalted butter, to ensure that it stays fresh for longer.


Wrap the butter well in foil to avoid other flavors from mingling with it.
Before wrapping, consider cutting it into smaller chunks that you can remove for use as needed.
Place a resealable freezer bag over it to prevent odor penetration.
Place in the freezer. Keep it away from any frozen food that might impart a strong odor. As noted, unsalted butter will keep for up to six months in the freezer.
 Butter spoils quickly at room temperature, due to its high water content., The salt as a preservative will help the butter to stay fresher a little longer.
 Store it in a cool, dark and dry cupboard or pantry when not in use. When on the table, keep the lid of the butter dish on when the butter is not being used.


Air is the source of turning butter rancid. Hence, keeping the lid on helps to slow down this process.If you like the idea of room temperature storage, consider getting a European storage crock. These come with a water seal that keeps the air out, the moisture in and retains the freshness of the butter for longer (up to two weeks).Inquire about this at your local kitchen store, or check online for providers.
 The butter will go rancid very quickly. For room temperature butter when it is hot, remove only the needed amount from the refrigerator a half hour to an hour before use and place in the butter dish/keeper; leave to warm at room temperature, with the lid firmly on. Then transfer to the table. Discard what has not been consumed at that meal.
 Ghee has had the milk solids removed. This means that it is less likely to go rancid and has a longer shelf life.
 Provided the room temperature is normal and not too hot, and you intend on using the ghee quickly, it is usually fine to store it at room temperature.If ghee has been made properly and is stored properly, it is possible to store it at room temperature for several decades.However, this is not advisable, as foods are best consumed within a short period of time of their production. If any moisture or milk solids remain in the ghee, it will not store well for a long period of time; it must be pure butter fat for it to stay fresh at room temperature.The container used to hold the ghee must be airtight, opaque and waterproof.Pickling crocks or porcelain jars/earthenware jars can be used for short-term room temperature storage.Colored glass jars or commercially specific hermetically sealed containers can be used for longer-term room temperature ghee storage., For long-term freshness and absolute certainty, it is a good idea to keep ghee refrigerated, especially once opened, and especially if you've made it yourself.Ensure that it is in an airtight container; it will still absorb the odors of aromatic foods around it.
