 No matter what your grounds for applying for the Provisional Waiver, you’ll need to show that you actually do fit into the proper categories. You’ll need to submit:A visa petition approval notice and application receipt, showing that the petition filed by your employer or relative was approved. The approval notice is called Form I-797.
A printout from the Electronic Diversity Visa Entrant Status Check Print Out, which you can find at https://www.dvlottery.state.gov/esc/(S(cmhcfh23kzjh0kwxu0oxwyew))/default.aspx.
Evidence showing your relationship to your relatives, such as birth certificates, marriage records, name change documents, and adoption records.
 If your Provisional Waiver application alleged that hardship would be felt by a qualifying relative in the event of your absence, you will need to produce supporting evidence. Because of the diversity of circumstances leading to hardship, there is no one set of documents applying to all cases. However, some common documents include:Financial records such as bank statements, statements of assets, billing statements, and pay stubs.
Medical records, such as diagnoses or evaluations, receipts for long term care, prescription drugs, or anything else showing medical hardship.
Any evidence of membership in organizations, like churches and community groups, supporting the existence of ties to the community.
Any expert opinions, whether it be about the conditions in the destination country, a medical diagnosis, or anything else.
Signed and notarized affidavits attesting to the hardship from the relatives who would be subjected to the hardship.
 Once you’ve gathered any documents or supporting evidence, you need to fill out the application. It must be filled out in black ink—other types of ink do not photocopy as well—but it may be typed or handwritten. Double and triple check the application to make sure every part of it is complete, and be sure to include your supporting documents.Make sure the return address is correct; USCIS will inform you by mail of any dates for interviews. If you wish to be notified electronically, submit Form G-1145 along with your application.
Include the fee. There is an application fee of $585 and an additional fee of $85 to process the biometric data. You’ll need to make the cashier’s check or money order out to the US Department of Homeland Security, not the DHS or USDHS.
Mail the application to USCIS, P.O. Box 4599 Chicago, IL 60680.
 USCIS may ask for biometric information. If they do, they will contact you electronically or by mail of an appointment at an Application Support Center. They will provide the time, address, and date. You just have to show up.