 Your partner will likely be wearing this ring every day, so you want to make sure to pick out something they will like. Look at their jewelry collection, especially their rings, and consider what styles and metals they prefer. Ask yourself these questions before buying them the promise ring: Does your partner wear small, delicate pieces or larger, statement pieces?
Do they wear pieces that contain precious stones or diamonds, or do they prefer solid metals?
Does your partner wear mostly warm-toned metals like gold and copper? Or do they wear cool-toned metals like silver and titanium?

, You need to keep your partner’s preference in metals in mind, but you also need to consider your price range. You should be able to settle on a ring that satisfies both your partner’s taste and your spending limits. Think about what metal you want before buying the ring. Gold and platinum rings, or rings with diamonds or gems, are on the pricier side.
Titanium and silver are on the cheaper side.
 There are several standard designs for promise rings that symbolize you and your partner’s love and your promise to each other.


A heart design is the most traditional design. The heart symbolizes your love for one another.
A Claddagh ring is a traditional promise ring design that originated in Ireland. The Claddagh design, showing two hands coming from either side to grasp a central crowned heart, symbolizes loyalty and love. It can be really special if your significant other is Irish, as they will recognise the symbol. Explain why you chose the ring and what the symbol means to you. If you are buying this ring, research the meaning and explain it to them. The crown is loyalty, the heart is love and the hands are friendship. Rings containing the infinity symbol are also common promise rings. The infinity symbol represents a love that will last forever.
Three-stone rings are another promise ring design. The three stones represent the past, the present and future that you share with your partner.
 Many choose to engrave their promise ring with a personal message. This makes the ring more personal and emphasizes the reason for giving the ring. You can choose your engraving to be on the inside of the ring, or on the outside so it’s visible when your partner wears it. Engraving both your names, like “Julia and Daniel”, is a sweet way to make the ring more personalized.
You could simply engrave “I love you”.
You could also engrave a date, either your anniversary or the date that you are giving them the promise ring.

