 A major hallmark of becoming emotionally mature is learning how to stand up for what you believe in. The best way to do this is by setting boundaries in your relationships. Think long and hard about how you want to be treated by parents, friends, romantic partners, and coworkers. Then, come up with a list of boundaries to share with these people.


For instance, your friends crack jokes about your girlfriend. If you would like your friends to respect your relationship, you might enforce this by saying, “I asked if you could stop making jokes about Jennie. If you can’t respect that, we can’t be friends anymore.”
It’s important to follow through when you set boundaries so that people take you seriously., An emotionally mature adult doesn’t play games when it comes to matters of the heart. Playing mind games may make you feel in control or mysterious, but it actually jeopardizes the health of your bond with the other person. It also undermines trust.


Resist the urge to score points or win favor and instead go for the truth. It can be hard at first, but recognize that vulnerability is an essential component in a successful relationship.
Put simply, if you care for someone, have the courage to tell them. If you have a problem, don’t just withdraw. Try to work it out by candidly sharing your feelings with your partner. And, if you are no longer interested in someone, be kind enough to tell them face-to-face—before you move on to the next person., A big part of being an emotionally mature man or woman is personal accountability. Be accountable to yourself and to others. If you make a promise to someone, follow through with it. If you set a goal, make a daily effort towards reaching it. Personal accountability allows you to be a person of integrity. When people can depend on you to do what you say, they are able to trust you.


The next time you say “yes” to a favor or make a promise, do whatever is necessary to see it through. If you realize down the road that you shouldn’t have said “yes,” then you’ll know next time to carefully consider all requests before agreeing to them.