 American English is, for the most part, just the same as any other English. Apart from some phrases, colloquialisms, dialects, and spellings, most of the language is the same as the English spoken in Britain, Australia, Canada, and elsewhere around the globe. There are a few significant local differences, which leads some people to say that these groups are "separated by a common language." But in reality, most of the words and phrases are the same. If you know English and understand non-American English speakers, too, for the most part, you will do fine in America.;
, American English is spoken differently in each region of the U.S. Listen closely to pick up local phrases and colloquialisms, especially in social settings. You will begin to notice the difference when you travel from one region to another.


For some articles on regional accents and expressions, check out How to Imitate a Texan Accent, How to Speak With a Bostonian Accent, How to Speak With a Convincing New Jersey Accent, How to Talk Like a New Yorker, How to Fake a Chicago Accent, and How to Talk Like a Southern Gentleman.
 You'll learn as you go, but here is a short list of American English, just to get you acquainted.


"Awesome" and "cool" are used to describe something great or positive or popular, more so than in other countries, and both words can be used as a positive reaction to something someone tells you, too.
"What's up?" or "Sup" for short. This phrase is used to ask someone what they're doing, how they are, and as a general greeting. It is not socially acceptable in formal occasions, but it's fine to use casually with friends. It's most often used by young men.
"Hanging out" is spending time somewhere or with someone. It can be used in describing or arranging one particular event ("Do you want to hang out?") or more generally to describe a habit ("I hang out at the mall a lot"). It's a phrase often used by teenagers to describe how they pass time and socialize, often without one particular activity or aim. It can also be used to describe time spent around the house or doing nothing in particular ("What are you up to?" / "Not much; just hanging out").
"Y'all" is a contraction of "You all", the second person plural mode of directly addressing a group of people. It is used primarily in the Southern States but is acceptable in other regions.
Soda, Pop, Cola, Sodapop, Coke, etc. Fizzy sweetened beverages like Fanta, Coca-Cola, Sierra Mist, and Dr. Pepper, may be referred to using these different names in different areas of the states.
 If you've studied British English in the past, realize that not all of the words and phrases will be identical in the US. If you use British English words, phrases, or spellings in these situations, you might not be understood. Learn the American versions instead:


Restroom/bathroom instead of Toilet/Lavatory
Elevator instead of Lift
Trunk instead of Boot
Freeway instead of motorway
Sweater instead of jumper
Pants for trousers, not underwear
Vest for waistcoat (the underwear version is often just called an undershirt instead)
Sneakers instead of Trainers
Diaper instead of nappy
Bathing suit instead of swimming costume
Vacation instead of holiday (holidays tend to mean national bank holidays only)
French fries instead of chips
Chips instead of crisps
Gasoline instead of Petrol
Truck instead of Lorry
Flashlight instead of Torch
Color instead of colour
Favorite instead of Favourite
Popsicle instead of Ice Lolly
Tire instead of Tyre
Napkins should only be used to wipe your face at dinnertime

, Don't expect everyone to know or understand your unique dialect. The US is an immigrant nation and has always welcomed newcomers to their country. However, they seldom learn to speak other languages. 95% of Americans will never travel to all 50 of the United States much less travel abroad, so if they don't understand you well or speak your language... don't think they are ignorant, they are just practical.
 If you do not speak good English, don't be offended if an American jokes or laughs when you say something that doesn't make sense to them. For some Americans, laughter can be a way of trying to reduce the frustration with language barriers; it isn't intended disrespectfully. Just laugh too, as it is common and natural for misunderstandings in the beginning.
 You might meet someone friendly, or someone rude, but that doesn't mean they represent all Americans. Additionally, attitudes can vary depending on where you are and who you're talking to; the attitude of people in large cities may be somewhat different than the attitude of those living in rural or farming communities. People in major cities tend to do things more briskly and may seem rude to you. Please don't generalize this as a representation of how the USA acts. If three New Yorkers are rude to you, don't go home and tell all your friends, "Americans are rude."

, It's perfectly acceptable over in the States, and it creates an atmosphere of congeniality.
 Don't always speak what’s on your mind, if it might sound offensive. That doesn't mean mute all of your thoughts but try to construct them in a way that won't offend your host. Manners matter, and it's important to be gracious, considerate, and kind, especially to an American who's hosting you in their home.

