 This is a good plan for people with short hair and cowlicks on the nape or crown. If the hair is cut evenly, once it is dry the hair in the area of the cowlick could look longer than the rest, because it is swirling in the opposite direction. Cut this area shorter and it will blend better with the rest as your cut grows out.You can also cut the hair in the area of the cowlick extremely short so the hair lies against the scalp or neck where the cowlick exists.
 If you don't want short hair, you can increase your length, thereby increasing the weight of your hair. Longer hair is heavy. That weight could counteract the direction of the cowlick when it is affected by the hair’s gravity.This is not likely to work for cowlicks in your bangs as the hair will not likely get long enough to have an effect on a pesky cowlick.
 Consult with your hairstylist to see if they can add layers to your hair which could cover or camouflage the cowlick. A competent stylist can suggest a good cut to compliment or cover your cowlick.Longer layers can be used to weigh the area down over the cowlick while using shorter layers underneath.
Shorter hair can be styled with a shaggy cut which changes the direction of the hair surrounding the cowlick to help blend it in to your hairstyle and camouflage it.
 Adjust the rest of your hair to match your cowlick. Sending your hair in many different directions can make the cowlick seem entirely intentional. Heat a curling iron to a medium-high heat. Comb out a small section of hair on the front and side of your hair. Clip the iron around this piece of hair near the middle of the length of hair. Draw the iron down to the end of the strands, then spin the iron until all of the section of hair is wrapped around the iron. Hold for three seconds, then unwind the hair and release it from the iron.


Continue this process working your way all the way around your head until you have curled all of your hair.
Curl the area of the cowlick in the direction of the cowlick and take the hair in that area in a similar direction.
 The messy look continues to be in style. Consider allowing the cowlick to do its thing and even match the rest of your hair to that look. Spray a quarter size amount of mousse into your palm and gently rub your hands together. Apply this mousse to slightly damp hair. Massage it deep to the roots, then pull it through your hair in all directions.Women or men with long hair can also try placing your palm at the bottom of a section of hair, slowly lifting that hand to gather the length of the hair, then scrunching it in your fist to create kinks and texture.

