 Ensure you wear sunscreen with strength of at least 30 SPF. Look for a sunscreen that has both UVA and UVB protection. Cover your face, nose, neck, arms, and shoulders. These are the areas most exposed to the sun and the areas that tend to burn most easily. If your chest or back are exposed, cover them with an even coat of sunscreen, too.Avoid scented sunscreens, as they attract bugs.Additionally, wear sunglasses. Protecting your eyes is extremely important no matter the weather. Choose sunglasses that offer 99% or greater UV protection., Do not push yourself beyond what you can manage. If you’re new at exercising, or if you exercise only irregularly, keep your hot weather walk brief. For instance, you might have a ten-minute hot weather walk to gauge your fitness level. If you feel fine throughout the walk, you could increase your hot weather walk to 15 minutes the next time around.Keep in mind that your hydration level will greatly affect how you feel before and after your walk.


Continue to add time to your hot weather walk in five-minute increments up to a time limit you feel is adequate and safe.
Factor your own health and medical history into your decision to head out for a hot weather walk. For instance, if you have a medical condition that is exacerbated by hot weather (such as heart failure), or are taking medication (like diuretics) that could put you at greater risk for a heat-related illness, avoid hot weather walks.Talk to your doctor if you are unsure about the relationship between hot weather walks and your medication or medical history.
If you believe you have any reason to be concerned about taking a hot weather walk, stay indoors.
Take a rest under some shady trees or head home if you feel you cannot complete the full circuit you’d planned on walking.
 Despite your best attempts to stay hydrated and dress properly, you may still succumb to the heat. Learn the signs and symptoms of too much heat exposure to know when your body needs respite. There are several heat-related illnesses that may afflict you if you fail to stay cool on hot weather walks. Common heat-related illnesses include:Heat exhaustion. If you suffer from heat exhaustion, you might experience nausea, vomiting, headache, fainting, thirst, or feelings of general weakness. Your skin may become cold, pale, and clammy.Heatstroke. Heatstroke occurs when heat exhaustion is left untreated. You’ll experience all the symptoms of heat exhaustion, plus a few additional symptoms. Your skin will be hot and your heart might be racing. You may or may not sweat. Seek medical attention immediately if you have heatstroke.
Heat cramps - Heat cramps cause the muscle to contract painfully. Your body temperature might remain normal and your muscles might feel tense or firm.
Heat syncope and exercise-associated collapse – Heat syncope causes feelings of lightheadedness or fainting in high temperatures. This is unlikely to affect you during hot weather walks, since it tends to occur after standing for a long period of time. A related condition, exercise-associated collapse, also causes feelings of lightheadedness or fainting, but you are more likely to experience it because it tends to strike after exercising (such as after vigorous walking).

