 The best way to change your grades, of course, is to do it the right way. Show up to class every day and make an effort to be actively engaged in your lessons. Take notes that you can review later to better familiarize yourself with the material. With time, you’ll find that your understanding of the subject is steadily improving.Listen intently with the purpose of absorbing what’s being explained to you. Ask questions to clarify information that you don’t fully understand.Classroom time is not for sleeping, goofing off or socializing with your friends. Doing these things might explain why you got a bad report card in the first place.;
, Instead of playing video games or hanging out at the mall after school, take an additional hour or two in the afternoon or evening to focus on your studies. Concentrate on the subjects you tend to have the hardest time with. Studying is like practicing for a sport —the more you do, the better you’ll get.There’s no need to deny yourself a life. Just do a little bit more than you’re currently doing.
Make homework more fun by organizing a study group consisting of your closest friends so you can work on difficult assignments together., If you just can’t wrap your head around a certain subject, try working with a tutor. This will give you an opportunity to sit down with someone who can give you the one-on-one attention that you need. Tutors are usually teachers or students themselves, and they can often break things down for you in a way that makes them more comprehensible.Tutors can be hired independently, and are also usually available for instruction through public and private schools.
Tutoring is useful when you find yourself stuck on a certain lesson, or you’re preparing for a big test.
 Getting a bad grade every once in a while isn’t the end of the world. What’s more important is that you learn from your mistakes so you can do better in the future. Rather than becoming discouraged, think of unsatisfactory grades as feedback that can help point in you in the right direction. Developing the determination to overcome challenges is an important part of growing as a student and a person.A slip in your grades doesn't mean that you're unintelligent or lazy. Try to accept the situation as a minor setback and keep moving forward.
Bad grades can happen for many different reasons—perhaps you don't contribute enough to group projects, or you get exceptionally nervous before tests. Tracing a disappointing grade back to its source can allow you to outline clear goals on what to work on and improve., Remember: cheaters never win. Whatever your motivations are for changing a report card, you should never become reliant on underhanded methods to succeed. If you’re determined to work hard and stay focused, nothing can hold you back. You’ll receive a lot more satisfaction knowing that you can do anything if you set your mind to it, which is one of the greatest lessons you can learn during your time in school.Improving your grades through diligent study may take longer, but it will be worth it in the long run.
When you cheat, you’re doing yourself a disservice. You’ll never know what you can accomplish until you do it on your own.

