 If you need to relocate temporarily to a friend or family member's house, or to a shelter, you should do so.


Many shelters have resources and legal assistance available if you need help filling out your forms to request a restraining order.;
, The Family Abuse Prevention Act prevents your abusive partner or former partner from hurting or coming near you or your children.Generally you must be 18 years old, and have been married or in a sexual relationship with the person you want the court to restrain.
The person can be your spouse, former spouse, an adult related to you, an adult you lived with in a sexual relationship, or the parent of your child. You also can seek a FAPA restraining order against someone you had a sexual relationship with but never lived with, provided the relationship was within the last two years.The person you want the court to restrain also must have hurt you within the last 180 days. This means that the person either physically injured you, tried to physically injured you, or made you afraid that they were about to physically injure you. Using force or threats of force to make you have sexual relations against your will counts as abuse.
If the person spent a period of time either in jail or more than 100 miles away from your home, that does not count towards the 180 day period.You also must be able to prove that you are in danger of being hurt again soon unless the person is restrained, and that the person is a threat to you and your children., A sexual abuse protective order protects you from a person not related to you who made you have sexual contact without your consent.


The person must not already be prohibited from contacting you by some other restraining order.If you are a minor, the person you want the court to restrain must be at least 18 years old. If you're under 12, a parent or guardian must file the request for a restraining order for you. You'll be appointed a guardian ad litem to look out for your best interests and make decisions about your case. If you're over 12 you can file for the order yourself.If you're an adult, you and the person you want the court to restrain cannot be family or household members. If you are family or household members, you may qualify to file for a Family Abuse Prevention Act restraining order.The abuse must have occurred within the last 180 days. That period of time is increased if the person spent part of that time in jail or more than 100 miles from your home.You must be able to show that you are in reasonable fear of your physical safety if the person is not restrained., A stalking protective order helps protect you from a person who has made unwanted contact with you or a member of your immediate family or household.


The person must have contacted you or a member of your family or household at least two separate times within the past two years.
The contact must have been alarming and coercive, and you must be able to demonstrate that it was reasonable for you to feel alarmed or coerced.Additionally, the contact must have caused you to have reasonable fear either for your own physical safety or the physical safety of a household or family member.For example, the person might be following you home, or sending you emails or text messages that threaten immediate physical violence., An elderly abuse order helps protect people over the age of 65 or people who are disabled from someone who is abusing them.


Qualifying disabilities include developmental disabilities, mental or emotional disturbances that require placement in a residential program, or people in drug or alcohol abuse treatment facilities.The abuse suffered must include either intentional physical injury or neglect that leads to physical harm through the withholding of necessary services, abandonment, sexual contact that you didn't consent to or were incapable of consenting to, or threats, insults, or other inappropriate communication.The abuse must be such that you are in immediate danger of further abuse, and it must have happened within 180 days of the date you file for the protective order.The 180-day period is paused if the person you're asking the court to restrain is in prison or 100 miles or more away from you at any time during that period., Oregon state courts have forms available that you can fill out to request a restraining order. You can download these forms with instructions on the internet, or pick them up at the county court clerk's office.Domestic violence shelters also may have copies of FAPA forms, and women's shelters may have copies of FAPA and SAPO forms., When you fill out the forms, print legibly using blue or black ink, and make sure everything you write is true and correct to the best of your knowledge.If you are filing for an elderly protective order, you also must fill out the green sheet with relevant data that is sent to law enforcement personnel. This page does not go in the court's file. Instead, you should turn it in to the sheriff's office., Once you've finished filling out your forms, you will need to sign them in the presence of a notary or a court clerk to authenticate your signature.If you don't know where to find a notary, check at your bank – they often have notary services free of charge for their customers. You can always find a notary for a small fee at the courthouse.
Court clerks also can authenticate your signature.Bring photo identification with you when you sign your documents., Filing for a restraining order is free. You must file your forms in the county court where either you or the person you want to restrain lives.If you are filing for a stalking protective order and want to ask the court to make your stalker pay money for any damages you may have suffered as a result of the stalking, you will have to pay a filing fee and file a different lawsuit. You should talk to an attorney if you want to take this additional step.<ref?http:

, The clerk will set a time for the judge to look over your papers, and she may ask you some questions before giving you the restraining order.


When you get your restraining order, court staff will make copies for you, one of which must be served on the restrained person.If you request a stalking protective order and the judge signs the temporary order, a hearing will be set., The person cannot be punished for violating the order until he knows about it and the court knows he knows about it – so he must be legally served and a declaration of service must be filed with the court.


You can have a sheriff's deputy serve the papers on the restrained person, a service provided free of charge in the state of Oregon.
You also may use a private process serving company or have any adult deliver the papers to the person.Once the papers are delivered, the person who delivered them must fill out the declaration of service and file it with the court. There is a form for this in your packet of forms, but some process serving companies use their own forms., Except if you've requested a stalking protective order, there will only be a hearing to make the order permanent if the restrained person requests it.Otherwise, the temporary order goes into effect for one year after 30 days.Typically there will be no hearing unless the restrained person requests one to contest the order. If he does, you may only have a couple of days to get ready for your hearing.Because the hearing is set so fast, you may get a phone call rather than written notice of the date and time for the hearing. Make sure the court has correct phone numbers and addresses to get in touch with you.Judges may set a hearing themselves in rare cases if you are asking for sole custody of children as part of your restraining order.If you've filed for an elderly protective order, you have the right to request a hearing yourself within the same 30-day period.If you requested a SAPO, the court will schedule the hearing within 21 days of the request. You may ask the judge in writing if you prefer to appear via telephone or video conferencing rather than be in the same room with the restrained person.Note that if a hearing is scheduled and you don't attend, your order probably will be dismissed.The purpose of the hearing is to determine whether the restraining order will remain in effect beyond 30 days. If the judge rules in your favor and makes the restraining order permanent, it will be in effect for one year and can be renewed in one-year increments thereafter., Generally you can have a restraining order renewed if you are still afraid that you will be abused by the restrained person in the future., You can find renewal forms in the same place you found the original forms, or you can get them at the clerk's office or download them from your court's website., You must fill out the renewal forms either by typing in your answers or by printing legibly using blue or black ink.The caption and case number will be the same as it was in the original order., The affidavit portion of your motion to renew must be signed in front of a notary public or in front of the clerk when you file your motion., You may file your request for renewal at any time before the original order ends. However, if you file too early, the judge may tell you to wait.You must file your forms with the clerk's office of the same court that granted your original order.The judge will then decide if a reasonable person in your position would still be afraid of the restrained person. You don't have to prove that any new abuse has occurred or offer any explanations for your renewal request., After you've filed your request for renewal you must serve the papers on the restrained person just as you did with the original order.


A sheriff's deputy will serve these forms for free, or you can use a private process serving company or another adult you know., The restrained person has 30 days from the date she is served to request a hearing to contest the renewal of the order.


If the restrained person does not request a hearing, your order will be renewed for another year.If the restrained person does request a hearing, it will be scheduled within 21 days of the date of her request.