 Invite people who you know and would like at the party. This will ensure that you have a good night.;
, Choose Halloween night if possible, otherwise a weekend night that is close enough to the actual Halloween. Send out paper invitations if wished.


Don't clash with other events.
Give your friends plenty of notice of the party ahead.
 Although optional, making a closed Facebook event will allow you to keep people up to date on your progress of your party, and you can remind them with notification.
 No Halloween party is complete unless you and all of your guests come in their best scary costume!


Suggest that those failing to wear a costume with being covered in fake blood on arrival!

, If you are wanting to throw a killer Halloween Party, you're going to have to have around $200 set aside for all the essentials.
 You'll need decorations, food and drink, and disposable items for eating with. Think of such things as fake spiders, fake webs, pumpkins, lighting, spooky noises, gravestones, etc. for decorating and creating atmosphere.

Search thrift shops. Thrift shops are a great place to search for creepy old stuff at a cheap price.]
Search online stores. Purchasing Halloween supplies online is generally a cheaper way of doing it. Some sites offer special deals like free shipping or "buy one get one free", which is a big bonus.
 Fill every nook and cranny with something spooky to scare your guests with! Cover everything with fake spiderwebs. Change all of the light globes and light candles.
 Like Blood drink (fruit punch). Mummy fingers (hot dogs in croissants), Brains (mac+cheese), Fingernails and guts (chips and dip) eyeballs (meatballs or cheese balls) and lots of sweet things.


Some other food ideas: Graveyard cup cakes, mummy hot dogs, witch's finger cookies, red jelly (Jello) and gummy insects platter. If you don't want to do all the cooking yourself, ask some of your friends to help, or have a cooking day the day before. Decorate the food with plastic spiders and cockroaches for an extra spook.
 Make sure it is candy that everyone likes!

, The best party ever wouldn't be the best party without a huge punch bowl! Use an over sized food-safe cauldron to keep with the theme, or you could use a punch bowl picked up from the thrift store. Decorate the punch with pieces of floating fruit and gummy worms.
 A party is bound to get boring if you don't have something to do. Try bobbing for apples, and once everyone has theirs (without eating them or taking bites out of them just caramelize them. Many people would love making them. Other games are Manhunt (which is in-the-dark hide and go seek) Taste test (everyone is blind folded and handed either a candy or a simple food like an Oreo. Every round the food and candy gets harder to describe or recognize.
 For example: Costume, Dance, Fear Factor, and others.
 It would be cool if one of your family members or a friend could dress up and act like a scary character. Then, when your friends arrive, have this person come up to the door, and give them a good scare.


If you're handing out candies to trick-and-treaters while holding the party, have someone responsible in charge of answering the door to these little fiends, as well as for guests, so that the door is under control at all times.
 Try to jump out of a closet or a hiding spot and try to take a picture of their face. Also have scary music or make tapping sounds against the wall or footsteps to add to the creepiness.
 Use this time, before the guests start arriving, to make sure everything is ready and you have your costume in good shape. Turn the music on and wait for the guests to arrive., Use a music player which you can connect a phone or iPod to. This makes it easier if you want to change songs easily or switch devices. A good set of computer speakers should be enough otherwise you could play your music through your TV.
 Once the guests arrive, it's time to reap the benefits of all of your hard work and planning. Have a fantastic Halloween party because you deserve it!

,