 Kits do (infrequently) come from the factory with missing or damaged parts. The time to return it to the store is before you begin assembling it!;
, Using an old toothbrush, some dish detergent and warm water, carefully wash the parts of the model while they are still on the parts trees. Rinse the parts thoroughly and allow to dry completely.
 Use flush cutting sprue nippers, an X-acto knife or a single-edged razor blade. Do not cut too close to the part or you may leave a gouge where you cut it. Use a No. 11 hobby blade to remove the rest of the sprue by shaving across the nub. This is the time to remove any raised bumps caused by the molding process. Use a smooth emery board, 400- grit wet-or-dry abrasive paper or lightly scrape the No. 11 blade at a 90 degree angle across the offending plastic nub until it has been smoothed away.
 They are much easier to handle this way!

, Glue and adhesives do not adhere well to paint, and may cause it to run.
, Also, too much glue can actually melt parts of plastic and deform your model's surface. It takes trial and error (and practice) to know what the right amount is. If in doubt, err on the side of too little: you can always add more if needed, but too much glue will spoil your model.
 Super glue takes a set almost instantly, whereas other adhesives and bonding agents can take longer. Be prepared to hold the parts for a few moments while the glue sets up, or use rubber bands, spring-type clothes pins, or a hobby vise to clamp your work while the adhesive dries.
 Apply the putty sparingly, smooth it with a moistened finger or tongue depressor (Popsicle stick). Once it has cured, it may be sanded with 400- then 600-grit wet-or-dry paper. Once painted, you won't know it's there.
 If you forget to pick the part up, you will have newsprint on your part and you will then have to sand and paint again.
 Other types of glue will either damage or fog the piece. This type of glue can be used as a filler as well. Simply apply to the gap with and an old paint brush then wipe away the excess with a damp paper towel or a damp cotton swab. This works very well when filling a gap between clear sections and solid color parts.
