 A great way to help illustrate a certain concept is to use analogies. One popular analogy to explain SEO is the library analogy.Most people are familiar with how libraries work; children and teenagers often have to use libraries to obtain sources and information for their school projects and reports.
 Using your client and his or her website in your library analogy might help your client make the connections. It will also help keep him or her engaged.
 Compare your client's website to a book on a familiar subject, preferably one that has something to do with his or her website. Try to use a variation of the website's name as the title, and a variation of your client's name as the author. For example:


If your client's name is Bob McBob, and Bob's Window Cleaning is the name of his website, use Window Cleaning by Bob Windowman as your fictional book. Window cleaning is something that your client can relate to, which will help keep him engaged.
While you are at it, compare your client's competitors' websites to other books in the library on the same topic. So Wendy's Windows could become a book called Wonderfully Clean Windows by Wendy Wonders.
 The two ways someone can find your client's website is by either typing the URL into the address bar directly, or by typing in keywords into the search bar of a reputable search engine. Similarly, the two ways someone can find a book in a library is by either finding the book on the shelf, or by typing keywords into the library's computer. For example:


Bob McBob specializes in cleaning windows on multistory buildings. To find his website, someone could go to a reputable search engine, and type in words such as "window cleaning" and "multistory" and the city or suburb that Bob McBob has his business in.

Window Cleaning by Bob Windowman happens to have an entire chapter on cleaning windows on multistory buildings. Someone could find his book by going to the library computer and search the catalog using the terms "window cleaning" and "multistory" or "skyscrapers."

, If a book is not categorized properly in the library catalog, then no one will be able to find it. Similarly, no one will be able to find your client's website unless it contains the keywords people would most likely type into a search engine while trying to find it.


A person searching for Window Cleaning by Bob Windowman won't find the book if the book is not tagged in the library catalog.
A person searching for someone to clean his or her windows on a multistory house won't be able to find Bob McBob's website unless he uses keywords, such as "window cleaning" and "multistory" on his website.
 One of the reasons someone might choose a certain book over another is because it had good reviews. A well-reviewed book might even be displayed at the front section of the library on a shelf titled "Good Reads" or "Top-Reviewed." Similarly, the more websites link to your client's site, the more likely a search engine will see it as being reputable—and will place it towards the top of the search results. Your client needs to understand this. For example:


Bob Windowman knows how to write really well, which means that his book has gotten great reviews. They were so good, in fact, that the library placed the book in the front section of the library, reserved for well-reviewed books. It is placed on the Non-Fiction section of the shelf.
In order to get his website to be more visible (that is, appear on the front page of the search results) Bob McBob needs to convince the search engine that his website is good. Getting linked will convince the search engine to place his website at the top, much how good reviews will convince a library to place a book in a more visible location.

