 Try feeding the medication to your cat without restraining it. Gel medication is generally flavored to appeal to a cat’s taste. In fact, cats will frequently lick it off a finger or surface readily. Gel medication can also be smeared on a cat’s shoulder for it to lick off or quickly smeared inside the lips with a swipe of a finger.;
, Liquid medication and occasionally pills can be mixed with a flavorful canned food and eaten by the cat when it normally eats. Be sure to mix the medication in thoroughly, so that the cat cannot, or has a hard time, avoiding it. Some cats, for example, can detect pills in their food and eat around them.


If you are trying to feed your cat pills in its food, be sure to inspect the bowl afterword for leftover pills.
Check the directions for medication in pill form to see if you can crush it up. Your cat is more likely to eat a crushed up pill mixed into its food than a whole pill mixed into the food.
 If your cat won't eat its medicine in its normal food, try enticing it with a special treat. Get a bit of tuna or other smelly morsel and put the pill in it. You can also use a piece of cheese, a bit of deli meat, or a bit of hotdog.Feed the treat directly to the cat, instead of letting it pick at it in a food dish. This way it is less likely to pick out the pill and avoid eating it.
There are treats specifically designed so that you can hide a pill in them. These "pill pockets" have a hole inside where you can conceal the treat and they smell strongly, so your cat will be enticed by them. Make sure the cat has actually swallowed the pill. Feed the cat another piece of treat immediately after the one with the pill. This will make it more likely to quickly swallow the pill.
 The types of restraint that can be used on a cat include a scruff hold, a harness hold, or the towel technique. Figure out if your cat will put up a lot of resistance or just a little. Is your cat apprehensive even about being petted? Then it will probably need a lot of restraint. Is your cat pretty passive? Then if probably won't need much restraint. The key to successfully delivering medication to your cat is to safely restrain the cat while applying as little restraint as possible.


Restraining the cat gives you control over the cat and allows you to make sure the cat swallows the medication in a safe manner.
An improperly restrained cat may spit out the medication or, even worse, get some of the medication into its lungs which may lead to pneumonia or even death.
 This type of restraint will only work for a cat that mildly resists taking medicine. Firmly grab a handful of the loose neck skin behind the cat’s ears. As long as you do not attempt to lift the cat by the scruff it is a perfectly acceptable means of restraint.This technique should only be used when the cat is resting its body on a flat surface, such as a table, floor, or counter.
While holding the scruff, you can also grab the rear legs to lay the cat stretched out on its side. The front feet will often grab onto the table’s edge, keeping the cat still.
 A harness can be used to keep a firm grip on the cat. These are more preferable than a collar, which can hurt the neck or strangle a cat. A properly fitted harness will give you a good handle on the cat when light restraint is needed.
 This will only leave the cat's head exposed. Thick bath-sized towels can be used to keep a cat tightly bound so its paws cannot claw at you. This is one of the best options, as it keeps you and the cat safe.


Start by placing the towel, unfolded, on a table or countertop. Put the cat in the center of the towel. Pull the towel up over the cat’s rear end and then fold in the sides, essentially wrapping the kitty up like a burrito.Make sure the sides are pulled up snug to keep the cat from being able to pull its legs out of the towel.
Remember a cat can still use its teeth when in this position. Placing a hand behind the cat’s head can keep the head steady but you should also keep your hands away from its mouth.
 Keep in mind that if a cat defecates or urinates while being restrained it is becoming too agitated for restraint. If this happens you should release it. You will need to try another restraint technique or get professional help if this happens., It's important to be all set up before attempting to restrain your cat. If you need to put medication in a syringe or count out pills, do that before grabbing the cat. Have the medication near by, so that you can easily grab it while you have the cat restrained., If you are giving a tablet or capsule you may need to wash it down to actually get the cat to swallow it. Thus, it is helpful to have a small syringe filled with 1 to 2 milliliters (0.034 to 0.068  fl oz) of water to help wash the pill down.
 You can hold a towel wrapped cat in your lap. If you are simply holding the cat by its scruff or by a harness, hold it against a hard surface.


If you have a helper, have him or her hold the cat. This way you can open the cat's mouth and give the animal its medicine without the added burden of holding it still.
Keep out of harms way. Do not get close enough to the cat's mouth to get bitten.
 Put your thumb on one side of the cat's mouth and your forefinger on the other side of the mouth. Apply pressure gently by pressing down on the cat’s lower jaw until your cat opens its mouth., You can now quickly place a tablet or capsule toward the back of the cat’s mouth. Liquid medication can also be delivered at this point, putting it into the back of the mouth but not squirting at the back of the throat. This type of medicine may need to given a little at a time, so that the cat swallows it and it doesn't run out the front of the mouth.Squirting liquid medicine at the back of the throat could cause the cat to inhale it.
 Let go of the cat’s mouth and hold its top jaw or face so that its nose points upward. Rub your cat's throat gently to trigger its swallowing reflex.


Use the syringe to place a small amount of water in between the cats lips to encourage the pill to go down the throat. This prevents the pill from irritating or sticking in the throat and damaging the tissues.
Do not shoot the water down the back of the throat, as the cat could inhale the water into it’s lungs.
 Keep the cat restrained for a minute to make sure all medication is swallowed and the cat is calm. Also make sure to protect yourself from the scratching that might occur as you let the cat go free.


Give your cat a lot of praise and some tasty treats as a reward for good behavior.

