 Although the sock will be hidden inside your hair once you make the bun, it’s a good idea to find a sock the same color as your hair just in case part of the sock peeks through.








If you don’t have a sock the same color as your hair and are trying to make this hairstyle in a pinch, choose a sock that is a similar tone to your hair. For instance, if you have blond hair, pick a tan or light-colored sock. If you have dark brown hair, pick a black or navy sock.
Make sure that you use a sock you don’t care about, since you will be cutting it and won’t be able to wear it again.
If you don’t want to use a sock, you can also purchase a hair donut, which fulfills the same function as the sock. If you have a hair donut, you can skip to the next section.;
, Use a ruler to measure the sock, and make a mark across the sock one inch from the toe. This is the line you will cut at to begin the process of rolling the sock.
 Use a sharp pair of scissors to cut across the sock one inch (2.54 cm) from the toe. It’s ok if it isn’t a clean cut, since it won’t be visible. Discard the small piece of sock that you cut off.
 Starting at the ankle end of the sock and moving toward the toe end, roll the sock in the same way that you would cuff a pair of jeans, cuffing the shaft of the sock until you are left with a donut shape.








Put the fingers of both hands inside the shaft of the sock, with your thumbs on the outside, cuffing over your thumbs repeatedly as you work down the tube of the sock, until you are left with a donut shape that is approximately one inch (2.54 cm) thick.
 A sock bun is all about elegance, so it’s important that your hair is smooth and free of tangles. Brush your hair with a comb or hairbrush, starting at the ends and working your way up using downward strokes that go higher and higher on your head.









If you encounter any knots, don’t drag the brush through them. Instead, use your fingers to gently untangle the knot. When the knot is mostly untangled, use the brush to brush the hair directly under the knot, then gently brush over the knot until it is completely untangled.
 A sock bun has the best staying power when made using second-day hair, meaning that your hair is not freshly-washed. Because freshly-washed hair can be slippery, if you recently showered you may want to use a texturizing spray to give it more staying power.If you didn’t wash your hair on the day you are doing the bun, you can skip this step.
 Use your hands to gather your hair together into a ponytail and decide where you want the bun to be on your head. Most people choose to make a high bun, which adds to the elegance of the look. Hold your hair in a ponytail using your non-dominant hand.You may want to flip your head upside-down to make the ponytail, if that’s how you usually make a high ponytail.
The place where you form the ponytail will be exactly at the center of where your sock bun will be positioned. Keep this in mind as you decide how low or high your ponytail should be.
 Keep holding your hair in a ponytail, and use a brush to brush the top of your hair into the ponytail. This removes any bumps from the top of your hair and will make the whole look sleeker.
 Still holding onto your ponytail with your non-dominant hand, use your other hand to secure an elastic hair band around your ponytail. Make sure that the hair elastic is tight enough, as this will be the main element keeping your hair up.
 You may wish to tweak the top of your hair leading into your ponytail if it’s not to your liking. Add gel or mousse and gently comb the hair leading into the ponytail if you want to eliminate flyaways. If you want to add volume, use a comb to gently tug at the hair right above the hair tie to loosen it and create volume., Take the end of your ponytail with your non-dominant hand. With your other hand, take the sock donut you made. Poke your hair through until your ponytail is about two inches (5.8 cm) through the sock donut.








Do the process of rolling your hair in front of a mirror.
 Take the ends of your hair, which are through the sock donut, and bend the hair over the edges of the sock donut, splaying them over the donut to obscure it. Tuck the ends of your hair inside the other side of the donut, through the bottom of the loop.
 Grasp the sides of the sock donut with each hand, with your fingers on the top side of the donut and your thumbs at the back side of the donut, where the donut meets the hair in the ponytail.








Roll the ponytail into the donut by pressing with your fingers at the top of the donut, forcing your hair through and rolling the donut along your ponytail.
Essentially you are pulling the donut up through your hair, with your hair rolling along with it, since it is tucked into the base of the donut. As more hair gets inside and around the donut, the closer the donut gets to the base of the ponytail.
If you feel your hair coming out of the ponytail, stop rolling the sock and try to tuck the strands back into the ponytail. If you can't tuck them back into the ponytail, tuck them into the sock as you are rolling so that the hair gets incorporated.
 Your sock bun is almost finished! Look in the mirror for any stray or short hairs that may have escaped, and tuck them in to the bottom of the bun.
 For extra hold, pin the underside of the bun with bobby pins or hair clips. You also may want to lightly mist your bun with medium hairspray, since long hair is heavier and is more difficult to hold up than short hair.








Consider wrapping another hair tie around your hair as extra reinforcement when you're done. This will secure your long hair and ensure the bun doesn't sag or come undone!

