 Especially if you don't know your crush well, now is a good time to start spending more time around him or her. Get to know your crush better. It will help you get comfortable with this person, which will be important if you decide to share your feelings.Spending time around your crush may also help you sort out your own feelings. You might decide that you really only like this person as a friend. Your crush might go away after a little while. Or, it might get stronger.During this time, don't try to make it a date or anything like that, just hang out like you would with any of your other friends.
 Once you are comfortable enough, ask your crush some questions to see how he or she feels about homosexuality or gay people. Some time when the two of you are hanging out alone, ask some questions to get a sense of how he or she feels.You don't have to come right out and ask "How do you feel about gay people?" Or "Are you gay?" Instead, you can be a little more subtle. Ask questions like "What would you do if a boy/girl kissed you?" or "Have you ever had a crush on someone? Who was it? Have you ever had a crush on a boy/girl?"If your crush reacts badly to these questions, don't keep trying. Not everyone is accepting of same-sex crushes, and if that's the case, it's time to give up. Skip on to the last step.
 If you get the sense that your crush might feel the same as you, you can try getting a little flirty. Don't be too obvious, but flirting a little can give you a better idea if your crush might like you back.For instance, some time when you're hanging out alone together, make eye contact while you're talking, and lean in just a little. See how your crush reacts. If they keep eye contact with you and don't move away, this might be a good sign., If you feel confident that your crush is accepting of gay people, you may decide to tell him or her how you feel. There's no easy way to do this, and only you can decide when or if it's the right time.Be careful about making this decision, and if you have been given any signs that your crush might not approve, don't do it. Someone who thinks it is wrong to have these feelings might make fun of you, or tell other people about your feelings who might then be mean to you. This can hurt a lot. So be as certain as you can, especially if you don't want other people to know about your feelings.Your crush may need time to think about what you have told him or her. Let your crush have as much time as needed to think about what you have said., If your crush doesn't share your feelings, you will need to let it go. Having feelings for someone who will never feel the same way can be very painful, and the best thing you can do is try to move on.


It will be up to you if you can still be friends with this person. In some cases, this works out fine. Crushes often don't last long, so you might just find that you now have a close friend that you can feel comfortable confiding in.In other cases, continuing to spend time around your crush may hurt too much or make it too hard to move on. In a case like this, you might need to spend some time apart, or even not be friends anymore.