 Cassava flour is denser and works great in products like cookies and brownies, but perform poorly in bread that has to rise significantly. Avoid using cassava flour in recipes that require your food to rise like cakes. Food created with cassava flour will typically be a bit denser than if you used an all-purpose flour or other flour that contains gluten.Cassava flour is great for recipes like tortillas, pita bread, cookies, and brownies.;
, While a measuring cup typically works in many cooking scenarios, cassava flour is denser than traditional wheat flour. For this reason, you'll want to measure your flour before you use it in a recipe using a digital scale. If you don't have a scale, the most accurate way to measure your flower is by fluffing it up and then scooping it using a measuring a spoon. This will prevent it from packing down. Once you're done measuring, level it off with a butter knife or other straight utensil., In many situations, cassava flour will work with a 1:1 ratio where you would usually use wheat flour.The only exception is when you are dealing with recipes that must rise or use yeast, as the flour is known to be denser and has issues rising.

Cassava flour does not have the same nutritional value as wheat, so if you do decide to use it, make sure you are supplementing your diet with other foods that contain vitamins and nutrients., To become acclimated with how to properly use cassava flour, you should begin working it into the recipes that you are already used to making. Take note on how using the cassava flour changes the consistency and taste of your food. Determine if you like using the flour before incorporating it into more complex recipes.

Once you feel comfortable using cassava flour, start to experiment with other recipes.
Cassava flour will impart a subtle earthy, and nutty flavor to whatever you're cooking. Take this into consideration when creating dishes., Look for products that say 100 percent Yuca (cassava) on the label. Avoid products that use artificial ingredients or fillers because these brands of flour aren't as healthy as pure cassava flour. Pure cassava flour will have one ingredient: Yuca.Sometimes cassava flour will be called manioc flour.A popular cassava flour is Otto's Naturals., If you are making a recipe that calls for yeast, you can use Xanthan Gum as a replacement. Xanthan Gum helps bind the cassava flour together. If you're not vegan, adding an extra egg to a recipe may also help bind foods that call for yeast.For most recipes, add 1/2 tsp (2.46 ml) xanthan gum for each cup of flour that you're using., While tapioca and cassava flour and made from the same root, they differ in use significantly. Tapioca flour is traditionally used as a thickening agent and works well in things like pudding or sauces while cassava flour can be used as a replacement for all purpose or gluten free flours. Do not get the two confused when buying your cassava flour.Tapioca is the extracted starch of the cassava root, while cassava flour is made by grinding and peeling the whole root.