 Measure your waist, then trim a length of 18-point canvas so that it can fit around your waist without any difficulty.Use measuring tape to determine the necessary length. Wrap the measuring tape around the part of your hips or natural waist, depending on where you plan to wear the belt. Add 5 to 10 inches (12.7 to 25.4 cm) to this measurement, depending on how much leeway you want the belt to have.
The final width of the belt should be 1.5 inches (3.8 cm), but you'll need a little extra width while working on the design. It's best to have 1 inch (2.5 cm) extra on either side, so the width should be about 3.5 inches (8.9 cm).
You'll need to use canvas with a fairly tight weave, so 16-point or 18-point is ideal. Also note that you'll need a size 22 tapestry needle for canvas this tight.;
, Bind all four edges of the belt with 1-inch (2.5-cm) wide strips of masking tape.


When working on the actual design, you will only needlepoint in the space between the taped edges.
Taping the edges off can help prevent the canvas from fraying as you work. It also prevents the yarn from getting snagged on any rough edges.
 Lay the piece of canvas on a sturdy piece of paper and trace around all four edges. Keep the canvas as flat and still as possible when you trace the design.


Set aside the outline for later use. You may need to block the canvas if it becomes distorted, and you can use this outline as a guide during that part of the process.
 Find or design a pattern for your belt. If you're feeling bold and creative, you can create your own pattern. For those who would rather play it safe, though, you can find free needlepoint patterns online by searching for “free needlepoint belt patterns” using your favorite Internet search engine.


If you're new to needlepoint, or simply new to the process of using needlepoint on belts, it will be in your best interest to start with a simple design. Consider something like stripes or argyle. As you become more comfortable with the practice, you can gradually begin working on more complex designs like logos, flowers, and other free-form shapes.
 Use a waterproof pen or pencil to lightly mark out your chosen design onto the trimmed piece of canvas. This will make it much easier for you to determine where your stitches must go as you needlepoint.Professionally crafted patterns will use grids to illustrate the finished design. Count the number of squares used for a particular color on the chart, then mark out an equivalent number of stitches on your canvas.
Note that you'll need to use different symbols to mark out different colors on the canvas. Make sure that you know which symbols correspond to which colors before you begin to needlepoint.
 Look at the design and identify the darkest colors. As a general rule, you should needlepoint these areas first before moving onto the lighter colors.


Light colors yarns can become soiled when dark yarns rub against them. By working from dark to light, you can minimize the amount of soiling or bleeding that occurs and, as a result, keep your colors looking as pure as possible.
 For most patterns, you'll need to needlepoint the details first and complete the background afterward.


This is especially true of non-geometric designs. Complete the main design first, followed by any border you plan to use. Once those details are complete, you can fill in the background.
When you're working on geometric designs, however, you'll need to work across the length of the canvas gradually. Complete the details in one section, then complete the background for the same section before moving onto the next section and repeating the process.
 The yarn should only be between 14 and 18 inches (35.5 and 45.7 cm), no matter how much of that color you will need overall.


If you use lengths of yarn that are too long, it will be more likely to twist or fray as you work. That could result in stitches that look messy and uneven.
Make sure that you use embroidery thread/yarn suitable for the canvas mesh. Persian and crewel threads work well, as does size 5 perle cotton thread. You can use plain embroidery cotton, too, but only use three of the six plies. Silk threads specifically label for fine mesh work may also be used., Knot one end of the yarn, then insert the other end of the thread through the eye of your tapestry needle.


Tie the knot as close to the end as possible. This knot must be large enough to prevent the end of the thread from coming through the canvas.
Pull roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of yarn through the eye of the needle. Do not knot this second end.
 Insert the needle into the wrong side of the canvas, drawing it out through the right side. Start roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the beginning of your design.


Pull the yarn all the way through until the knot lies flat against the back of the canvas.
If you're right-handed, it will usually be easiest to start in the upper right corner of the color area. If you're left-handed, you may want to start in the upper left corner of the color area.
 Complete as much of the color area as possible using the current length of yarn. Stop once you only have a double needle-length of yarn left.


There are different types of stitches you'll need to know when doing needlepoint. Some of the basics include the half cross stitch, the continental stitch, the basket weave, and the backstitch.
The exact way to make your stitches will vary depending on the design and the type of stitch you plan to use. For each stitch type, you will need to pull the thread back through to the wrong side of the canvas to complete each stitch, but the positioning of the thread can vary depending on the stitch type.
Note that each stitch should begin and end the same way, regardless of where it is or which type of stitch you use.
 When you are no longer able to work with a length of yarn, bring the needle the the wrong side of the canvas and run it through a line of stitches from the back. This should be enough to secure the stitches you just made.


After securing your stitches, you should trim any knots or loose ends on the back side of the work.
 Repeat the stitching process across the entire length of canvas, switching thread colors as needed, until the entire pattern has been completed.


After the length of yarn, you can start each consecutive piece by feeding it through a few stitches at the wrong side of the canvas. This should be enough to hold the yarn in place and prevent you from needing to knot it.
Pay attention the the tension you use while creating stitches. Each stitch should lie flat against the surface of the canvas. Pulling too tightly will cause the canvas to distort, but pulling too loosely can cause the thread to unravel and look uneven.
 As you work across the design, do what you can to keep the work neat and clean. It'll be easier to create a polished piece if you're mindful about it throughout the process, rather than waiting until the very end.


Yarn can often become twisted as you work. Every few stitches, you should let the needle dangle so that it can naturally unwind itself.
Trim loose ends as you work to prevent tangles. If you wait until the end, small bits of frayed yarn can mingle into other colors and cause a distortion in shade.
 Some warping may occur as you complete your needlepoint. If the shape of the belt becomes distorted, you need to "block" it to stretch the material back into shape.Dampen the material with clean water from a spray bottle. The canvas should be moist but not soaked.
Note that you should only dampen the needlepoint if the threads you used are color fast. If they aren't, you will follow all steps of the blocking process other than the dampening step.
Place the outline you created earlier onto a piece of cardboard, then lay the work right-side down onto the outline. Carefully stretch the canvas so that it matches the outline and hold it in place using straight pins spaced 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart around the perimeter.
Allow the material to dry completely for an hour or two. After it dries, remove the pins. The canvas should be back in shape.
 Carefully peel away all of the masking tape, then fold the top and bottom lengthwise edges to the wrong side of the canvas by 1 inch (2.5 cm) each.


Only the portion of canvas previously covered by masking tape should be hidden beneath the wrong side of the canvas. The portion of the belt displaying your needlepoint should remain visible.
Use an iron to press these folds and hold the hem in place.
 Place a length of permanent fusible fabric tape over both lengthwise edges from the wrong side of the belt. Depending on the width of the tape, you may need to use one or two pieces to cover both raw ends.


Make sure that you use permanent fusible fabric tape instead of temporary tape.
The adhesive side of the tape is usually shinier than the non-adhesive side. Make sure that the adhesive side covers and overlaps the both lengthwise edges.
 Heat a standard iron and press the tape from the wrong side of the belt. Ideally, the tape should melt onto the material after being heated for 5 seconds.You may need to adjust the heat setting until you find the right one. Start with a low synthetic setting and work your way up to hotter settings as needed.
When finished, both lengthwise edges should be secured and unable to fray or unfold.
 Place a toothed belt tip over one short end of the belt. Carefully strike the belt tip with a hammer until it closes around the canvas and locks into place.Make sure that the belt tip is as wide as the canvas belt. A larger or shorter tip won't fit correctly.
The belt tip alone should be enough to stop the canvas from fraying, but if desired you can make the end more secure by covering it with fusible fabric tape or stitching across the end before putting the belt tip on.
 Slide two D-rings around the other end of the belt, pulling 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of material through. Fold this end to the back side of the canvas and stitch in place.


You can use either a straight stitch or a zigzag stitch, depending on how you want the belt to look. Either way, make sure the stitching is tight and the end is secure.
Since there are so many layers of canvas, it's best to secure this end by sewing it instead of using fusible fabric tape.
 The belt is now complete and ready to wear. Wrap it around your waist and weave the free end into the D-rings to hold it in place.

