 Someone with an eating disorder is going to have an unhealthy relationship with food. Look for actions that are unusual.


Fast, uncontrolled eating. Obsessive over-eaters eat quickly, as if they are out of control and cannot help themselves. They may keep eating, even after they are full.
Secretive eating. Many compulsive over-eaters eat alone out of embarrassment, fear, or shame. You may find hidden food wrappers in their bedroom, office, or locker.
Hoarding food. Because obsessive over-eaters eat in secret, they tend to keep food in a secret storage area so others will not see the amount of food they are consuming.;
, Obsessive over-eaters often struggle with strong emotions and attempt to control these emotions through eating. It is a coping mechanism for them. While some of us may indulge in a bit of chocolate to feel better, compulsive over-eaters consume a very large number of calories, often in one sitting.


Depression, mood swings, and anxiety: For those who are depressed or anxious, eating can offer a quick boost in energy and positive feelings. However, compulsive over-eaters cannot control how much they eat. This may make them feel even more depressed at the end of a binge because of the amount of food they just ate.
Embarrassment, fear, and shame: Those who struggle with compulsive overeating often feel ashamed that they cannot control how much they eat. They are afraid of others finding out and strive to keep it a secret.
Guilt, self-criticism and low self-worth: Obsessive over-eaters often get caught in a cycle when they first feel insecure or insignificant, so they eat to feel better. Then they feel guilty for eating so much and feel even worse about themselves.
 Any type of unhealthy eating can cause health problems, since the amount and type of food we eat affects our bodies. There are several physical symptoms you can look for:


High blood pressure and/or cholesterol, leg or joint pain. Eating large amounts of food can cause an increase in blood pressure and cholesterol. The extra weight compulsive over-eaters often have can cause soreness in their joints.
Shortness of breath, easy fatigue, and excessive sweating. Due to being overweight or eating unhealthy foods, people who struggle with obsessive overeating may have trouble taking a short walk or standing for a short period of time.
Insomnia or poor sleeping habits. Obsessive over-eaters are often tired because they cannot sleep well. You may find them tired during the day but struggling to sleep at night.
 Obsessive over-eaters often get caught in a cycle of rapid weight gain and weight loss. Though they are often overweight, they may also maintain a healthy weight at times. Compulsive over-eaters try to manage weight gain with chronic dieting and exercise. If the individual has a history of weight fluctuations, they probably have an unhealthy relationship with food.
 Those with eating disorders often talk about calories, recipes, and diets. They may also complain about how they look. Though everyone talks about these things occasionally, obsessive over-eaters are consumed by these thoughts. Even if they do not talk about them, they are thinking about them.
 People with eating disorders often lose interest in other activities and withdraw, isolating themselves from others. If they are spending more time alone than usual or have dropped out of volunteer teams or extracurricular activities, it is possible that they are dealing with compulsive overeating.

