;
, be sure to know what sort of area is up next, and the enemies you will be facing.
,,,,, On harder difficulties, they can have as much as 8,000 health. Be sure to run while shooting, but be careful of teammates. On harder difficulties, it is usually good to light up a tank with a Molotov in the long run.


Witches

You will know when you are near these by listening for a crying woman, Switch off your flashlight, and don't engage her and just keep going, if you do aggravate the witch, she will usually attack the one who aggravated her, and knock them down, keep firing at her until she hits the deck.


Boomers

These enemies will vomit on you and attract the horde to you and any others who were vomited on. You will also be covered in vomit if you blow up a boomer that is too close to you. Make sure these guys are a bit away (shove them away if necessary) before you kill them.


Smokers

These enemies will constrict you, stopping you from attacking, and you will be slowly dragged towards them, the best way to combat these is to have a teammate kill them while they are constricting you, causing them to release you. You can also shove a teammate to get them untangled without hurting the teammate themselves.


Hunters

Hunters will jump large distances, and pin you to the ground, kill these as quickly as you can, as you really won't want to be pinned down during a swarm.
 There are two tiers of weapons, nearly always found with those in their tier. The first tier is the weapons you find throughout the first few safe houses, and the second tier weapons is usually found in between the safe houses as well as in the last 1 - 2 safe houses.


The first tier weapons are :

Pump-action Shotgun. This is your standard powerful, short range, wide burst weapon. Best used in room clearing, and close quarter combat. This shotgun holds 8 cartridges with 128 cartridges in reserve. This will kill the infected in one shot at close range, or injure many infected at moderate range. It becomes almost useless at long range. A trick involving all shotguns in Left 4 Dead is that while reloading the cartridges you can melee attack, which will not affect the reloading of the shotguns.
Submachine gun. The SMG is a fast firing but less-than-moderately powerful weapon. It is useful for things like crowd control and taking out the infected at a distance, which the shotgun cannot handle. 6-8 bullets will take care of an infected. The SMG holds 50 rounds in a clip with 480 rounds in reserve. The bullets spray very fast and will hold off the infected but as it lacks penetration and power, it cannot take on a full mob of infected.


The second tier weapons are:

Assault Rifle. The M4 is a more-than-moderately powerful automatic assault rifle like the M4A1 in Counter-Strike, best used to take out swarms, and special infected at a distance. This assault rifle contains 50 rounds in a clip with 360 rounds in reserve. This weapon is rather like the submachine gun although it will spray slower but makes up for it in power. 3-5 bullets will usually drop an infected. This weapon has also more penetration than the Submachine gun so it is also more versatile than the submachine gun. Replace the Submachine gun with this if you found one.
Hunting Rifle. This gun is incredibly powerful. One shot at an infected will drop it. It is useful to picking off enemies from a range as it is equipped with a scope. This weapon has 15 bullets in a round with 180 rounds in reserve. This is not you average sniper rifle but more like an extra powerful assault rifle with a scope. This also has unlimited penetration for the infected, so use this wisely.
Automatic Shotgun. This shotgun is as powerful as the pump-action shotgun and fires just as fast as the hunting rifle. This gun can kill mobs of zombies by yourself. However like all other shotguns, the drawback is that you cannot kill ranged enemies. This shotgun holds 10 cartridges with 128 cartridges in reserve.


Secondary weapon

Pistol. Pistols can be used akimbo (one gun, two hands on it) or dual wielded. One pistol will hold 15 bullets per magazine. Dual wielding allows a high magazine capacity (15 x 2 = 30)which means less frequent reload but it will also take longer to reload your guns. The higher magazine capacity of the dual wielded pistol will also be very useful if you are on the ground as it allows you to kill much more infected with the extra bullets. The pistol has unlimited ammo which is useful in picking off small amounts of the infected, saving your primary ammo for a more intense situation. Be sure to pick up a second pistol if you can.


Grenades, or a more adept name, throwables. You can only have one grenade with you at a time. These can be found at the final safe room or when exploring. If you explore more then use often, but if you explore less then use these sparingly.

Molotov's look like beer bottles with a rag hanging outside. When it hits the ground it will start a fire which spreads in a small area. This is very useful for cutting off areas, although some zombie will still run through the fire, Do not use this assuming you will be safe from enemies coming through a doorway.
Pipe bombs are what they sound like, a section of pipe with some small lights on the top. When thrown they will beep and emit a small red light which attracts the ordinary horde. They will attract the horde from everything, including boomer’s bile but will not attract specialist infected or infected when it is already attacking you. This is especially useful when an incoming mob is out to get you. It is also very useful for the finale when you have to get to the escape vehicle.



