


Once you are diagnosed with hypertension, you will be given either a stage 1 or stage 2 classification for your disease. Stage 1 high blood pressure is for individuals having a systolic (top) reading of 140 to 159 mm Hg and having a diastolic (lower) reading between 90 and 99 mm Hg. Stage 2 high blood pressure is diagnosed in a patient who usually has a systolic reading of 160 mm Hg or higher, and a diastolic reading of 100 mm Hg or higher.;
,


There are many possible medications for treating high blood pressure today, including calcium channel blockers, diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers, and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Each medication works in a slightly different manner. For example, diuretics rid the body of excess water and sodium which lowers blood pressure. Beta-blockers work by lowering heart rate and cardiac output. ACE inhibitors reduce strain on the heart by helping blood flow more easily.
While diuretics are often the first course of action, a doctor may also prescribe an additional or replacement medication if the diuretic does not significantly lower blood pressure. Many patients may take a combination of medication to keep hypertension in check and reduce the risk of complications from high blood pressure.



For example, diuretics are not recommended for patients with diabetes, since these drugs can increase blood sugar levels in the body. Patients who have been diagnosed with angina along with hypertension might see greater results with a beta-blocker or calcium channel blocker. Your doctor needs to know your full medical history to find the best hypertension drug for you.



High blood pressure that remains unchecked for a period of time may result in organ damage, such as an enlarged heart, kidney or eye damage or weakened arteries. Your doctor will take this type of damage into consideration when treating high blood pressure, to ensure the medication prescribed does not risk further damage.



Most hypertension medications have a number of potential side effects, which vary from patient to patient. The choice of a drug is determined in part by a process of trial and error to see which medications the patient is able tolerate well.

