 An unlocked phone is programmed to operate on more than one cellular network, so a simple way to know if if your phone is unlocked is to put another carrier’s SIM card into it and see if your phone finds a signal. Although not all carriers use a GSM network, phones like recent Apple iPhones will still have a SIM slot, even on Verizon and Sprint, enabling you to use a SIM card if you are in another country. In order to switch SIM cards effectively, your phone must be unlocked. If you are unsure, you can search for your 15 digit IMEI number (a unique identification number for your phone) to check.Your phone’s IMEI number is usually found inside the battery compartment, but can also be found by dialing *#06# or going to your phone’s settings and looking through its device information.;
, Under the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act, carriers are required to unlock eligible devices.Before you contact your carrier to unlock your phone, confirm the following:


Your phone is from your carrier.
Your phone hasn’t been reported as lost or stolen.
The account your phone is associated with is in good standing (meaning you don’t have any egregious outstanding payments).
You know the account holder’s name and account number (if it is not you, ensure that you have their information and are authorized to make changes).
The IMEI of your phone.
Your phone number.
The last four digits of the account holder’s social security number or password.
Overseas deployment papers if military obligations are the reason you want to unlock your phone before you are out of contract.
If you are trying to unlock your phone so that you can take it with you to another carrier, ensure that your contract with your current carrier is up.
 Call your carrier and request a SIM unlock. Additionally, T-Mobile and Sprint offer unlocks through live online chat. AT&T device unlocks can be requested through their website.For Verizon, call 1-800-711-8300 to request a SIM unlock.For T-Mobile you can call 1-800-746-0949 as an alternative to the online chat.
If you are a Sprint customer and would like to unlock via phone, call 1-888-211-4727.
It is recommended that you unlock your phone while you are still a customer with your carrier, to ensure you receive service from carrier representatives.
The unlocking process can take some time (up to a week), so plan accordingly.

Alternative unlocking methods exist depending on your device. If you are truly stuck, paid third-party unlocking services are also available. However, you should always be cautious when going to an unofficial third party, and if you do, your phone may be voided of its warranty.

