 Try to research the behavior of local lizards before setting your trap, so you know when they are active and what type of bait and trap location is likely to be successful. A reptile identification guide booklet or website for your area may contain useful information. You can also observe the behavior of lizards in your home or yard and see where they gather.


If you cannot find useful information, follow the general advice in this section.;
, Any sturdy container without a strong odor can be used as a lizard trap. If you wish to keep your lizard permanently, however, research how to construct a suitable home beforehand, suited for the lizard species in your area. For temporary captures, simply make your box a little more comfortable for the lizard by placing some local leaves and grasses at the bottom. This also may make the trap less suspicious.


If you plan to keep a lizard permanently, find out about laws and permits in your area before you begin, to make sure you are not doing anything illegal.
If you are not sure how to construct a good lizard home, look for vivariums in the local yellow pages. The employees there should be able to advise you.
 Stretch plastic wrap over the entire box, taping it to the sides. Cut a slit long enough for the local lizards to fall through near the middle of the box.If you're not sure how large the local lizards are, cut the slit roughly six inches (15 cm) long.
 If you've seen lizards active in a particular area, place the box there. Otherwise, look for places where insects congregate, such as near light sources that are on at night. Hiding places in your yard such as rock walls or bushes may also be a good option.
 Many lizards eat insects, but because there are so many species of lizard it is best to research the diet of species in your area. Otherwise, use crickets, moths, flies, or any other insect small enough for the target lizard to eat. Keep in mind that some lizards may not eat dead prey, but live bait may not be practical as it is difficult to keep in place.If the bait is light enough, place it on the plastic wrap near the slit.
 You may not catch a lizard for several days or longer, so don't give up if you don't see one right away. Check two or three times a day at least, so a captured lizard doesn't starve to death. Replace live bait after it dies, or dead bait every one or two days to keep it fresh.


If you give up on the trap, remember to remove it and throw it away so animals do not fall into it.

