 Follow your ice cream maker's instruction manual for preparing the machine. You'll probably need to freeze the ice cream freezer bowl for at least 24 hours before you use it.You can leave the bowl in the freezer right until you're ready to churn the ice cream.
 Measure out 2 tablespoons of the whole milk and pour it into a small prep bowl. Add 2 tablespoons of cornstarch and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Use a fork to whisk the mixture together until it's smooth.Set this thickening mixture aside while you prepare the rest of the ice cream base.
 Set a saucepan on the stove and pour in the rest of the 2 1/2 cups (590 ml) of whole milk, 1 cup (236 ml) of heavy cream, 3/4 cup (150 g) of granulated sugar, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Stir the mixture to combine the ingredients.It's important to use whole milk (not skim or low fat milk) in this recipe, since the fat in the milk will help your ice cream set up properly.
 Get out a bowl that's larger than the saucepan. Fill half of the bowl with ice and pour cold water over it, so the bowl is half-full of ice water.The ice bath will quickly chill the ice cream base once it's cooked.
 Turn the saucepan with the ice cream base mixture on to medium heat. Whisk the mixture every once in a while until it simmers. Once it simmers, set a timer and whisk the mixture for 6 minutes.Whisking will prevent the ice cream base from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
 Turn the heat to low and continue to whisk the ice cream base. Whisk in the cornstarch mixture that you mixed up. It's important to whisk while you do this, so the ice cream won't develop lumps of thickener., Turn the heat up to medium and whisk the base for two more minutes. You should notice the base start to thicken as the cornstarch mixture cooks., Turn off the heat and set the saucepan directly into the bowl with the ice water. Continue to whisk the ice cream base as you do this, so it cools evenly. Put the thermometer into the ice cream base to check the temperature.The ice cream base should be 45 degrees F (10 C) before you freeze it.
 Pour the cold ice cream base into the frozen ice cream freezer bowl that fits your ice cream maker. Turn the machine on and churn the ice cream. Depending on your machine, this may take 35 to 45 minutes.You'll see the ice cream thicken and pull away from the sides of the bowl once it's finished freezing.
 Pull apart one large ball of cotton candy into pieces or long strands and add it to the churning ice cream. Do this during the last minute or two of churning to evenly distribute the cotton candy.If you'd rather stir the cotton candy in by hand, you can wait incorporate it until you're ready to serve it.
 If you like soft ice cream, you can scoop the ice cream out into bowls or cones and serve it immediately. If you'd like a firmer ice cream, transfer the ice cream to freezer-safe containers and freeze it for several hours.Consider serving the ice cream with additional cotton candy.

