 Many people have hair that cannot be fully detangled when it’s dry. However, you may be able to make the job easier if you detangle as much as possible before you cover your hair in conditioner.
 Detangle your hair in the shower, or simply rinse your hair down. This makes it easier to detangle, as the hair will be smoother.


Consider towel-drying your hair before conditioning. This may ensure that your hair isn't too wet for the product to take hold, but is moist enough to avoid further tangling.
 Apply the conditioner onto the wide-toothed comb while standing under a low pressure shower. Smooth the conditioner into your hair, from bangs to back and tips to roots, and slowly take out the knots and tangles. Make sure that your hair is fully and thoroughly slathered with conditioner. If the hair is too thick, use your fingers. Do not pull the hair, as that may lead to hairfall.


Make sure to spread the conditioner inside the tangle. Poke your fingers through the tangle; put product on the "inside" of your hair and not just on top.
, Using gentle detangling motions, start at the bottom of the hair and work your way up. When you come to a big knot, use your fingers to tease it apart. Do not rip through tangles with a brush or comb. Comb gently, with small quick movements.


As you comb, immobilize your hair with one hand so that you don't feel it pull at the roots.
You may get a knot or pluck some hair out, but don't worry too much. You are not damaging your hair, you are just removing hair gone wrong. The conditioner will protect against damage, and your hair will be smooth and tangle-free when it dries.
, Once the wide-toothed comb can slide easily through all of your hair, rinse out the conditioner and pat your hair dry. Use a microfiber towel or old tee shirt — traditional terrycloth towels can cause frizz.
 Put in your styling product of choice (whether it is mousse, gel, or a styling cream) and let your hair dry. You can also dry it with a hair dryer (with a diffuser) on a low heat and intensity setting. Try to avoid touching your hair before it is completely dry, which may create frizz.

