 Head to www.PayPal.com using your preferred web browser and log in with your username and password. This can be done by entering your information in the boxes on the top right of the screen then by clicking on Log In to continue.


Make sure that you are on the “My Account” page once you have logged in.;
, Below the My Account tab are selections that you can choose. Click "Profile." The My Settings button is on the left side of the Profile screen.


Here you can pick the settings you wish to adjust.
About halfway down the screen, you will see a Notifications button. Across from that is a blue Update button.
 Just click on the Update button, and a couple of options will come up for you to choose:


The first two options available to you are marketing notifications. These are labeled “Promotions and News” and “Developer.” You can edit whether you want these e-mails by simply selecting or deselecting the box next to each.
The next option is “Policy Updates.” These dictate if you will receive a message whenever PayPal updates their policy information. This is also listed as a box you can check or leave empty.
Payment Notifications is how you will see the transactions with your money. You can select it to get an e-mail notification when you “Receive money with PayPal”, “Request money with PayPal,” or “Receive PayPal website payments and instant purchases.” Again these all can be selected or left blank, depending on if you want the notifications.
You can then adjust whether you want PayPal to send you customer surveys by selecting the notification box.
Below that there is an option to let PayPal send you a notification if anything changes with your profile. This is crucial. If you get a notification saying your profile information has changed and you did not do it, CHANGE YOUR PASSWORD AND REPORT THIS IMMEDIATELY.
The last section to select is whether you want your information shared with eBay so they can bring you special offers based on your purchases. This is done with the same check box as all the others.
 When you are done adjusting your settings as you see fit, hit the yellow Save button at the bottom so your notification preferences are saved.