 When you are earning a Masters degree while working, you will need to actively balance your career and school commitments. Once you have decided to pursue a degree, it is important to have a conversation with your boss. Schedule a time to address your questions or concerns.Tell your boss that you are pursuing a graduate degree in your field. Ask how this will affect your career path.
You can ask specific questions. Try saying, "Will there be a raise once I have earned a Master's degree?"
Ask for flexibility. If your night class starts at 6, you might find that you need to leave work a little early on those days.
Tell your boss, "I need to leave early a few days a week. Please understand that the information I am learning will help make me a more effective team member here at Business Corp."

, Earning a Master's degree is hard work. School will take up a lot of your time and mental energy. However, it is important to remain committed to your career throughout the process.Recognize that you might need to make sacrifices. For example, weekends might not just be days off from work anymore. You might need them to work on your school projects.
If you are having trouble finding balance, talk to your boss. Ask for suggestions on how you can remain an effective contributor while giving attention to your coursework.
Use your vacation time wisely. While it might be tempting to use PTO to take of for a weekend vacation, it might be better to save those days to use during finals week.
Apply what you are learning. You don't have to wait to have your degree to begin using your new skills. For example, if you learned about a new accounting system, ask your boss to let you demonstrate your new found knowledge.
 Balancing school and work can be difficult. Finding time for your family and friends can seem even more impossible while you are earning a degree. Take some time to talk to your family about the situation.Explain your motivations. For example, you can say to your spouse, "I may have less time for fun right now. Please know that I am doing this to further my career so that I can better provide for us."
Ask for support. You can say to your friends, "I really appreciate you sticking by me even though I'm so busy lately."
Make time for the important things in life. You might have to stay up late or get up early to fit everything in, but do make time to attend your child's soccer game.
 Balancing school and work and family can take its toll. In order to handle the pressure, you need to stay physically healthy. Take steps to take care of your body.Eat a healthy diet. Your brain will perform more efficiently if you eat a balanced diet of lean proteins, complex carbohydrates, and leafy greens.
Get moving. Physical activity can relieve stress and boost energy.
Aim to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Grab a fellow classmate and quiz each other while you go for a hike.
 You might feel stressed while pursuing a Master's degree. That's normal. Remember to take some time out for self-care. This is especially important when you are juggling a hectic schedule.Take some time for yourself each day. Even if it is just 20 minutes to read a novel, you'll feel more relaxed.
Try meditation. You can download apps that provide guided meditations, some of them as short as 1 minute. Try adding this to your daily routine to reduce stress.
Stay positive. Remind yourself that this situation is temporary and their will be benefits for all of your hard work.

