 Remember that you do not have to stay in a love triangle, but neither do you have to leave. You have options, and you have choices: you can act according to what you think will be best for you.


If you aren't the one who initiated the love triangle, it can be difficult to not feel like a victim. However, to remain in the psychological position of a victim will ultimately cause more harm than good.
Victims often think in terms of "shoulds" and "rights" - "It wasn't right that she flirted with him, when she knew we were married." "He should understand that I'm exhausted because of the kids and my work schedule!" While there may be some very good reasons for explaining what should have happened, and what actions might have been "right", love doesn't operate on objectively logical basis. It will help you to set these reasons aside while you make your own decisions about how to live.You may not be able to leave for reasons of financial insecurity, cultural taboo, lack of social supports, or other reasons. However, if you can leave a love triangle, it's often easier to do so than to stay.
You may choose to seek help in making this decision. Even someone who's left a relationship due to a love triangle may benefit from professional counseling.
If you're the target of emotional, sexual or physical abuse as a result of the love triangle, this is called domestic violence. Seek help from a trusted friend, your health care provider, a crisis shelter, a counseling center, or the court system.If you are in danger, contact your local police.
 It may be painful, but being in a love triangle does not make you a bad person.You may choose to stay in the love triangle. While unconventional, polyamory may be the option that works best for you, and that is fine. The important thing about remaining in a love triangle is that it's chosen by all three parties - but the same thing is true of two-person relationships as well! Consensual non-monogamy is a valid option.Whether you choose to leave or stay, remember that this is a choice you made, not one that's forced upon you. While finding yourself in a love triangle might not have been your choice, you have control over your response to it.
 Common emotional responses to being in a love triangle include confusion, guilt, division of love, constant pressure and loneliness. These are valid responses, and they don't make you a bad person.


Feelings do not have to be justified. They are not right or wrong. Feelings can change over time, so before you decide to act on your feelings, take some time to consider the consequences of your actions.
When the pain you feel upon trying to leave the love triangle is greater than the pain you feel for staying, you may take this to mean that this person is "the only one" for you.But that's not likely the case.
Remember that the pain of leaving is not a reliable indication of true love. Your painful feelings might be based on fear of being alone, or memories of the relationship the way it used to be.

