 This could come from either outside your relationship (work, family, financial issues) or from within. If the source of stress is not the relationship itself, don't let stress spoil your private life. Learn how to manage so that it doesn't seep into conversations with your partner.When stress comes from outside the relationship, the best solution is to nip the problem in the bud. For example, if your dissatisfaction with a job is putting strain on your relationship, consider getting a new job instead of letting it affect your well-being.;
, If your relationship matters more to you than the source of stress or the fact that you're stressed, then you should focus on your own and your partner's well-being.


Make it clear to your partner that your relationship is still more important than anything else. For example, you can say: "I'm sorry I'm going through a difficult time at work, and that this is putting a strain on us. You know you're what matters the most to me."

, See you and your partner as a team facing a difficult time and looking for a solution together. Put your ego in a corner and think through problems by asking yourself "What can we do?" rather than "What can I do?"If the stress is due to your partner's dealing with a hard situation, sympathize and show your active encouragement. As part of a team, you're called to play the role of helper and comforter.Make it clear that you are committed to the relationship no matter what problem you and your partner are dealing with. Stress tests the strength of any relationship. If you want to stay together despite the hardships, state it clearly., Most relationship problems have their origin in the partners' failure to express their concerns and emotions straightforwardly. The first skill a couple needs as a team is to speak clearly, honestly and respectfully.Don't hold back your feelings. Silence is another source of strain in itself, and will only build up tensions. Express all your concerns and emotions, but do it in a way that is sincere and not judgmental. Go for positive statements like "I'm feeling..." or "I think that...", rather than questions ("Why did you...?") or negative sentences ("I didn't like...").Humor is a great for relieving tension. Making a joke about a difficult situation, or seeing its funny side, will give both of you a positive outlet for your stress and help you put things into perspective. However, make the joke on you or the difficult situation, not on your partner., Money is one of the first causes of stress in a relationship. If debt, unemployment or related issues are putting a strain on your life as a couple, you should be open about it and look for a solution together.


Look for professional financial advise without feeling ashamed. It is an adviser's job to help people through difficult times: you situation is just one of many they've dealt with.
Don't blame each other for being in dire straits. Accusing your partner of spending money on a night out instead of saving it for more important stuff will only increase tension.
Don't hide anything from your partner and make sure he or she is just as transparent. Discuss honestly how money loss has changed your life and how this is making you feel.
 Jobs take up a large part of everyone's life and energy. However, work-related stress can often affect a couple's well-being. This doesn't mean you have to keep it all to yourself. Share it with your partner and find stress-relieving activities together.


Don't ever use your job as a term of comparison with your partner. You might have similar or completely different occupations, but it's never a good idea to measure your professional success or failures against your partner's.
Allow yourself and your partner some quality time off work. You can actually cheat on your job, every once in a while, as a sign that what you truly care about is not in your office., Chronic pain or an unexpected disease can put a lot of strain on a relationship. If this happens, remember that illness can change your habits but you're still the same people as before. Deal with the change together, and don't forget that partners are there to help each other especially in this case.


If you're in pain, don't hold back. Let your partner know how this is affecting your life and making you feel. You can't expect your partner to read your mind: express yourself clearly and don't be afraid to ask for help.
Keep having sex, if your own or your partner's condition still makes it possible. Being ill doesn't mean you should give up on life as a whole. Make the most of what you can still enjoy!, In stressful times, you might tend to focus on your own problems and feelings. This can make you forget that your partner can help you only if you let him or her speak.


Don't dismiss what they say: think their advice through and show gratitude for the effort.