 The location of your accommodations is an especially important factor while traveling. This is especially true in a city such as Paris, where there is so much to do and see. Accordingly, start your search in areas with close proximity to the specific places you want to visit in Paris. By using an online map that will allow you to search within specific areas, you can narrow your options according to what will put you in the best location to enjoy your stay.


Major areas of interest in Paris include the Latin Quarter, Bastille, Marais, Montmartre. On the other hand, look in less popular neighborhoods for a quieter stay and potentially lower fees.
For instance, if you know you want to spend an afternoon or two in the shadow of the Eiffel tower, look for a hostel in the neighborhood called the 7e arrondissement. Similarly, if hoping to walk to the Louvre, look for options in or near Tuileries.Account for your anticipated method of travel as well. For instance, if you're planning on riding a bus around the city, you may want to choose a hostel near a bus stop.;
, Despite a dated interface, AboutFrance.com is a valuable resource of information on hostels and more. From the homepage, click Accommodations, then Hostels in France, and finally Hostels in Paris. It recommends a handful of specific hostels., If you know you want to stay in a certain area, check to see if there is availability at the hostels located in that area. While many hostels posted information regarding availability on their websites, it is worth calling the hostel directly if you’re hoping to book lodging within 48 hours of arrival. Find specific hostels’ numbers online.


While on the phone with a hostel staff member, ask something like, “What are my options to stay Thursday through Sunday this weekend?” If there are multiple types of accommodations available, ask what the price difference is, as well as the difference in amenities for each option.
 If you’re hoping to stay a few nights starting that day or the next, it’s worth inquiring what the mood is like that the hospital. Call a hostel you’re considering and ask, “Hey, just wondering how full you are this weekend, and what types of groups are staying with you?”


Though these calls may not be too fruitful, they may give you important information. For instance, you may learn that the Fête de la Musique is happening, with plenty of events nearby the hostel. On the other hand, you may learn that several rugby teams are currently occupying every bed in the shared room save the one that could become yours.In any event, it’s worth asking for additional info regarding other guests and events in the surrounding area when speaking with a particular hostel.
 For instance, check out the website for the Auberge Internationale des Jeunes in Paris. On it’s homepage, there’s a brief description, a notification of its approval by Lonely Planet, and a link to book an extremely inexpensive stay in the Bastille neighborhood. For many travelers, you can get all the information you need from the hostel’s website alone.Booking directly through the hostel is the best way to avoid booking fees. Further, they will likely charge less than booking websites. Note that booking websites may make it seem like you’re getting a deal when you may actually be paying more than necessary.

