 Is she the sultry silent type? Marlene Dietrich comes to mind. Is she bold and sassy? How about Mae West? Is she beautiful and unforgettably exotic? Angela Basset is a great example. Who pops into your head?;
, Who are you? Are you a sex kitten i.e. Elizabeth Taylor or Marilyn Monroe? Are you the exotic type? Think... Halle Berry or Angelina Jolie, two very daring and erotic women. Are you the cool and classic type i.e. Jackie Kennedy or Scarlett Johansson? Think about it.
 Do some research; read a few biographies of women who turned the world inside out with their charm, personality, and some times unconventional ways. Being a Sex Goddess is all about being unforgettable.
 Allow yourself the joy and pleasure of pampering yourself with a few items that excite you. A Sex Goddess always has an arsenal of clothing, accessories, and at least one signature fragrance that makes her memorable. So, go out there, be playful, and enjoy yourself as you rediscover yourself.
 It is okay to seek assistance. It is important that your selections flatter you and your body type. Sexy comes in all shapes and sizes. Your wardrobe should showcase your assets and you should feel confident and sexy in your clothes. Remember, confidence is a very attractive quality.
 Once you have taken the time to discover your style, shop for your new look, and put it all together. Go out and have some fun. This is your time to shine. Select a venue that makes you feel incredible and where you know you will turn heads. This is your chance to be erotic, exotic, playful, sexy, or whatever mood decides to flow through you. Enjoy the attention and give people something surprising and pleasant to talk about.
 Offer interesting conversation. What are some of your specialties or favorite hobbies/interests? People are hungry for something different. Life has become dull and gray. Be the spark that lights up a room. Do your homework and be fearless in your choice of topics.
 Make people wonder what you are thinking? A few select comments here and there that keep people coming back for more.
 Your decision to recreate or create a sexier persona is going to meet with some criticism. Remember you are a Goddess and let their comments roll off your back. You can please some of the people some of the time, but most important is being happy with who you are.

