 There is a wide range of definitions for “giftedness” and “gifted”, based on context and culture. Each state in the U.S. also has their own definition of what makes a child gifted. In general, gifted children often develop ahead of their physical growth and their age group. They may also have an exceptional aptitude for a certain subject or activity.Some gifted children may not be living up to their full potential due to poverty, discrimination, or cultural barriers. These children may also have a physical or learning disability that downplays their gifted qualities. Many programs made for gifted children focus on drawing out their exceptional qualities, despite other challenges or difficulties.
You can find detailed definitions and criteria for “giftedness” state by state on the National Association for Gifted Children website.;
, Most children are tested for giftedness as early as elementary school. You can contact a child psychologist who works with gifted children and ask them to test your child with ability tests. Keep in mind private testing can be expensive, so you should check to see if your health insurance might cover the costs of testing.The two more commonly used assessments for gifted children are the Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test (NNAT) and the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test (OLSAT). You can prepare your child for this tests using test preparation resources online, which will include sample questions and practice tests.
If you want to get your preschooler tested for giftedness, you may be able to ask their teacher or school director to recommend a mental health professional. The mental health professional can then analyze and work with your child to see if they are showing signs of giftedness.
 You can also administer an IQ test to your child with the help of a child psychologist and/or your child’s school director. Your child’s individual IQ score can then help you determine if they are gifted.You can give an IQ test to children as young as three. The range for average intelligence is a score of 85 to 115. Children with IQ test scores of 130 or higher are considered gifted. Most children will need to score at least 120-130 to qualify for gifted education programs.
 You can also ask your child’s teacher to use a rating scale or checklist to analyze your child’s level of giftedness. They may combine observation notes and a checklist to determine if your child is gifted.You may use your child’s school grades and standardized test scores to determine if they are gifted. Discuss your child’s performance with their teacher to see if they might qualify for a gifted school or a gifted program at their existing school.
 Gifted children often have strong thinking skills and a unique learning style. They may be able to learn a new skill quickly and be able to recall the skill accurately at a later time. They may also be motivated to learn new skills often and get bored if they are not learning or engaged in a new skill.Many gifted children also have the ability to remember and make connections between past and present experiences. This is an indication that they have advanced thinking skills. Gifted children may also be able to recall how to do a skill once they are taught how to do it once.
You may notice your child focuses intensely on one skill or activity until they figure it out and that they do not need to rely on instructions or pointers from others. Your child may then quickly move on to another skill or activity and become frustrated or distracted if they do not have something new to learn., Many gifted children have an aptitude for visual toys and games, such as puzzles, building and construction toys, drawing, and painting. They may use their vivid imagination to create interesting and unique things using visual toys and games.Some gifted children also show talent in a specific area, such as a strong ability to draw or paint, or an ability to solve math problems quickly. They may display their talents through toys, such as an ability to problem solve a construction toy issue or using their memory skills to finish puzzles and games quickly.
 Gifted children often have advanced motor skills, where they have better control over their balance, coordination, and movement than other children their age. They may be able to use their fine-motor skills to do activities that are difficult or challenging for children their age.For example, your child may be able to assemble small objects, like legos, blocks, or electronics, or put puzzles together with ease. These activities may be challenging to other children their age, but not to them. They may appear to have a good grasp of their fine-motor skills from an early age.
 Gifted children often have a strong imagination and are very creative. They may also use their imagination in unusual or unique ways, such as having a whole cast of imaginary friends or improvising during playtime in creative ways.Gifted children may also do well in creative hobbies or activities, such as painting, drawing, sculpture, performance or dance. Often, gifted children like to approach hobbies or activities with creativity and curiosity.
 Gifted children also have advanced speech and language skills. They may have an advanced vocabulary for their age and are able to learn new words quickly and easily. Gifted children may also form complex sentences and speak full sentences with confidence, even in front of the adults.Many gifted children will be prone to asking “why” often and have an intense desire to learn and understand advanced concepts for their age. They may also have keen observation skills and ask intelligent questions about things they do not understand.
You may also notice your child has a passion for reading, and was able to read before they even entered school. Your child may also be able to do math, science, or other core subjects on their own.
 Gifted children tend to have advanced social skills, where they are more sensitive than other children to the needs and feelings of others. They may also play better with older children and be more comfortable around adults than children their own age.Many gifted children have an advanced sense of humor, where they are able to understand “adult” jokes and make funny, intelligent comments. They may stand out among other children their age due to their tendency to make witty comments or more complex jokes.
Gifted children also tend to display strong leadership qualities among other children and have a natural desire to take charge. You may notice that your child tends to take a leading role on the playground or at school among their friends.
 Some gifted children also enjoy alone time, where they can spend solitary time on activities like writing, reading, problem solving, and observing. Though they may enjoy socializing with others, they may also need time on their own to recharge emotionally and psychologically.You may notice that your child has a small group of friends and enjoys spending time on a personal project or activity alone. Some gifted children are not interested in socializing on a regular basis with different and new people. They may be more focused on their own personal development and enjoy spending time alone.
 You can also pick up clues on your child’s level of giftedness by discussing their performance at school with their teacher. Gifted children tend to excel at schooling, particularly in subjects they enjoy. They will usually have a high aptitude for learning and this should show on their grades in school.You may also discuss possible learning issues or problems their teacher may notice. Some gifted children struggle with certain aspects of learning in school, though they show intelligence in other ways in the classroom. You should address these issues with their teacher and consider how you can best support your child in school.
 Many gifted children will do well on a variety of subjects and/or excel at one subject in particular. They may have an extreme focus on one subject that they enjoy, such as math or writing, as well as subject matter they like, such as dinosaurs or fantasy novels. They may then do incredibly well in this subject whenever it comes time to learn about it at school.You may also notice that your child pursues learning about a particular subject outside of the school setting. Maybe they end up going to library to check out more books on dinosaurs and fossils. Or, perhaps they start writing their own fantasy novels after school and on the weekends.
 Many gifted children take pride in their successes and enjoy a sense of achievement. You may notice that your child strives to do something right or to get a high grade on a test. They may also put in the studying time necessary to get a high mark or to do an assignment well.