 The program can be partially implemented by following the rest of the instructions (and not joining), but results may not be satisfactory due the presence of hidden additives and failure to eliminate potential problem foods. Read further down for more details on this.;
,, This is not just all the neon colored cereal and candy. Dyes are in many unlikely places such as marshmallows (blue), pickles (yellow, blue), frozen pie shells (yellow), waffles (yellow), toothpaste(red). Take a hard look at EVERYTHING, even things appearing to be white or pale in color. Note: carmine coloring, annatto, titanium dioxide and caramel color can be listed as “artificial” but they are actually okay.
 Again, it’s not just in the obvious places. Read all labels carefully. Desserts and sweet treats are especially prone to artificial flavors, but they can be in items like bacon or breads.
 If low-calorie sweeteners are desired, use stevia or agave syrup.
 Other preservatives such as sodium benzoate, sodium nitrate, and so forth may be problematic, but do not need to be avoided initially. This is where joining Feingold is really important for success in managing ADD/ADHD with diet. Labeling laws are not consistent for these preservatives and they can be hidden in other ingredients or sprayed on packing materials. Without contacting the manufacturers (which is what Feingold does for you), you can’t be sure. The most common sources of hidden preservatives: Vitamin A fortification: breads, cereals, dairy products… Oils: shortening/hydrogenated oils, frying oils, pan sprays …. Packaging sprays: shelled nuts, cereal, string cheese… sausages, pepperoni, etc

,, Use the Feingold food list or read those labels carefully. This is not as bad as you think. Given any product on the grocery store shelf there is almost always at least one natural version. Some specialty items (e.g. marshmallows) might require a trip to the “health food” store (or natural foods isle in your regular store). When in doubt, organic items are generally free from synthetic additives, although they tend to be more expensive and are not a requirement for the program.
 If this seems strange to you, think about peanut allergies: Most people are just fine with peanuts, but some have a real problem. Information on which foods to try avoiding is provided for free on the Feingold web-site and is too extensive to go into in this article. This is another reason to join the Feingold Association: it is very difficult to avoid some or all of the potential problem foods if you use any processed items due to labels listing things like “spices” and “natural flavors”. Unfortunately, there is no way to tell whether avoiding the foods is worth the effort unless you try it. The standard Feingold Association advice is to eliminate the foods initially and then re-introduce them. However, the opposite approach can also be taken, which is to not eliminate the foods unless just eliminating the additives does not achieve the desired effect. This is not suggested due to the fact that it may significantly lengthen the time until results are seen and may lead you to the conclusion that the Feingold program is not working. If there is sufficient family resistance to eliminating the foods, then it is probably better than not trying at all.

