 If you are particularly cautious by nature, remind yourself that being an entrepreneurial leader involves innovation and operating with some degree of uncertainty and risk. Spend time developing products or services that may or may not be well received in the market.


Embrace the risks. Let employees know that you are assuming the risks of the venture. This allows employees to work more comfortably, knowing that they will not be held solely responsible if the product is not successful.
Create and experiment with new products and services. Entrepreneurs typically have innovative ideas, create new products and continually think about the delivery of unique services. Challenge yourself by thinking outside the box and giving time and energy to new products, projects and processes.
Enjoy change. Enjoying change means welcoming it and looking forward to it, which is different from putting up with change or managing it because you have to. Look at change as a necessary component of innovation and creativity.
Challenge the status quo. Colleagues or employees may be attached to how things have always been done. Entrepreneurial leadership involves helping people to see and embrace a new way of doing things.;
, Always focus on how the new tool, service or process will add value. It may be a time-saver for clients, solve a customer problem, or educate and inspire people.
 The support may come from stakeholders or colleagues interested in a new venture. Surrounding yourself with supporters and team members who are willing to invest and take risks can accelerate goal achievement.
 Intelligent and creative employees are typically attracted to companies that value their abilities and challenge them to build new skills. Foster work settings that support these goals through brainstorming, training support and continual innovation.
 Through a process of analysis and structure development, give workers a clear explanation of important tasks and how to complete them. Make sure that they have the tools they need to complete each task.


Outline timelines and expectations. Motivate team members by creating project timelines and forecasts for each phase of development. Distribute timelines to employees and revisit them regularly as a group.



Create an organizational culture that is conducive to innovation. Cultural norms may vary by geographic location and/or industry. Dressing in business suits daily may be necessary for making a professional impression in one industry. In another, allowing workers to dress casually and bring pets to work may be influential in fostering relaxation and greater creativity.
Develop cultural intelligence. Increase your knowledge about the business practices, communication dynamics and negotiation styles of the various cultures related to your industry. Entrepreneurial leaders who acknowledge and appreciate cultural diversity and refrain from judging other cultures tend to have access to a larger client base.

