 Tape is a great way to accent your handlebars and provide a better grip at the same time.


Simply buy a colored tape from any store that sells bike accessories and wrap it flush against the handlebar until the entire surface area is covered. One layer of type will suffice.;
, Every bike has a cap that sits atop the headset where the steering portion is bolted together. The headset cap simply covers the bolt and is usually a bland color. You can swap out your current cap for a custom color or design and add flare to an otherwise ordinary bike part. The headset cap comes in different sizes. The surest way to figure out what cap size you have is to consult the manual that came with your bike or consult an employee at a local shop. The installation is simple and the cap should simply screw off and back on.
 Bags are a great way to attach extra space to your bike that stores objects like your phone, a water bottle, or anything else you might need. Rather than getting a run of the mill bag, you can get a great design or color to personalize your bike.


You can get a number of different bags depending on your preference. There are trunk bags that sit behind the seat, a handlebar bag that sits up front or some that nestle below the bike frame out of sight. , Decals are a great and simple way to spruce up your bike frame without investing the time or money to paint it. You can get your name, a favorite brand or even more fun ones that represent your interests and hobbies, like your favorite breed of dog!

, There are a lot of different types of bike seats that improve comfort and look great. Changing the material and cushioning of your seat is an easy customization. Gel cushioning. These mold to your body and provide great comfort for a casual rider.
Foam cushioning. This is great for long rides and those who weigh over 200 lbs. It’s great for long rides because it provides more support for your lower back but still enough give for comfort.
Leather saddles. These are becoming more popular. Although they take some time to break in, it will help keep you cool on long roads and is second to none in terms of durability. This is a great choice for someone who rides a lot.
 This can be time consuming and requires a little more work, but a new paint job can make your bike look new.


Make sure to clean your bike well getting off the rust and imperfections from wear and tear. Following this you can buy special primer and paints designed for bikes that turn your old dingy frame into a bright masterpiece.
 Maybe you want to change how your bike looks without changing the frame or bike itself. You can buy a lot of neat accessories and apply them to your bike and simply take them off when you tire of them.


Bells and horns. These can be great from a safety standpoint to alert people you’re riding near them, but can also add a unique spin to the front of your bike.
Water bottles and cages. Biking is hard and it’s important to stay hydrated. You can add water bottles and holders (cages) to your bike that look great while making sure you stay healthy.
Lights. If you like to ride later in the day, it’s important to stay visible. You can get lights that are solar or battery operated that come in different colors and make sure you stand out not only in the dark but also to your friends.
 You’ll want to make sure it doesn’t change the performance of the bike too much, but new handlebars can look great. Flat handlebars. These are the most common type of handlebar. They’re simple and light with great control but are not great for those who like to do tricks or high speeds.
Riser bars. These are basically flat handlebars that rise from the center clap area and are typically wider than flat bars. They give you great control, are good for your wrists, but can also make your bike less aerodynamic and thus slow it down.
Bullhorns. These aren’t great for turning but are otherwise great for high speeds and climbing. They curve up and forward from the center.
Drop bars. These have a straight middle section with each end curving downwards and towards the rider. These are a great general handlebar but are not recommended for frequent tight turns.

