 Double-click the game’s shortcut icon on your desktop to launch it.;
, In the bottom-left corner of the launcher, select “New Profile.” This will open the Profile Editor menu where you can adjust settings for new and existing profiles.


A profile informs the game of what version you are playing. There is no limit to the number of profiles you can have.
 Do this in the textbox labeled “Profile Name” at the top of the Profile Editor.


It is helpful to name it something you can easily remember. For example, if you are creating a profile for version 1.2.7, name it 1.2.7.
 This is to prevent harming your files.


Right-click the desktop, scroll over “New” at the bottom, and select “Folder.
Right-click the folder and choose “Rename” at the bottom of the drop-down menu. Name the folder “Old Versions.”
Back in the Profile Editor, click the “Game Directory” check box underneath the profile name. This will allow you to change the default directory.
Replace the portion of the directory that reads “AppData\Roaming\.minecraft” with “Desktop\Old Versions.” Now the profile information will be stored in a safe location on the desktop.
 In the “Version Selection” section, select all three check boxes. This allows you to play all older versions of minecraft including experimental, beta, and alpha.


You may get a pop-up warning that older versions may cause harm to your files, but since you’ve already protected your files, simply click “Yes” in the bottom left.
 Below the check boxes, click the drop-down menu to select the old version you would like to play.


Each version has a number and a label indicating what phase of development it was created in. The phases are either old_alpha, old_beta, release, or snapshot. A snapshot is a mini version of the newest updates. It is used to test the individual parts of an update before it is officially released.
 Click “Save Profile” in the bottom right of the window to complete the profile.
 Use the drop-down box in the bottom left of the launcher to select the profile that was just created.
 Click “Play” at the bottom of the launcher to launch the older version of Minecraft.

