 All organizations benefit from strong leaders who take responsibility for furthering the mission of the group. Depending on the formality of the club, either elect or appoint persons to serve in leadership positions.


Avoid electing or appointing leaders at the launch meeting. The launch meeting is a recruiting event to increase membership, not a time to conduct formal business. Consider electing or appointing officers at the first or second organized meeting following the garden club launch event.
Distribute questionnaires to interested club members prior to officer elections or appointments. The questionnaires can be used to determine gardening interests, as well as identify people who are interested in serving in a leadership capacity for the garden club.
 The goals will determine the programming priorities of the garden club. Will the garden club provide landscaping for local charities, serve as an educational resource for gardeners, or provide opportunities for friendship and idea sharing with other gardening enthusiasts? Write down the goals and refer to them frequently to keep the garden club focused on its mission.
 Many garden clubs are affiliated with national organizations, such as the Arboretum Foundation or the Garden Club of America. If your group is affiliated with a national organization, the club already may have established meeting structures, by-laws and membership qualifications. If the garden club is a local, independent group, consider establishing some organizational guidelines, such as by-laws and membership requirements.
 Choose a specific day and time to meet each month. To reduce scheduling conflicts, keep the meeting date the same each month, such as the second Monday of each month.


Establish a consistent meeting location. Contact a local nursery about using its space for garden club meetings once a month. The store benefits from an increased customer base, and the garden club may not have to pay for space rental.
Organize meeting and events that meet your club's goals. If a goal of your garden club is to swap plants and cuttings, plan events that meet that goal. If a goal of your garden club is to increase horticulture education, invite speakers to your meetings to share their knowledge and expertise.
 To avoid duplication, contact your local extension office to get a list of names of existing garden clubs in your area.
 If the garden club requires membership dues, set up a bank account for the organization. Be sure to designate a treasurer, who will be responsible for financial matters for the club.

