 Your pup needs to consume a variety of foods to achieve the optimal levels of health and vitality. The American Association of Feed Control Officials (AAFO) sets appropriate nutritional minimums and maximums for each necessary nutrient, but basically, you should ensure your pet has appropriate levels of protein, fatty acids, and vitamins and minerals.


Fatty acids are essential to ensure your dog has adequate energy. These can be derived from animal products; oils like cod liver, fish, and olive oil; and from seeds and nuts.
Carbohydrates provide an easily burned energy source for your pup, and should comprise a significant portion of your dog’s daily intake, especially if you have a very active Shih Tzu.
Vitamins and minerals are necessary in very small quantities, but you should make sure your Shih Tzu is receiving adequate levels of vitamins K and B, folic acid, and choline. Talk to your veterinarian to ensure you are including adequate sources of these vitamins or to get supplements to make up the difference., There are numerous recipes available online free of charge as well as pet cookbooks and other resources available to help you make healthy foods for your Shih Tzu. Regardless of what recipe you choose, you may want to consider making large batches of one or two recipes and storing them in the freezer to extend the shelf life.


Prepare a month or more worth of food with two recipes at a time, and stagger your Shih Tzu’s meals each week., The American Association of Feed Control Officials (AAFO) recommends supplements be used sparingly as a well-balanced diet already includes many of these key nutrients. However, if you’re preparing your own foods, you need to make sure your Shih Tzu has adequate levels of vitamins B and K, folic acid, choline, and fatty acids.


Take into account those vitamins and minerals present in the meats, grains, and vegetables you use to make your dog’s food.
Then, add in supplements as necessary to ensure your pup is receiving appropriate levels of each.
Always consult your veterinarian before giving your Shih Tzu any supplements.