 Wool is typically available as raw fleece, roving or curly locks.


Choose raw fleece for an actual skirted fleece. The wool is in its natural state, cut from the sheep and usually not cleaned.
Choose roving for wool that has been combed, cleaned and twisted to the hold the fibers together. Roving is usually fine and very soft, and is often used for spinning.
Choose curly locks for soft, curly wool. Curly locks are usually cleaned and combed, and are ideal for craft projects like dolls or Santa beards. Curly locks also can be used for spinning and knitting, but the curls may create additional texture in the finished products.



Select greasy wool if you intend to wash the wool after receiving it. Wool in its pure form off of the sheep is known as greasy wool because it not cleaned and contains high levels of lanolin. Greasy wool also may contain dirt, vegetable matter, dead skin and sweat residue. You can wash or scour the wool on your own with warm water and a mild detergent. You may need to remove vegetable matter and larger clumps of dirt by hand. Because it has not yet been processed, greasy wool is usually cheaper than scoured wool. However, the greasy wool will shrink after washing, so the quantity you order may not be a true indication of the finished product yield.
Select scoured wool for cleaned fleece. Large commercial wool providers use industrial detergents and alkali to clean the wool. They also may remove vegetable matter through a process of chemical carbonization. Smaller farmers may simply clean the wool by soaking it in a mild detergent and warm water. Scoured wool is more expensive than greasy wool, but the wool is already pre-shrunk.



Opt for long wool sheep fleece for the heaviest and longest fibers. Although long sheep fibers are course, their length makes them easier to spin into finer, softer wool. Long wool sheep fleece can be used for almost any apparel.
Consider medium wool sheep fleece for lighter weight fibers. Medium wool sheep are usually raised for meat, not fiber. They produce light weight fleeces that can be used for blankets or socks. Medium wool fibers also are ideal for felting projects.



Choose course sheep fibers, called carpet wool, for home decorative applications, such as carpets or tapestries. Do not use course sheep fibers for apparel because the garments will be itchy and uncomfortable to wear.
Select fine wool sheep fleeces for increased project versatility. Fine wool fleece has a small fiber diameter and is ideal for almost any project, including garments.



Purchase natural white wool for its ability to absorb dye. White wool is more valuable in the commercial fleece market because it can be dyed any color without the use of chemicals.
Buy dark wool for its natural beauty. Many hand spinners prefer natural wool colors. However, dark wool fibers cannot absorb dye, so the color cannot be changed or altered.

