 Kids and adults of all ages are constantly putting their fingers and hands into their mouths, noses, and eyes. This spreads germs of all kinds, both good and bad. Teach your children the proper way to wash their hands. They should wash them for at least 20 seconds (have your child sing the "Happy Birthday" song twice to teach the proper length of time), while scrubbing under their nails and using lots of sudsy soap. Children should wash their hands:Before eating
Often when she or anyone she is in contact with is sick
After using the toilet
In crowded places like stores, malls, theaters, and parks
If they are clearly dirty

, Antibacterial products are not a necessary product if you have a child, though many people use them all the time. Antibacterial soaps are not needed, nor are they very effective. They can also expose your kids to unnecessary chemicals. If you use them, don’t use them all the time. Antibacterial soaps and hand sanitizers may inhibit the development of your child’s immune system.Alcohol-based portable sanitizers can be very useful, but the alcohol can be very drying. Use these products sparingly. The best hand wash is still soap and water.
 Antibiotics only work on bacterial infections, though many times people take prescribed antibiotics for viral infections. Talk to your doctor to see if an antibiotic is really needed, or if the infection may be viral or can be fought off without antibiotics. Use antibiotics only when there is a bacterial infection. You can also give your child’s immune system a chance to exercise and practice. If your child gets a cut or scrape, keep it clean and covered; however, you don’t have to use antibiotic cream for minor cuts.Overuse of antibiotics can lead to development of resistant bacteria, which can be tough to treat.
Instead of using antibiotics, you can use natural sources of antibacterial, antiseptic, antifungal, and antiviral remedies if an infection is minor or your doctor says it's okay. These include things like oregano, echinacea, garlic, and honey.
Make sure to follow the directions for antibiotic use exactly. Part of the reason that antibiotic resistant bacteria are an increasing problem is that the full dose of antibiotics was not given, leaving the small number of antibiotic resistant bacteria room to grow.
 Sponges and dishrags can be sources for bacteria. To help reduce the amount of bacteria you and your children are exposed to, you should change or wash your dishrags and sponges often.When you use dishrags over and over again, you are actually spreading the bacteria around more.
 Ignore the five second rule for food that falls on the floor. Five seconds is plenty of time for food to pick up loads of germs, along with whatever else in on the floor. If food falls onto the floor, throw it away.While we want to expose kids to dirt and germs, that is not the same as wanting to feed our kids dirt and germs.

