 Content marketing is a strategy for selling your goods or services. It involves setting yourself up as an expert in your field by creating and sharing content that is closely related to what you are selling. The content can include blog posts, videos, online courses or e-books. The goal is to attract and retain a clearly-defined audience who will purchase your goods or services., If you have a business, consider starting a blog as part of your marketing plan. You can write how-to articles, product reviews, answers to questions and posts about upcoming events. Blogs give you more flexibility than other forms of social media like Facebook or Twitter because you own the content and aren’t bound by a third party’s rules or restrictions. Also, if your posts include keywords or phrases and link to internal and external content, you can improve the search optimization of your website. Blogs drive sales because you can include product information and links to product pages., According to Cisco, video accounted for 64 percent of consumer internet traffic in 2014, and it is expected to grow to 80 percent by 2019.Video is so popular because it's engaging and allows people to get information and entertainment that’s easy to digest. With so much information available at their fingertips, most people want to get their content quickly and move on. Produce creative videos that educate your customers about your products. Keep the videos relevant to your audience. Also, promote your videos across several social media channels., Price Waterhouse Cooper predicts that revenue from e-book sales in the United States will grow from $2.31 billion in 2011 to $8.69 billion in 2018.That’s an increase of 276 percent. Since the popularity of e-books is increasing so significantly, consider using this type of media to connect with your customers. Content marketers create self-published titles on platforms like Amazon Kindle Direct Publishing and make them available for free. E-books can help you generate sales leads, educate customers about you and your products, build your brand and offer valuable information to your target audience., Infographics are visual displays of information. They display your content using visual design elements. They can illustrate a point from an article, but they also usually convey a self-contained message. Infographics are effective because they can quickly communicate complex information in a visually-pleasing, easily-understood way.Use infographics to present survey data, explain how your product or service works or to compare products or services., Teach a class in your specialty. You can teach the class in person, or you can offer it online. Options for offering your class online include sending it through e-mail, hosting it on your website, or publishing it on an online platform like Udemy.Teaching an online course is practical and profitable because you teach it once, and then you use it over and over again to connect to your customers.Create a useful course that addresses your customers’ needs and develop an ongoing system to promote the video and attract new customers., A webinar is a workshop or seminar that is presented over the web.Sites like GoToWebinar allow you to host and record webinars. Webinars are practical because you can connect with any number of people from anywhere in the world.Also, like videos and infographics, webinars are visual, which makes them effective at engaging and capturing your audience.