 Photographs from special moments during your relationship can be used to make a wonderful wedding gift. If you want to give your fiance something on the more sentimental guide, try doing something with photos.Stop by a local print shop or find one online. See if you can do something like a custom calendar or wall hanging with special pictures of the two of you.
Invest in a beautiful frame to frame your favorite photo of you and your fiance.;
, Any item will feel more sentimental with an engraving. If you want to get your fiance something like a piece of jewelry or a tool, have it engraved. This will add sentimentality to an item that may otherwise seem generic.For example, if you're getting your fiance a ring, have something engraved on the ring.
You can have your names engraved into an item. You can also try a special date, like the date you met, or lyrics from a poem or song that reminds you of your relationship.
Many websites sell items that you can pay to have engraved. Just make sure you place your order well before your wedding date so it's ready in time.
 You don't have to spend a lot of money on a wedding gift. Something as simple as a handwritten letter written on nice stationary can be a sweet, sentimental gift your fiance will cherish for years to come.Try to get in touch with your feelings when writing the letter. Lower your inhibitions and write about why you're looking forward to your life together and everything you love about your fiance.
If you don't have the best handwriting, don't worry. The point of the note is to express yourself and your feelings. Even if your handwriting is a little sloppy, your fiance will appreciate the sentimentality.
 If you're the crafty type, try making a scrapbook. A scrapbook that details the high points of your relationship can be a wonderful, sentimental gift your fiance will treasure.Add things like plane tickets, post cards, restaurant menus, and other items that remind you of special moments and places.
Have photographs printed out at a local print shop. Print some of your favorite pictures of the two of you.
You can stop by a local craft store to get supplies for a scrap book. Looking at things like stickers and decorative paper can help give you inspiration for your gift.

