 Once your Rena reaches level 15 or higher, the Ranger quest will be available in your Quest Log.;
, The Quest Log can be found at the bottom right-hand side of your screen (the exclamation point icon). A window will appear showing a list of on-going and available quests.


When you open your Quest Log, make sure you're in a city or town to avoid being attacked by monsters.
The Quest Log can also be opened by pressing Q on your keyboard.
, Head straight to the Underground Waterway, under Very Hard mode, and kill 7 Mickey the Mice.


This can be done in a party. If your party member kills a Mickey, that too will be counted.
To get in a dungeon, simply press the Dungeon tab found on your screen. This will open a window showing you the available dungeons for your level. Click on the dungeon you want to enter and then press Start Dungeon, or hit F8 on your keyboard. This will automatically assign you to a party, but if you're already in a party, choose “Start with current members” instead.
To change the dungeon difficulty, after choosing a dungeon you want to enter, look at the menu to your right; you will see the description of the dungeon as well as the dungeon difficulty. Choose from Normal, Hard, and Very Hard.
Keep in mind that the higher the difficulty you choose, the more stamina is consumed per run, and this also requires a full party to clear the dungeon, depending on the dungeon level.
 After completing your first quest, go and clear the Suburbs of Wally's Castle. Complete the dungeon on any mode.
 He's the village's Equipment NPC; he can be found at the top right of the map. Talk to him about the quest, and he will give you a third test.
 You can invite your friends for a party raid or join randomly with other players.


After completing this quest, open your Quest Log to complete your Ranger quest and become a full-fledge Ranger.
 Now that you have completed the first leg of the quest, look for the NPC named Lenphad in Elder Village. Lenphad is the Equipment NPC for this map and can be found at the top-right level of the village, just next to Echo the Alchemist.


Talk to him regarding the class-advancement quest, and he will give you a set of tasks to complete.
 The advancement quest for Sniping Ranger has three parts but all can be done in Wally's Castle.


If you haven't unlock Wally's Castle yet, make sure you complete the Suburbs of Wally's Castle first in order for this map to be available in your dungeon selection.
You must clear this dungeon with a rank B or higher; otherwise, you will have to do reruns.
There is no time limit for this.
 They can be found on any floor of the dungeon, so make sure you have explored the entire area.


Don’t forget to collect High Quality Lubricants from the Crossbow Soldiers (you will need 2), as these are quest items.
If you ever got disconnected from the game while you're in the dungeon, the monster kill, including the number of quest item you collected will remain. However, your stamina will still be deducted.
Mini bosses will be available in this map; killing them will give you a chance of obtaining rare items, which can be useful for your survival.
 Once you have completed the quest, return to the Elder Village and open your Quest Log by pressing Q. Click the first-class advancement quest and then press Complete. This will complete the quest for the class change and will automatically turn your Rena to Sniping Ranger.


If ever your character didn't change \to Sniping Ranger after completing the quest, simply log off from the game and then log in again. Sometimes the server is too busy to register that your class has been updated.
 This is the easiest of Rena’s new combos, and the most used during PvP.


By pressing X repeatedly, Rena will attack using her bow and arrows, causing the enemy to flinch and cancel any of their incoming attacks. At the fourth X, the Sniping Ranger will automatically use Siege Mode, which gives your character a higher boost in range and damage (X, X, X, X).
 This combo also available during your basic class, but once you have advanced to Sniping Ranger, your character can now execute this combo twice.


Press Up twice to double-jump in air, press X twice to shoot down arrows, hitting enemies that are below you (Up, Up, X, X).
 Sniping Rangers can be vulnerable when close to enemies, but with Triple Arrow, she can dash past the enemy then shoot arrows from behind them.


Many of the players use this skill to repeatedly cause the enemy to flinch at the first two attacks then knock them down at third.
To do this combo, press the arrow button twice to run toward your enemy and then hit X three times (<< or >>, X, X, X).

