 For example, you may need proper storage in a kitchen.


Measure the size of the kitchen using a tape measure. Sketch the floor plan to scale, locating the sink, stove and refrigerator appropriately.
Some elements, like the stove and sink, may be locked in place due to cost considerations. The same does not apply to the refrigerator. Move it to where it works best for your design.
Think of adding a kitchen island with cabinets in the middle of the room. Before you order the island, cut out large cardboard replicas. Place these in your kitchen and see if they get in your way.;
,


Magazines that deal with kitchen remodeling, for example, show features that you give the storage capacity you want.
Sliding shelves give you access to pots and pans at the back of the cabinet. Pantries with sliding shelves give you access from both sides, making it easier to find cans of food that never seem to be at the front of the shelf.



Pick a top that is durable. Granite, Formica, wood and even concrete tops are all available. Some of these last better than others, and with less upkeep.
Use consumer reviews and ask what other people like about their choices.
Because of food preparation, you need cabinet tops that clean and sanitize easily to prevent contamination and possible food poisoning.



Before you buy, sit down and come up with a dollar amount you can afford.
Price can easily get away from you when ordering the cabinets. Otherwise, sticker shock will leave you with regret when you are looking at the final bill.



Home improvement stores provide examples of cabinets along with the tops to choose from. They also have trained sales associates that can take your sketch and measurements, turning your wish list into reality. They also offer installation by one of their subcontractors.
On-line resources provide an attractive method for people who live in areas that do not have a home improvement store close by. Choose wisely when buying online. Check references and don't forget the shipping costs. Keep in mind the cost of having a local handyman install the new cabinets, if that is your plan.
Traditional cabinet shops are great. Using a cabinet shop is more personal, since you deal with the woodworker as opposed to a salesman. They will install the cabinets as well. This is really important if your house has an odd shape to the kitchen or is older and the corners are no longer square.

