 There’s a thin line between showing your interest and intruding. It’s important to navigate this process with tact to avoid causing any undue emotional stress to your half-siblings or yourself. If your initial contact is met with silence, should you keep trying or throw in the towel?


It may be smart to make several attempts just in case previous messages or emails were lost or went to a spam folder. However, if you don’t receive a reply after a few tries, this might be a sign that your half-siblings aren’t interested in meeting you.
Even if they do seem interested initially, there’s still a possibility that the connection could fall flat. Try not to read too much into their interest early on to prevent feeling overly disappointment when they suddenly stop returning messages or calls., You made a brave decision to reach out to your half-siblings who don’t know you. You had no idea how you would be received, but you still took the initiative. It’s perfectly acceptable to feel angry, hurt, or disappointed. However, don’t allow these feelings to make you think any less of yourself.Keep in mind that your half-siblings don’t actually know you. Therefore, their rejection is likely related to their own fear or surprise of your existence than any concerns about who you are as a person.
If you have loved ones that value your presence in their lives, cherish their relationships. And, tell yourself, “It’s their loss.”
Keep in mind that even if they are not ready for contact now, they might be ready for contact down the road. Make sure that they have your contact information and that they know the door is still open if they want to contact you later on.
 Despite understanding that the rejection wasn’t personal, you still might be deeply affected by it. Seeing a professional during this time can help you come to terms with this loss and move on with your life.


Perhaps you are an only child who just learned that you had siblings, and you’d hoped for a joyous first meeting that led to deep and lasting bonds. Or, perhaps you’ve just suffered the loss of a parent and needed someone to mourn with. Consult with a professional counselor who can help you sort through your feelings and cope with the rejection.