 Simply be kind, clear, and polite when you ask for the game. Say, “Mom, Dad, can I please have this game? It’s really important to me.” You can point out that you haven’t asked for a game in awhile or you have a birthday or other occasion coming up if that’s true.


Talk through what makes them concerned. Ask your parents what elements of the rating they are hesitant about, which are usually listed as intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content, and/or strong language. Whatever they mention, provide reasoning and reassurance for why playing the game doesn’t influence you to copy those things in real life.








Say, "If you see me acting more violent than you can take away the game." Or, "Sex is optional and if you see me doing it you can take away the game."
For drugs say, "In health class they teach us the affects of drugs and why not to take them."
If the strong language bothers them, for example, you can say, “Look, if you hear me not being kind using those words, you can take away the game.";
, Avoid getting in arguments and getting frustrated with your parents if they say no. Come back to them in a week or so with a calm and respectful demeanor to present a new angle for why you should have the game. Display that you care enough about the game that you can be patient and respectful when asking for it.
 If you’re 17 years old or older, you are definitely of an age to purchase the game for yourself, but if you are younger than 17, point out to your parents that the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) classifies the Mature rating as “generally suitable” for 17 and up, but there is no legal requirement for selling this game to people under 17., Let your parents know that there are positive things about playing video games that they may not know about. Refer to studies that show that video game play can strengthen problem-solving skills and prevent anxiety. You can tell them that first-person shooter games, which are generally more violent, are also shown to improve spatial reasoning, navigation, memory, and perception., Tell your parents about friends you know of that have the game you want, and even suggest that your parents talk to theirs about why they agreed to let their child have the game.


Make sure you talk to your friends first and get their permission to mention them. They might have purchased the game through an older sibling or friend without their parents knowing, or their parents might reconsider their decision after talking to yours.
 Reassure your parents that you will pay for the game with your own money from an allowance, job, or savings.
 Ask your parents if they are concerned about the potential violence in the video game, because a major concern of many parents is that playing violent video games will lead to having more violent tendencies in real life. Do some research to find any of a number of studies that show that violent video games don’t make a person more violent and show it to them.You can say, “The violence really doesn’t affect me. I don’t get in fights in school or anything. But if the violence in this game starts to bother me, I’ll tell you or I’ll stop playing it.”

, If you’ve been allowed to watch any R-rated movies in the past, point out to your parents that an R rating has the same “suggested” age limit of 17 that the M rating for games has. Pick some examples of movies that might have similar themes to the game you want to buy to illustrate that you’re mature enough to handle them.

