 Find out if your orchid is a "cool growing" orchid or a "warm growing" orchid. The two types prefer temperatures that fall into a slightly different range. Warm growing orchids include vanda, phalaenopsis, and oncidium breeds. Cool growing orchids include phragmipedium, miltonia, and cymbidium breeds.


Drop the temperature approximately 15 °F (−9 °C) at night. Within nature, orchids grow in locations that experience a similar drop in nighttime temperature. As a result, manually dropping the temperature this dramatically in your home, at least in the room where your orchid grows, will encourage your the plant to flower and thrive.
Keep warm growing orchids at a temperature between 75 to 85 °F (24 to 29 °C) during the day. At night, allow the temperature to drop somewhere between 65 to 75 degrees.
Keep cool growing orchids at a temperature between 65 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit during the day. At night, allow the temperature to drop somewhere within the range of 50 to 65 degrees.
 This is especially important during warm weather. Open the windows on hot, muggy days or place a small fan nearby. Stale, stagnant air will stunt the orchid's growth.
 The type of orchid requires slightly different amounts of watering. In general it's best to water your orchid every 5 to 12 days, depending on time of year and temperature. If you're going through a heat spell you may need to water your orchid more frequently.


The roots need to remain evenly moist throughout the entire year, but the plant will not need as much water during cooler months, when growth is naturally reduced, as it does during vibrant warm months.
Orchids that need to be moist at all times are Paphiopedilum, Miltonia, Cymbidium, and Odontoglossum, to name a few.
The orchids that need to be moist during active growth, but nearly dry between waterings are the ones like Cattleya, Oncidium, Brassia, Dendrobium.
For some orchids you will need to allow them to dry out between waterings. These include Phalaenopsis, Vanda, Ascocenda.
 This is only a general guideline, because it really depends on the orchid type. When the orchid is actively growing it can be best to actually fertilize it weekly or bi-weekly. However, you want to make sure that you're watering it without fertilizing at least once a month so that the water can flush excess fertilizer salts.Avoid fertilizing too frequently. If you do this you're going to overwhelm the plant and have an adverse effect on its growth, especially during its dormant periods.
Some orchids don’t need fertilizer at all. In fact many orchids are perfectly happy to bloom year after year without any fertilizer at all.
 When all the flowers have fallen off, trim the orchid's stem to just above the very lowest node (little triangular etch that is a potential new bloom). Cut diagonally.This will encourage new growth. As long as you keep watering weekly you should be able to see new flowerings appear.
 A good way to determine whether or not your orchid needs to be re-potted is simply by checking its growth. If an otherwise healthy orchid does not bloom even if the levels of light, temperature, and humidity are all sufficient, you may need to re-pot it. Avoid repotting when it is in bloom.Select a pot size based on the size of the root mass, so you won't necessarily be repotting into a bigger pot. Orchids like being a little tight in their pots and a too-large pot will make them not yield as much foliage or flowers. Choose a new pot, new potting mix and transfer the orchid over.
Orchids that require annual repotting are: Dendrobium, Miltonia, Paphiopedilum and Phalaenopsis and their hybrids.
Orchids that require every other year repotting are: Cattleya, Dendrobium, Oncidium, Odontoglossum and their hybrids.
Orchids that require every third year repotting are: Vanda and its allies, and Cymbidium.

