 You can create simple designs using just painter's tape and some wall paint. This method is best for geometric designs, such as stripes, zigzags, and chevron. Here's a list of what you will need:


Painter's tape
Wall paint
Paint roller
Paint pan
Paper towels
Pencil

, The width of the tape will be the lines between your designs. When you are done painting, you will pull the tape off to reveal the original wall color underneath. Try to make the designs large and bold. If you make the designs too small, they will appear out of proportion against your huge wall. Here are some ideas for designs:


Chevron
Zigzag
Stripes (vertical or horizontal)
Triangles

, The tape needs to be sealed against the wall. If the tape is not properly sealed against the wall, paint might seep underneath it.Consider leaving small tabs at the end of each piece of tape. This will make it easier to pull off at the end.
 Try not to pour too much paint out at one time. If you pour out too much paint at once, the paint may dry out before you get a chance to use it all. You can always refill your paint pan with more paint when you run out.


Try to match the paint finish to the finish of your wall. For example, if your wall has a satin finish, choose a paint that has a satin finish as well. This will help your design blend in better.
 You don't want to apply too much paint all at ones. If you put too much paint onto the wall, it may leak under the tape. It may also create a bubbly texture, or take too long to dry. For these reasons, it is better to apply many thin coats of paint rather than one thick coat.
 Use a light to medium pressure, and always go in the same direction: back-and-forth or up-and-down. When your roller starts to get dry, apply more paint, but remember to tap it off onto the paper towel.


If you are using more than one color, work with one color at a time. Use a fresh paint roller and paint when moving on to a different color.
 Gently pull the tape towards you at a 135 degree angle. Don't wait for the paint to dry. If you pull the painter's tape off when the paint is already dry, you may cause the paint to chip or flake off.If the paint has dried and sealed over the edge of the tape, gently scratch at the seam with a craft knife.
If the paint has dried and chips when you pull the tape off, get out a small, pointy paintbrush and fill in the gaps using extra paint.

