 The summertime is fun, and relaxing- with all of the free time, children tend to forget lessons that were taught in the past year. Teachers expect you to be prepared and to understand concepts that you’ve been over before. Take 15 minutes each night during the break, to review those past skills. Each little bit helps. You’ll see that this understanding of past material, will make future lessons in middle school a whole lot easier.;
, Try to prepare yourself for that first day of school. See if your local middle school offers a tour, in which you’ll be shown the location of the classrooms, cafeteria, restroom, water fountains, etc. Take notes on these locations, to place in your backpack on the first day. If possible, set up a meeting with your soon-to-be teachers, just so that you can see what they’ll be like. Try to have a general idea of the school.
 Talking about your feelings on middle school is important. Discuss with your friend what you’re looking forward to, what you’re scared about, and how you want this year to be the same or different than the last. Maybe your friend can help reassure you about something you’re currently frightened or unsure about. Or maybe you can do the same for them. Even if this doesn’t occur, letting out the rush of excitement and fear before the first day, can help it go smoother.
 The night before your first day, make sure your backpack is ready to go. It’s a good idea to have your clothes laid out, your toothbrush in a quick to reach spot, and an alarm clock ready to go. never hit the snooze button on the first day of school (or any, for that matter). It’s important that you are on time, and show that you’re ready to learn. Go to bed at a reasonable hour, so that you’ll be alert and energized the next day.
 When you walk in that door, be completely confident in yourself. Smile and be pleasant toward teachers and other classmates. Dedicate hard work to everything you do in class.
 All of them will have different preferences, guidelines, and grading techniques. Get to know each of them and know what they’ll expect as the year proceeds. Learn how to work with all different personalities. Even if you hate a teacher, try your best in their class- it can’t hurt and it certainly can make your school day easier!

, Making the transfer to middle school, will bring new friends to your life. However, you need to have time to bond with old friends and get to know your new friends.
 Making any big change can be stressful. Don't overcrowd your schedule or go out of your way to get an A+ in every single class. Having good time management is really important, and can help prevent those stressed out panic attacks. Try to relax, and instead of focusing on your mistakes, fix them. One bad grade on a quiz is not the end of the world, as long as you study a little harder next time.
 Middle school is usually the beginning of cliques and other unpleasant "popularity" contests. Stick with your priorities; you're cool no matter what- sinking to the level of catty-ness is not going to get you anywhere. Show that you're more mature than that, and can live above it. Be who you are and not what the "popular" kids want you to be.
 Middle school is usually the time where girls and guys develop crushes. Nowadays, some kids begin dating in sixth, seventh, or eighth grade. If you are dating someone, don't just go out with them to be cool. Don't set your Facebook status as "I LOVE BILLY," one week and "I LOVE TOM" the next week. You should actually like the person, and they should always treat you with respect. If you're not dating someone, remember that you have plenty of years to go! In high school, there's many more options for relationships. And the later you wait, the more mature you'll be when you have to make decisions about these relationships.
 This is probably the first time you'll be exposed to rumors and gossip...and it is not a very pleasant thing. Rumors blow things completely out of proportion, and can really hurt people. The more you help other people become less gossipy, the less people are going to gossip about you.
 Try to participate in many activities, and get involved at your new school. You’ll get new friends, learn something, and have fun. Take this new environment as a new opportunity to try something you've never done before!

, Middle school years are some of the best. Although you should always have schoolwork be your top priority, try to slip a little fun in your day too.

