 While it's possible to access your Instagram account from any web browser, the online version of Instagram is actually surprisingly limited in its features. In fact, the only way to "find" people with the browser version of Instagram is to use workarounds that you wouldn't need to bother with on the mobile version. To get started, enter your Instagram login information at Instagram.com., One of the first things you'll notice about the browser version of Instagram is that there is no convenient search bar at the top of the page for finding new users. You have access to your personal feed, but not much else. You can, however, follow new users by finding comments or likes by them that appear in your feed, clicking on their username to view their profile, and finally clicking the "Follow" button under their profile picture.


For example, if you're scrolling through your feed and you see a post by a friend that has a comment from someone you aren't currently following, you can click this person's name to view his or her profile, then, if you'd like, you can follow them by clicking "Follow" on their profile page.
 If you know another Instagram user's username, you can also visit their profile page directly by typing its address into the navigation bar at the top of your browser. The format for Instagram profiles is "instagram.com/" — simply replace with the person's actual username. Remember not to include any spaces.


For instance, to get to the profile page of the Instagram user "MikeyP98054," you'd type "instagram.com/mikeyp98054" into your address bar.
 Because the browser version of Instagram is so skimpy in terms of features, a few third-party sites have sprung up to make it easier to find other Instagram users online. Usually, these sites allow you to type the user's name into a simple search bar like you would on the mobile version. The site then displays a list of relevant users — once you find the person you're looking for, you can then either follow this person using the third-party site's interface, navigate to his or her page directly with the directions in the step above, or find them on your mobile device.


One good third-party site to start with is Websta.me (formerly Webstagram.) This site allows you to easily search Instagram users with a simple, no-frills search bar. Best of all, you can follow and unfollow users in the app if you supply your Instagram login details.