 If you make an effort to show you love once a day, whether with a good-night "I love you" or by simply putting his toothpaste on his brush for him, you'll keep the relationship strong for a long time. If you're worried about showing your affection, just think about finding one time a day where you can. Even an extra-long, passionate kiss is a great way to slow down time with your man for a half-second. , Some people have a hard time saying the words "I love you." But that doesn't mean that they don't love their partner. If you're someone who struggles a bit with showing affection, try these little techniques to let someone know you care:


Hold or squeezing hands
Make plans together for the future, even just future dates
Introduce your friends and/or family
Surprise him with kisses, hugs, and affection
Give compliments, encouragement, and admiration.
Do little favors for him, especially when he seems upset., It sounds paradoxical, but sometimes the best thing you can do is not see him at all. Remember -- you fell in love as separate people with separate lives -- you need to preserve some of this independence to stay happy and in love. Don't feel like you need to talk or check in constantly to show how much you care. Sometimes giving each other some free time is the best way to show you know and love someone. , Do not avoid fights or issues just by saying "I love you," and accepting your concerns. The most in-love couples have arguments too, and you need to air them out openly and honestly to keep your love alive. So don't feel like you're destroying your love, or going back on your word, if you bring up a disagreement or issue -- you're just showing your love in another way.


Don't ever let a partner get you to do something you don't want to to "prove your love." Love doesn't need to be proven., Everyone has different comfort levels when it comes to saying "I love you." There are those that say it after every phone call and those that only save it for special moments, and there is everything in between. So don't worry about how often you should say "I love you," or how often you hear it -- people are different, and show their love in different ways. These words mean much more when you mean them. If you only say "I love you" when you're feeling full of love, you'll both be much happier.

