 Various types of containers will work, as long as there is proper ventilation. If you want a container you can observe well, use a large, clean glass jar or other clear container. Poke some holes into the lid, or cover the top of the jar with a fine mesh fabric secured with a rubber band.Your container should be ready before you get the worms, because worms shouldn’t be exposed to the light for long. You’ll want their moist, dark home ready for them when you collect them.;
, Put one centimeter of sand in the bottom of your container. Add a thick layer of damp soil, and another centimeter of sand on top of that. Then fill the jar with moist soil up to five centimeters from the top of the container. In a separate container, prepare the top layer you will put on top of the worms once you have them.The topmost layer can include pieces of overripe fruit (such as grapes), vegetable peels and leaves (from trees and/or tea).
 You can search for or buy earthworms or tiger worms (redworms). Places you can catch worms are compost piles, gardens, or under rocks or leaf piles. Check the grass, sidewalk or driveway after a lot of rain. If you can’t find worms yourself, you can buy them at a local tackle shop.Keep your hands moist when handling worms.
Place the worms right onto the topmost (food) layer in the container.
 Store the container in a cool, dark place such as a cupboard.Put thought into where you keep your wormery. Worms like a place without vibrations.Wrap the container with black paper and secure it with string or a rubber band. Put on the ventilated lid.


For example, don’t keep your wormery near a furnace, speaker, refrigerator or dishwasher.
If you’re keeping the container outside, choose a garage or shed, and wrap the container in bubble wrap as insulation, without covering the ventilated lid.
 If you used a clear container for observation, such as a jar, after a couple of weeks you can examine how the worms have taken to their new environment. They have likely made patterns in the soil and processed the food you gave them.