 Before you can begin to be happy in general, you have to believe that it’s okay for you to be happy.You have to accept that you may not be perfect and may have made mistakes, but you still have the right to smile, laugh, and feel joy and excitement.


Try looking in the mirror and telling yourself, “I deserve to be happy, and that’s what I’m going to do”.
In your journal each day, write an affirmation of your right to be happy.
Write “It’s okay to be happy” on some notecards and put them where you will see them frequently (for example, on the bathroom mirror, the refrigerator, corner of the TV, etc.).;
, It’s okay for you to think you are great, sweet, fun, cool, whatever. Liking yourself isn’t just okay, it’s showing good self-esteem. When you like yourself and celebrate yourself, it’s easier for you to feel comfortable being happy.


Document your accomplishments. Write about them in your journal, take pictures, save memorabilia. Whether it is a small or large achievement, document it as a reminder of just how amazing you are. Looking back on these things will make you happy with yourself.
Celebrate your achievements. Recognizing your achievements helps you view yourself more positively and can make you happier with life in general. So, pat yourself on the back, treat yourself to dinner, a movie, etc.
 Learn from your mistakes, but don't let them get in your way. Choose to forgive yourself; if you don’t, then you will continue to feel as if you don’t deserve happiness.


Understand that everyone, even you, makes mistakes. Tell yourself, “I’m human. I made a mistake. I’m learning from mistake. And I deserve to be happy even though I made a mistake”.
Think about your mistakes as learning opportunities, instead of viewing them as evidence of what a horrible person you are. Move past your mistakes by figuring out what you learned from the situation and how that experience made you a better person.
Let go of mistakes you made that can’t be changed or are in the distant past. There’s nothing you can do about them now, so don’t let them block your future happiness.
 Trying to please others and live up to their expectations can leave you feeling stressed and unhappy with yourself and life.Set your own expectations for yourself and focus on making yourself happy.
 Knowing what truly makes you happy will make it easier for you to do things that make you happy. Examine all aspects of your life (work, school, family, social, etc.) and find the activities, people, and experiences that put a smile on your face.


Think about the big things (like getting a promotion) and the small things (like seeing a rainbow) that you enjoy.
Think about things you enjoyed as a child, as well as things you like now.
What is it about these things that makes you happy? For example, maybe you like taking hikes because it allows you to see the simple beauty in life. Or perhaps you enjoy spending time with your family because of the sense of connectedness it gives you.
Determine how you can have more happy experiences. Think about how you can do the things you enjoy and remember that it’s okay for you to do them.

