 Primer creates a blank canvas on which to apply makeup, because it creates a smooth surface and gives your makeup something to stick to, meaning it will go on more evenly and last longer.


To apply primer, place a dime-sized amount into your hand. Dip two fingers into the primer and use your fingers to rub the primer into your skin, working in small sections at a time.;
, To help make your features stand out and prevent your foundation from being too matte,apply a highlighter and bronzer (or contour powder).


Highlighters are often in cream form, so use a small synthetic brush to apply it. Dab the brush into the highlighter then apply it to the top of your cheekbones, in between your eyebrows, and above the middle of your upper lip. Blend in any excess by blotting with your finger.Apply the bronzer with an angled brush. Dab the brush into the bronzer and then dab it onto your skin, using the brush to blend as you go. Apply the bronzer to the sides of your nose, just below the hairline along your forehead, and below your cheekbones., Like primer, foundation provides a smooth surface for your makeup to adhere to, and will help even out your skin tone. Your foundation should match your skin tone at the neck and jawline, otherwise no amount of blending will make it look natural.The best way to apply foundation is with a foundation brush.


Dip the brush into the foundation to get a thin layer on the brush. Start in the middle of your face, dab on the foundation, and then blend outward from the center.
For the most natural look possible, finish blending with a damp makeup sponge. Use circular motions to press the foundation into your skin., Once your foundation is on, you can go over your face with concealer to brighten your face and cover blemishes and imperfections. When applying concealer, focus on dark spots under the eyes, pimples, and other blemishes.If you have large circles under your eyes or dark patches of skin to cover, use a cream concealer and apply it with a small brush. Be sure to blend it well. To cover circles under the eyes, apply the concealer in an inverted triangle shape under your eyes and then blend it in with the rest of your face.To cover blemishes, use a sharp pencil concealer to dab the center of the blemish and the area immediately surrounding it.To apply basic concealer, use your ring finger to dab it onto areas that need coverage.
 To reduce oiliness, set your makeup, and increase the longevity of your makeup, apply a pressed or loose powder over your face. Be sure to use a light layer of powder, otherwise it will look cakey.Choose a powder that’s one shade lighter than your skin tone, otherwise it will look too dark when you apply it over your concealer.To apply powder, run a clean makeup sponge under running water. Wring out the excess, then dip the sponge into the powder. Gently dab powder over the areas where you’ve applied foundation and concealer.
 The purpose of blush is to add a touch of color to your face to give you a radiant look, but it’s easy to put on too much. Take an angled brush and swirl it around in the blush once or twice. Tap it off to remove the excess, and place the brush (with the larger end of the angle pointing up toward your eye)against your cheek at the apple, which is the area that puffs up when you smile.Dab the apple a couple times with the brush, then blow off any excess and use the brush (at the same angle) to blend and extend the blush toward your temples.
Continue blending until you can’t tell where the color begins and ends.
 The key to lipstick is moisturized lips, which is why you always apply a moisturizing balm after washing your face.Lipstick can be as simple as a few swipes with a natural pinkish lipstick, but to give yourself perfect lips:


Apply your lipstick of choice to your lips, right from the lipstick bullet. Then go back with a lip liner to smooth and perfect the lines.To make your lips look bigger, apply the liner on the outer edge; to make your lips smaller, apply the liner on the inner edge.
Don’t define your lips too much at the Cupid’s bow (the very top center of the upper lip), and be sure to extend the liner all the way to the corners of your mouth.If you are going with a natural look on your eyes, you can get away with a deeper, bolder color on your lips., Before applying eyeshadow, put on a layer of light, shimmering cream shadow as a primer. Apply it to your entire upper eyelid using either a small brush or your ring finger.Gold, silver, and mauve are always good color picks for this layer.
 With a darker eyeshadow—usually dark brown or bronze—use a flat brush to apply a darker pigment to the very base of your top eyelid (at the lash line), the crease of your eye, and the outer corner to connect the lash line shadow and the crease shadow. Dust off the brush and use it to blend the darker color., Take a pencil or liquid eyeliner and make a thin, straight line at the base of your upper lash line from your tear duct to the outer corner. If your using a pencil eyeliner, make sure it’s nice and sharp. The key to eyeliner is holding your hand steady, so try resting your elbow on a table when you're putting it on.


To make your eyes look larger, extend the line slightly beyond the outer corner of your eye and up toward your temple.If you're going for a more subtle look, use brown eyeliner. For more definition, use black.
 Add extra volume and curl by using an eyelash curler first,then apply two coats of mascara, one immediately after the other. Put the wand at the very base of your lashes and zig zag it back and forth as you pull the wand toward your eyelash tips.Apply a second layer in the same way before moving on to the next eye.


To add the most definition, apply mascara to your top and bottom lashes.
 The final step in your perfect makeup routine is the eyebrows. If your eyebrows are light, thin, or sparse, you can give them more definition and color with a brow pencil. Fill in gaps with the pencil, following the natural curve of your eyebrows.Then use a brush or old mascara wand to feather the brows in small sections to pull the pencil through your brows and make it look more natural. When you’ve feathered the pencil through, use the brush to comb your eyebrows back to their regular shape.


If you don’t have an eyebrow pencil, you can use eyeliner or eyeshadow to fill in your brows.
 One of the most important components when it comes to perfect makeup is healthy, moisturized skin. Take care of your skin by eating a balanced diet, washing your face with a gentle cleanser every day, and moisturizing after every time you wash your face.


Before applying makeup, wash your face, pat it dry, and while it’s still somewhat damp, apply a toner and then a moisturizer.When moisturizing, be sure to remember your lips, which can also become dry and cracked. Apply a moisturizing lip balm after you wash your face, regardless of whether you plan to wear lipstick., Another way to maintain healthy skin is to keep it protected from the elements, especially the sun. UV damage can lead to skin cancer, premature aging, wrinkles, freckles, and leathery skin.


After applying your moisturizer, apply a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15, and preferably higher (around 30 to 50).
If you want to save time by using a moisturizer with SPF,be sure it provides broad-spectrum protection.
 This will help you choose cosmetics and products that are right for your skin. There are three basic types of skin, and they are oily, dry, normal, and combination. Many cosmetics are formulated with this in mind, and will often say what type of skin they're designed for.


With oily skin, people often have enlarged pores, lots of blackheads and pimples, and a shiny complexion.Dry skin is often less elastic, has red patches and a dull complexion, and nearly invisible pores.
People with normal skin don’t tend to have sensitivities, aren't prone to imperfections, and have pores that are barely visible.
Combination skin is marked by blackheads, dilated pores, and shininess.
 Your undertone is the shade of your skin below the surface, and knowing what yours is can help you choose colors that will complement your skin the best. Undertones can be cool, warm, or neutral.Bluish, reddish, or pinkish skin indicates a cool undertone. People with cool undertones often have black, brown, or blond hair and green, grey, or blue eyes. They also burn easily or turn pink in the sun, and usually have blue veins on the inner wrist.Golden, yellowish, or peachy skin indicates a warm undertone. People with warm undertones often have black, auburn, or strawberry blond hair and hazel, brown, or amber eyes. They bronze or tan in the sun, and often have green veins on the inner wrist.
A combination of those colors indicates a neutral undertone. People with neutral undertones can wear both silver and gold jewelry equally well, and tend to have blue-green veins on the inner wrist., Certain colors will look better on you depending on your undertone, which will help you when choosing makeup colors. If you have a neutral undertone, you are a combination of cool and warm, and can get away with wearing cool and warm colors.


People with cool undertones will look best in whites, blacks, silvers, blues, purples and berry colors, and emerald and aqua greens.People with warm undertones will look best in oranges, yellows, golds, camels, browns, and earthy greens.