 Try to get the kind of wax that comes in flake or pellet form. It will melt a lot quicker. If your wax comes in blocks, cut it into smaller pieces so that it melts quicker.


You will need to add wax to your candle. Many people find that candles made from pure crayon do not burn well.
The wax will "shrink" when you melt it, so you will need the extra wax.;
, If the wrapper does not come away easily, you can cut it off using a craft blade, or you can soak them in water for a few minutes.If you want to make a striped candle, peel some more candles. You'll need about one crayon per color.You will need 6 crayons per 1 cup (225 grams) of wax., The smaller pieces you break the crayons into, the easier they will melt. Some people find that grating the crayon into flakes helps it melt faster.If you are making a striped candle, be careful to keep the colors separate.
 Some tabbed candle wicks will be self-adhesive.
 Lay two sticks (such as pencils or popsicle sticks) across the mouth of the candle holder. Sandwich the wick between the two sticks so that it stands up straight.
 Fill a saucepan with 1 to 2 inches of water. Place a heat-safe measuring cup into the pot., If you want to make a striped candle, you will need to melt each color in a separate batch.


If you plan on making a striped candle, don't do the other colors yet. Wait until the first color layer sets.
 This will help the wax and crayon melt more evenly. You can use a spoon to stir. If you don't want to dirty your spoon, use a popsicle stick or a disposable chopstick.
 It will be very hot, so be careful. Set it down on a heat-safe surface.
 Once the wax is melted, you can add in a few drops of candle fragrance or essential oil. Be sure to stir the wax well to blend everything together.
 If you plan on making a layered candles, don't fill the holder all the way. If you plan on making a solid-colored candle, fill it almost to the top.
 It will take about 20 to 30 minutes for each layer to harden., This will take several hours. You can speed up the process by putting the candles in the freezer for two to three hours.
 If you don't trim the wick down, it will be too long. It won't burn right and will create a fire hazard.
 You will now have a beautiful candle.

