 It's probably safest to go to a hotel (although your place is the next safest alternative). Make sure your place is clean or that you have a hotel (or other option) ready to go.;
, Wear something revealing and a little tight but avoid the "hooker look" (forgo fishnets, leather, leopard print, etc).
 Drinking is okay, you shouldn't feel guilty about wanting to drink, but if you do drink do so safely. If he's super hot, you at least want to remember it in the morning, right?


It's safest not to drink alcohol at all. If you don't want to get harassed about it, just tell him that you're allergic (sulfites are a common allergen and are in many types of alcohol).
 You need some quiet time to talk. If you're at a party, get him off to the side where you can actually hear each other. Besides, getting all hands-on in front of other people just makes things awkward.
 Studies have shown that there's a high correlation between hook-ups and depression, anxiety, and low-self esteem. This is not to say that they cause those feelings, but make sure that you aren't looking for sex just to fill a hole. There are better ways to make your life happier and more fulfilling.
 When you're talking to him, stand or sit close. Really close. He should be able to see down your shirt, smell your perfume, and look deep into your lustful eyes.
 Get playful and move to sitting in his lap. You'll be sending his hips a direct message about exactly where you want them to be.
 Once you've moved on to kissing, own that kiss. Show him who's boss. Nibble a little. Be passionate. Give him a little taste of what he can expect.
 Use touch to show him what you have in mind. A casual caress or even a firm grope can show him you mean business.
 If he's not taking the hint, tell him exactly what you have in mind. Guys will find that taking that kind of initiative is really sexy. Just say something like, "I'm feeling pretty tense. I think I could use a workout. Do you want to get out of here and help me get a little exercise?"

, If you change your mind, you can say no. If at ANY TIME you feel uncomfortable, you can say no. There is nothing wrong with that. Do what's right for you and don't let someone guilt you into something you don't want to do.
 Don't drive if you're drunk and don't let him drive if he's drunk. You don't want this hook up to be to an IV in an ambulance.
 You never know what could happen. For your own safety, make sure your bestie or someone else you trust knows where you are.
 Never leave your drink unattended and make sure you watch it being opened or poured. Even if your guy is super awesome, that doesn't mean the other guys at the bar are.
 Everybody wants their junk to stay healthy, right? Even if you're a girl, have a condom for him to use. And don't let him talk you into going without, even if you are on birth control. Make sure you know how to put it on him (in case he doesn't know how or does it wrong).
 Again, you never know, so just make sure you have a phone ready to go with numbers for things like taxi services. Or a friend if you want someone to talk to later.
 You want to be the one to wake up first so that you can get out without making things too awkward.
 Don't make a big deal out of hooking up. You don't have anything to be ashamed of. Just be calm and let yourself enjoy it.
 Put yourself together and make sure all panties are accounted for. Wash off your makeup quickly if it's all smudged and tie up or comb your hair into something that looks intentional. You should also clean up any mess you guys made the night before as best you can without making too much noise.
 Leave if you're at a hotel or make an excuse about needing to get him out of your place. You want to clear out before things get too awkward, especially if either of you is new to the hook up.
 You don't need to apologize to anyone about hooking up with a guy (unless you have a boyfriend, in which case, oops). Don't apologize to him. You're just going to make both of you feel bad about something you don't need to feel bad about.
 A quick kiss goodbye will help make sure everyone leaves with good memories. Leave him your phone number if you want to leave the option open for a Round 2.

