 Data breach lawsuits can take any number of forms. Usual cases are brought alleging negligence, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, or unfair and deceptive trade practices.Because you can bring a wide variety of allegations, the type of lawyer you should hire will depend on how you want the case to proceed. If you know what type of case you want to pursue, hire a lawyer specializing in that area of the law. For example, if you want to bring a breach-of-contract suit, try to find a qualified contracts attorney. If you want to bring a negligence suit, you should find a torts attorney.


If you are not sure how you want to proceed, or if you think you might have multiple claims, you should consider hiring a full-service law firm that employs several attorneys who can work on your case. While this might cost you more, you will get all of the services you pay for.;
, Data breaches can affect hundreds, if not thousands, of people at one time. Because of this, data-breach lawsuits often take the form of class-action suits. A class-action lawsuit is one in which a group of plaintiffs sues together because they have suffered the same or similar harm.There are quite a few organizations that keep a database of current class-action suits.Search these databases to see if someone has already filed a suit regarding the data breach.
If you find a class-action suit you think is applicable to your situation, call the attorney handling the case. Talk to him/her about your claim to determine if you can be included as a party.
 When you start looking for lawyers, ask friends and family for recommendations. These personal referrals are often the best way to find a qualified attorney you can trust. If your friends or family have names for you, ask about their experiences with the lawyer.
 If you cannot get any valuable recommendations, contact your state bar association and use their lawyer-referral service. When you use this service, you will typically call a hotline and answer questions about your data-breach claim. You may then be given names and contact information for various qualified attorneys in your area.
 Once you have found three or four good candidates, call each one and ask to set up an initial consultation. Some attorneys will offer this meeting for free while others will charge a fee. During your initial consultation, be sure you ask the following:


Whether the attorney has handled similar cases in the past
How successful his/her data-breach practice is
How long he or she has been practicing in the area
How strong your case looks
What his or her fees are

, After the initial consultations have been conducted, choose an attorney to represent you. Choose the one you feel most comfortable with. This should be a person you feel you can trust and one who understands your claims. While fees are part of the hiring equation, they should not be the deciding factor. Hire the attorney most likely to litigate your case successfully and work toward a positive outcome.
 If you notice transactions on your financial accounts that are not yours, or if you are getting emails regarding your personal information (e.g., "thanks for applying for a passport" or "thanks for renewing your ID"), you should contact the organizations responsible for handling this information. For example, if you notice charges on your debit account that weren't made by you, contact your bank. Your bank will start a fraud investigation and get back to you as soon as possible.


During the fraud investigation your bank may reveal to you the source of the activity. For example, it may have been that you used your debit card at Target, and Target had a data breach that allowed your personal information to be released to the public.
Once you know the source of the data breach, you should contact that source.
 In addition to filing a lawsuit, you can also contact various administrative agencies to file complaints. For example, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) can take enforcement actions against businesses and other companies responsible for safeguarding your personal information. If a data breach occurs, contact the FTC as soon as possible. They will conduct an investigation and, if necessary, they may file a lawsuit against the business alleging unfair and deceptive acts and practices in or affecting commerce., Part of your investigation should look into whether the business that allowed your data to be breached had policies in place to avoid this type of issue. Some questions to ask might be whether the merchant notified customers (including yourself) of the breach soon enough, whether the merchant had safeguards in place (e.g., firewalls), and whether the merchant's policies and procedures compare well to those of similar companies. , You will be able to sue and collect an award only if there were damages associated with the data breach that affected you. One form of damage is "actual" damages, which include all of your quantifiable compensatory damages. If the data breach reached your financial information (e.g., credit card information or bank account information), add up all of the charges made to your account that were unauthorized. Do not include any charges that were reimbursed by your financial institution.


For example, assume that, due to a data breach, your debit card information was compromised, and $10,000 in unauthorized charges were made to your account. Further assume your account had only $9,000 in it when the charges were made. Due to the overdraft, you incurred a $100 overdraft fee. Assume your bank reimbursed you for everything except the overdraft fee. If this is the case, your damages here would equal $100.
 Once your financial accounts have been compromised, you may not feel like trusting companies with your data ever again. When this happens, a lot of people will pay for services that help secure your personal information and monitor your accounts.The fees you pay for those services are damages you may be able to collect in a lawsuit.
 Another form of actual damages is the cost you incur when replacing items that were compromised. For example, if your driver license number was compromised, you may need to get a new one. If your credit card number was compromised, you may need to order a replacement. Each of these replacement fees may be collectible damages in your lawsuit.
 Apart from actual damages, you may also be able to collect damages that are harder to quantify. One form of these damages is the time and expense you incurred while investigating and dealing with the data breach.This might include time you missed from work and time away from your family. Talk to your lawyer about the best way to quantify these.
 If credit accounts were involved in the data breach, unauthorized charges may affect your credit score. If this happens, you may be able to collect damages based on the impact on your credit. Talk to your lawyer about quantifying these damages.


For example, assume that, due to a data breach, your credit score was reduced from 700 to 500. Due to this decrease, you were unable to get a car loan you would have otherwise been eligible for. This is a damage you may be able to collect on.
 If the data breach caused you severe anxiety or emotional distress, you may be able to collect damages based on those feelings. For example, if the data breach has caused you to worry uncontrollably about your personal information and who might have it, you may be able to collect for those concerns. Talk to your lawyer to figure out how to quantify and be compensated for these damages.
 Each U.S. state has its own set of statutes specifying when a case must be brought in order to be valid. The rationale is that beyond a certain date, evidence may no longer be reliable, and it may be hard to find witnesses and other parties to the case. Each state may have a different time period in which you can file a case for negligence, breach of contract, or other causes of action encompassing data breaches.


For example, in Massachusetts the statute of limitations for a consumer-protection lawsuit is four years. For tort cases (including negligence) the statute of limitations is three years. For breach-of-contract claims the statute of limitations is six years. , In order to be a party to a lawsuit, you must have "legal capacity." In general you must be 18 or older to bring a lawsuit. In addition, if you are under the age of 18 or have a mental disability, you will usually need a guardian to file the suit on your behalf. , To have standing, you must have personally suffered a direct harm that is redressable (capable of being fixed or compensated for). (In data-breach cases this can be particularly hard to show, because such injuries are sometimes difficult to quantify. It is common to see data-breach cases dismissed for lack of standing.


For example, plaintiffs might state they have standing by claiming there is a threat of loss (i.e., they have not lost anything yet, but because their data has been stolen, they could suffer a loss in the future). A court might dismiss such a claim, because the loss and injury are purely conjectural and hypothetical. , Before you file your lawsuit, consider where to file. Most state courts are courts of general jurisdiction, which means they can hear almost any case unless they are explicitly barred from hearing it. On the other hand, federal courts can hear only a limited number of cases because of time constraints. To get into federal court, you will have to sue under federal law or you will need "diversity jurisdiction." To have diversity jurisdiction, you and the defendant must be residents of different states, and the amount at issue must be at least $75,000. In deciding whether to sue in state or federal court, make your decision based on convenience, favorable personnel (e.g., judges), and favorable court rules. Your lawyer will help you here.
 This is the legal document that starts a lawsuit and tells the court (and the defendant) what you want. Your complaint will start with a caption that states what court you are filing in, the parties to the suit, and other identifying information. In general your complaint will also include the following substantive information: Jurisdictional bases, which includes a claim about why the particular court has jurisdiction over the case.
Your cause of action, which might include breach of contract, negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, or unfair and deceptive trade practices.
A demand for relief, which will include the damages you calculated.
 A summons is a notice attached to your complaint that notifies the defendant they are being sued. It lays out when and the manner in which the defendant must respond. , The suit will consist of your complaint and a copy of the summons. These two documents, along with copies, must be filed with the court. When you file your case, you will be required to pay a filing fee. If you cannot afford the filing fee, you may be able to ask for a fee waiver. For this you will have to file an affidavit with the court showing why you cannot afford the fee.


After you pay, the clerk of the court will stamp the original as filed and will give you two copies. Keep one copy for your records. The other copy must be served on the defendant.
 After you file, you have to serve a copy of the complaint and summons on the defendant. Service must be made by someone over 18 years of age who is unrelated to the case. For a small fee you can have the local sheriff's office do this for you. If personal service (handing the papers directly to the defendant) cannot be accomplished, you may be able to serve the defendant by mailing the papers to their last known address. , Once the defendant has been served, the server will fill out a proof of service and will either file it on your behalf or give it to you to file with the court. This piece of paper simply tells the court that the defendant has been made aware of the case against them.
 Once your lawsuit has been filed, the defendant will be required to answer within a set period of time (usually 21-30 days). When the defendant answers your lawsuit, they will be required to admit or deny the allegations in your complaint. In addition, they will be able to make counterclaims and motions in order to move the case forward in their favor.


Read the answer carefully to gain insight about what the defendant is going to say at trial.
If the defendant makes any counterclaims or files certain motions, you will be required to answer them within a certain time period. You will be served with the counterclaims, which will contain directions for how to proceed.
 Discovery gives you and the other party an opportunity to collect and exchange information that could help your case. During discovery you will collect facts, interview witnesses, get an idea of what the other party will say at trial, and determine how strong your case is. To help you conduct discovery, you will be able to use the following tools:Informal discovery, which includes interviewing witnesses, collecting publicly accessible documents, and taking photographs.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to a party or witness. The party must answer these questions under oath. The answers can be used at trial.
Depositions, which are in-person interviews with other parties or witnesses. The interviews are conducted under oath and the answers can be used in court.
Requests for documents, i.e., formal requests for documents not publicly available. Examples include emails, internal memos, or policies and procedures.
Subpoenas, which are court orders requiring someone to do something.
 After discovery the defendant may try to resolve the case through a motion for summary judgment. Here the defendant asks the judge to rule immediately in their favor in the absence of any genuine dispute of material facts, thus entitling the defendant to favorable judgment as a matter of law. They will do this by submitting evidence and affidavits with the court. If the defendant wins, the lawsuit ends.


To defend against this motion, you will need to file your own motion along with evidence and affidavits claiming there are disputed issues of material facts. The judge will thus be given the opportunity to view all evidence in a light most favorable to you. If you win, the lawsuit will continue. , If you are still litigating the case, now may be a good time to try to settle. Settlement talks may start during a settlement conference with the judge. Here you and the other party will meet with the judge to discuss the case and whether it can be settled. The judge will not make any legal determinations but will help nudge both parties toward a settlement. If you need help coming to an agreement, you might use alternative dispute-resolution tools. For example:


You might take part in mediation. During mediation a neutral third party will sit with both parties and discuss common ground and ways a settlement might be reached. The mediator will not make any conclusions of law and will not tell either party whose case is stronger. Their sole job is to help each party engage with the other and find a way to resolve the dispute.
You might take part in arbitration if mediation does not work. During arbitration a neutral third party will act like a judge and reveal opinions about your case. Each party will present evidence (including witnesses) to the arbitrator. The arbitrator will then write an opinion about whose case is stronger, who should get an award and for how much. Most arbitration at this point is non-binding, which means neither party will be required to follow or agree to the terms of the arbitrator's opinion.
 Before trial a series of motions may be filed by either party. Pretrial motions are submitted to the court requesting that the judge make decisions on specific matters. If you file a motion, the other party will have the opportunity to respond (and vice versa). Some common pretrial motions include:A motion to dismiss, which asks the judge immediately to dismiss the case either because there is not enough evidence or because the facts do not amount to a cause of action.
A motion to suppress, which asks the court to suppress evidence because it does not meet the evidentiary standards of the court.
A motion for change of venue, which asks the court to move the trial somewhere else because of some bias or concern (e.g., a biased jury pool or a highly publicized trial).
 If all else fails, you will go to trial and attempt to win your case in front of a judge or jury (your choice). You will make an opening statement and so will the other party. You will then have the opportunity to present your case while the other party will have an opportunity to cross-examine your witnesses (and vice versa). At the end of the trial you and the other party will give closing statements. Then the judge or jury will make their determination, and the case will be over.


If you win, you will receive an award set by the judge or jury. If you lose, you can accept the disposition, or you may choose to appeal the decision. You can appeal only in certain situations. Your attorney will explain.

