 There are plenty of free programs available to help you copy and download websites' data. A few common choices include the following:HTTrack - Windows/Linux. HTTrack allows you to choose which aspects of the site are downloaded and which remain behind.

WebRipper - Windows only. This app allows you to extract everything from photos, videos, and links, to HTML and page formatting code from your chosen website.

DeepVacuum - Designed for Mac OS X. DeepVacuum, much like HTTrack for PC, will let you filter certain file types (e.g., pictures or links) before downloading a site.

SiteSucker - Designed for Mac OS El Capitan and Sierra, though there are versions for iOS and previous iterations of Mac OS X on the official site. SiteSucker works similarly to deep vacuum, but you can set your offline webpages to update automatically when you connect to the Internet. There is also an iOS version available.;
, In order to get a clear picture of your desired website downloader, look it up to see what other people are saying about it. If the majority of users recommend the downloader and you think you'll be comfortable with the program's interface, you can proceed.


Avoid software with poor reviews.
If you can find video demonstrations of your selected website downloader in use, that will give you an idea of whether or not you're comfortable with the program.
 Most website downloaders are hosted on file download sites that aren't secured with HTTPS encryption, so make sure you're on a secure network (e.g., your home network and not a public location) when you download the program.


If possible, try to find a website downloader that's hosted on the developer's site.
You may have to pick a save location on your computer before your file will begin downloading.
 It will be in your computer's save location. Doing so will launch the setup program, which will begin installing your website downloader on your computer.
 These will vary depending on your chosen program, so make sure you pay attention to the specific details listed in the setup process while you're installing your website downloader.
 Once your program is done installing, you can download your first website.
 To do so, open the site in a web browser of your choice, then select the site's address at the top of the browser window, right- or two-finger-click the selected section, and click "Copy".


You can also hold down Ctrl (or ⌘ Command on a Mac) and tap C to copy selected text.
 The name and location of this bar will vary between the different programs, but it will likely be the text field at the top of the program's window.


You'll also be able to choose download criteria, such as the types of files you want to exclude or to which location on your computer you want to download the website, on this page.
 Again, this button's name and location will vary depending on the program you're using, but you'll probably find it at the bottom of the window. Your website will begin downloading to your computer.
 Once it's done, you'll be able to access the downloaded website while offline.


Dynamic or social aspects of downloaded websites won't be preserved, since these aspects are reliant on online-only features.

