 Since pets, like people, are forced into closer confines in urban spaces, you need to make sure your pets are up to date on their vaccines. By properly vaccinating your pets, you’ll make sure that they’re immune or resistant to the most common transmittable diseases.


Consult your veterinarian about common vaccines.
Don’t let your vaccines lapse, especially if you take pets, like dogs, to places like dog parks.
Inform yourself about the rewards that vaccines offer., Because your pet will come into contact with other animals so frequently, you’ll need to take extra steps to make sure these are safe encounters. This is important, since relatively common interactions can lead to dangerous situations.


Know that close contact between pets can lead to transmission of dangerous diseases.
Realize that places like dog parks are relatively dangerous. Not only can your dog contact transmittable diseases there, but they may get into a fight with another dog leading to serious medical problems.
Understand that cats that roam in a large city may be susceptible to a wide variety of diseases they may not come into contact with in a rural or suburban environment. This is because of the larger and denser population of animals and people.
 Bird droppings are essentially everywhere in big cities. Unfortunately, bird droppings can carry microscopic organisms and cause an array of diseases in domesticated animals.


Don’t let pigeons roost on your balcony or windowsills.
Avoid letting cats or dogs eat, lick, or play in bird feces.
Clean rooftops where you or your pets might play.
Pigeon droppings can contain histoplasmosis, cryptococcosis, and psittacosis among other contagions., A great risk to the health of urban animals is the danger of contaminated standing water. No matter where you are – from Tokyo to London – urban centers have standing water that is dangerous if drunk by pets.


Standing water may harbor viral agents or bacteria like leptospirosis – a disease that can be fatal to cats and dogs.
Puddles and street gutter water may have gasoline or oil in them., You should also consider spaying and neutering your pets. Spaying and neutering offers a variety of benefits including decreased risk of certain health problems, elimination of complications due to pregnancy, and decreased aggression in male animals.


Talk to your veterinarian about the benefits of spaying or neutering your pets.
If you need assistance with the cost of spaying or neutering your pet, contact your local shelter, humane society, or municipal authority. Many organizations discounted vouchers for spaying and neutering pets.