 The sun produces two types of ultraviolet (UV) rays -- UVA and UVB rays. UVB rays can burn your skin, while UVA rays cause premature aging, such as wrinkles and dark spots. For the best protection, you should use a sunscreen that protects against both types of rays, so check the label to ensure that it provides full- or broad-spectrum protection., A sunscreen's SPF measures how well it protects your skin from UVB rays compared to not wearing it. For example, if it normally takes 20 minutes for your skin to turn red, a product with SPF15 will typically prevent sunburn for 15 times longer. You should use a product that has an SPF of at least 15.If you’re only going to be spending a few minutes here and there in the sun, using a face moisturizer or aftershave with SPF15 is usually sufficient to protect your skin from burning.
If you're extremely active and plan to spend most of the day outside, a water-resistant sunscreen with a higher SPF, such as SPF30, is a better option.
For pale, sensitive skin that burns easily, it’s best to use a sunscreen with an SPF50 .
 Sunscreens become less effective as they age, so it's important to use one that's still able to protect your skin. A date is usually printed somewhere on the bottle that indicates when the sunscreen should be used by, so always check to ensure that it's still good to use.Most sunscreens are good for approximately three years after you purchase it. Because you need to reapply regularly, you'll probably use up a tube or bottle long before it expires.
 If you don’t apply enough sunscreen, you won’t get the full benefits, and may wind up burning. For the best protection, you need 1 ounce, or a shot glass full, of sunscreen to cover your entire body, including your face, ears, and scalp.Make sure to apply your sunscreen 30 minutes before you plan to go outside, so the ingredients have enough time to absorb into your skin.
Some sunscreens may recommend a specific amount to apply. Always consult the label to ensure that you’re applying enough.
 If you are going to be in the sun for a prolonged period of time, your sunscreen is going to wear off, putting you at risk for sunburn. To keep your skin protected, you must reapply every two hours when you’re in the sun. If you’re swimming or sweating a lot, towel off and immediately reapply.Because you need to reapply on a regular basis, you can expect to use ¼ to ½ of an 8 ounce bottle of sunscreen if you spend a long day at the beach. Always be sure to have enough sunscreen on hand for reapplication.
Spray sunscreens are often easier to reapply, so they're a better option when you're on the go.
If you wear makeup, powder sunscreens are usually most convenient for reapplication because they won't disturb your foundation, concealer, or other face products the way that a lotion or cream sunscreen does.

