 At the end of every month, test yourself to see where your new optimal weight is for training. Use the same rules as when you started out, increasing the amount you’re lifting until you’ve found the weight that allows you complete (but work hard for) 8-12 reps.Some workout plans ask you to do a percentage of your “1RM” for several reps. “1RM” refers to “one repetition maximum,” or the maximum amount of weight you can lift for just one rep. This can be a dangerous number to test for, especially for beginners. For safety, go online to find calculators that give you your approximate 1RM based on the weight and reps you’re using in your current workout.
 Sets with lower reps and higher weights build muscle strength and bulk. Plan for sets of between 5-10 reps, depending on how heavy your weight is., Even though you’re focusing on bodybuilding, it’s important to add sets for endurance to your workout plan. Aim for sets of between 12-15 reps when you’re working on endurance., Rest days are just as important as exercise days. Your muscles need to heal in order to continue building up and getting stronger. An optimal workout plan has at least 1-2 rest days., Finding a workout buddy will help you keep track of your goals and stick to them. It’ll be much easier to keep yourself motivated if you have a friend cheering for you and struggling alongside you. You two can also spot each other and check for safety., Decide whether you want to compete in “bikini,” “figure,” “physique,” or “bodybuilding” events.Go online to see if there are local competitions, or if you’ll need to drive to the nearest city. Once you’ve picked your spot, enter by using an online form and paying any entrance fees.Bikini competitions look for the traditional female shape.
Figure emphasizes muscle definition and symmetry, although these events still aim for a “soft” look.
Physique judges on muscle size and development.
Bodybuilding is all about being heavily muscled.
Research your show options to find out about their standards and requirements for posing, costumes, and judging.
 Keep track of what you eat, and make sure you’re getting enough protein. You’ll also need to keep your workouts consistent and high in their intensity. Buy a competition suit, and don’t forget to practice posing.Eliminate all junk food and simple carbohydrates from your diet three months before the competition.
Make your workout more intense by keeping the weights and reps pretty consistent, but decreasing your rest periods in between sets. Be sure to superset exercises together.

