 It's important to provide Millennials with concrete examples of what is expected of them in their jobs. Make sure they understand in detail the tasks you are assigning them to complete. Offer constructive criticism and praise as appropriate – they appreciate having a sense of how and what they're doing.


From a certain perspective, Millennials are used to having the world at their fingertips, with everything laid out before them for them to explore. As a general pattern, they constantly see options everywhere. Regardless of the task, they'll feel they have a better grip on it if the work expectations are clearly defined, limiting the routes a task can take in their active imaginations.A written job description can help keep Millennials on task with job expectations. They're very good at looking at something point blank and sticking to it – again, so long as everything is defined in the first place.;
, Again, Millennials expect nothing short of the whole truth and nothing but the truth. And they can handle it. They want to know exactly what is expected of them and how they're doing – and they demand to be rewarded or punished accordingly. If you keep them out of the loop, they'll feel a lack of direction and purpose that will likely reflect in their work (or lack thereof).


When someone does well, it's not only important to tell them, but to tell the entire team. Millennials tend to develop close relationships, and if Kristie got promoted over Louis, then the team will want to know why. Be explicit. Let them know exactly why golden-boy Louis got passed up by Kristie, and how others could follow her example.
Rewards and punishments go a long way with Millennials. It not only makes their performance clear, but it validates how they feel about their work. But when it comes to punishments, just be sure to state your logic as clearly as possible.
 Since childhood, this generation has been asked their opinion and been forced to make their own decisions. They've been treated as adults, by and large. Because of this, they view themselves as having something to offer the organization; it's not just them needing a job. If you treat them like they matter, they'll be happy to stay on.


Include Millennials in discussions about work tasks. Encourage them to contribute opinions and ideas. Resist the urge to treat Millennials like children, especially if your own children are around the same age.
Ask Millennial co-workers for their input on how to improve technology in the workplace. They are often on the cusp of what's new and up-and-coming.
 Millennials have skills. They have value and can get the work done. Because of this, they believe their work should reflect their value, too. Whenever possible, give them work that has a purpose. They'll do it better because they believe in it.


However, we all know that mundane, trivial work sometimes has to be done. When this is the case, explain to them how it has to be done for the larger benefit of the company. This has its own purpose and meaning and can help them see that even the smallest tasks have value.
Once you have assigned a task, allow Millennials to work independently, but keep the door open for them to ask questions.
 Generations ago, work was just work. You came home to your family and that was your life. Nowadays, not so much – work is life. When these kids go to a party, they are defined by their job. Their title is everything. Their work determines their happiness, not always the other way around.


Everyone is motivated by different things. Some employees will go ga-ga over a health food cafeteria while others just want to work autonomously. If you develop closer relationships with them, you'll be able to get at what they want out of their work (which is their life).
Make an effort to get to know your Gen-Y co-workers to discover what their goals are and the role they wish to play in the workplace. Be open to ideas presented by Millennials even if they differ from traditional business practices.
 Millennials were taught to speak up, raise their voice, and say something if they were unhappy or if something needed changing.They have an audacity that previous generations often didn't have, especially in the work place. So when meetings roll around, get their opinions. They have important things to add.


Not all their ideas will be conventional, but consider that a good thing. They often have new-fangled ideas that wouldn't occur to older generations. They know technology like the back of their hand and can be quick to offer ideas that can actually improve the company., Millennials are looking for personal, meaningful relationships. This goes for their boss, their coworkers, and even their own relationship with their work. If you're a mentor, you can help them feel valuable and get them pointed in the right direction. They're still young and malleable; you could help mold them into something impressive.


Model professional workplace behavior and expectations by demonstrating the way a task should be executed in great detail. Since many Millennials don't have real world work experience, offer your Gen-Y co-workers resources that will help them to complete assigned tasks.
 Be optimistic and provide Millennials with regular constructive feedback. Avoid being confrontational with this age group; they won't respond well. Since they're equals, they want to be spoken to with respect, regardless of the subject matter.


Be open and honest when communicating with Millennials. This group has been found to be responsive to transparency.However, criticism is best given constructively. Try to stay positive while remaining truthful.
 In increasing numbers, Millennials aren't looking for fat paychecks.While they do demand an amount higher than their parents, they're largely looking for adventure and fulfillment.


Offer them a chance to come on the company trip overseas. Bring a breakfast bar into the meeting room. Start a charity foundation they can help out with. Give them the chance to work in a satellite office somewhere else for a few weeks. Think outside of the norm, giving something that can spice up work.
 Google lets employees devote one day a week to their own side projects. Disney has a similar venture where employees are given time to work on "Happiness Projects."Millennials are the ones crafting the future, so you may need to allow them time to do so. After all, work is their life.


And their work is their brand. Their brand is them. Demanding that they devote 110% to your organization may not happen. However, there is an upside to this: there's no line between home and work. When they're working, it could be at 9 PM on a Saturday. They increasingly expect a 24/7 gig.
 Millennials are not looking for four gray walls to be locked into from 9-5. They're looking for work that is fun and exciting. While you may not be able to offer them safaris in Africa, you can offer little additions that keep them going.


Encourage Millennials to participate in staff activities inside and outside of the workplace. Office parties or volunteer opportunities will allow Millennials to have collaborative interactions and to learn from mature co-workers.
Have certain days where employees dress up, where you have a giant pizza party, or where meetings are conducted outside in picnic-format. Bring a ping-pong table into the conference room. Have a refrigerator dedicated entirely to string cheese. Even the smallest additions like bringing donuts in the morning can spark morale.
 "Kids these days" has been an expression for thousands of years. It's in the Bible and it's in ancient Greek literature.When you were their age, your superiors were saying the same thing about you. So meet them halfway, because it's partly the outlook of the older generation, too.


When you were their age, you likely didn't want to be contained either. You wanted adventure. You wanted things your parents didn't have. You had all these ideas that you were just hoping someone would ask to hear. As we age, these desires change. To work with Millennials, realize in part that it's just a shift that happens with time.

