 A PTRC is a great resource for complete patent searching. They have all of the patents that have been issued for a particular invention.


Not only do the resource centers have many patent materials and resources, but they employ reference librarians who can guide you through the entire patent search process.
Most states have a PTRC. To find the nearest, visit this website.
 To find a patent, you should first brainstorm terms to describe the invention based on its purpose, composition, and use. For example, if you are thinking of making a watering bowl that is self-heating, so that the water will not freeze when put outside, you might come up with search terms like “animal,” “water bowl,” “anti-freezing,” and “dog.”


Consult a technical dictionary or thesaurus at the library to find technical terms., You can look up keywords in the Index to the U.S. Patent Classification to find possible classes and/or subclasses. Using the dog bowl example, you might first click on the letter “A” (under the html version) and scroll down to find the word “animal.” Under “animal,” you will find “watering devices,” with a class of 119 and a subclass of 72.
 You can search in PDF or in html. Choose html. In the html results, you can click through by clicking on a subcategory. For example, if you clicked on 72, then you will be brought to a list of similar subclasses. You will see under subcategory 72, “watering or liquid feed device,” similar subcategories, such as 73, “Temperature-controlling.”

, Ready any classification definitions for all of the subclasses you have located that may be relevant to your invention. You can do this by, once again, clicking on the number in html format. Eliminate any subclasses that no longer seem relevant based on the definition.


Click on the red “P” beside any subclass to see patents that have been issued under that subclass. Also click the blue “A” beside any subclass to see applications filed under the subclass.
 Prior patents may also be searched by “Current US Classifications” in the Issued Patents and Published Applications database.


Additional databases can be located on the USPTO’s Search for Patents webpage.
Enter classifications using the “class/subclass” format. For example, to search for animal water-feeding devices, enter 119/72. This will pull up a list of patents.
 Be sure to review each one individually in order to determine if it is relevant to your search. Keep in mind that the title of the patent may not be accurate.


You should browse the patent. The first page of each patent contains the title, description, and image of the patent, and can be reviewed first, in order to determine if you should continue to read the patent document.
Also check each relevant patent or patent application’s references for more patents that are similar and are referenced by the current patent.

