 In the US, fifteen states have laws that require insurance coverage for infertility treatments. For information on each states’ respective laws, see http://www.resolve.org/family-building-options/insurance_coverage/state-coverage.html. If you live in any of the following states, you can pay for IVF at least in part with insurance:Arkansas
California
Connecticut
Hawaii
Illinois
Louisiana
Maryland
Massachusetts
Montana
New Jersey
New York
Ohio
Rhode Island
Texas
West Virginia;
, If you carry an insurance policy and are considering IVF, call or visit your insurance company as soon as possible. This can help you understand what IVF treatments are covered and potential out-of-pocket costs. In turn, this information may guide your decision on what type of IVF to pursue.Ask questions about your specific plan, including if it is public or private. Pay particular attention to covered IVF benefits as well as any exclusions or restrictions that may apply.
Let the insurance company know of any information your doctor has given you about potential procedures you may require or can choose. For example, your doctor may decide to try FASTT, which is the Fast Track and Standard Treatment Trial. This reduces the number of IVF cycles and also may decrease cost.Inquire about public service discounts. These are for people such as teachers, firefighters, police officers, or emergency medical technicians. Some plans may also offer discounts to active military and veterans., If your insurance plan doesn’t offer coverage for IVF, ask a representative if the company offers supplemental policies for the procedure. This may allow you to immediately proceed with IVF treatments and benefits for any pregnancy-related medical expenses.Recognize that these policies usually only cover expenses if you obtain them prior to receiving treatments or a pregnancy.
Make sure you are aware of any exclusions and exceptions. For example, there may be a 12-month exclusion of preexisting medical conditions.
 In some cases, especially if your employer is self-insured, your plan may not cover IVF. Ask your employer if it offers other insurance that may include IVF in their coverage. If so, inquire if the other plans offer IVF coverage. Consider switching to one of these or exploring other insurance companies beyond your plan.The following insurance companies include IVF in their coverage:Aetna
Aflac
Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS)
Cigna
Emblem
Kaiser Permanente
United Health Care

