 This should indicate the frequency of use and any other preferences that you should take into account.;
, They may have heard what other patients prefer, or what test strips are the least expensive.
 Tell them the details on the prescription and ask what blood sugar meters and test strips are covered under your plan.


Remember that it is better to get a blood sugar meter and diabetes supplies that are reimbursed by your insurance plan if possible. If you get a free blood sugar meter but it is not approved by your insurance company, you will end up paying for future supplies out of pocket.
Also, ask what pharmacies are covered by your insurance. In some cases, mail order pharmacies will offer free blood sugar meters, and they are allowed to send you a 90-day supply of test strips.
 Start to do research on free meters based on the companies that are included in the list.
 You may need to do some math to figure out your out of pocket expense.
 Diabetic Living Online does comprehensive research on different types of meters, at diabeticlivingonline.com/monitoring/blood-sugar/glucose-meter-buying-guide.


Consider other factors than cost when choosing your blood sugar monitor. For example, you may want to look for multi-site tests, so you can draw blood from places other than your finger. If you have eyesight problems, you will want a large display. If you want to track your readings, you will want a device with large memory or 1 that can be loaded on to the computer. You may choose to pay $10 to $100 for the device that will save you time, money and hassle in the future.
 Most people will get their test strips from a prescription, so they will return to the same location for their test strips. Wait to do some research before buying your first meter and strips.
 Factor how much money your health insurance company will provide to find the least expensive strips.
 Type in the name of the company and "blood sugar meter" to find the site dedicated to these products.
 In some cases, you can sign up to receive a free blood sugar meter.


Make sure to read the fine print, to see if other purchases are necessary to receive the blood sugar meter.
 You may need to enter insurance information to receive the meter.
, Ask if they provide free meters with a regular test strip prescription.


Make sure to specify what types of meters are covered by your insurance.
, Costco, Target, Walmart and other stores may run promotions for free meters. Switch to a different pharmacy if the promotion is good.


Once you have received your free monitor and filled your required prescriptions, you may be able to switch back to your old pharmacy.
 Type the name of the monitor, plus the word "free" into a search engine. Look through the results to find limited-time offers.
 You may be able to find it for a lower price or for free with the purchase of test strips.
 Ask if you can apply to receive free diabetes testing supplies.

