 Try to make eye contact, but don't expect them to reciprocate, since looking someone in the eye can be very difficult for a shy person. Avoid walking up to them too quickly or suddenly, because this may appear threatening. Avoid smirking, sarcasm, and bringing a lot of friends (it makes you look like a clique).;
, It may seem obvious, but it's amazing how many people don't seem to understand that shy people are afraid of talking to you. They'd rather listen to you. By all means ask questions and show that you are actually interested in what they have to say, but don't belt out questions one after the other without talking about yourself in between. Doing this makes you sound like an interrogator, not a friend.
 Try focusing on something related to the current location or activity. Ask what they think about different things that come up in the conversation. Try to avoid yes/no questions. Instead of "Did you like the new movie?" ask, "What did you think of ..." After covering other topics, it may be more acceptable to ask what their favorite things to do are, but don't open with it.
 It may take some time to get the full answer, so don't be afraid of a little silence. Prompting, such as "go on," or "what are you thinking?" will not help and will likely make them nervous. You should also generally avoid finishing their sentences when they pause momentarily. They may want to articulate their thoughts in a particular way, so give them enough time to do so.
 I never saw it that way." Be sure to give sincere feedback between questions; if they don't think you mean what you're saying, it won't help you.
 You would be surprised at how much shy people can blabber once you get them onto a topic they care about.
 Avoid making jokes at the expense of shy people. On the other hand, be judicious with potential compliments; many shy people may feel flattered in a nervous way when someone who interests them compliments them. Compliments can make a shy person feel more comfortable around you if they seem sincere.
 If you have discovered an activity that they enjoy, or have one in mind that you think they would appreciate, ask them if they would be interested in meeting with you (and possibly a few of your friends) later for that activity. It may be that the shy person prefers doing things rather than talking about them.
 When it's time for you to part, smile and let them know that you appreciated talking with them. You may want to tell them that they are welcome to talk with you and your friends anytime, but be aware that they will be much more likely to seek one-on-one conversations with you, at least initially. It is best to choose complimentary parting words that you really mean; if you seem insincere, they may feel discouraged rather than uplifted.
 That's annoying and insulting. Some of the smartest people are shy.
 That makes them feel more shy and make them not want to talk to you.

