 Draw lines from the hip and angling outwards. Try to keep them curved at the top. Follow the circle for guidance. The lines should stop close to the bottom of the circle, but a little short of it.


Connect the bottom of the pants lines to the bottom of the circle.
 Draw a wide and curvy 'V' that connects to the bottom of her hips. Draw another 'V' underneath. This completes her waistband.
 Draw arches under the waistband. Alter between having them connect and not connect with the other arches. All connect to the waistband.


When you get toward the end of the pants, don't complete the arch if it means going past the line. Add arches inside the arches. Draw a longer arch underneath with an arch inside of it.
 Draw curves from the longer arch to the middle of the outside line of the pants. Draw another arch underneath.


Draw circles underneath this belt with a distance between each circle. Draw diamonds attached to the circles with diamonds inside of them.
 Draw a from the center of the long arch to the bottom-center of her pants. Don't let it go all the way to the end of the circle. This line should be roughly the same distance as the outside pants. Have the lines be slightly angled to the left.


Connect the center-pant-line to the right pant leg. Try to curve the bottom connection. Connect the bottom of the left pant leg to the center of the previous line.
 The key for the folds is to start with curves connected together at the bottom of the pant legs, have them curve away from one another, and then come close together again. Alternate from having them touch and not touch.


Feel free to draw through the belt if you need to in order to keep the lines consistent. Just erase the parts that go through the belt when you achieve the desired line.
Draw arches connecting the folds. Draw upside-down arches on the insides of the folds. Draw the same things underneath the previously made. Draw circles--with circles inside--underneath the arches. If you get close to the edge of the pants, don't complete the circles or opt out of drawing the circle on that fold of the pants.
 Draw a triangle under the left pant leg. Crop the top of the triangle so it doesn't go through the pants.


Draw a line under the right pant leg with its length stopping at the same place as the left foot. Draw a 'v' past the length of the left foot. Connect the 'v' to the right pant leg.
 Draw the arches of the shoe ties and the arch of the heel on the left foot. Draw the bottom of the shoes aligned parallel to the left-foot and connect the two lines. Draw a curve about the bottom triangle of the right-foot.


Draw the toes. Keep in mind the the inner toe is your big toe. As you fill in the remaining four toes, they should decrease in size.
 Above should be generally your finished product. Feel free to shade in your image or add color.

