 There are 4 stages of change according to the Transtheoretical Model of behavior change.Identifying which stage you are in can help you determine whether you are ready to make a change or if you need more motivation.



Pre-contemplation stage: This stage is when there is a problem but you are not aware of it or you are denying it. Nobody is perfect; everyone has flaws and needs to constantly work on them. If you don't admit your flaws courageously, you would block any possibility of improvement,

Contemplation: You are aware of a problem and are contemplating changing it. People can become stuck on this step for a long time until they move on.You may be in this stage if you are still deciding what to change about yourself. Or maybe you are afraid of change; in that case, understand that changing is an essential part of growth which you should embrace.

Preparation: You have committed to change and are making a plan of action. You may be in this stage if you are working on your goals.

Action: Making the changes. You are in this stage if you are working on your plan on a daily basis. You have a plan and are currently moving toward your goal.

Maintenance: You have completed your goal and are maintaining your progress.
 Self-coaching or checking in with yourself on a daily basis has been linked to increases in self-improvement, especially in terms of leadership qualities.Daily check-ins facilitate awareness of your current performance and your ability to achieve goals.


Ask yourself questions like, “Did I focus on or work toward my goals today? Did I have a positive attitude today? Was I kind to myself today? Did I accept my challenges today? Did I change something for the better today?”

, If you find that self-coaching is not helping and you need some outside support, life-coaching has been associated with positive change, and goal-realization.Additionally, therapists and psychologists are typically trained in interventions to assist you in achieving personal goals, such as Solution Focused Brief Therapy (SFBT).
 Change may come slowly especially if it is a large self-improvement. Just keep going until your goal is your new reality (the changed you).


Remind yourself about your specific goals on a daily basis.

