  Most Gamine Girls are already naturally "gamine like" and they don't even know it. Are you playful? Cute? Fun to be around? Skinny or thin? Sometimes gawky or clumsy? Youthful in appearance? Have wide eyes? Men seem to like being around you? Then you can be a Gamine Girl!;
, You can get a cut that is multi-layered, some bangs, and get some side bangs or straight bangs. You must have your hair short in the back so your full neck is exposed! Look at 1920 Girls and then ask your hair stylist for a cut that she or he thinks will flatter your face shape. Your hair has to be short to be considered a True Gamine Girl.
 Your eyes have to be flirty and you must play them up to get all the attention on your eyes! If you have green eyes, light eyes, or blue eyes....use shades of light brown or deep sable browns on your eyes to play them up. If you have dark eyes use black, dark browns, or natural slate gray shades. If you use purple use only as a liner. Your eyes should not be obviously wearing eyeshadow. You can use eyeliner to shape them in a flirty way if you choose by adding a slight wing at the top end of your lash line.
 You might consider getting them waxed thinner to open your eyes more. Gamine girls usually have very shapely brows. You can tweeze them carefully at home as long as they are neat and have extra room underneath to open your arch. You want "doe eyes" and the brows must be thin and or very neat and groomed to be Gamine.
 Gamine girls look "feminine" but have a tomboy appearance. So don't wear sexy over the top dresses or clothes. Instead look for long soft flowing skirts, v-neck t-shirts, short styled jackets and blazers. Try to look as if you don't waste time on "fashion". Gamine Girls focus on their NATURAL beauty.
 During the day you must wear very light shades of lipstick if you choose to wear any at all. Or you can wear lip balm instead. Gamine Girls do not wear an obvious amount of make up. At night ...you can wear a bold matte color of Red because it appears like a French 1920s cute girl...who is trying on red lips for the first time. Gamine Girls are not aware of their "powerful beauty and appeal" so you must be playful with it.
 Gamine Girls are unusually talented in something. Most Gamine Girls love to paint, draw, dance ballet, are actresses, *drama class* and do something intriguing and interesting. Reading many intelligent books ( like Sophocles, philosophy, Aristotle, religious books, and other "spiritual and intellectual" pursuits are what make Gamine Girls so extra appealing! Most artists used "Gamine Girls" as their muses in art, drawings, paintings and other creative endeavors like classical music.
 You must be able to sing, write music, or play guitar, bass, drums, or anything that is not very common or deeply feminine. Playing something exotic like ...the harp, the violin, the cello, and anything inspiring will win you Gamine points. You can play the piano but you must be very good at it if you do.
 You cannot be depressive, dark, evil or anything of that nature if you want to be loved as a Gamine Girl. Say little at first then slowly open up to your friends, dates and whoever else in your life. You must show "mystery" at first and then show your fun sides so the person thinks you only opened up to them! This is what makes a Gamine Girl so irresistible!

, People will start treating you as a Gamine Girl if you look the part. The true Gamine Girl is "kind of tall, thin, gawky at first, funny, sweet, playful, and always effortlessly pretty, no matter what she does. She has a tomboyish appeal because she likes to do boyish things and she is adventurous and willing to get her hands dirty. This is what makes her so appealing to men! Have fun being Gamine!

, Gamine Girls are naturally invited to boy circles and usually they are the only girl hanging out with the boys and or men. You can have a few girls who are friends but true Gamine Girls are the ultra cute looking tomboy in every crowd!

, Then when the boys see you...they think she is so pretty even though she is cool like us! That's Gamine for you!

