 You will get a lot of sympathy, advice, and feedback when you're grieving. Unfortunately, not all of it is helpful. People are rarely trying to be hurtful or insensitive when they say the wrong thing. They may simply be unsure of how to help. It's appropriate to respectfully let people know when they're not being helpful. You can also tell them how they can better help you cope with your grief.


People sometimes inadvertently say things that come off as hurtful or insensitive to the bereaved. For example, a friend may say something like, "Be grateful for the time you had." If your loved one died somewhat young, this may bother you. You can try gently saying to your friend, "I really appreciate that you're trying to help, but my cousin died very young. Being reminded of the time I had, which wasn't very much, just makes me feel angry. Could you please not bring that up anymore?"You can also let people know what is helpful. Most people genuinely want to help. Even if they're saying the wrong thing, it's because they care. Letting them know what does and does not help will allow them to better assist you. For example, you could say to that friend, "The next time you want to help, maybe just ask me how I'm feeling and let me express it without offering any advice. Sometimes, I just need to vent.", Some people find support groups very helpful when dealing with a personal loss. Talking to others who've been through the same experiences can provide you with insight on how to cope. You can see if there are any support groups at hospitals or counseling centers in your area. If you can't find anything close by, consider an online support group.
 It's normal to feel sad after losing a loved one. However, sometimes grief can spiral into depression. You should seek psychological care if you experience any of the following:


Your emotions are so intense you are unable to cope with day-to-day life
Your have difficulty sleeping
Your personal relationships are suffering
Your professional life is suffering
You're having sexual problems or becoming accident-prone, If you're experiencing symptoms of prolonged grief, make an appointment with a therapist. You can find a therapist by talking to your insurance provider or asking for a referral from your regular physician. If you're a student, you may be entitled to free counseling from your college or university.

