 A gold party is something like a modern Tupperware party except people get together and exchange old pieces of gold jewelry for cash. You can make money off a gold party by learning a big about gold and completing the transactions yourself. However, it may be easier to hire a gold buyer and get paid a percentage of his commission by allowing him to buy and sell in your home.If you hire an outside party to conduct sales in your home, you will usually get a set percentage of the total sales for the night. To make more money, you can simple figure out how to measure and purchase gold yourself. However, you'll need to know a refinery or jeweler to then sell that gold to once the party concludes.Many people find the simplest route is to talk to a local jeweler or someone who works for a refinery or semiconductor. Such people will have experience measuring the values of gold and know how to make sales that will result in the most profit for you.At a gold party, people attend with old jewelry and other items made from genuine gold. Usually, appetizers and drinks are served and guests take turns talking to a gold seller about their items. Guests are usually paid in cash for their gold.;
, If you intend to run your gold party without the assistance of a registered gold buyer, you need to invest in certain items to figure out the gold's worth before making an offer.


You can get a gold testing kit online for about $30. Make sure to read reviews, however, as some testing kits are less reliable than others. Do some research before making a purchase. You should also get a small scale to weigh the gold.If you're unsure about how to buy a gold testing kit, try talking to a local jeweler. He should have some insight on the right kinds of kits and what type is worth your investment. A gold testing kit is used to test the karat value of gold, which helps you get a sense of how much it is worth so you know what offer to make. There are also many books available for purchase online that are fairly easy-to-read and go over the basics of gold testing and gold sales.
Make sure you get cash ready beforehand. If you're selling gold yourself, you will need to have cash on hand to make sales. The amount of cash depends on the number of guests and how much you expect to sell, but it's better to have more than you need than less. Talk to other gold sellers in the area and ask them about how much they made at their gold parties to get a sense of how much cash you should have., Oftentimes, people are critical of gold parties because the selling rates are not specified in advertisements and items tend to sell for vastly different prices from one party to the next.Make sure you set a selling rate.


Pure gold is too soft to be usable, so gold is combined with other metals in jewelry to be durable and colorful. The levels of gold to other metals is measured in karats. One karat is 1/24 parts pure gold, so a 14 karat piece would be made from 14 parts gold and 10 parts other metals. You cannot just weigh gold on a scale to asses its value. You need to weigh jewelry of different karats separately to best asses their value, and your pay scale should take both weight and karat into account.Set up a pay scale that includes different pricing methods for the weight of jewelry based on karat. For example, 3 ounces of a 10 karat piece should be worth less than 3 ounces of a 14 karat piece. Be transparent about your pricing system with sellers, as gold parties have a reputation for keeping pricing secret in order to offer customers lower rates than what their gold is actually worth., If you decide to host a party using a gold buyer, make sure the buyer you select is reputable.


Try to find a local buyer who's been in the industry for a long time and has a good reputation. This is safer than going online to find a buyer.A good way to start looking for buyers is to browse local yellow pages for names. You can also ask other people who you know have done gold parties who they used as a buyer. It's not a bad idea to post an ad online, somewhere on Craig's List. However, use scrutiny if you find someone online. Google them and meet with them before doing business with them.
Fixed addresses are a good sign. Do not sell to someone who does not provide a location as they may be a scammer.Ask questions. A good gold buyer will be transparent with you about how he measures gold and why he charges the prices he does. You do not want to work with anyone who gives spotty answers as this is a sign of a dishonest buyer., Once you've procured a buyer, or gotten the supplies ready to buy on your own, begin advertising your party.


Invite everyone you know who may be interested. If you have friends who you know are big on jewelry, make sure to send them an e-mail or give them a phone call. Let them know you're starting a gold party business and will be hosting regular parties. Send them an event calendar.You can also leave flyers at churches, community centers, hair salons, coffee shops, and other place around town where people congregate.If you live in a bigger area, you might want to take out an ad in the local newspaper to help spread the word further.
 Make sure your guests know what to expect before attending the gold party.


Inform your guest most gold sold will be melted down upon purchase, so it's okay to bring damaged jewelry to sell.Tell your guests they will be paid in cash and give a rough price range of how much gold is expected to sell for.Gold pieces that are less than 10 karats are not considered gold and guests will probably be unable to sell such pieces at a gold party. Explain this to your guests before they come so no one leaves frustrated or disappointed.Let your guests know about any social aspects of the party. For example, tell them if alcohol or food will be provided and whether or not it's acceptable to bring a bottle of wine or some kind of drink., Only one person at a time will be talking to the gold buyer, so make sure your guests are able to entertain themselves in other ways while they wait.


Consider a party theme. A cute idea is a Saint Patrick's type theme, even if the party does not occur around the holiday. You can encourage people to wear green and decorate your home with Irish flags and leprechaun and rainbow themed decorations.Provide drinks and snacks. Board games can also help people stay entertained while they wait to talk to the buyer., There should be a station at your party for sales to be conducted. You want your guests to be able to talk to the buyer and ask questions if necessary, so keep this section a little away from the noise of the rest of the party. Have a table set up so gold can be measured and assessed, and keep a cash register on hand to make sales. You can purchase a small cash register or money box at most supermarkets.
 Once you've purchased gold items from customers, you need to sell them to refiners to get your paycheck. Refiners can be found by researching online or through the yellow pages.


When looking for a refiner, follow similar guidelines to finding a gold buyer. Strive for someone who's worked in the industry a long time and has a good reputation.
Refiners may have been reviewed online, so check out sites like Yelp before selecting a refiner. People often report scams or poor service online, so it's a good idea to check out the refiner online first.
 If you want to start a Gold Party business, understand many consumers think of them as scams. There are a number of reasons for this.


There is a lot of dishonestly involved in gold parties. Some people will falsely lead consumers to believe their parties are for charity, will lie about the karat value, and will offer substantially less money than the gold is actually worth. In order to succeed in running gold parties, you need to maintain honest business practices.Many people who host gold parties do not publish their prices or rates anywhere and simply offer vague statements like "the best rates" or "the highest rates." Being upfront about your rates can help you come off as honest and attract more guests to your parties., Not all jewelry should be sold at a gold party and make sure you do not break down jewelry that might be worth more intact.


Due to the aesthetic value, most jewelry can be sold for more intact. You might want to sell some pieces you accrue online rather than selling them to a refinery. However, you should be honest if this is what you plan to do. Many people feel cheated if they find out their jewelry is being sold intact if they expected it to be broken down.Some pieces of gold jewelry may contain other precious stones that will be ruined if the gold is broken down. Make sure you evaluate each piece carefully before passing it on to a refinery., Part of the reason gold parties sometimes have a bad reputation is because throw them casually as a hobby. This means, those throwing the parties often do not realize the worth of jewelry and are not experienced enough to offer people decent deals. Before going into business, consider enrolling in a course on jewelry in a trade school. You could also try going into business with a friend with vast experience buying and selling jewelry.