 Ideally, wait until you are at least 2 years into the Chapter 13 process before considering a car loan. This will give you a better chance of getting approved. Bankruptcy trustees and credit lenders need to know that you fully understand your financial situation and have made the necessary adjustments to your purchasing patterns before they will sign off on a car loan.


While this is ideal, if a car is absolutely necessary in order for you to generate income, proceeding with the loan approval process is the wisest course of action.
 Bankruptcy law does allow you to take on new debt while in the midst of a Chapter 13 re-payment plan, but it requires your Chapter 13 trustee as well as the court to authorize the new debt..


To do this, you will need to demonstrate that taking on the debt is necessary to help you stay on your repayment plan. For example, if you have no other reasonable way to get to work other than driving, you would likely be authorized to borrow money for a car. This is because the loan is necessary for you to continue with your repayment plan.
You will also need to confirm that the debt payments are so substantial that they would limit your ability to continue your usual Chapter 13 repayments.
Your Chapter 13 debt repayments will drastically cut into the amount you will be able to put into car payments on a month-to-month basis, as you are required to dedicate to portion of your monthly earnings to repaying your existing debt. This will limit the price and quality of car that you can purchase.
 During the bankruptcy process, you should have taken a hard look at your income and expenses. You will need to limit yourself to cars that can be paid for within that budget. Be sure to include gas, insurance and maintenance costs in your budget.You will need to look for a used car. Visit your local car dealerships, and read Consumer Reports and Online Dealer Ratings and Reviews. Try to find a car under $15,000 that is in good working condition with relatively low mileage.
Always ask for the vehicle's full history report, which will allow you to examine the maintenance record. If you do not know about cars, ask a friend or family member who is knowledgeable to examine it.
Try to save as much cash for the purchase as possible. Paying for some (or ideally, all) of the car in cash not only reduces your debt, but it also reduces your interest payments and could also possibly reduce your interest rate since a larger down-payment means less risk for your lender.
For more information on calculating driving expenses, see how to calculate the cost of driving.
 As an alternative to a traditional car loan, consider asking for a loan from a family member or friend. Alternatively, someone you trust, such as a family member, friend or employer may be willing to put the car loan in their name, and collect monthly payments from you. This will help eliminate extra costs, as low or no interest loans from a friend or family will be easier to manage.However, be advised that this puts your family member or friend in a position where they will be forced to repay your loan in the event that you cannot make your payments. Any late or missed payments may also negatively affect their credit.
 Start with any credit unions, banks, or financial institutions for which you have a previous relationship. Indicate clearly your situation, and ask what options are available. It is important to look at many options and not just settle for the first one you receive, as this gives you greater odds of finding an affordable rate.


Note that sometimes, traditional lenders like banks or credit unions may be reluctant to lend to somebody in bankruptcy. In this case, look for lenders who specialize in financing bad credit or bankruptcy car loans.
Internet searches, local television or print commercials should help you identify a lender who works with individuals who have bad credit, no credit or have filed for bankruptcy.
Avoid "buy-here-pay here" lenders. These are independent used-car dealers where a buyer arranges financing and purchase at the dealership, and these lenders often offer extremely high rates and long loan terms on sometimes unreliable vehicles that sometimes break down during the repayment process..
To avoid these types of dealerships, check with the Better Business Bureau to see if many complaints have been made against a dealership beforehand.
 Your trustee will likely require specific loan terms to analyze. After you have located a potential loan, you can begin the process of approval by contacting your trustee. They will typically give you paperwork to fill out, and you will input details of the loan. They will then use this information to determine if your income can handle the new debt.At this point, your trustee will file a motion with the court to ask for permission, assuming the trustee approves. Your creditors will likely also receive the motion.
You may be required to attend a hearing in court.
Note that your trustee is very unlikely to approve a car loan over $15,000.
 When meeting with your bankruptcy trustee, get a written authorization from him or her. This authorization should include the amount that has been approved for a monthly payment..


You can then keep this for you own records, and show your car loan lender to finalize the loan.

