


For the first stretch, start by placing your feet just a little more than shoulder width apart, and lean down to touch your hands to the floor. Hold this for 30 seconds, before coming up and repeating.






After you have done this twice, repeat the same process, but leaning towards one leg, then repeat with the other leg.





;
,, Be sure your knee is over your ankle, creating a 90 degree angle, and that your back leg is straight, to ensure safe stretching.,


Then put your elbows on the floor and continue stretching; hold this for 30 more seconds.
 Use your opposite hand to grab your foot and pull it upwards, making sure your knee is still on the ground and your front leg is still sitting at 90 degrees. Hold for another 30 seconds.
 Push your hips forward by placing your hands on your front knee, keeping that knee above your ankle. Hold for 30 seconds.
 Point your toes and lean forwards, trying to keep your back straight, as well as trying to reach your hands to your toes. Hold for 30 seconds.
 If the pain becomes unbearable, stop immediately and only go as far as you're comfortable.
 Keep it straight and locked, with toes pointed. It is perfectly okay to not have your back leg straight to start out, but keep in mind that is what you're working towards.


Take deep breaths and imagine yourself sliding down with both legs straightened.






Hold for 60 seconds.
, Your legs will be already warmed up, but your back is really going to need to be stretched for these positions.
 Once sitting comfortably in your splits, lean backwards to grab your back leg, hold for 30 seconds, repeat each leg.
 An easy way to warm up your back would be by doing the classic "bridge" yoga pose. This is done as follows:


Lay on the ground with your hands beside your head, fingers facing down towards your legs. Your feet should be on the ground with knees in the air.






Now, push up until your arms are straightened. Eventually, you should be able to get your legs straight as well.






Hold this bridge for 10 seconds, repeating 3 times, being sure to come down and roll out your back in between each bridge.
 This may seem repetitive by now, but practice makes perfect. For this one:


Sit on your feet. To begin, stretch upwards so that your bottom is no longer atop your legs, but you have kept your legs and feet in the same position.






Now, lean backwards, and aim to grab your ankles.






Hold for 30 seconds.
 At first, you may need help with your balance, so be sure to hold on to something if you have never done so before.


Start by lifting one of your legs off the ground by bending your knee and bringing your leg behind you.






Once you can reach, cup the outside of your foot with the corresponding hand, and pull upwards towards your head.






Once you can reach with the other hand use that hand to grab the other side of the foot to bring upwards towards your head.






Hold for 30 seconds, and remember to pull your scorpion upwards, not in front of you!







, Seen on girls doing it on the beach, in public, and wherever they can can make anyone jealous, but here is the stretch that can give you this wonderful asset, and all you need is one thing––a doorway.



Slowly, start sliding one of your legs up the doorway, as far as you can get it. If you have your splits, you should be able to get it straight with both legs straight against the frame.






Hold this stretch for 30 seconds.
 Hold for 60 seconds, repeat on the other leg.
 If you use these stretches daily, you should be able to become as flexible as you dream, but remember, you get what you work for, not what you wish for!

,