 Keep in mind that you’ll need to make your cold brew coffee the day before you want to make your coffee soda, because it needs to sit overnight. Add the grounds to your large container, and then pour the water in over them. Stir your mixture, and then pop it in the fridge.The quality of water can make a difference. If you prefer filtered water over tap water, make sure to use it for your cold brew coffee.;
, The water and grounds need to brew for at least 12 hours, so it’s probably easiest to do it overnight.You can certainly make it in the morning if you want to enjoy your coffee soda as an evening treat. It’s crucial to let it sit this long so that the coffee is strong enough to not be overpowered by the soda and ice.
 Before you can drink your coffee, you’ll need to strain out the grounds. You can do this a few different ways. Of course, you can strain it through a coffee filter, but you can also strain it through several layers of cheesecloth.Pour it through your filter into another container, like a large jar, bottle, or pitcher. Take your time with this step to ensure that you don’t have a grainy drink!


You will have five cups of cold brew coffee, so you can make multiple coffee sodas.
 The amount of ice you use is personal preference. Remember that the more ice you use, the more your coffee soda may get watered down, if you drink it somewhere warm! You can use regular ice cubes or crushed ice in your drink.


If you’re worried about ice watering down your drink, consider making coffee ice cubes.
 Fill your glass up about half way with coffee, leaving room for the quarter cup (60 mL) of club soda. You can certainly fiddle around with the ratio of coffee to soda depending on your taste preferences.


If you typically add sugar to your coffee, you can add it now.
 Pour in 1/4 cup (60 mL) of club soda. Using a spoon or a stirring rod, mix your soda and coffee thoroughly. Take a sip! Add more coffee or more soda, as needed. You can also add a bit of sugar if you’d like your drink to be sweeter.
 This step is optional, but is a great one for anyone who needs some extra caffeine. You can learn how to make espresso with a machine here. Add one or two shots of espresso to your drink, and stir well. This will change the taste of your drink, so add more cold brew coffee or soda if needed., This is a decadent extra step that is great if you want to serve your coffee soda as a dessert. Use an ice cream scoop to get a rounded ball of ice cream. Gently place it on top of your drink. This will be easiest if you’ve added a fair amount of ice.As the ice cream melts, it will taste like a sweet cream in your coffee.
 Because why not? Add a little bit of chocolate to your drink to make it even more decadent and beautiful looking. Adding sweet toppings to your coffee soda will transform it from a simple beverage to an indulgent dessert.