 The following guidelines will help improve the taste of your homemade pickled eggs.

Try to get farm fresh or free range eggs. The higher quality of the eggs, the better the yolk will taste. Visit your local farmer's market to buy farm fresh eggs.



 


Since the eggs will be stored in the refrigerator before eating, you should choose eggs that are fairly fresh. However, make sure they are at least a few days old, since peeling fresh eggs can be difficult.






Choose small to medium eggs. The spices will penetrate the eggs more easily, resulting in a better taste.





;
,, Make sure there are 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5cm) of water above the eggs.
 This will help to keep the eggs inside their shells if they break.
 A roiling boil may crack the eggs.
,

Some people prefer to hard boil the eggs by placing them in boiling water for 15 to 20 minutes. This depends upon your taste preference, since some people believe slightly softer yolks taste better.






Remove any eggs that cracked during the boiling process. These will not pickle well and should be used or eaten immediately.
,, Place the lid with inside out beside it.
 Remove it and allow it to cool on the counter.
,, Allow them to sit submerged for approximately 5 minutes.
 Crack it against the counter and peel it carefully. Repeat with the other eggs.
,, Add 1/2 cup (0.1l) of apple cider vinegar and 1/4 cup (49g) of granulated sugar.


You can also substitute canned beet juice for part of the water to increase the intensity of the brining color.
 If this is your first time making pickled eggs, try 1 tbsp. (18g) of salt, 3 tbsp. (18g) of pepper flakes and 6 peppercorns.


For curried pickled eggs, try 1 tbsp. (6g) of yellow curry powder, 1 tsp. (2g) of mustard seeds, 3 cardamom pods and 1/2 cup (100g) of sugar.
You may choose to increase the amount of vinegar in your pickling brine to a ration of 1 cup water to 1 cup vinegar.
, You can use a fresh beet or a canned beet.
 Allow the mixture to simmer for 10 minutes.
 Strain it through a mesh sieve.
 Fill the container as full as you can.
, The eggs will be good for 1 to 2 weeks.
