 If you want to lighten your hair naturally, try using lemon. Many people swear by lemon as an alternative to salon dye when it comes to lightening your hair's color.


Mix a cup of water with two tablespoons of lemon juice. Then, apply it to wet hair and allow your hair to dry naturally. See if you notice a lightening effect.Wait until your hair has dried on its own to wash or rinse.;
, Honey and vinegar can also work together to lighten hair naturally. A simple recipe using honey and vinegar can be used on your hair if you want to lighten its natural shade.


You'll need to use raw, uncooked honey, which you can find at most health food stores. Use a cup of raw honey, two cups of distilled vinegar, a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, and a tablespoon of ground cardamon or cinnamon. Mix the ingredients together into a paste.Run your hair under the shower to get it damp. Apply the paste. Wrap your hair using plastic wrap and keep the wrap secure using a shower cap or swim cap. You can also simply wrap a towel around your head, like you would after showering.Leave the mixture in overnight. Then, wash it out in the morning. See if you notice any difference to your hair's natural color., Simple baking soda can be used to lighten hair without resorting to chemical dyes. It works by stripping your hair of the chemical buildup that can darken your locks. Mix a small bit of baking soda into your shampoo when showering once a week. With time, your hair should begin to lighten. This method takes longer than others, so keep in mind it might take a few weeks to get your desired effect., The common spice cinnamon can actually help lighten hair. Add a dash of cinnamon powder to a small handful of your regular conditioner. Evenly coat your hair, working from the top of your scalp to the bottom of your locks. Pull your hair back, securing it with clips or ties when necessary. Leave in overnight and then rinse and shampoo in the morning. You should see a lightening effect., Salt mixed with water creates a natural lightening agent you can safely use on your hair. Mix one part salt without about 5 parts water. Rinse the mixture into your hair and allow it to sit for 15 minutes. Then, wash your hair. See if it gets any lighter.