 Cholesterol is in the fats that are in your blood. Your body makes a certain amount of cholesterol, so if you cut down on the amount that you intake, this can be a great help. Too much cholesterol it increases your risk of clogged arteries and heart disease. People with heart disease should eat no more than 200 milligrams of cholesterol per day. Even if you don’t have heart disease, it is best to restrict your cholesterol intake to 300 milligrams or less. You can do this by:Avoiding egg yolks. When you cook with eggs, try using egg substitutes instead of real eggs.
Not eating organ meats. They are often high in cholesterol.
Cutting down on red meat.
Switching from full-fat dairy to skim and low-fat products. This would include milk products, yogurt, cream, and cheeses.
 These fats increase your cholesterol levels. While your body does need a small amount of fat, you can get that from monosaturated fats. You can lower the amounts of unhealthy fats you eat by:Cooking with monosaturated fats such as canola oil, peanut oil, and olive oil instead of palm oil, lard, butter, or solid shortening.
Eating lean meats such as poultry and fish.
Limiting the amount of cream, hard cheese, sausage, and milk chocolate you consume.
Scrutinize the ingredients on commercially prepared food. Even foods that are advertised as trans fat-free often have trans fats. Read the ingredients and look for partially hydrogenated oils. These are trans fats. Products that usually have trans fats include margarine and commercially prepared crackers, cakes, and cookies. Margarine also often contains trans fats.
 They have lots of vitamins and fiber, but very little fat and cholesterol. Eat 4-5 servings of fruit and 4-5 servings of vegetables daily. This translates to about 2 to 2.5 cups of both fruit and vegetables daily. You can add fruits and vegetables by:Taking the edge off your hunger, by starting your meals with salads. Eating the salad first will make you less hungry by the time you get to the richer, fattier foods like meats. This will help you control your portion sizes. Put diverse fruits and vegetables in your salads like greens, cucumbers, carrots, tomatoes, avocados, oranges, and apples.
Eat fruit for dessert instead of fattier alternatives like cakes, pies, pastries, or candy. If you make a fruit salad, don’t add sugar. Instead enjoy the natural sweetness of the fruits. Popular options include mangos, oranges, apples, bananas, and pears.
Bring fruits and vegetables with you to work or school to stave off hunger between meals. The night before, you can pack yourself a bag with peeled carrot sticks, washed peppers, apples and bananas.
 Fiber can help you to control your cholesterol. Fiber is considered "nature's broom" and it significantly helps to lower cholesterol over time. It will also help you feel full so you will eat less high calorie, high cholesterol foods. Switching to eating whole-grains is an easy way to increase your fiber intake. Options include:Whole grain bread
Bran
Brown rice instead of white
Oatmeal
Whole-wheat pasta

, Be skeptical of any product that makes unrealistic promises to immediately lower your cholesterol. Supplements are not regulated as strictly as medications. This means that they are less tested and the dosages may be inconsistent. However, it is important to understand that even though they may be natural, they can still interact with other medications, even over-the-counter medications. For this reason, it is important to talk to a doctor before starting any supplements, especially if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child. Possible supplements to consider include:Artichoke
Oat bran
Barley
Garlic
Whey protein
Blond psyllium
Sitostanol
Beta-sitosterol

, Some of them contain lovastatin. This is the active ingredient in the medication Mevacor. Taking it as a supplement is dangerous because the dosages are not regulated in supplements and you do not receive the necessary medical supervision.Instead of taking red yeast with lovastatin, it is safer to make an appointment with the doctor and get strictly regulated medications and the appropriate medical supervision.

