 Schizoaffective disorder requires medical treatment to get better. If your loved one hasn’t sought treatment, you should encourage them to go to the doctor. If they are seeking treatment, encourage them to continue closely following their doctor’s treatment plan. Encourage them to continue with therapy and make all the lifestyle changes that are suggested by their treatment team.When symptoms get better, your loved one may not want to continue with therapy or medication. Explain to them how important it is to continue treatment to make sure they do not relapse or have an episode.
Usually, a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and medication are the first steps in a treatment plan.
 One treatment for schizoaffective disorder is medication. This may include antipsychotics to deal with schizophrenia or antidepressants to deal with depression symptoms. You can help your loved one keep up with their medication. They may forget to take their medication or may not want to take them. Encourage your loved one to take their medication as directed.Help your loved one come up with a way to stay on track. This may include a pillbox, alerts on their smartphone, or a schedule.
For a non-compliant patient, there are injectable medications that are available that can be taken as infrequently as monthly.
 Your loved one will also probably be going to therapy to help with their condition. They probably are receiving psychotherapy, which can include talk therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, or compliance therapy. Find out what kind of therapy your loved one is going to and see if there are ways you can help them follow through or complete their therapy homework while you’re together.Offer to take your loved one to therapy if they need it.
Some CBT techniques can be practiced at home. For example, CBT may teach how to deal with hallucinations or delusions. You can help your loved one with their CBT if they are experiencing these symptoms.
 The families of those with schizoaffective disorder may benefit from going to family therapy. This can make you an active participant in their therapy and recovery. Family therapy can also help each of you learn how to cope with schizoaffective disorder, help resolve problems, and help you understand the condition more.Talk to your loved one and their doctor or therapist about going to family therapy. This may be a good option if the condition is causing some problems in the family.
Don’t make your loved one go to family therapy. It should be a group decision.
 Depending on your relationship with your loved one, you may choose to be their advocate. Being an advocate means that you are the person’s voice and protection when they aren’t able to do it for themselves. If your loved one is in a manic or delusional state, then the doctors may not be able to take everything seriously. You will speak for your loved one during these times.For example, you and your loved one will discuss ahead of time their wishes. You will let the doctor know what your loved one’s wishes are.
You can help make decisions for your loved one while they are in this state until they can speak for themselves.
 Schizoaffective disorder contain symptoms of schizophrenia, bipolar, and depression. A person may have stronger symptoms in one area than another. This means no two people with schizoaffective disorder will be the same. You should discuss with your loved one what their particular diagnosis entails because this will help you understand how to help and care for them.It’s helpful to understand that your loved one has a unique mixture of feelings and symptoms.
The good news is that schizoaffective disorder has a better prognosis than schizophrenia. In general, the prognosis of schizoaffective disorder lies in between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.
 Those with schizoaffective disorder are at a high risk for suicide. This means you should watch for any signs or talk of suicide. If you see any behavior or hear any talk that you think means your loved one is contemplating suicide, get help immediately.Call 911, your loved one’s doctor, or a suicide hotline.
Don’t leave your loved one alone if they are at risk for suicide. Stay with them until they can get help.
 You and your loved one should sit down and come up with a crisis plan. This crisis plan can help you know what to do should your loved one have a psychotic or manic episode. This may be as simple as having a phone number for a crisis line available. Ask your loved one what their wishes are when they get into a state where they cannot take care of themselves. You should also ask what they don’t want done during this time.This may include treatment options, hospitalization, medication, or living arrangements.

