 One of them is concerted reaction that takes place in one step with one transition state. The other type of reactions in organic chemistry is the non-concerted type of reactions. The latter type is the dominant type of most chemical reactions. Non-concerted organic reactions usually have intermediate structures that are highly reactive carbon species.
 The follow up of fragmentation patterns of chemical compounds in the gas phase using MS can show the existence of these reactive species by giving their molecular mass as part of the spectrum., On the other hand reactions that proceed in one step are usually more specific due to their concerted nature. Examples include the SN2 reaction in organic chemistry which usually proceeds in one step is stereospecific and gives only one single product. On the other hand SN1 reactions which occur in a stepwise manner with intermediates is not stereospecific and give more than one possible product that are usually mixture of enantiomers in the case of chiral starting compound., The investigation of the existence of reactive intermediates in the reaction pathway of organic reactions can give valuable information about the mechanism of the investigated reaction. Mechanisms of organic reactions are the subject that is researched by physical organic chemists that specialize in this area of study., The determination of the rate of the reaction whether first order or second order can give valuable information about the dependence of the rate of the reaction on the concentration of the reactants. Also another subject that is used in the investigation of the mechanism of reactions is called molecular dynamics of chemical reactions. This area is formally part of physical chemistry but physical organic chemistry can be considered as a branch of physical chemistry as applied to organic compounds., The fragmentation of the organic molecule by the effect of thermal energy or light can induce the molecule to dissociate into fragments. These fragments are highly unstable carbon species that electronically deficient so that they seek to combine with any possible compound that is present within its neighborhood. This process is driven by the energetically favorable product., By virtue of their charge these species are unstable thermodynamically and have inclination to bind with other chemical species in order to satisfy its electronic unstable structure., These intermediates in this case tend to restore the aromatic structure of the compound which is much more stable than the reactive intermediate. Also reactions that have complicated mechanisms are characterized also by the presence of chemical intermediates in its reaction pathway. An example is the formation of pyrrole from an amine and a diketone compound., In order for an aromatic compound to undergo a chemical transformation there must be an active destabilization of its stable structure. Aromatic compounds for this reason do not undergo concerted reactions and have reactive intermediates that characterize the mechanism of all aromatic compounds., This is mostly seen based on the energy balance of the participants in the reaction in addition to the matching of the symmetry of their frontier molecular orbitals. The best approach of research in this area as well as in other areas of chemistry is to perform research that involves two aspects one of them is the experimental research and the other is the computational research which can corroborate the experimental data.