 You can use the Google Photos website to create a new private album for existing photos. When you visit this address, one of two things will happen:


If you are not signed in to your Google account, you’ll see the “Google Photos” website, displaying a blue “Go to Google Photos” button.
If you are already signed in, you’ll see a list of your photos and/or albums.
 If you’re not already signed in, click “Go to Google Photos” and then log in with your Google account information. When the password is accepted, you’ll see a list of your photos and/or albums on Google Photos.
 It’s located to the right of the search field. You’ll see the “Create New” menu appear.
 Now you’ll see a list of photos and/or videos already in your Google Photos account. Each photo has a circle at its top left corner.
 As you click photos, checkmarks will appear in the circle on each photo. You can click as many photos as you wish.


You’ll be able to add new to this album at any time.
To remove a photo from the album, click it again to remove the checkmark.
 The button is at the top right corner of the page. Now you’ll see thumbnails of each photos and video you selected. You’ll also see a text area that says “Untitled.”

, When you display a list of your albums in the future, each album will have a name. Give this album a name that describes what the photos have in common.
 This is optional, but you can click the Text icon (Tt) in the top right corner to add more text to display under the title. This is useful if you ever share the album with others and want to give some context.
 This checkmark is at the top left corner of the album. Once the album is saved, you’ll see a list of all of your albums.
 When you sign in to Google Photos, click the ☰ menu at the top left corner of the homepage and select “Albums.” You’ll see a list of all of your albums here—just click an album to view and manage its contents.


Add more photos to the album by tapping the Add Photos icon (a square icon of a painting with a + symbol).

