 If you want to get rid of your boyfriend, don't return his phone calls or answer back when he texts. If you do talk to him, say you don't have time to spend with him. Make sure you also don't call him or text him first. If you make plans, break them at the last minute. He will get the hint that you don't want to spend time with him and will eventually break up with you. Or you can try not talking to him.When you are together, make no attempt to have deep conversations with him. Make your interactions stilted and uncomfortable. You can even look bored or like he bugs you when he's around.If he calls you on your behavior, you can either ignore him or tell him something like "I've just been really busy recently." If he asks with what, ignore or deflect the answer.If you want to be subtle about this, you can do this slowly over time. Don't cut off all contact at once, but slowly spend less time with him. If you were texting him multiple times a day, text him less and less. Eventually he'll notice you've cut back on your interactions.;
, Whenever you are with your boyfriend, pick meaningless fights with him. Turn everything he says against him, making it into an argument. If he is slightly late for something, tell him something like "You are always late. I have been waiting forever for you. Can't you ever be on time?" He will likely get frustrated and break up with you.You can also say negative things about everything he does in order to get him to start a fight with you. If he explains something to you, tell him "You are so wrong. What an idiot." It will eventually get to him enough that he breaks up with you., Subtly give him hints that you don't think there is a future for the two of you. If he is trying to make plans for a date, don't agree to anything concrete or evade the question. If he asks you about going to a concert or event a few months away, tell him "We'll see. I don't know what I'll be doing then." He'll eventually understand that you don't see a future with him.


You can also get annoyed when he asks you questions. If he asks you what you are doing over the weekend, reply with something like "Why do you need to know? You don't have to know where I am at every moment." If he realizes you can't commit to the weekend, he might get the hint that you don't want to commit to a future with him.When you do talk about the future, don't include him the plans. Talk about how you want to go on vacation with your friends or are thinking about looking for a job in a new city. If you fail to mention him in any of your plans, he'll know you aren't planning a future with him., Whenever he tells you he loves you, don't say it back. If he asks if you love him, say something noncommittal such as "Sure." or "Uh huh." If you do say it, don't sound sincere or convincing, as if it is an afterthought., Limiting any physical intimacy will definitely send up a red flag about your relationship. No matter what level of intimacy your relationship has gotten to, start backing off from him. If you are still at the make out phase, avoid kissing or snuggling with him. If you are having sex, tell him you don't feel like it or aren't in the mood. If he asks you why, don't give him a reason.


You can even stop all physical contact with him whatsoever. If he tries to hold your hand, find a reason to pull back or seem busy., A good way to stop spending time with him is to tell him you need some time away from him. You will get distance from him and won't have to deal with him. If he starts calling or texting you after a while, just ignore all his attempts. He will eventually understand what you are doing and break things off with you., Start obsessing about everything he does. Tell him that he shouldn't wear those shoes with those pants. Explain to him the kinds of food he should be eating instead of what he does eat. Nag him about every little thing in his life. You can even talk down to him as if he doesn't know any better. When he does something for you, tell him "Oh, that's so cute. But that isn't how you do it. It should be done this way." He'll eventually get tired of you mothering him and break things off., When you and your boyfriend spend time together, never let him control the conversation. If he starts talking about himself, interrupt him and start talking about yourself. If you do let him finish, only respond with phrases like "Okay." or "That's great." before you start talking about yourself. He will either get the feeling that you don't care about him at all or think that you are too selfish.

