 Once you fill out a marriage license, you need to submit it to get certified by the state. Once you send it in, it should take about two weeks to receive the certified license in the mail. This will be the legal document you show to all the relevant agencies in order to change your name., Once you have the certified version of your marriage license, you need to go to the Social Security Office (SSO). You will need to take your marriage license and a valid form of ID such as a driver's license or passport. You will also have to fill out the Social Security SS-5 Form. Once they approve your documentation, you will receive a form that states your name is officially changed.


To save time, you can fill out the SS-5 Form ahead of time. You can find it on the SSO website at: http://www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf

You can also send in copies of the SS-5 Form and your documentation to the SSO. They will process it and send you your new social security card by mail., Once you have the form from the SSO, you can go to the DMV and get the name of your driver's license changed. You should take your marriage license, the form from the SSO or your new card if you have already received it, and your old license. When you get there, fill out a Driver License or Identification Card Application (DL 44). The DMV will take your picture and thumbprint you. You will also have to pay an application fee.


The DMV will take care of the paperwork and give you a temporary driver's license. You will be able to use this one until your permanent copy arrives., If you want to change your name because of divorce, you need to contact the County Clerk's Office where you filed your divorce. Give them your case number, your case name, and the date of the judgement, order, or filing. Also include a copy of the Notice of Entry of Judgment, Form FL-190. You also must complete the Ex Parte Application for Restoration of Former Name After Entry of Judgment and Order, which is Form FL-395. The process should take 2-4 weeks to process.


These forms are available on the California Court's website. You can enter the form numbers at: http://www.courts.ca.gov/forms.htm

Your case name is the name of the parties involved.