 A degree is not always a requirement; you may choose to go the apprenticeship route instead. However, obtaining a degree shows your ability to meet challenges and follow through, and gives you some experience in sound engineering. Try looking at trade schools specifically in the music industry.For example, you may want to obtain an Audio Production degree or a Recording Arts Bachelor of Science degree from a university. Alternately, you may obtain a certificate in Audio Recording and Production from a technical school.
Some schools offer job placement upon completion of a program.
Even if you obtain a certificate or degree, you’ll probably still need to start working at a low position.
 Gain networking and education opportunities by becoming a member. Attend meetings and offer your assistance.For example, you may want to join the Audio Engineering Society (AES), and/or The Society of Professional Audio Recording Services (SPARS).
 Be aware that you may be doing menial tasks, such as making coffee, preparing food or sweeping. Look for an internship that’s more than just a few hours a day.If the internship is just three to four hours a day, you’re less likely to get valuable on-the-job training.
Not all internships are paid. However, an internship position may help you to secure a paid position as an assistant or runner down the line.
 Look for music awards shows or tech expos that accept volunteers. Check with local churches and audio/technical organizations that accept volunteers. Let people know that you’re looking for an entry level position, and offer your information., This can get your foot in the door so you can work your way up to becoming an assistant engineer, and eventually an engineer.Runner is the lowest position for an engineer. You’ll perform basic tasks, such as preparing lunch, to help out while you’re still learning., A good cover letter is essential. Check your resume and cover letter thoroughly for spelling and grammar.Include the appropriate framework in your resume.For example, include your contact information, work experience, accomplishments, skills and education.
Try looking at some examples online of engineering resumes to get an idea of how to add detail to the focus of your resume.

