 You may use either a computer or your Xbox console to access your account and view, update or change your payment information.


To use a computer to access your account, go to http://www.xbox.com and sign in using the Windows Live ID that is linked to your Xbox LIVE account. Click on "My Xbox" and choose "Accounts." On this page, under the header "Account Information," click on "Manage Payment Options." On the "Manage Payment Options" page, you can view the credit or debit card already linked to your account, choose to add a new credit or debit card or change your payment method.
To use your Xbox LIVE console, sign in using your Xbox LIVE gamer tag, go to "My Xbox," and select your avatar. From that screen, go to "Account Management" and select "Manage Account." Go to "Your Memberships," and select the membership you wish to update or change. Select "Change Payment Options" and from there you can view the credit or debit card already linked to your account, choose to add a new credit or debit card or select your existing payment method to make a change.;
, To use this method you must log into your account using a computer.


To use a computer to access your account, go to http://www.xbox.com and sign in using the Windows Live ID that is linked to your Xbox LIVE account. Click on "My Xbox" and choose "Accounts." On this page, under the header "Account Information" click on "Manage Payment Options." Once you reach the "Manage Payment Options" page, you will have the chance to choose to pay via PayPal if it is available in your area. Follow the prompts to your PayPal account.



Pre-paid subscription cards for an Xbox LIVE Gold membership are available at various retail outlets such as Best Buy, Target and Radio Shack. You can purchase a card for a 1-, 3-, or 12-month Gold membership.
To redeem your subscription card on a computer, sign in using your Windows Live ID. Enter the pre-paid code on your subscription card and click on "Redeem Code."
To redeem your subscription card via your Xbox console, sign into Xbox LIVE using the account for which you would like to use the pre-paid code. Press the guide button your controller, select "Marketplace" and "Redeem Code." Enter the 25-digit code and select "Done." Answer "Yes" when prompted to confirm the redemption.

