 The only way to get Mew in Pokémon Emerald is to cheat for it. Mew was given away through a special event in 2005, but this was the only time it was legitimately available. Now that the event is long over, you'll need to cheat to get Mew.



VisualBoy Advance is one of the more popular Game Boy Advance emulators, and support Action Replay codes.

Click here for instructions on entering the codes into an actual Action Replay.
Note: If you hadn't reached Lilycove City in your game yet, you may be out of sequence when you go to Lilycove from Faraway Island. This may cause problems with your game, causing you to get stuck. It's best to wait to use this code until you've reached Lilycove City through the regular game.;
, You'll be facing a Level 30 Mew, which will be able to transform into the same Pokémon that you have in your party. Mew is a great Pokémon to use your Master Ball on if you still have it, but you can also capture it the traditional way by lowering its health and throwing Poke Balls.


If you don't have or don't want to use your Master Ball, stock up on Ultra Balls and bring a Pokémon with False Swipe to lower Mew's health. Mew is only Level 30, so it won't hit too hard, but you don't want to accidentally knock it out either. It will also help to have a Pokémon that can put Mew to Sleep or Paralyze it.
Since Mew is Level 30, you'll need the Knuckle (2nd) Badge for it to obey you once you've captured it.
If you have Legendary Pokémon in your party, Mew will be much more difficult to catch. It's recommended that you leave your Legendaries at home for this trip.
 You'll need to enter the code for Faraway Island on your Action Replay or emulator.
 This will prompt you to enter a new code.
 If you want to use a Master Ball to catch Mew but don't have yours anymore, you can cheat to get as many as you'd like. Enter the following code and the next time you enter a Poke Mart, all of the stock will be free Master Balls.


958D8046 A7151D70
8BB602F7 8CEB681A

, Open the Cheat list again and enter a new Gameshark code. The following code will take you to Faraway Island, where Mew can be found.8DEB234A 4C8DC5EC


Since you are cheating to get to Faraway Island, and not to specifically get Mew, your Mew should appear legitimate when checked for hacks.
 Once you've entered the code, walk through a door or change locations to automatically teleport to the Faraway Island.
 After you've teleported to Faraway Island, you'll need to disable the code or else you won't be able to change locations again. Open the Cheats list and uncheck the Faraway Island code., By following the winding path through the forest, you should be able to find the entrance to another area. The entrance to the second area will have a deep shade of green beneath the trees. This will take you deeper into the forest. Once you enter this second area, you'll see Mew ahead of you.


The entrance to the second forest area is located on the right side of the forest at the top of the hill.
If you walk through the entrance and are taken back to the start of Faraway Island, you'll need to disable the Faraway Island teleport code. This code will teleport you back to the start of Faraway Island every time you try to change locations.
 Mew will continue to run away from you as you chase it through the grass. The grass will shake to show where Mew is running. You'll need to chase it down until you can corner it. Once you have Mew cornered, talk to it to begin the battle.
 If you have a Master Ball, you can throw it immediately to catch Mew. If you don't have a Master Ball, you'll need to lower Mew's health.
 If you need to catch Mew with traditional Poke Balls, you'll need to lower its health so that the bar turns red first.


The easiest way to do this without knocking Mew out is to use False Swipe. This will lower Mew's health, but will not drop it below 1.
Putting Mew to Sleep or Paralyzing it will make it much easier to catch.
 Once you've captured Mew, you can leave the island. Return to the bottom of the hill to take the boat back to Lilycove City.

