 In Muslim countries like Pakistan, it is considered extremely impolite to not greet a fellow Muslim. According to the Muslim holy text, the Quran, the Salam greeting has been mandatory since its creation, and the greeting is commanded by Allah.To not greet a fellow Muslim with “As-Salam-u-Alaikum” is to go against scripture, which immoral and punishable.
 In Pakistan, the culture is informed and mandated by the Quran, including who is responsible for initiating a greeting. These rules are considered holy and are strictly followed. When in Pakistan, the rules for initiating a greeting include:The person who arrives greets the Muslims that are present.
The person who is riding greets the one who is walking.
The person who is walking greets the one who is sitting.
The smaller group greets the bigger group.
The young greet the elders present.
 If you did not initiate the greeting first, it is considered unacceptable to not respond accordingly. According to the Quran, it is also obligatory for a Muslim to return the Salam greeting regardless of whether or not the other person is Muslim. Not returning the Salam greeting goes against the Quran’s scripture.Respond with "wa Alaikum Assalam wa Rahmatullah," which means "May the peace, mercy, and blessings of Allah be upon you."
This phrase is pronounced: "waa-alie-kum-us-salam waa-rah-ma-tull-la-he."

, In Pakistani and Muslim cultures, elders are respected highly, and your greeting should reflect this. If you are greeting a large gathering, always start by greeting the eldest males in attendance. Even if you are an elder, if you are the person arriving you must be the one to initiate the greeting, starting with your fellow elders. If you are unsure of whom the eldest is, it is best to bow your head and speak the Salam greeting in the general direction of the elders.This is considered extremely polite and you will gain respect from the group by doing so.
 After greeting the eldest male, it is best to acknowledge and greet the rest of the group in descending order, according to the Quran. Greet the other male members of the group next, and then acknowledge the women present. Current practices encourage extending the greeting to the children as well so that they become accustomed to the Salam greeting practices from an early age., Unlike other greetings, the Salam greeting is truly a conversation starter in Pakistan and is not meant as a passing “Hello.” Once you have initiated or responded to the Salam greeting, get comfortable and ready yourself for a longer, pleasant conversation about your health, your family, and your business. Avoid speaking only of yourself and be sure to ask the other person/people about their affairs as well.