 if you want a long standing career in vocal work you need to look after your voice and you need to pronounce with great clarity. Get voice coaching lessons if possible. It is also important to find some vocal warm up exercise routines, to preserve your voice long-term.


If you can't afford voice coaching lessons, pop down to your local library and see if they have or can order you in a book on voice exercises.
Listen to different types of radio shows including national, local, commercial and internet shows and see how the shows are structured so you can then make your show sound more professional.
 You'll need to speak well, think creatively and even be witty or enthusiastic. Some ways to build up your skills and confidence include:


Get involved in local theatre groups; radio presenting is all about putting on a show which entertains the listener which is the same principal as acting.
If you are at school that has events like talent nights or anything that requires an MC, compere or presenter always put your name forward as this can be valuable experience.
Buy (or borrow) a microphone and a recording device like a mini disc player. It is important to record and listen back to your voice as you can then hear how everyone around you hears your voice.
DJ'ing at discos and small functions can be a great learning experience on how to cater to a specific audience which radio is all about.
Find out about call-in radio shows and call-in. Getting on air as a caller can be great experience as you get your voice live on air and you get to interact with a professional presenter and if you can be entertaining it is a good sign that you will make a good presenter. Once you have been on a show once call in the show every day and become a regular contributor this can get you noticed by station bosses.
 Read as many trade publications as possible, log on to media job websites and radio station websites as at time to time adverts for presenters will be posted.
 Volunteer opportunities will gain you lots of experience and you'll get good advice from those already working in the industry. Some examples of possible volunteer opportunities include:


If you are in the UK, find your nearest Hospital Radio station and apply to become a presenter. All Hospital Radio stations are run by volunteers. They are where many famous presenters started their careers. To find your nearest station log on to www.hbauk.com the website of the Hospital Broadcasting Association.
If you are at college or university, find out if there is a Student Radio station and sign up. If there isn't already one set up get a group together and start one.
Many professional presenters have done a spot on in-store radio stations so whenever you are in a shop with in-store radio blaring over the speakers ask a member of staff for information.
Offer your services to local stations as a volunteer, this can be a great way to gain practical experience and make important contacts.
 For this, you'll rely on the internet, which can be broadcast worldwide. Start your own internet radio show. There are now many free facilities on the internet which help you broadcast your own internet radio show so they are now very easy to produce and, even better, they're very inexpensive.


Get a computer with an audio editing software package, when you have refined your vocal skills you can start producing your own radio shows from your own home.
If you don't want to start your own show you may want to join an internet radio station that already exists or guest on someone else's show.
Always record every show you do. After the show listen to it back and critique it so you know what needs to be improved. And get other people to listen to it and offer their opinions.

