 In the event you are covering tables for a wedding, take into consider the bride’s colors and overall theme. You will want to purchase silk flowers that compliment her reception color scheme and design.

Determine the size of the tables and room. For a more intimate gathering you won’t want something grand and over the top. Instead you’ll be checking for items that are smaller and make more of a bold, singular statement.
Decide if you need illumination. In addition to the floating flowers, would small votive candles further set the scene. And if so, what color, size and in what type of holder?;
, If possible, consider visiting a discount floral supply or even dollar store as well because that type of establishment might have everything you need as well--at a greater discount.

Pick up glass containers to hold the flowers. Look for a shape and design that will compliment your party. Something simple and timeless, but a design that enhances the overall theme. Purchase the amount you will need for the entire party (this includes whether you want multiple containers on tables).



 


Consider buying containers in different sizes as well. You could do a centerpiece with three different heights and widths to add interest, for example.
 Go for the most realistic looking flowers as possible. This includes a variety of flower types such as birch branches or any other flowers of interest.


Stay within the color scheme of the party. Unless your hostess or bride wants multi-colored or a wild variety of flowers stick within your given pallet.
 Even though you could use tap water, in some cases tap water is not always completely crystal clear. You want clarity above all. Plus distilled water inhibits bacterial growth.
 You will also need a pair of gardening sheers or scissors.
 You don’t want floating dust or any other debris inside what should be a pristine container.
 You will need to customize the flower size to fit inside the container. Size flowers as you do each container (so don’t size all of them at once).


Bend stems and twist flowers so they can be placed inside the container. This is simply to see how short or how the flowers will look inside the vase. You should also get an idea of how many flowers you’ll need inside each container as well.






Snip the stems once you are satisfied with the length and number of flowers inside the container. Also, consider whether you need to trim leaves, etc.
 You will top off each container once it’s positioned on the table.
 The flower arrangement may look different than what you were trying to create inside the dry container so be open to cutting more down or removing/adding flowers.
, You may want to touch up your flower arrangement after the flowers have traveled from one area of the room to the table.
 Don’t overfill in the event a guest knocks into the table and the water spills.
