 Be sure that if you are going to be selling material things such as books and furniture that you put everything that will be sold into a separate part of the church where you know where it is and can find it the day before the sale.


If your church families are donating things, make sure you have someone(s) sort the items coming in. It is usually best to put the items to be sold in categories (i.e. Toys all together, books, clothing, etc.) If you are going to be selling edible things at the bazaar, be sure you know who is cooking what and that all of the food arrives well-packaged at least a couple days before the actual sale in order to be priced and categorized.
If you have children, and especially teens, helping you in this process, you have to keep them active and make sure that its fun! You can use competition to do this by saying, "Let's see who can price the most items!" or "Who can put these books into alphabetical order first?"
Create games by having them race from one side of the room to the other with a price tag to be put on a certain item. Whoever prices their item in the correct spot and makes it back to the first side of the room first, wins!

, A couple days before the bazaar, have as many people as you can get come and help! This is a big job! You have to make sure that everything has been priced, categorized, and (if edible) packaged.


Have a couple people carry tables out and have them put all the books or clothing on that table and some more people put pies and such on another. Anything that can stand on its own, should. Anything that could be in a box on the ground, should!
Make sure that everything is sensibly placed and easily accessible. It should also be attractive to anyone walking or driving by on the day of the sale. Be sure that the prices are in an easy-to-see place. If you are willing to barter for items, make sure that you have a sign saying so. If a whole box of things is being sold for a dollar a piece, make a sign saying so
Be sure that everything is ready for the day of the bazaar. Check to see if it is supposed to rain. If so, make sure you have a tarp or something water-resistant that you can spread over the items so that they won't get wet.
Make sure that everyone has a job. If no one knows what they are supposed to do, then they will all flock to one job and nothing will get done. Be clear and specifically tell each person what they are to do.

Once they are done with that job, give them another job until everything has been completed. 



, Be sure that everything is clear and easy to read.

