 Mindfulness in the work place is a great quality to cultivate. Being more mindful can make you more productive at work, and can also decrease your stress. One way to be more mindful is to check in with your emotions, and take note of how you feel when you're at work.Get in the habit of checking in with yourself. You may be stressed out during the day without even being aware of it. Be mindful, and pay attention to signs of tension. If you find your heart race increasing, or that your shoulders are tense, take a minute to remove yourself from the stressful situation and calm down.
 Being aware of your breath is very important to being more mindful. Taking deep, calming breaths can help you focus and can also help to lower your blood pressure. Before a big meeting, try taking some several deep breaths to gain your composure.Try setting aside two three minute periods per day to practice your breathing. You can do this at your desk. Simply set aside your work for three minutes and allow yourself to concentrate fully on breathing.
 Research shows that you are actually a more productive person when you allow yourself to take regular breaks. It is important to allow your brain to relax. Part of being mindful is realizing when you need to let your mind drift.It is ideal to take one ten-minute break every hour. If you can't manage that, try taking several thirty-second mini-breaks. During this brief timeouts, let your mind drift and indulge in some daydreams.
 This technique can help you be a less stressed, more effective person. Try visualizing yourself doing something great. Perhaps you are delivering an outstanding presentation or cooking an amazing dinner for your family. Whatever you see, make sure you are visualizing your best self., Pay attention to both your words and your body language. You want to communicate that you are present and connected to your co-workers, friends, and family. This will make you a more effective communicator, and increase your mindfulness.Watch the words that you use in workplace conversations. When you use words like being "swamped" you are telling yourself and your co-worker that you are experiencing a negative situation. Be mindful, and use positive language. Try saying that your schedule is "full" instead.
Breathing is an important part of your body language. If your breathing is erratic, it signals to your body and others that you are under stress. This is not a positive image to project.

