 Mix equal parts olive oil and sugar in a small bowl to get a paste.Stand over your sink so you don't make a mess. Use a clean, soft washcloth to gently massage the mixture onto your lips using a circular motion. Rinse the mixture off with warm, not hot, water – cup your hands and splash water onto your mouth until it’s clean. Pat your lips dry and apply petroleum jelly or hydrating lip balm to moisturize your lips.


You can use white or brown sugar, but not powdered.
Coconut oil is a tasty alternative to olive oil.
The longer (and harder) you rub the mixture on your lips the more intensely it will exfoliate. Do this for about a minute, maximum. Too much exfoliating can make lips sore or chapped.
Oil-based scrubs are great for dry skin because they're very hydrating.;
, Mix baking soda with water to form a gritty paste; you may have to experiment with the ratio. Use a clean washcloth or old toothbrush with soft, straight bristles to rub the paste onto your lips in a gentle, circular motion.Rinse with warm water, gently pat dry, and apply lip balm or petroleum jelly.


Baking soda and water do not moisturize your lips at all, so be sure to apply a moisturizing lip balm when you’re done.
This scrub may be a good choice if you have oily skin around your mouth because it's non-greasy.
 Mix 1/3 honey and 2/3 sugar in a small bowl.Apply it to your lips in a circular motion. You can use your finger if you wash your hands first, or a soft toothbrush, clean washcloth, or cotton swab. Leave the paste on for 2-3 minutes. Wash it off with warm water – honey is sticky so it may take a few minutes of washing. Rub your lips gently with a cloth, then moisturize.


You can also leave this scrub on overnight if you wish. After you apply the scrub, put a strip of paper towel on your lips and lightly push it down – this will keep the scrub from getting all over your bedding and face. Sleep on your back and keep your head upright. Remove the paper strip in the morning, wash the scrub off, and moisturize your lips well.

