

Open up the Dalet icon on your homepage by double clicking on the orange icon with the "play" symbol.
Sign in with your computer login username and password.;
,

Select the Media tab inside of the Dalet program.
Click on "Incoming" then "Feeds" and select the current date.
Double click on the event you would like to find an image for. If there are two versions of the event (i.e. Keyed and Unkeyed) choose the Unkeyed Raw version.


Once you have double clicked on the event, a video trimmer tool should come up on the screen.
Scroll through the video roll by dragging your mouse across the trimmer.
You can also use the space bar to navigate the video in real time.
Use the J key on the keyboard to rewind the video content.
Use the L key on the keyboard to fast forward the video content.
The space bar can also be used to pause video.
Use numbers 1 and 2 on the number key pad to move forward or backward in smaller time increments.
When you have selected a spot on the video you want to save go to "Preview Window" at the top of the Dalet browser.
Scroll down to "Extract Image".
 A "Save As" Screen should come up.

Save all photos in the following format: first and last name of person or event-the current date in numerical format_C-SPAN.
Change the format of the file from BMP to JPEG.


With the "Media" tab still selected scroll down to "Clip Bins".
Double click on "Clip Bins" and select the clip bin with your name.
Find the image you just saved.
Click on the Windows Icon in the bottom left hand corner and select Computer.
Select the (W:) drive.
Open the Raw Folder.
Select the category that best represents the event you extracted your picture from.
Drag and drop the image file from your Dalet ClipBin into the folder.

Select "File" and "Open".
Go to the (W:) drive and open the raw folder and select the image you pulled from Dalet.
Select "View" and uncheck "Pixel Aspect Ratio Correction".
Select "Image" and scroll down to "Image Size".
Make the Pixel Dimension width of the image 1440 and the height 810.
For basic editing select the "Image" drop down bar and use "Auto Tone" and "Auto Contrast".
For more image edits use the "Adjustments" tab on the "Image" drop down bar.


Select "File" in the top left hand corner of Photoshop.
Scroll down to save for web.
Save the image in standard file format and save to the "Edit" file folder under the appropriate event category.


Go to the C-SPAN website and click on the event you would like to upload a promo picture for.
Make sure you are logged into your "My C-SPAN" account using your C-SPAN email address.
Click on the link to the "Internal Page" located just under the C-SPAN logo on the left hand side.
Select "Promo Picture" on the far right side of the internal page.
Click on "Upload a new promo image".
Select "Choose File" and then upload the edited version of your Dalet Image
Before clicking "Upload" make sure you type "C-SPAN" into the "Image Attribution" space.
Your edited image should appear on the program screen.

