 Viruses are the main cause of most people's computer problems. Removing viruses and ensuring that you remain virus-free will help your computer's health significantly.


If you don't have one already, install an antivirus program. Mac users should install an antivirus program as well, as Macs are becoming larger targets for viruses.;
, Adware are programs that are often installed alongside other programs, and can be difficult to get rid of. These programs send you targeted ads and may hijack your browser. Some are a risk to your personal information.
 Too many toolbars can cause your browser to slow to a crawl, and many can be incredibly difficult to remove. If you can't remove the toolbars, no matter what you try, you may need to reinstall your browser or install a different browser.
 If you have a lot of programs installed that you don't use, they will sit on your hard drive taking up space, and potentially slowing your computer down by running in the background. Go through your programs list and remove any programs that you don't use anymore.


See this guide for instructions on deleting programs in OS X.
 Lots of programs, both legitimate and illegitimate, will attach themselves to your startup process. When you get too many programs trying to start when your operating system is loading, it can really slow your computer down.
 For optimal efficiency, your hard disk should always have at least 15% of the space on it available, preferably at least 25%. Having more free space allows your operating system to move files around during installation and defragmenting.
 Your Windows registry contains information for all of your installed programs. Oftentimes, when a program is uninstalled, it will leave behind entries in the registry. As these pile up, Windows can take longer to find the entries it needs.
 Oftentimes, updating your operating system will fix a particular problem you've been having. Installing the latest updates will also help ensure that your computer is as secure as possible from outside attacks.


See this guide for instructions for updating OS X.
 When bad things happen to your computer, the worst potential loss is your data. Setting up a backup system will help protect your important files from hardware failure or a virus attack. Having backups of everything important makes changing your hardware much less stressful as well.
 If you just can't solve a problem you're having with your operating system, it may be easier to just reinstall the operating system and start over. Having your data backed up will make the reinstallation process very painless.


Reinstall Windows 7
Reinstall Windows 8
Reinstall OS X

, Unless you work in a perfectly sterile environment, dust will build up in your computer. Dust can cause your components to overheat and can clog fans. Too much dust can also lead to short circuits. Try to clean out the dust inside your computer monthly.
 If your operating system is crashing often, you may have faulty memory. Replacing RAM is one of the easier hardware tasks that you can perform, but picking the right RAM can be difficult.


You can test your memory using a program called MemTest86.
 If you're having problems installing programs, files are getting corrupted, or you are experiencing crashes, your hard drive may be failing. There are several ways that you can check your hard disk for errors which may be fixable. If your hard drive has failed completely, you can install a new one.


If the hard drive that failed contained your operating system, you will need to reinstall it after installing the drive.
 If the colors are completely wrong or your images is distorted, your video card may be failing. If you can, test the card by plugging in a different monitor first before committing to a new video card.
 If your disc drive isn't reading discs properly, or it's very loud when reading a disc, you may need to install a new drive. Basic DVD drives are very cheap, and you can have the new drive installed in just a few minutes.
 If your computer is overheating, you can be causing serious damage to your components. Many computers will shut themselves down if a certain temperature is reached, so if you are experiencing shutdowns, especially when running intensive programs, your computer may be overheating. Installing more fans or replacing defective ones can make a big difference on the internal temperature.


You can install software to monitor the temperatures inside your computer.
 If your computer is randomly shutting off, or isn't turning on, your power supply may be failing or dead. You can test your power supply to see if it's the culprit. If it is, you can replace it with a newer or more powerful one.
 If you've tried everything and your computer is just not speeding up, it may be time to start over. Building a new computer is less scary than it sounds, and you may be able to reuse some of your existing components (if they're not too old).