 Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Something around 11 by 17-inch (27.94 by 43.18-centimeter) would be ideal. If you don't have any parchment paper, you can generously grease the baking sheet with butter instead., Fill a large pot with about 4 quarts (4 liters) of water and bring it to a boil. Add about 1 tablespoon (17 grams) of salt, then add the macaroni. Boil it for 2 minutes less than the time specified on the box. In most cases, this will be about 5 minutes. Once it is done cooking, drain it and put it into a bowl. Do not rinse it.If you can't find any elbow macaroni, you can use another type of small pasta.
 Drain out any excess water from the pot that you cooked the macaroni in. Add 4 tablespoons (55 grams) of butter, and allow it to melt over medium-high heat. Whisk in the flour for about 1 minute.Hold off on the rest of the butter for now., Stir the mixture with a whisk to blend everything together. Be sure to scrape the bottom of the pot so that there is no roux clinging to the bottom., Bring the mixture to a boil, then immediately reduce it to a simmer. Add 1¼ teaspoons of salt and a little bit of pepper. Allow the mixture to simmer for about 20 minutes or until it turns thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. Remove the pot from the burner and set it aside., Pulse enough bread chunks in a food processor to fill 3 cups (150 grams). Add the parsley and garlic, then continue pulsing until you get a fine, grainy mixture.

Use only that top ¾ of the parsley, not the entire stem.
 You can melt the remaining 4 tablespoons (55 grams) of butter in the microwave or in a little saucepan over the stove., Pour the melted butter over the seasoned breadcrumbs, then add ¼ teaspoon of salt. Stir everything together with a rubber spatula until evenly combined., Stir the grated cheese into the macaroni with a rubber spatula first. Pour the roux-based sauce over it and stir it again. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often. # Spread the macaroni, mozzarella, and breadcrumbs over the prepared baking sheet. Transfer the macaroni mixture to a rimmed baking sheet. Spread it around with a rubber spatula until it is an even thickness all around. Next, sprinkle the mozzarella evenly over it, and finally the breadcrumbs., It is ready when it turns golden-brown and the sauce is bubbly., Once the macaroni is done baking, take it out of the oven, and set it down on a heat-safe surface. Let it rest for 10 minutes, then serve it. 