 Upright bikes are easy to use and provide great cardiovascular workouts. They work abdominal muscles since you are keeping the body upright, and they offer upper body arm workout., A spin bike most closely resembles the “real” activity of riding a bike. It's one of the best bikes at burning calories. Spin bikes are meant for those who want a strenuous, effective workout., Recumbent bikes provide an all-body workout while working all the major muscles. The position of the recumbent seat ensures that you are exercising while maintaining good spinal posture. Recumbent bikes are easier on the lower back and gentle on your joints., Whether you want to reduce body fat, get stronger or make fitness a part of your routine, an exercise bike is a great start. Ultimately, quality is what you are aiming for. You will need to balance quality with the needs of your exercise bike and your workout goals. It is easier to decide on which bike to buy once you know what your fitness goals are., The best exercise bikes use enough padding and a comfortable design, with enough adjustments to achieve the best fit., Pedals should be adjustable with spring-loaded clips on the outer edge of each pedal to hold your feet in place. They should work smoothly, and the bike shouldn’t be noisy. Larger pedals are available for wider feet. , Exercise bikes should let you adjust routines based on your fitness level, and have heart-rate-controlled workouts that consider your age, weight, and gender., A good display should show some combination of your heart rate, calories burned, speed, revolutions per minute (RPM), and resistance levels, and details such as time and distance. , There is a bike for every budget. If you prefer a more luxurious feel to your bike, then you might want to plan for a larger budget of $500 and above. If you only need basic features, then consider a less expensive model that costs less than $500., Make sure the bike fits you properly. It is important that the seat height is correct, and you're not sitting too far away from the handlebars. Make sure that your feet don't slip while you pedal., Resistance levels help you vary your workouts. You can also warm up and cool down by gradually increasing or lowering the resistance level., Stability is important in an exercise bike. If the bike wobbles, it is probably not the right weight for you. Make sure that your weight isn’t above the maximum supported weight, otherwise you can put your safety at risk., Buying online offers you the convenience of shopping in the comfort of your home. Many stores will display a whole range of products for comparison. When buying online, determine the bike’s stability by checking its weight limit. , Most stores will allow you to return equipment, whether you buy it in-store or online. When buying online, you can often check the return options for your purchase in the order details page of your account., A warranty is a written guarantee that exercise bike manufacturers grant to buyers, promising to repair or replace components of an exercise bike within certain time limits. Look at a warranty that covers the bike for a minimum of two to three years. 