 If the breasts are frozen, allow them to fully defrost before boiling. You can defrost a chicken breast in the microwave, in the refrigerator, or by soaking it in a bowl of cold water.






;
, Place the chicken breasts in the pot (once the water has boiled), making sure that each piece is fully submerged under water. Add more water if necessary.









For faster cooking, cut the breasts into halves or in quarters. This is also a good way to ensure the inside breast thoroughly cooks.
 Bring water to a boil, and then reduce to a simmer. Cover the pot and allow the chicken to cook until the insides are no longer pink. Cook time will vary depending on the size and breast.









Chicken breasts with skin and bones should cook for about 30 minutes.
Skinless, boneless chicken breasts should cook for 20-25 minutes. If they are cut in half, then cook for 15-20 minutes.
Skinless, boneless chicken breasts that have been cut into 2-inch pieces should cook for about 10 minutes.
 Drain liquid from the pot, and transfer breasts to a plate. Chicken should be white and be easily pulled apart with hands or a fork.
 Add boiled chicken to salads, stir-fries, or fajitas. Season as desired with salt, pepper, Italian herbs, or cooking sauces.
 On a cutting board, slice up a yellow onion and add it to the pot. You can also add carrots, celery, garlic cloves, lemon juice, and other spices.
 Be sure that each piece is fully submerged in the broth, adding additional liquid if necessary.









For faster cooking, cut breasts into halves or quarters.
 Bring to a boil on high heat, and then reduce to a simmer. Cover pot and allow chicken to cook until the insides are no longer pink. Cook time will vary depending on the size and breast.









Chicken breasts with skin and bones should cook for about 30 minutes.
Skinless, boneless chicken breasts should cook for 20-25 minutes. If they are cut in half, then cook for 15-20 minutes.
Skinless, boneless chicken breasts that have been cut into 2-inch pieces should cook for about 10 minutes.
 Drain the liquid, and remove the chicken from the pot. To make sure the chicken is cooked, pull it apart to make sure the insides are white.
 Boiled chicken can be added to stir-fries, fajitas, or salads. Season as desired with salt, pepper, Italian herbs, or cooking sauces.








