 If your heavy period bothers you, talk to your doctor about ways to make it better. If it’s right for you, they can give you medicine (usually birth control) to make your period less heavy. When you go for your visit be ready to tell them how often you get your periods and how long they last, and about how many pads or tampons you use in a day.


Sometimes a hormonal intrauterine device (IUD) can help with heavy periods. It depends on which kind of IUD is used – non-hormonal IUDs may increase bleeding.;
, Sometimes, heavy menstrual bleeding is caused by an imbalance in your hormones. If heavy bleeding is a consistent problem for you, ask your doctor about getting your hormone levels checked. This can be done with a simple blood test. Your doctor can give you medication, usually birth control, to regulate any unbalanced hormones., Uterine polyps and uterine fibroids are benign (non-cancerous) growths that can occur in the uterus and cause heavier bleeding. These usually develop in your 20’s-30’s. If you had normal periods in the past that have become heavier, ask your doctor about the possibility of uterine growths.Another condition called adenomyosis causes heavy bleeding and painful cramps. Ask your doctor about this if you’re middle-aged and have had children – that’s when this condition most commonly occurs.
 Some women just have heavier periods than others; in some cases, however, medical conditions cause heavy menstruation. These can be diagnosed with a physical exam, ultrasound, biopsy, or other procedure. If you want to understand your heavy period, work with your doctor to rule out the following possible causes:A bleeding disorder that you inherited from your parents; you will probably have other signs of easy bleeding other than your heavy period
Endometriosis
Pelvic inflammatory disease
Thyroid disfunction
Kidney or liver problems
Cancers of the uterus, cervix, or ovaries (rarely)

, Iron deficiency anemia can occur if you have really heavy periods. This is when you lose so much blood that it depletes how much iron you have in your body. You will likely feel tired or fatigued. You might also have pale skin, a sore tongue, headaches or dizziness, or a fast heartbeat. If you think you’re anemic, go to your doctor to get your iron level checked.Preempt your blood loss by taking a multivitamin that has iron in it, or ask your doctor whether you should take an iron supplement.
It can also help to eat iron-rich foods like red meat, seafood, spinach, and fortified cereals and breads.Get enough vitamin C to enhance how your body absorbs iron. Eat foods like oranges, broccoli, leafy greens, and tomatoes.
 Periods come in all shapes and sizes, but some issues suggest you should talk to your doctor about what’s going on. Make an appointment to see your regular doctor or your gynecologist if you have any of the following problems:You miss your period, if you’ve been having them regularly.
Your period lasts longer than 7 days.
You bleed so heavily you need to change pads or tampons more than every 1-2 hours.
You have debilitating cramps.
Your period goes from being regular to being irregular.
You have bleeding in between your periods.
 Be sure to change tampons at least every 8 hours – leaving one in for longer can increase your chances of infection or toxic shock syndrome (TSS). TSS can be a serious medical problem, so go to the hospital or see your doctor right away if you’re using a tampon and have symptoms of TSS, such as:Headache
Sudden fever
Vomiting or diarrhea
A rash like a sunburn on your hands or feet
Muscle aches
Confusion
Seizures

