


The progress of all organic chemical reactions is very dependent on the conditions under which the specific reaction takes place. In fact the formulation of many thermodynamic functions was based on specifying the controlled thermodynamic parameters under which the reaction takes place. As an example the free energy of Gibbs is a basic thermodynamic function that is specific for chemical reactions under the control of temperature and pressure. This trend of choosing thermodynamic functions for chemical reactions under specific controlled thermodynamic parameters is the basis for functions such as the free energy of Helmholtz and the enthalpy thermodynamic function. Each of these thermodynamic functions is good for chemical reactions under the control of different type of thermodynamic parameters. These parameters are the Temperature and the Entropy in addition to the pressure and the volume.
The temperature and the entropy are two conjugate parameters in which one is intensive parameter and the other is extensive. This same trend is seen also with the parameters the volume and the pressure which are also two conjugate parameters in which one is intensive and the other is extensive.;
, These include for example the presence of ionic liquids in the solution in which the reaction is taking place. Ionic liquids can increase the ionic strength of the solution. This effect is probably best manifested in reactions that develop charged intermediates in which can be stabilized by electrostatic interactions with the ions of the ionic liquid.
 A microwave oven generates microwave irradiation which can excite the reacting molecules mostly in its rotational energy levels. This excitation by microwave irradiation has proved to be useful in inducing chemical reactions in the organic laboratory.


Although the use of this technique of using microwave irradiation in order to enhance chemical reactions is relatively of recent age the idea of using electromagnetic radiation to induce chemical reactions is a well known procedure in organic chemistry. There is a whole branch of chemistry which is called organic photochemistry which is based on using UV and visible light in order to induce chemical changes in organic compounds and force it to undergo chemical reactions. This area of chemistry is based on excitation of electrons to an excited electronic state in a given compound that in most cases form radical species that is usually very unstable and combines immediately with another carbon species in the solution to form a new compound.
 In this case the chemist uses a well capped reaction flask that is designed for this purpose of working under high pressure conditions and let the reaction to proceed under conditions of reflux. In this case the vapor gas that is produced cannot be condensed nor can it escape from the flask. As a result pressure inside the flask accumulates and forces the reaction to proceed to completion. These reaction conditions are usually used with sluggish reactions that have high energy barrier.
 Usually organic compounds have certain degree of thermodynamic stability. For this reason most organic reactions require heat to trigger the reacting compounds to undergo a chemical reaction. Exceptions to this rule exist but mostly of organometallic type of chemical compounds. Organometallic compounds are usually very unstable compounds thermodynamically because they are air and water sensitive. These organometallic reagents such as Grignard reagent have high content of energy that its reaction is very exothermic and release energy in the form of heat. For this reason reactions that involve organometallic reagents are performed under supercooling conditions of −76 °C (−105 °F).

