 If the child cannot reach the sink by themselves, place a stool in front of the sink to facilitate regular hand-washing practicesLook for a stool with rubber grips on the steps. When young children are involved, washing hands can get extremely messy, and you don’t want the child slipping on the step.
The feet of the step should also be equipped with rubber to limit the risk of slipping or sliding across a slick floor.;
, While children may not fully comprehend the concept of germs, explain (in simple terms) why washing your hands is so important. Include what germs are, how they can hurt you, and how hand washing gets rid of germs.Using a small, child-friendly video or song to illustrate the concept of germs may make handwashing more fun.
 Most children are not comfortable or familiar with soap pumps, so show them how to press down a few times before they try. For very small children, you may need to continue dispensing soap for them.Some children might like to choose a fun soap dispenser for their new hand washing habit.
 Show your child how to turn on the tap, focusing on the cold tap to prevent burns. Older children will be able to get this after a few tries, while young children will likely require help for several months before gaining the required dexterity., Most experts say that 20-30 seconds of washing is required to completely eradicate germs. Singing “Happy Birthday” twice or the alphabet song once through will give you plenty of time to finish cleaning germs.You can also purchase a small timer to set by the sink to help children remember how long to wash.
 Show your child how to rinse their hands until all of the bubbles are removed, checking between your fingers and on the backs of your hands.While it is not dangerous to leave soap bubbles behind, children often put their hands in their mouth and getting a handful of soap might deter future handwashing.
This can be something of a game. You can race to see who can get rid of bubbles the fastest to encourage the child to develop an interest in hand washing.
 Finally, show your child how to grab the towel from the hook and dry their hands thoroughly.Make sure the towel is easily accessible. High towel racks that require the child to lean over could result in the child falling.
 Before you start teaching a child to wash their hands, have them watch you as you wash your hands. Doing so not only demonstrates the process itself, but also shows the child that washing your hands is a simple, normal practice that even adults must do on a regular basis.Don’t make an exaggerated show of washing your hands. Wash them quickly and efficiently before cooking, after cleaning, and after running errands to demonstrate good habits.
 Once you have taught a child how to wash their hands, keep the lesson fresh by washing your hands multiple times a day together. Do not make food or move on to other activities before washing your hands.
 Each time you are about to eat, whether it is a full meal or a snack, take a minute to wash your hands together. Do not move on to eating or even setting food out until hands are washed, as some children may see hand-washing as cumbersome and may refuse if food is already set out or visible., Playtime could involve something simple like coloring with crayons, or could involve digging in the dirt for worms. Whatever the case may be, begin a routine of washing hands after each playtime.


While sitting at the table and coloring isn’t exactly a recipe for massive amounts of germs, children cannot differentiate between a germ-heavy playtime (playing with puppies, for instance), and a relatively germ-free playtime (racing toy cars).
 Good behavior is most effectively reinforced through praise. When a child washes their hands, praise their efforts, saying “Good job!” or “Look at you, cleaning away those germs!” This will reinforce the idea that washing their hands is a task worthy of admiration and repeat performances.Avoid bribing (i.e. “If you wash your hands, I’ll give you a sucker,”) as you cannot possibly give a treat every time hands need to be washed.
Be sincere in your praise. If a child runs to you, washed hands waving, and beaming, you can simply say “Awesome! You did so well!” You do not have to throw a parade, so to speak, each time.

