 Maybe you feel uncomfortable talking out loud to God, find it difficult to concentrate when talking to God in your mind, or maybe neither of the two work for you at all. If that’s the case, try writing to God. This form of communicating will still enable you to express your thoughts for a connection and create your side of a conversation with God.
 Choose something that will feel comfortable to write in every day. A spiral notebook or journal would be an ideal choice since it will easily lay flat on a desk. Select your preferred writing tool.


You’ll want to write to God by hand instead of typing on a computer. Computers have endless distractions, and for some the act of typing requires more conscious effort than scribbling in a notebook., Even though you won’t be speaking aloud, it’s still best to find a quiet spot for maximum concentration.
 Before you get started set a timer for a length of time that feels comfortable to write for. You may set it for five, ten or twenty minutes. Keep your pen or pencil moving until the timer goes off.
 Try not to be self-conscious about what you write. Don’t worry about grammar and punctuation, or about what you’re actually writing. In writing to God, you want your words to come from the heart. In order to do that you’ll need to relax enough that you can write freely about whatever comes to mind.
 If you’re not sure what to write about, consider writing about a current concern that you can’t stop thinking about. Write about what’s happening in your day to day life. Write down any questions you want God to answer for you. Or write about your goals or what you’re thankful for. Use the examples below for inspiration.


“Dear God, I have no idea what I’m doing in my life right now. I can’t seem to make good choices or meet the right people. I feel like I’m drowning in drama. When will this end? When will things change for me?”
“I can’t even contain my excitement right now, God. Today I met a woman who works at my dream job. Our meeting was completely serendipitous. I mean what are the chances of meeting just the right person randomly on a busy street? If I didn’t accidentally bump her shoulder and if she didn’t happen to drop her purse, I never would have gotten a glimpse of her business card. You’ve truly answered my prayers.”

