 Vitamins will give your Pokémon 10 EV points in a particular stat. You can give your Pokémon up to 10 vitamins, meaning that this is a fast way to get 100 EV points (out of the limit of 510 EV points). Vitamins cost $9,800 each.


You can buy Vitamins from Shopping Mall 9 in Black and White.
 There are a variety of items that you can equip on your Pokémon to make them gain EV points faster. The best item is the Macho Brace, which doubles all EV points gained but cuts your Pokémon’s speed. Other items, like a Power Weight or a Power Belt, only double a single stat but still cut the speed.
 Pokérus is a Pokémon virus. Though rare, Pokérus is a status affliction that cannot be cured via Pokémon Center. Although it is possible to battle a Pokémon with Pokérus (which can only be received by said method by battling with a Pokémon and not by running), you will most likely have better luck receiving one over trade. Much like a regular virus, once one of your Pokémon catches the virus, it can spread to your other Pokémon. This virus will double the EVs you get from battles and works with the other items which increase EVs gained. However, your Pokémon will only have it for a certain period of time and then they will heal, usually around a day after contracting Pokérus.Find out if your Pokémon has Pokérus by checking their status effects. You'll also be told by the nurse at a Pokémon Center if your Pokémon has Pokérus.
Keep in mind that this virus is very rare. You may never encounter it.
 Wings are items which can occasionally be found on Marvellous Bridge and Driftveil Drawbridge. These increase a given stat by 1 EV point. While these give less points than vitamins, they don’t have a limit, so you can use as many as you want (assuming you can find them).


The major downside it that the wings only increase 1 stat and which wing you find is random. It is also time consuming to find the wings.
 Join Avenue will have a number of items available for sale which can raise your EVs. Try the items at the Dojo or Cafe to make your EVs rise as much as 48 points. Be aware, however, that this can be very expensive. Secret Dish A, for example, which raises your HP EVs by 48 points costs $72000!, Since your EV Trained Pokémon will only see so many battles, you will need to have an alternative way to level it. The best way to do this is to use Rare Candies. These raise your Pokémon 1 level. They cost $4800 and are found in a lot of different places, depending on which game you are playing.

