 When a cat has kidney disease, there are raised levels of urea and phosphate in the blood, which are particularly irritating to the stomach lining and the gums. This may result in ulceration, which can be seen as inflamed, ulcerated tissue on the gums or tongue. It can also produce stomach ulcers.


If the cat is vomiting, and in particular if the cat is vomiting blood, it may be assumed that the cat is suffering from gastric ulcers.
Antepsin, which contains the active ingredient sucralfate, is often prescribed in this situation. The liquid medication binds to exposed mucosa and forms a protective bandage to prevent further erosion, and allows the area to heal.
The dose is 2.5 to 5 ml (half to one teaspoon) given by mouth two or three times a day.;
, Kidney disease leads to a vicious circle whereby there is less functional tissue doing more work, which speeds up the kidney's deterioration. Drugs called ACE inhibitors, such as benazepril (Benefortin), reduce the blood pressure gradient across the kidney, which reduces one of the risk factors for deterioration. They work by dilating the arteries leading into the kidney, so that the local blood pressure falls and is less likely to cause damage.The use of ACE inhibitors increases the survival times of cats with mild to moderate kidney disease. The dose is generally 0.25 to 0.5mg/kg once daily by mouth. This is equivalent to half a 5 mg tablet once daily., Concentrated urine is a natural antiseptic and produces a hostile environment for bacteria. Unfortunately, cats with kidney disease form weak urine that is less hostile to bacteria, therefore bladder infections are much more likely.


There is a distinct risk that bacteria in the bladder may make their way upstream and colonize the kidney, resulting in pyelonephritis. This kidney infection then causes further damage. Many cases are "subclinical", which means they are present and sufficient to be a nuisance, but not severe enough to cause obvious symptoms.
It is important that the subclinical infections are detected and treated with antibiotics, before they cause further kidney damage. The easiest way to do this is with routine urine cultures every three months. This gives a definitive answer as to whether an infection is present or not, and what antibiotics would work best at killing that infection.
 A common complication of kidney disease is high blood pressure (hypertension). Undetected and untreated, this can have catastrophic consequences such as stroke, blindness, or sudden death.


Hypertension is detected by measuring a cat’s venous blood pressure in a paw or in the vein under the tail. If the blood pressure is between 160-180mmHg then adding in an ACE inhibitor should be sufficient to protect the cat. However, if the blood pressure is over 180mmHg then a human anti-hypertensive medication, amlodipine, is prescribed. This is a calcium channel blocker and the dose in cats is 0.625 -1.25mg per cat once a day.Until recently only 5mg tablets were available which made accurate dosing almost impossible (about an 1/8th of a small tablet!), however 0.625mg are now available, which means a dose of one tablet daily.

