 In order for the oven to be hot enough when the Swiss steak is ready to cook, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (170 degrees Celsius), and make sure that the rack is in the middle position.Be aware of how your oven indicates that it’s reached the desired temperature. In most cases, it will beep and/or flash an indicator light.;
, Take 2 pounds (907 g) of beef bottom or top round steak that you’ve trimmed the excess fat from, and use a sharp knife to cut it into ½-inch (1.2 cm) thick slices, going with the grain of the meat. Next, season both sides of the steaks with 2 teaspoons (12 g) of kosher salt and 1 teaspoon (2 g) of freshly ground black pepper.When you cut the meat, you can vary the size of the slices to suit your preference. Keep in mind, though, that they should be serving size pieces so you don’t want them too large or too small.
 Place ¾ cup (75 g) of all-purpose flour in a shallow dish or pie pan, and dredge the meat on both sides in the flour. Next, use a needle or blade meat tenderizer to tenderize the meat so that each slice is ¼-inch thick.Tenderize both sides of the meat, but be careful not to shred the slices.If you don’t have a needle or blade tenderizer, you can use at a meat mallet instead.
 After you’ve tenderized the meat, dip it back into the flour. Make sure to coat each side of the slices evenly, and then set the meat aside., In a 4 to 5 quart (4 to 5 L) Dutch oven, add up to ¼ cup (59 ml) of vegetable oil to cover the bottom. Turn the burner to medium-high heat, and allow the oil to heat for 3 to 5 minutes or until it starts to shimmer.You can substitute canola oil or bacon drippings for the vegetable oil.
 Place as many steaks as will fit in a single layer on the bottom of the Dutch oven. Allow the steaks to cook until they are golden brown on both sides, which should take approximately 2 minutes per side., When the steaks are browned, remove them from the pan and set them on a plate. Brown the remaining steaks in the exact same way, and remove to the plate with the others so you can set them aside.Some Swiss steak recipes advise leaving the finished steaks in the Dutch oven when they’ve finished browning and adding the other ingredients over them. You can do it that way, but it’s often difficult to mix the sauce for the dish with the meat in the way.
 Add 1 large onion that’s been thinly sliced, 2 cloves of minced garlic, and 2 celery stalks that have been chopped to the pan. Allow them to cook on medium-high for 1 to 2 minutes, or until they’re tender.Be sure to stir the onion, garlic, and celery as you saute them to ensure that they cook evenly.
If desired, you can add other vegetables and seasonings to the pan, such as chopped bell peppers, chopped carrots, and/or sliced mushrooms., Once the onion, garlic, and celery have sauteed for a couple of minutes, mix in 1 tablespoon (15 g) of tomato paste. Stir well until the tomato paste is fully combined with the other ingredients.If you don’t have any tomato paste, you can use canned tomato sauced that’s been reduced over medium heat by approximately ⅔’s, which should take approximately 7 to 10 minutes., When the tomato paste is fully incorporated, add 1 14.5 (411 g) ounce can of diced tomatoes, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of smoked paprika, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of dried oregano, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of Worcestershire sauce, and 1 ½ cups (355 ml) of beef broth. Stir until all of the ingredients are fully combined in the sauce.If you don’t have smoked paprika in your spice rack, you can substitute chipotle powder., Once you’ve mixed up the sauce, return the browned meat to the Dutch oven, submerging it in the liquid ingredients. Cover the pan, and place it in the oven on the middle rack. Allow it to cook for 1 ½ to 2 hours or until the meat is tender., When the meat is tender and falling apart, remove the pan from the oven. Plate each steak, and spoon some of the sauce over the meat. You can garnish the dish with a sprig of parsley if desired.Swiss steak is often served with egg noodles or mashed potatoes.

