 For example, you might wish the company to concentrate on horror, drama, comedy, sci-fi, documentaries, etc. Or perhaps a mix of genres, without stretching yourself too thin.;
, Once you have decided on what genre of film you would most like to do you must decide what your role will be.


Are you going to be the writer, director or producer?
Do you want to be behind the camera or running sound?


If you do not have any expertise or talent in any of those areas, network with people and search for projects you can attach yourself to. This will help you to build your resume and will enhance the reputation of your production company.
 Choose something that is easy to remember but also stands out from the crowd like, "Beauty and the Geek Productions" or "Lovable Varmint Productions". Search around on the internet to make sure you aren't infringing on copyright laws. Yes, even movie production companies have a trademark or copyright on their name to secure it so that no one else will use it.
 The profile should include the following important elements: Name of your company, its establishment (year), founder(s) of the company, vision, mission and the goal of the company, where do the company works, the kind of activities the company carries out and the structure of the company. Also clarify the company's partners (such as broadcasters, institutes, co-production partners) and the contacts of the company (this is very important because it will enable your clients get in contact with you easily, especially for business purposes).
 Some states, provinces and even countries offer grants and tax breaks for filming movies in their area. This might influence your decision about where to film, or even where to locate your business. Research the available options online and talk to people already in the industry to find out what grants are available. Obviously, grants won't keep your business thriving, so you'll need other resources too. Some suggestions include:


Your own savings
Family or friend help (loans, donations, etc.)
Angel investors
Crowdfunding through online fundraising campaigns
Keeping your day job and funneling some of your income towards the business
A cooperative of investors, and so forth.
 Make the most of being able to claim for business expenses and also how to take advantage of any existing tax breaks for your work.


Get a good accountant and a good lawyer from the outset.
 If you are lucky, you may just be able to make movies for free and pay everyone with meals and film credit. Most indie movies are made this way. Don't forget to give screen credit to the people who have done the hard work to make your dreams into a reality. It is just rude not to do so, and will give you a bad name, making it harder for you to find people to help you next time.
 Don't expect to go it alone and do expect to put in a lot of effort making connections, networking and keeping friendly with as many other people who can help you as you have spare time to catch up with.
 If you do not know how a film set is run, look around your local area and see if you can be a Production Assistant on set and learn by total immersion. Some cities have filmmaker meet up groups that help connect you with people who can answer your questions and put you in contact with people who need extra hands on set.
 Or, option a script from a different writer, maybe a friend or acquaintance trying to get started in the industry.
 Avoid doing what everyone else is doing. If you're going to be independent, set the trend rather than chase it. Your movies have to be different in some way, so find ways to create movies that will gain people's attention.
 Make a website, get business cards, stamps, and come up with a catchy phrase that sums up your company. Get a trademark on your company's name.
 Have sufficient posters, websites and promos to promote your film. Without them, an audience will never find your movies and your company risks failing.