 In Senet, you play on a board consisting of 30 squares, referred to as houses. The houses are arranged in 3 rows, with 10 houses in each row. The object of the game is to move through the board, eventually getting all your pieces off the board.To move, you move your pieces down the first row. Once you reach the end of the first row, you turn a corner and proceed the opposite way down the second row.Once you reach the end of the second row, you once again turn a corner. You then proceed the opposite way down the third row. Once you reach the end of the third row, you move your piece off the board.The number of squares you move at a time is based on how you throw the senet sticks.;
, Senet does not use dice like a traditional board game. Instead, senet uses what are called senet sticks. These are usually popsicle sticks with one side painted black and the other painted in a different, brighter color. When it's your turn, you'll throw the sticks in the air. How many sticks land with the black side facing up determines your move.


If you have three black sides and one color side, you can move one house and toss again.If you have two color sides and two black sides, you move two houses and then lose your turn.If you have three color sides and one black side, you move three houses and lose your turn.Four color sides means you move four houses and toss again.Four black sides means you move 5 houses and toss again., Senet is a two player game. Each player gets 5 game pieces at the beginning of senet. You must move all these pieces off the board in order to win. Pieces are usually rocks but you can also use pennies or other coins. Any small, movable object can be used on a senet board., There are some basic rules when it comes to playing Senet. You should familiarize yourself with these rules before beginning the game.


Only one piece can be placed in each house at a time.
At the beginning of the game, you must place your pieces on the first row. Player 1 will place his or her pieces on the first, third, fifth, seventh, and ninth houses. Player 2 will place his or her pieces on the second, fourth, sixth, eighth, and tenth houses.