 In addition to cold symptoms like sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, and muscle aches, your toddler may develop a higher fever, cough, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. These are all signs of possible influenza in small children.Your toddler may seem very tired or lethargic if they have the flu, but might have normal energy levels if they have a common cold.
 Influenza symptoms usually appear quickly. A high fever is one of the first signs and it may last for one to five days. You'll also notice your toddler develop stomach problems (nausea, vomiting, etc.) and a few days later they may start to show signs of a respiratory illness (coughing, sore throat, and headache).Your child's activity level will also drop off dramatically. For example, your toddler might be fine one day and wake up the next day with a high fever. They may be lethargic for the rest of the day, not even wanting to play.
Flu season is usually from November to April, peaking in January, February, or March.
 Take your child's temperature using a digital thermometer to see if they're running a fever. While a low fever can indicate a common cold, a high fever between 102 to 106째F (38.9 to 41째C) can mean influenza.Young children are more likely to have higher temperatures when they're fighting the flu than adults do.
 Your toddler may suddenly stop eating food, even foods they usually enjoy. If you can't seem to get your toddler to eat anything, they may have the flu. This is especially true if your child has other stomach problems like nausea, diarrhea or vomiting.Ensure that your toddler is getting plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. Offer milk, juice, water, Pedialyte, or broth to keep your toddler hydrated.
 If you suspect your toddler has influenza, it's a good idea to call their doctor right away. The doctor may want to examine your child to make the diagnosis. If your child is under two or has certain medical conditions (such as asthma or diabetes), the doctor may give them an anti-viral medication to reduce the severity of the symptoms (remember that there is no cure for the flu). You should also call the doctor or go to the emergency room if your toddler:Has a temperature over 103째 F (39.4째C).
Is extremely irritable (can't get comfortable or doesn't want to be held)
Has a severe headache or stiff neck
Isn't taking enough fluids
Has a rash and a fever
Seems confused or has trouble breathing
Has blue-tinted skin
Seems to improve, but then worsens

