 Form a loop with the paracord that roughly matches the width and length of the handle. Tape this loop to one side of the handle.









Note that you should tape the loop to the flat side of the handle, not the narrow edge. The dimensions of the loop should also correspond to the flat side.
The intersection of the loop should be at the top of the handle, just below the bottom of the blade. The curve of the loop should be at the bottom of the handle.
The length of paracord should be roughly four to five times longer than the length of the handle. The loop should be centered in the middle of the cord.
 Wrap the left end of the paracord around the width of the handle. Slide it underneath the opposite side of the original loop to secure it.









The left end of the cord should wrap all the way around the handle. When it reaches the point of intersection of your original loop, slide the end beneath the intersection and underneath the the cord below it. This will be the cord on your left, but it is also the section of the loop closest to the right end.
When finished, the left end of the cord will still be on the lefthand side of the handle.
Wrap the cord tightly as you work.
 Wrap the right end of the cord around the width of the handle. Insert it into the space between all three sections of cord at the front of the handle.









The three sections of cord at the center front are the two portions just beneath the intersection of the original loop and the left end you wrapped around the handle in the previous step.
Slip the right end over the left intersection portion, under the left cord, and under the right intersection portion.
Tug on the cord tightly to secure the the wrap in place.
When you finish this step, the right end will still be on the right side of the handle.
 The rest of the handle should be wrapped by following the same two wrapping steps; these two steps consist of a set. After completing each set, rotate the knife 180 degrees.









Essentially, every other set will be performed upside-down.
Each set should be performed by wrapping the left end first, followed by the right end.
Continue until you reach the bottom of the handle.
 Once you reach the very bottom of the knife, you should weave the two final ends back into several layers of wrapped paracord at the bottom of the handle.









As long as you wrapped the cord tightly around the handle as you worked, weaving the ends in should provide enough security to hold the wrapping in place.
 For added security, bring the two ends around to the back of the knife handle and tie them into a tight knot. Trim any excess as desired.









If you want to make a handle loop, simply knot the ends together near their tips instead of tying them near the handle.
The completion of this step completes the process.

