 Early Night (9 pm-12 am), Midnight (12 am-2 am) Late Night (2 am-4 am), and Sunrise (4 am-9 am). The temptation to fall asleep gets stronger as the night progresses.;
, Before you start off the night, you should have a plan of what you're going to do. When you don't have a list to work through, it becomes easier to fall asleep.
 You may also want a long nap.


Eat dinner as late as possible and eat as much as you can.
 Try playing games; it keeps your brain occupied. Play on electronics like, Browsing news sites, information sites, or anything educational or boring like scientific articles will usually slow your brain, and your urge to fall asleep will grow. Instead, choose sites such as game sites like Cool Math Games, Slither.io, or Agar.io which will keep your brain active and awake.
 Puzzles make you think a lot so it keeps you awake.
 Facebook has plenty of games such as Kingdoms of Camelot, Cityville, FarmVille, and You Don't Know Jack. Family Feud is a good one to play too because it gets your mind going. If your friends are online with you, you will most likely stay awake. If you start to doze off, splash really cold water on your face. This will shock your body so it feels like you just woke up.
 For example, if you play a certain video game, join the online forums for it and discuss with the players.
 Play games like Jurassic World, Dino Zoo, or T.rex Simulator.


If your computer has a web time limit set by your parents, refer to the tip above.
 If you use headphones though, make sure you have one ear open so you know if your parents are coming. Once you reach the end of the midnight stage, you do not need to worry about headphones as much.
 Watch interesting TV shows that will keep your mind entertained. Watch shows like Bunk'd, Stuck in the Middle, Jessie, Best Friends Whenever, or maybe a kids' movie such as The Good Dinosaur. Do not watch documentaries and news shows that could make you sleepy. To learn, watch something like Ice Age Death Trap.
 Playing against yourself is actually not as boring as it seems. You can make up rules you could never have gotten away with when playing against others.
 These activities will not wake parents up and if your parents catch you they are easy to make excuses for (ex. "I couldn't fall asleep so I was reading.").
 This is the most fun part of the night. Try the following to occupy yourself.
 Make sure the book is interesting, or else you may fall asleep! Read books like Jurassic Park or Death Trap: the Story of the La Brea Tar Pits.
 Beware, some people become drowsy when watching movies. So if you really want to do it, do it in this stage. Movies like The Martian, Star Wars, Jurassic Park, Jurassic World, and The Hunger Games are pretty exciting films.
 If you don't have one, open a window and stand in front of it. Make sure it's turned directly on you. This will cause goosebumps which alerts your brain and wakes up all parts of your body. If your parents don't let you open windows, then don't!

,, Don't turn on the volume because you may wake your parents up with the sound.
,, Don't only watch TV during this hour, or you may fall asleep from the lack of brain activity.
 Make sure you know when they get up so you can turn them off before they hear anything.
 Make sure you don't actually fall asleep though! It's a very common mistake to make. When they are gone, you can continue entertaining yourself.
 Open the blinds and curtains, eat in your room, and stretch while listening to the radio.
,,, As the night progresses and your parents don't wake up, games on the internet are a great way to stay awake.
,, Eat a good breakfast after this.
 Watching TV, surfing the Internet, talking to people, and keeping couches and beds out of sight is a great way to keep yourself awake during the day. Go outside and run! Remember not to strain yourself. If you are really tired, go to bed when you like.
 That way, if you jump on your bed, you won't fall asleep so easily.

