 Bring a wide frying pan to temperature over a medium-high flame, then reduce to medium heat to avoid burning.
 Any oil (or butter) that you have on hand is acceptable, but olive oil is one of the best choices for cooking fish. No need to measure; just drizzle a bit across the pan and allow it to heat up.
 While the pan is heating, prepare the fish for frying. There are two approaches to preparing the fish: it can be marinated in oil or it can be dredged in flour. Either approach includes adding herbs such as pepper, lemon juice, parsley, bay leaf, dill, or curry powder as well.


Marinate the fish in oil by drizzling olive oil on both sides of the fish, then sprinkling herbs on top. Rub both sides of the fish slightly to cover completely in the oil an herb mixture, and allow to rest for several minutes to set the flavors.Dredge the fish in flour and herb mixture, then shake any excess flour off of the fish., If the fish has skin on one side, begin by cooking with the skin side down. Allow the fish to cook for about 8 minutes, until it begins to crisp and brown.Be careful not to burn the fish. Cooking on medium heat, rather than medium-high heat, will help you avoid burning.
 Allow the other side of the fish to cook for several minutes, until it begins to crisp and brown. If the pan seems especially dry, you may want to add additional butter or oil when you flip the haddock over.The fish will likely not have to cook as long on the top (skinless) side, so keep an eye on it.
 When the fish are done, they will have become completely opaque, and the meat should flake apart easily. If the fish looks translucent or pieces do not come free with a gentle tug, cook the fish a bit longer.


Be sure to check the widest part of the largest fish filet for doneness. The tapered ends of smaller filets will be done more quickly than others.
 Be sure to serve the fish immediately, before it cools off. You may want to drizzle with some lemon juice,or top with a quick lemon-caper sauce.Serve with at least 2 vegetables or one vegetable and one starch to create a balanced, healthy meal.

