 A guidebook will tell you where you can find lodging in any city you're likely to visit in Japan, and has everything conveniently sorted by cost, allowing you to quickly spot the budget options. A guidebook will also list popular restaurants, attractions, and other points of interest.


Note that Japanese accommodations have two basic classifications––Western-style and traditional. It's a good idea to plan at least one night's stay in a traditional Japanese inn (ryokan), which will give you a good taste of the traditions of Japan, even though this might be pricier than your other budget stays. The room price in a ryokan usually includes breakfast and dinner. If you do stay in a traditional place, be sure to follow local customs or you may offend the Japanese.
 If you're traveling alone or with a small thrifty group you can often save money by staying in a capsule hotel or an internet cafe:


Capsule hotels were invented to give Japanese business men a place to sleep until the first train of the next day if they missed the last train home. However, they also offer tourists a cheap place to crash. You don't get a room so much as a tube with a mattress, but you cannot beat the price. To get in and out, you usually have to slide and there isn't room to sit or stand. You'll usually find these clustered around train stations or the areas with nightlife. Ask whether bathing facilities are included in the price, as sometimes they are. Not all capsule hotels will accept women, so bear this in mind.
Internet cafes also can be an inexpensive place to sleep. If you come in late, you can often get a room from midnight to 8am for about $20. You may be sleeping on a couch, but if you really want to save money it might be worth it. The internet cafes often have showers as well.
 Love Hotels are places where Japanese couples get some privacy from their multi-generational homes for a few hours. However, after 11pm you can get the room for the night and usually for very little money. The room usually comes with a free condom as well and you get to see a truly bizarre sight, a sex-toy vending machine.
 This Western-style place to stay is usually run by a married couple near or in resort areas of Japan. You'll usually get a meal with the price.
 These are budget-conscious hotels used by business travelers and can also be used by tourists. You will usually need to know some Japanese though, as these hotels aren't catering to tourists. As well as a good price, you'll get a clean room and it's likely that you'll be near at least one affordable place to eat.
 Japan has plenty of youth hostels and they are good for the budget-conscious traveler. The downside to hostels is usually their location––they tend to be found in the outer parts of built-up areas or tucked in out-of-the-way places. This can increase your travel costs but it can still be better than expensive central accommodations. For the cheapest rates you'll need a membership card but decide whether this is worth it by considering how often you'll stay at hostels.
 There are campsites throughout Japan and if the season is right, this can be a fun, albeit often crowded, way to experience Japan. Be aware that overcrowding is fairly typical during Japanese holiday seasons. You can sometimes rent tents and in some places you'll also be able to rent a cabin or lodge if you've booked in advance. However, the Japanese National Tourist Office does recommend that you take your own gear, "to avoid disappointment". Also note that getting to and from campsites can be problematic if you don't have your own transport. For more details, check out Camping in Japan at: http://www.jnto.go.jp/eng/location/rtg/pdf/pg-804.pdf.

