 When it comes to building a relationship with your boyfriend’s mom, the best course of action is to keep it real. This doesn’t mean acting like you do at home or with your own friends or family. But, don’t pretend to be someone you’re not. Besides, she’ll eventually spot inconsistencies and think you’re hiding something.Most people greatly appreciate authenticity. Show your real personality, even if you make terrible jokes or cry easily. It’s best that they get to know the real person their son is dating.
There’s a difference between being yourself and being rude, culturally inappropriate or an over-sharer. If you have a naturally uncouth or over-the-top personality, you may want to tone it down just a bit in their presence.
 People just love to talk about themselves and their interests. A well-timed question or compliment may be just what you need to improve the bond you have with your boyfriend’s mom. Use her interests as a way to start conversations and get to know her better.For example, if she spent the weekend shopping in the city, you might ask, “So, tell me, Mrs. Charles, what sales did you catch?” If she is an avid gardener, you might say, “Oh, the azaleas look lovely, Mrs. Peterson.”

, Your boyfriend’s mom will appreciate you trying to develop a relationship with her. This is especially important if your relationship gets more serious. A great way to forge a bond with his mother is by connecting with her passions. Surely, there is something that you two have in common.

For example, if you like the same TV show, you might say, “Would you like to get together on Friday to watch the show?” You might even offer to take her to lunch one afternoon or see a film together.
 Even if you seem to bump heads with your boyfriend’s mom on virtually every subject, you two have at least one thing in common: you’re both crazy about her son, right? Make sure she knows how much you care about him, but also reassure her that you’re not trying to compete for his attention.


You might something along the lines of “Mrs. Jones, I know how close you and Todd are. You have a great relationship and I’m not trying to come in between that. I just want you to know that I really care about Todd.”
Also, show you care about him through your actions. Speak well of him in front of his family, hold his hand, and laugh at his jokes. Keep the PDA to a minimum, though.