 Confidence is the key to being beautiful.Your personality show a lot more than your looks my friend! .;
, You are going to change rapidly over the next few years, if you aren't already changing. Adapting your sense of self now will take you further than ever. Be proud of who you are, and how you present yourself. So keeping clean, fresh, and coming off as being a polite person will come in handy. Finally, don't let other people get you down.
 Remember, not everyone has the same ideas about what is stylish and what is modest. You can still be pretty even if you can't afford new clothes. A truly pretty 10 year old girl looks pretty in any outfit.


Your clothes should fit, yet should not hug your body too tightly. This can attract negative attention. Wear leggings with short skirts, cute jeans, shorts, and dresses. Wash your clothing once a week, and make sure that they are stain free. Wear any outfit you like if it makes you feel pretty but remember to think pretty thoughts so how pretty you are shows in your eyes whatever you are wearing.
 Be nice to everyone, even if they aren't so nice back. Help old ladies carry their groceries, pick up something a busy mom dropped. Do small deeds for people and you will be thanked, hopefully. If you see something in your house that is out of place, fix it by yourself and don't make a fuss about it.
 Fussing if your tummy is sticking out or you've got really hairy legs is ridiculous! Start worrying about that when your a teen!, Never feel like you have to. Chances are, you're gorgeous anyway and don't need makeup at this age. If your parents let you, you can wear concealer and lip balm. Don't wear eyeliner or mascara, unless you want to, it can make you look older than 10 - this isn't something you necessarily need right now. Also, do not use a handbag, unless you want to. That will make you seem too mature, in some people's eyes. Do what you wish though. Anyone who judges a ten year old for carrying a purse or handbag has issues. There will be plenty of time for this later.
 You're going through changes (or will be soon) and you need to get in the habit of showering daily, brushing twice a day, etc.



Be a neat girl. Have clean nails and make sure there is no dirt under them. Wear clear nail polish if your mom has an issue with you painting your nails. If it's fine with her, choose your favorite colors and ones that match your outfit/personality.
 Eat decent food more often than junk. That does not mean becoming anorexic or too skinny. Too skinny or too fat is unhealthy. You should eat a lot of fruits and vegetables, move enough every day to get your heart rate up, and drink plenty of water (this means drink water whenever you are thirsty)! Follow these steps and your skin will have a healthy, natural glow.
 Study hard and if you need help, ask! Be something and make your family proud. If you do well in a test, or get a good school report, they will be very proud of you. Learn as much as you can about the world around you and try to have interesting things to say. No, you won't use everything you learn in school, but think of school as a way to teach you how to learn. It sounds funny, but this is a very useful skill.
 Don't try to be something you are not. You are unique in your own way, and this makes you just as special as anyone else.
 This is just not true. Be friends with everyone instead. But beware of hanging out with older, 'cool' people. It could be dangerous for you.
 Fun people smile more, and chances are people will like you more!

, If you're new in school, smile and try to make some jokes. It'll make the other kids think you'll cool, and want to hang out with you. You never know... those people might be your best friends for life!

, This will make people find you approachable and easy to talk to. Make sure you don't smile so much that it looks unnatural, only show your teeth a little bit and make it look natural.
 Wash it every two days or as often as you want. To make it look pretty, try buying some cute hair clips and headbands if you want.

