 Lipstick comes in every color of the rainbow, and choosing just the right shade can be a little confusing. Trendy colors are fun to experiment with, but if you want your lips to stand out in a good way, you need to know what colors complement your complexion instead of clashing with it. Have a few staple colors in your collection that you know make you look beautiful, and rotate in some trendier colors now and then to keep your look fresh.


If you have warm yellow undertones (your wrist veins appear green), go for warm colors like reddish browns, mauves, orange-reds, and so on.
If you have cool pink undertones (your wrist veins appear blue), go for cool colors with blue undertones, like berry colors, pinks, and purples.
 Lip shades are available in every texture from wet glosses to thick, waterproof sticks to barely-visible creams. The texture of your lip shade really makes a difference in your appearance. For example, if you're going for a knockout look, you'll want a long-lasting, matte lipstick in a very rich hue. For a subtler affect, a tinted lip gloss that provides just a hint of color works very well.


Lip color that's extremely glossy, shiny, or glittery makes you look more youthful, but it can also be a little overwhelming.
Matte lipsticks are the go-to choice for a mature, classic look that never goes out of style.
Lip stains and tints are great choices for times when you don't want people to stare at your lips. Just a swipe of a neutral lip tint can make your lips appear more full and alive.
 Start with clean, recently exfoliated lips so that your color won't flake off. Make sure your lips are well moisturized, but don't apply lip balm right before you put lipstick on or it might smear. For beautiful, colorful lips, apply your color like this:


Start from the middle of your bottom lip and work toward the corners, applying a little color at a time.
Press your lips together to transfer color to your upper lip. Use your finger to cover your lip more completely.
Blot using a tissue to mop up extra color.
Repeat and blot once more. Applying your color twice will help it last longer, since the first layer provides a base for the second.
 When lipstick first became popular, it was formulated with ingredients that tended to bleed past the lip line, so people used lipliner to keep the color in place. Today's advanced lip color formulas don't bleed, so you can skip the lip liner unless you want to drastically change the shape of your lips.


If you're worried about your color staying in place, apply powdered foundation around the edges of your lips.
You can also use a lip liner to touch up just one part of your lips where you tend to bleed, like the corners. Using lip liner around your entire mouth may look too severe., If your lips are a little thin, you might consider trying out a lip plumping product. Lip glosses and balms containing ingredients that temporarily plump your lips are available at beauty supply stores. They usually work by slightly irritating your lips to temporarily cause them to swell. Too much irritation can cause your lips to get flaky and dry, so don't plan on using these products every day.You can make your own lip plumper using ingredients you probably already have in your pantry. Many commercial lip plumpers contain cinnamon, cayenne pepper, or peppermint, all of which slightly invigorate and plump the skin. To make your own, mix your favorite lip balm with a pinch of cinnamon, a smidge of cayenne pepper or a few drops of peppermint essential oil, then apply it to your lips.
For longer-lasting results, many people decide to get lip fillers. Collagen and other ingredients are injected into the lips to give them a fuller appearance. If you want lip fillers, be sure to find an experienced technician who comes highly recommended.