 Put an average size dip into the front center of your lip.;
, Wait until the juices build up in your mouth with your saliva. Spit out the first couple of build ups. The first three or four should do.
 Grab a bottle of water or a soft drink of your choice and take a sip, swallowing the built up juices with the drink. When taking the sip of water/soda, roll you lip over the dip to keep it in place.
 Let the juices build up, then wash them down with a sip of your drink until you are done with the dip. Then take it out.
 Repeat this process for a couple of days, until you get used to the tobacco juices mixed with the drink.


Remember to spit out the first couple of juice build ups, as they'll be stronger than the rest.
 Put an average size dip into the front center of your lip.
 Once the juices have built up, grab a bottle of water or a soft drink of your choice and take a sip to wash down the build up juices with the drink.


Remember, now you don't need to spit the first couple of times. You should be able to gut the juice with your drink right away.
 Keep swallowing the juice with sips of your drink for 10 to 15 minutes. The juices are now less strong.
 Once the juices have built up a little, you can swallow the juices without any drink. Do not wait until the juices have built up substantially. Just swallow once they have built up a little bit. Keep doing this until you've finished the dip. Then take it out.
 Repeat this process for a couple of days, until you get used to swallowing the weaker tobacco juices.


Remember to gut with sips of your drink for the first 10 to 15 minutes before gutting the juices alone.
 Put an average size dip in your mouth. It's easy in the front of your mouth, but you can also put it to one side or the other.
 Once the juices have built up a bit, swallow (or gut) the juices. Remember to gut before the juices build up substantially.
 Keep gutting the juices until you are done with the dip. Then take it out.


If you start to feel sick or nauseated at any point, stop gutting and try again later.
 Once you have built up your tolerance, you can let more juices build up before you gut them.

