 If you have a binder that fastens shut, such as with a zipper or Velcro, close the fastenings before putting it in the wash, to ensure nothing is damaged., Since the inside of your binder is the part that touches your skin the most (and usually gets sweaty), turning it inside-out will help to clean it better. Since your binder is going in the washing machine, it will also help to protect any fastenings that your binder may have.

It's recommended to wash any delicates inside-out., Chest binders are made of an elastic material, so it's recommended to put them in a bag for delicates (sometimes called lingerie bags) before putting them in with the wash. This will help protect the material.

Binders can be put in the wash without being bagged,but it's not recommended.
 It's often best to machine-wash binders with other delicates of the same weight and color, since it gets more clothes cleaned in one wash.If you don't have a lot of delicate clothes that you can wash your binder with, it's possible to put it in with your normal clothes.Just be careful that your binder's fabric or fastenings won't snag on other things in the wash!

, While it's recommended to use a mild detergent, these are more expensive, so using a normal detergent will work fine if you don't have it. However, you should only wash your binder in cold water - hot water will cause it to shrink.Don't use a strong detergent, bleach, or softeners - these will damage your binder., A fast spin cycle can damage your binder (as well as other delicates).If you don't have an option on your machine for delicates, though, a standard wash will still work, as long as it's not too rough., Once you've finished washing your binder, remove it from the delicates bag. Place it on a hanger and hang it up somewhere to dry, such as near a window or on the door of your shower, or on a clothesline outside.

It's best to dry your binder in a well-ventilated area.However, if you need to hide your binder and can't dry it out in the open, find an option that isn't so visible, such as hanging it in your closet.Do not put your binder in a dryer - this can damage the binder, cause it to shrink, and will shorten its lifespan.