 Varying your sleeping times by more than an hour can severely disrupt your sleep quality by breaking your circadian rhythm.


Use the same sleep schedule even at weekends. Even if you have to go to bed later occasionally, still get up at your normal time.
When your alarm clock goes off, get up right away every day. Don't lie in or snooze.
 Different people need different amounts of sleep. If you take longer than 30 minutes to fall asleep, or often wake up for long periods during the night, you may be allowing too much time for sleep. You need deep, continuous sleep, even if it's shorter, rather than shallow broken-up sleep.


So, if you normally allow say 8 hours between bedtime and getting up, try reducing it by 15 minutes - by going to bed later or setting your alarm for earlier. You may be more tired for the first few days, but that will help you sleep.
After a week, if you're still not going to sleep quickly and staying asleep, reduce the sleep time by another 15 minutes.
Continue reducing the sleep time by 15 minutes each week, until you are able to go to sleep quickly and stay asleep. (Waking up during the night is normal, as long as it's only for a few minutes.)
Then stick with this new bedtime and getting up time.
 Try doing the same steps each night before you go to bed, to ready yourself for sleep. Consistency is the key. For a truly soothing evening, try the following steps:


Put on some ambient music, and instead of incandescent lights, light several candles in your living room and in your bedroom.
Practice breathing exercises (see below) or meditation, focusing on relaxing your body.
When it's time, extinguish the candles as you make your way to the bedroom. Your home will get progressively darker until the last candle is extinguished.
 Find a comfortable position. Make sure your environment is relaxed. Not much light, calm music and a space where you know you will not be interrupted are ideal.


Clear your mind. Close your eyes and imagine all those problems that you keep in your mind everyday fading out with each breath.
Pull in the positive. Inhale positive images that makes you happy. While you do this keep, smile.
Focus on your breath. Feel the oxygen within your body. You should start feeling a relaxing sensation across your body and mind.
Try to maintain this for 10 minutes every night before going to sleep.
You could even add a few drops of lavender oil onto your pillow, which calms the nerves and helps you sleep.
 If you have a sedentary job, a lack of physical exertion may contribute to reducing the quality of your sleep. The human body uses sleep to repair and recover. If there isn't much from which to recover, your body's sleep cycle could be disrupted.Physical exertion (such as going for a run or a swim, or better yet, exercising regularly) can make for deeper and more restful sleep. To add more exercise to your day, take the stairs instead of the elevator, walk instead of catching the bus, and so forth.
Don't exercise less than 2 hours before bedtime. Exercise can greatly enhance and promote sleep. However, your body will be "revved up" some time after your workout. (The one possible exception may be gentle yoga).
 For some people (depending on work and your daily routine), a short rest in the afternoon can help alleviate drowsiness experienced during the day. Though naps are not for everyone - many people feel even drowsier after a nap.


When you feel the need for a nap (should your job allow), set your timer for 15 minutes. If you're ready for a nap, you'll be asleep in a minute or two. When the timer goes off, get up immediately! Have a glass of water, and jump back into work. You will feel much more refreshed—–even more so than if you had slept for an hour.

