 People tend to use Western style riding for rodeos and ranching and it is more common in the U.S. than in other countries, so you might have a harder time accessing Western equipment if you live somewhere that favors English style.


One nice thing about the Western saddle is that it has the horn, where you can grip onto if you're on an experienced rider.
 If this is the first time you're using this bit on this particular horse you definitely want to make sure that you're using the proper sized bridle. If it's the wrong size it will make the horse uncomfortable.Bridles comes in three sizes: pony, cob or Arabian, and full. Measure your horse’s head from the center of his poll to the corner of his mouth, and compare this measurement to the crown and cheek piece of the bridle.
If the bit is too small it can pinch the horse’s mouth.
If the bit is too big it will slide around in the horse’s mouth.
 A horse can sense your fear and this will make them nervous. Also, remember that it can be nerve-wracking for a horse to have someone putting something metallic in their mouth.
 You need to make sure that your horse is secured. This means anticipating the moment when they are halter-free but you haven't yet buckle the bridle. You have to be able to control and keep hold of your horse.


For a tie station, hold the bridle so that the front of the brow band faces forward (away from the horse). Drape the reins over their neck. Drop your left rein over the horse's neck so that it falls on the right. Drop the right rein so that it falls on the left. Allow the bridle to slip back on your arm. Lift the crown of the halter over the horse's ears and slip the halter's nose band down, off their face. Bring the crown up and lay it behind their ears. Refasten their halter so it hands around the horse's neck.
If you don't have a tie station use the bridle reins to maintain hold of your horse. For split reins, tie them together and lift the reins over the horse's head, setting them just behind their ears. Lift the halter's crown over the horse's ears and slip the halter nose band off your horse's face.
 You can offer them a piece of apple or sugar cube to make them their head. Put your hand right below their nose with the treat in it. When they drop their head that's when you'll put the bit in.


Make sure you’re grasping the crown of the bridle in your right hand. Angle in line with your horse’s left eye and right ear.
 Hold the bit low where you’ve been holding the treats. Gently set it against your horse’s teeth as close to where her top teeth meet her lower teeth as possible. Hold your sugar cube against the bit.

Make sure you put the bit in before you put the bridle’s crown over their ears.
Holding the crown of the bridle up in order to slip it on before you put the bit in their mouth.
Hold the bridle so that the two sides are a good distance apart, with the crown up and the throatlatch straps hanging free and not tangled in any other straps.
 You want to be careful that you don't crush your horse's ears. Lift the crown over your horse's left ear as you slip the crown to the poll. Gently slip the horse's right ear in front of the crown as well. Also gently push the horse's ears forward rather than backward.


If the bridle has earloops rather than a brow band, position these around your horse’s ears now.
 Always make sure that you reward your horse for their good behavior. This will encourage them to be good about accepting the bit and the bridle.


Sugar also encourages them to play with the bit, so sugar cubes are a really good treat to have on hand for bridling.
, Remember that the throatlatch isn't there to hold the bridle in place. It operates as an extra precaution against the bridle coming off. This means that the throatlatch needs to be loose enough to maintain slack, even if the horse drops their head.


Make sure you can fit your entire hand between the throatlatch and the horse, even when their head is bent towards their neck.
 The brow band should be smooth and in the correct position. This means it won't be pinching your horse's ears or head. Check that the bit sits evenly in your horse's mouth. There should be two wrinkles on either corner of your horse's mouth. Too fewer and you need to shorten the cheek straps.


Make sure it sits evenly on your horse’s head. If you do have to adjust the cheek strap check that the rest of the headstall is still even.
Buckle curb chain or chin strap if that isn’t fixed.
This is when you should check the length of your reins. The need to be long enough that you can take up contact with your horse's mouth.
 Lead them on their left, at their cheek. Hold the reins in your right hand about six inches below the bit. Keep the bight in your left hand. Always hold about six inches below the bit.


Keep the slack from the reins in your left hand.

