 Structure each one as its own sentence. Avoid using a partial quote as a building block for one of your own sentences. Allow the quote to speak for itself, rather than explaining what the speaker meant by it. Good example: “This was one of the worst I’ve ever seen,” said Richard Sloan, firefighter.

Bad example: The six-alarm fire was “one of the worst I’ve ever seen,” said Richard Sloan, firefighter.
 When possible, use the speaker’s exact words as spoken. Refrain from editing grammar. If their original quote is structured in a way that makes it hard for the reader to understand, make your edits visible. Use ellipses to mark where original content has been cut. If you need to substitute one word for another in order to clarify the context, bracket your substitutions to show that these are your words, not the speaker’s.For example, say that your original quote reads, “I only had my underwear on. I was just sitting there watching TV. Then the firemen started knocking on doors. When they knocked on mine, they, you know, they told me not to waste time, just come now, so I ran out in just that. Some kind lady on the street saw me, ran home, brought me back her bathrobe.”
Now say that, due to space, you only want to use: “When they knocked on mine, they, you know, they told me not to waste time, just come now, so I ran out in just that. Some kind lady on the street saw me, ran home, brought me back her bathrobe.”
Edit the quote so it reads: “When knocked on , they … told me not to waste time, just come now, so I ran out in just . Some kind lady on the street saw me, ran home, brought me back her bathrobe.”

, Use direct quotes only to spice up your story with unique observations, rather than rely on them to establish basic facts. If a quote provides only the fundamentals of the story (like the five W’s and one H), paraphrase it into a sentence of your own, then attribute it to its source. Omit quotation marks for paraphrased quotes.A good direct quote: “One second it was just Tony’s on fire. Then it was like I just blinked and then whoosh, all the other buildings were up in flames, too,” said Brianna Johnson, neighbor.

A quote that should be paraphrased: “The fire spread quickly because of last night’s high winds,” said Fire Commissioner Joesph Hernandez.

A paraphrased quote: Sunday night’s high winds caused the fire to spread swiftly, said Fire Commissioner Joesph Hernandez.
 When quoting a source directly, stick with the verb “said.” Understand that a hard news article should aim to be objective in its presentation of the facts. With that in mind, expect most synonyms for the word “said” to suggest that the speaker is doing more than simply making a statement. Let the speaker’s words speak for themselves, rather than define them further with more specific verbs.Synonyms to avoid include: admit, announce, argue, claim, declare, insist, promise, pronounce, reply, retort, shout, and vow.
Use the term “according to” if your source agrees to provide information, but refuses to be quoted.
Also use “according to” when referencing documents.
 Always identify the speaker when using direct or paraphrased quotes. Additionally, cite your source for any new information that hasn’t already been reported.If your source wishes to remain unidentified, you should still attribute their info to “an anonymous source.”


If you attribute multiple pieces of info to one source, include their full name plus any relevant title the first time you mention them (“Fire Commissioner Joesph Hernandez”). After that, only use their last name (“Hernandez”) and the appropriate prefix (here, “Mr.”) if required. Some news outlets may prefer using the last name without a prefix.
When composing a paragraph, avoid sticking other material in between two pieces of info from a single source. Doing so will force you to cite your source twice in one paragraph, which will sound repetitive.
The only times you do not need to attribute information to a direct source are: if you yourself are an eyewitness; if you are able to prove that the info is true; if the info is already public knowledge; or if three other publications have already reported it to be true.

