 Hold your fingers 1 foot (0.3 m) above the person's forehead and ask them to look up, focusing on your two index fingers without moving their head upwards. This should result in their eyes having to look up. Ensure your fingers are in a position so it is possible for the person to see.;
, They should naturally breathe in as your hand moves up; and breathe out as your hand moves down. You may say "breathe in, and out," during the process of moving your hands, repeating at least 5 times before moving on to step 3.
 Repeat the request, continuing step 2 for another two or three times, although ideally they should not know how many times.
 Relax every muscle around the eyes, so much, that even if they wanted to, their eyes would be so tired, they would not work. Within 30 seconds of telling them how relaxed their eyes are, ask them to try to open their eyes. They will find that they can't. After about 5 -10 seconds of trying. Tell them, "OK, stop trying now and just keep relaxing."

, Once their eyes are closed inform that they're going to "send a wave of relaxation right across your body, so that it is as relaxed as your eyes already are, relaxing twice as much as you already are."

, Say, "one, two, three, open your eyes; and shut them." Repeat the process three times, increasing the relaxation each time(suggest that they relax ten times as much the second time, and twenty times as much the third time).
 Say to them, "At this point, if you have followed what I have asked you to do, it should be really limp, loosed and relaxed, like a rag," (or something to that effect), "and when I drop it in your lap, you will feel a wave of relaxation throughout your body."

,,, Encourage them to concentrate on physical relaxation. Instruct them to, at your command, start counting down from 100, following the pattern: "100, deeper relaxed; 99, deeper relaxed; 98, deeper relaxed," advising that after a few numbers, they will forget what the next number is. They will find that the numbers have disappeared from their mind, because it has become so relaxed.
 As they count, suggest to them that the numbers are disappearing. Once they've stopped talking, ask them if all the numbers have gone. They may just make a little nod, that is enough.
 Let them know that just as it is possible to tense up and reach the height of tension, it is possible to relax and reach the opposite. Say to them "it is now necessary for 'us'" (note the 'us'; this assumes you're not making them do something)"to go to the basement of relaxation".
 Inform them that when you click your fingers, the lift is going to start going down to floor A, and that to get there they are going to relax completely, twice as much as they are already. When you click your fingers a second time, they are going to be completely relaxed, twice as much, down to floor B; and when you click your fingers a third time, down to floor C. Tell them to let you know when they are at the basement by saying the letter.
 Wait for them to say A; repeat with B, and with C. It is worth noting that usually at floor C the letter C sometimes does not seem to come out of the mouth. If this is the case, your attempt at hypnosis is successful(this doesn't mean that if they're able to say C, your attempt is unsuccessful).
 Say to the person, "If I click my fingers and say sleep, any time today, you will find that you'll instantly return to this lovely deep level of relaxation and concentration. In fact, for every time I click my fingers today and say sleep, you'll go deeper into hypnosis than you were the time before".
 A good one would be asking the person to imagine they're at the top of a staircase with 100 stairs, which they can see and feel. On the side of each stair is a number. Each step they take they'll see and feel themselves relaxing twice as much. At the bottom is a large mattress, and when they get there they'll relax completely into the mattress.
 You can determine how far they are by asking them what number is on the stair.
 Keep suggesting that they're "going deeper and nearer to the mattress; and more relaxed with each breath" as they go down the stairs.
, Tell them there are balloons filled with helium attached to their wrist, and that they can feel the balloons lifting their wrist into the air. You should see their hands, and arms, visibly rising into the air.
, Count to three. Once they're awake start talking about something different for a few minutes, before asking them what they remember. Try the re-induction and if they return to hypnosis, then carry on. If they don't, unfortunately it hasn't worked.
 Suggest they're feeling hot (they could perhaps imagine they're at the beach), and now they're cold; ask them again to imagine they're watching a film, and that it's really really funny, and then scary. Now ask them to open their eyes and remain under hypnosis. You should notice they're able to walk and talk while still in hypnosis. If they wake up and open their eyes, they'll likely inform you that "it didn't work". Try the re-induction and suggest that they will wake up whenever you say the word. If they don't, they may appear to have a blank stare. Continue to make suggestions after suggestions without needing to put them to 'sleep' again.
 Tell them, "on the count of three you will wake up, fully awake and alert, feeling great, and all suggestions will be removed". You could also suggest "you will remember everything you did", or "you won't remember what you did under hypnosis". Then count to three.
 This does not mean they're still under hypnosis, however they may be slightly more suggestible for a little while.

