 The objective is to ski fast. They ski into a rifle range and shoot five targets in defined shooting positions which are either standing or prone (lying down). See in the image, the biathletes are in the prone position on special mats placed on the snow at the rifle range.;
, Because of this,biathletes have incredibly good cardio and it is often regarded as one of the hardest sports to train for in the world. When the bullet hits the target, a metal panel closes over, indicating a successful hit. The aim is to hit all five targets. If any target is not hit, the skier may have to ski penalty loops and this adds to the time scored. The more misses, the more penalty loops to be skied.
 For example, to compete a 10 kilometers (6.2 mi) course, the race may be 4 by 2.5 kilometers (2.5 mi × 1.6 mi) loops and each time the competitor comes into the same range he has to shoot the five targets.
 Naturally, the competitor will want to shoot accurately, so as not to waste time skiing additional penalty loops.
 It sounds obvious, but the class of gun license you want would be one that allow you to use a rifle for competition purpose.
 Minors may have restricted licenses or may not be permitted to carry arms outside a licensed shooting range. In these cases Biathlon competitions will need to be modified to accommodate the firearms legislation of the local jurisdiction.
 Train in endurance sports like long distance running. Ensure that you have high endurance, pain tolerance and cardio. Get used to carrying the gun when you go for a run first, then move on to skiing. If your country does not permit the carrying of firearms outside a designated range, practice by running with a backpack carrying a weight of about 5 kilos.
 Train to be accurate. Train to hold the firearm always in the same position.In prone, right-handed biathletes have their right leg in line with their body and their left leg at somewhere around or under 90 degrees to keep room for their skis, and vice versa for lefties. Work on accurate target shooting then get the process faster and quicker. It's all about speed and consistency. Train to always lie prone in exactly the same position, likewise the standing position must be perfected to the optimum position for accurate shooting. Your shooting must be consistent!

, Also do other exercises and go for runs. This is known as a combo, and it is the most important part of

your training., Have an endurance running program. Take a skiing class to make sure you have good technique. Even if you've been skate skiing your whole life, it's always beneficial to get your technique checked.
 Biathletes are known for their strength.
 Join in cross country ski races as part of your training program to ski fast. This is an all terrain, all weather sport - learn to ski up the hills and how to handle icy tracks. Make sure you conserve energy on the downhill sections by keeping your arms freely sway back behind you, so you have more energy to push for the uphill sections and the final sprint finish.
 Whether you are a seasoned veteran or someone whose never heard of the sport before, you don't want to push too hard. Almost all biathletes are very competitive people, and your dedication might lead you to overtrain and injure yourself. Injuries are very common in biathlon, especially in teenagers. Almost every biathlete has been injured through overtraining at some point or another, and these injuries aren't like your usual 'sit out for a week because you pulled a muscle' injuries like in other sports. When biathletes push too hard, they are often plagued by chronic pain for months or even years. Some are injured for life. While its good to push your body past its limits in races and intensity, pushing yourself beyond your capacity the six days you train a week never ends well. So know where to draw the line, because crying yourself to sleep because of every night and watching all your friends have fun at races is never fun. Always stretch! This isn't to discourage you from participating in this incredibly fulfilling experience, just remember to be careful!