 Even if you are just going to do an abdominal workout, it is important to take 5 to 10 minutes to warm up. You can warm up by walking, jogging, biking, jumping rope, climbing stairs, or even just marching in place. Make sure that you include a warm up every time you work your abs.


Another option is to work out your abs after doing your usual cardio routine.
 To work out your abs, you need to do at least 5 to 10 repetitions of each exercise you add to your routine. Set up your routine in a way that works for you. Ideally, you want your routine to be 15 or 20 minutes long, but as you get stronger, you may find you need to work out longer to get a similar benefit.You may want to work out with a friend or family member who can watch your technique and keep time with you.
If you prefer to exercise on your own, use a kitchen egg timer or set an alarm on your mobile phone to keep the time.
Plan the days a week you'll exercise, and make it a habit. You should do this workout at least three days a week. Doing it every day or other day will bring you more continuous results.
 As you increase your core strength, you should be gradually making the exercises more difficult so that you continue to build strength and don't plateau. You can do this by adding resistance bands or weights to your workout.For example, if you're doing sit-ups, you can add small hand weights or weighted wrist bands to increase the amount of weight you're lifting and holding as you complete the exercise.
Ankle weights can be used to increase resistance for leg lifts.
Consider buying a set of ankle and wrist weights of varying weights so you don't have to purchase more equipment every time you want to increase resistance.
Another way to increase resistance is to increase the length of time you hold the target position. For example, if you start doing leg lifts and holding your lift for 5 seconds, holding it for 10 seconds will make the exercise more difficult.
 Stretching helps to build flexibility and ease tension in the muscles that you use during a workout. Make sure that you include a basic 5 to 10 minute stretch routine at the end of your workout.Basic side and forward bends, either standing or sitting, can help you to stretch and cool down after exercise. Bend slowly at the waist, and reach towards the floor. Hold the stretch for 5 to 10 seconds while breathing through it.
You can also try the cobra pose from yoga. Lay down on the floor on your stomach with your arms beside you and the tops of your feet flat against the floor. Bend your arms at the elbow so that your palms are under your shoulders, palms flat against the floor. Slowly raise your upper body, lifting from the waist, until your arms are straight. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 seconds, then slowly lower back down to your starting position.

