 Include your address, phone number and e-mail address.;
,


Research the company that for which you want to write a resume.
Study the job description and match your knowledge and experiences to it.
Use keywords from company research and the job description to show a prospective employer what a good match you are for their organization.



What do you aspire to or what role do you want to play within an organization?

, Some of these may include:


General secretarial skills, including typing and transcription.
Answering telephones and making appointments.
Bookkeeping.
Computer expertise, particularly with medical office applications.
Medical coding, billing and insurance knowledge.
 Those that apply to a medical assistant job may be:


Preparing patients, including taking of medical histories.
The ability to take vital signs.
Preparing medication and treatments.
Basic first aid, CPR and infection control knowledge.
Assisting physicians with exams.



Provide a job title and a concise summary of job responsibilities and achievements. Include employer name and contact information.



Doctor's offices employ the largest number of medical assistants.
Medical assistants are also used in clinics, hospitals and ambulatory care centers.
There's a difference between working in small practices and large ones. Add this information if it's applicable to the job.



Medical assistant programs are available in technical schools, community colleges and colleges.
Include school dates and school honors.



These can be past employers, teachers or people you've met through volunteer work.
References from health care facilities are best.



Add information such as completed internships or other job experience to a medical assistant resume.
Don't forget honors and recognitions.
Professional license, certification and professional affiliations look good on a health care resume.
The American Association of Medical Assistants is viewed as a valuable organization by many health care providers. Therefore, recognition as a Certified Medical Assistant (CMA) by the association is also valued.

