 Give your date a call or text him or her to confirm everything the day of. You want to make sure that you're both on the same page about details like time and place you're meeting.


If you're getting dinner and you're the one picking the restaurant, make sure to be considerate of your date's food preferences. Be sure to ask your date if there are any foods they won't eat, whether due to medical issues, religious beliefs, or personal tastes. For example, if your date is vegetarian, don't take him or her to a steakhouse. Likewise, if your date has a gluten sensitivity, check the menu for wheat-free options before hitting up a pizza place.;
, You never know how your date may go, and the two of you may end up back at your place. You don't want your date to think you're a slob, so take some time to clean if your place is a mess. Pay special attention to your living room, bedroom, and bathroom., While you shouldn't be fiddling with it during dinner, your phone is important to have ready just in case.


If you get lost on the way there or while heading back home, you can use your phone's GPS for help.
If either you or your date is running late or has to cancel because of a last-minute emergency, you'll need your phone for communication.
If you want to keep the night going and head to a cafe or bar after your planned destination, you can use your phone to help find the best place nearby., Even if your date ends up treating you, make sure you have the ability to at least offer to pay. Double-check that your preferred credit card is in your wallet and that your wallet is in your purse or jacket pocket. It's also a good idea to have cash to make splitting the bill easier or just in case the place you're going doesn't take credit cards.Have your purse or wallet ready ahead of time. In addition to money, pack gum, breath mints, tampons, pads, condoms, and/or a phone charger.
 Look up directions at least a few hours ahead of time. You can always us a GPS app on your phone, but you should definitely figure out how long it'll take and what transportation to use in advance.In addition to directions, make sure you have the right transportation to get you to your date on time. Unless your date is with a longtime significant other, don't depend on the other person for transportation.
If you're driving during rush hour or using public transportation, make sure to give yourself extra time and leave early.
 The less nervous you are, the better your date will go. If you've taken care of everything on this list, then you have nothing to worry about. Take the last few minutes before you meet up with your date to chill out.


Stay calm through breathing exercises. Take slow, deep breaths, hold them in for a moment, and then exhale slowly.
Do a quick round of mindful meditation. Look down or close your eyes. Clear your mind of all other thoughts and simply pay attention to your bodily sensations at that moment., If you really want to be proactive, figure out what you'll wear a few days before your date. It's best to do this sooner rather than later to keep from rushing around at the last minute to find the perfect shirt.


What you'll wear will come down to your personal tastes and what type of date you're going to. For example, if the date is at a classy restaurant, you might wear a suit or a nice dress. If you were going to the beach, you'd want to wear a swimsuit and a t-shirt or cover-up.
Above all, make sure that whatever you are wearing is comfortable. While looking nice should also be a priority, comfort will go a long way to help you relax and feel confident.
Set everything aside and make sure to keep it clean. If you don't have pets, lay it out on your bed while you get ready. If you do have a cat or a dog who may take a nap on your clothes, hang them up in a specific place. Get dressed after showering., You want to be nice and clean to impress your date. Use mildly-scented shampoo, conditioner, and soap. Be sure to wash your face thoroughly without irritating the skin. Try to be a little more diligent cleaning yourself than you usually are.If you have a hair type that needs less frequent washing, you don't necessarily have to wash it right before a date. Just make sure it looks and smells clean.
 After you've gotten yourself nice and squeaky clean, take some time to manage your facial and body hair before your date.


If you have a beard, make sure it's trimmed to perfection.
If your date may get intimate, you might want to groom your pubic area.
If you take pride in your perfectly-shaped eyebrows, give them a quick check and pluck out any stray hairs you may find.
If you have nose and/or ear hair, be sure to pluck or trim those, too., You'll be spending a lot of time talking to (and possibly kissing) your date, so be considerate and get your mouth clean. You don't want to show up with bad breath.Take two minutes to brush your teeth.
Floss to make sure you don't have any embarrassing food particles stuck between your teeth.
Swish with a little mouthwash for extra-fresh breath.
Don't forget to bring some gum or breath mints for after you eat.
 If you washed your hair, be sure it's dry before you leave. You don't want to show up for your date with wet, messy hair.


Since a date is a type of special occasion, consider spicing up your look by styling your hair a little different than usual. For example, if you usually keep your long hair up, wear it down. If you usually wear it down, try styling it into a simple but elegant updo.
 Many people, especially girls, wear makeup when going out. Just like your outfit, what makeup you put on will depend on the type of date and the look you're going for.


For a casual date, you may want to stick to more natural-looking makeup.
For a fancy dinner, try bold makeup that incorporates both smoky eyes and red lips.
Don't forget that guys can wear makeup, too. Most men who wear makeup stick to the natural "no makeup" look.
 Be mindful when selecting products with strong scents. This is especially important when dating someone new, as you won't be sure of their tastes and sensitivities. You need to walk a fine line between smelling nice and noxious.


Don't bathe yourself in perfume, cologne, or body spray. Even a mild fragrance can be overpowering when used in large amounts. Instead, either lightly spritz it on or spray some in front of you and quickly walk through the mist.Don't forget to wear deodorant. Even if you're not a fan of fragrances, deodorant is a must. You may be nervous and sweat more than usual on a date, so be sure to apply some right before you go out.

