 Students across the U.S. are increasingly taking cell phones, smart phones, tablets and laptops to school. Teachers, in response, are getting increasingly frustrated when students stealthily text and play games in class or when laptop screens display Facebook instead of the web page on body anatomy being discussed. While in class, put away the electronics, or only use them for the purpose of the class. Using them for other reasons is rude and will upset your teacher.If you have a special situation and need to have your phone with you, talk with your teacher about the situation. Ask if you can have it on vibrate during class.
While some classes now utilize smart phones for exercises and assignments, leave yours in your locker or at home if you think you might be temped to pull it out during a class in which you don't need it.
 While other students might find your antics and jokes hilarious, your teacher will find them not only obnoxious but also disruptive to class. Avoid speaking out of turn. Don’t crack jokes at the expense of others, including your teacher. Save the playful head chokes, wrestling and noogies for after class., Bullying has become such a problem in schools that organizations and policy groups have formed to help combat it, schools have implemented strict anti-bullying policies and teachers have taken classes to learn how to better manage it. If you want your teacher to like you, definitely do not be THE BULLY. Don’t interrupt and argue with other students in an intimidating manner. Don’t yell at them or call them names, especially using profanity. Don’t threaten them, whether verbally, in writing or with your body language.Don't bully your teachers either. They are in charge, not you!
Remember: Bullying not only has very negative consequences in terms of your relationship with your teacher. It can get you kicked out of school, or worse.
 Most teachers will not want you to talk or whisper (rarely will you whisper as quietly as you think) while they are talking or while students are working on an assignment or taking a test. You also shouldn’t stop by a friend’s desk to talk, if only for a few seconds, when you get up to sharpen your pencil or a drink from the water fountain. When working in groups, limit your talking to the project at hand, not the latest gossip or the best and worst plays in the NCAA semi-finals. It’s disrespectful and distracting.Also, don’t pass notes in class. When passing notes, you might as well be shouting to your friend from across the room while your teacher attempts to teach you how to simplify square roots in Algebra. It's simply that obvious to everyone.
 It drives teachers crazy to see a student’s head bobbing sleepily during a lesson or lecture or to watch a student lean forward on his desk to lay his head on his arm as soon as the lights go out for a video. By doing this, you’re sending a clear message to your teacher – “What you’re teaching isn’t all that interesting or important to me, and I don’t care too much about following the rules.” That’s not the message you want to send to make your teacher happy. It’s also awkward, or worse, when you have to be awoken.If you find yourself overwhelmingly and consistently tired in class, and simply unable to stay awake, talk with your teacher about it. You probably aren’t getting enough sleep and need to readjust your schedule.
 The “I thought it was due next week” when you’d been reminded repeatedly of the due date or “I was really sick last night and wasn’t able to finish the conclusion,” not knowing your teacher happened to be at the movie theater the previous evening, too – are all excuses, lies, that you should never, never tell your teacher. Lying is one of teachers’ biggest pet peeves. Also, once you’ve been caught, you can forget about leniency when something actually does happen to prevent you from turning in an assignment on time.The best option is to not get in the situation in the first place.
If you do, however, the best thing to do is tell the truth. Your teacher won’t be happy with the choice you made leading to not completing the assignment, but he or she will respect you for admitting it.

