 Look on the back of the gift card to locate a removable label. Scratch off the label to find the hidden code. You should see a sixteen digit code., Open the iTunes application and then click on the store button. On the right hand side of the store screen, click the redeem button. Then, sign in with your Apple ID., After entering the code, you will see your new iTunes balance. The iTunes balance will include the redeemed gift card balance.By “redeeming” your iTunes gift card, you are just adding it to your account. You are not actually using the sum but, rather, adding it to your account in order to see the balance.
If you already had a balance on your account, you will need to subtract the amount of your previous balance from the new balance shown after redeeming the gift card. The difference between your old and new balance is the amount on your gift card.
If you want to check your balance after making some purchases, you can follow the same process.
 Tap on the iTunes music application on your smart phone. Then, open the iTunes store and sign in. At the bottom of the screen, click on “music.” Tap the “redeem” option. Finally, enter your gift card code to reveal the balance.In some countries, you can use your smart phone camera to redeem the gift card. After clicking on the redeem option, click on the option to “use Camera.” Then, take a picture of the sixteen-digit code and the phone will automatically redeem the code. , From your personal computer, click on the Apple icon on the top left hand corner of your screen. Scroll down to “App Store.” From the App Store, click on the featured tab. On the right side of the window, you should see an option to “redeem.” Enter your gift card number to see your account balance., Open up the wallet app and tap on the plus sign. Select the find apps option and then scroll down to redeem. At the bottom, you will see the option for an iTunes pass. Click on get started and then tap the option to add iTunes pass to your wallet. Once you have the iTunes gift card added to your wallet, you will just need to open up your iTunes pass and view your account balance in the top right hand corner.