 People often reach for multi-symptom cold medications even when pain (like from a sore throat) is the primary complaint. If pain is your main symptom, then a dedicated pain reliever is probably your best option.Pain relievers like ibuprofen or acetaminophen can be quite effective in dealing with a sore throat and other pain associated with a cold. Always follow the recommended dosing instructions. Take special care if you are also taking a cold medication with a pain reliever, as it can be easy to exceed the recommended daily dose that way.
Aspirin may also be effective, but it can lead to bleeding problems, so talk to your doctor particularly if you are taking blood thinners or have bleeding issues. Children under age 19 should never take aspirin because of the risk of developing Reye's syndrome.
 Find an over-the-counter (OTC) cough suppressant or nasal decongestant (or combination), especially if your cough or stuffy nose is keeping you awake at night. Take it according to package directions until the symptoms go away.Some people contend that honey (by the spoonful or in tea) is just as effective a cough suppressant as any OTC variety. It can’t hurt to try it.
Don't use cough suppressants or decongestants for more than three days, or your symptoms may return in a more severe form.Children under five should not use any OTC cold remedies without a doctor’s supervision.
Remember, antibiotics treat infections, and therefore are useless against viruses like the common cold.
 Some people swear by it, while others think its use is worthless. By and large, however, taking vitamin C to combat a cold is at worst unlikely to do harm.


There is some limited evidence that vitamin C may help reduce the length of the average cold by up to one day, if it is taken regularly for a long period of time (not just when you are sick). Some claim that high doses of vitamin C can cut short an existing cold, but the evidence is lacking; however, you are very unlikely to cause any harm by taking large doses of vitamin C.Those who espouse high-dose vitamin C will tell you to choose a full fruit juice or supplement with at least 200 mg., Like vitamin C, there is a great deal of conflicting information on the benefits or using zinc supplements to fight a cold. Unlike vitamin C, however, there is a danger in taking too much zinc. When taken within recommended limits, it is generally safe and possibly effective in curtailing a cold.


Taking more than 50 mg of zinc daily for any extended period of time can be harmful to your health, and there have been reports that zinc nasal sprays can cause permanent damage to one's sense of smell.With those concerns in mind, using zinc syrup or zinc acetate lozenges every three to four hours during the first 24 hours of your cold (adding up to 50 mg per day), may possibly reduce the time you are sick by a day.Some medical experts see these claims as wildly overblown, however., The benefits of other traditional remedies, such as echinacea, ginseng, and selenium are unclear, but may be worth a try in moderation. Selenium in particular should be taken according to recommended guidelines, because it can be detrimental in high doses.Taking 300 mg of echinacea three times per day may help you to ward off colds, according to some studies; however, if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, have a ragweed allergy, or have an autoimmune disease, you should consult a doctor first.Taking up to 400 mg of ginseng daily, or a daily garlic supplement, may also give you an immune system boost to help ward off colds. Both these options, however, may interfere with a wide range of prescription medications, so check with your doctor first or ask your pharmacist to run an interaction check with your current medications.
Eating probiotic foods may also improve your immune system response, although again the research is unclear.While yogurt and cheese may not the best sources while you have mucus, consider trying sauerkraut, miso soup, sourdough bread, kombucha, and tempeh. Healthy bacteria in your gut may possibly reduce the time of infection.