 Before you make any other reservations, make sure you know exactly how you plan to get to New York. After all, you can’t see Hamilton if you’re not in the city. There are plenty of ways to get to New York, so look around and choose based on your budget, distance, and comfort.


New York has three major airports, and it’s fairly easy to find cheap flights.If you travel with one particular airline often, it might be better to buy tickets through that one, instead of trying to find the absolutely cheapest deal.
If you’re traveling a short distance and staying a short time, you can consider driving. Make sure you have parking plans (as rates in New York City are famously steep) and be cautious when driving in busy areas.If you don’t want to drive or fly, NYC is served by Amtrak and local train lines, as well as bus lines like Greyhound, Megabus, and Peter Pan.
 There is no shortage of lodging in New York City, so you can shop around until you find the perfect place. Try to stick close to the attractions you’re interested in, or select a location that’s served by a major subway line. Manhattan is central, so it’s a popular choice for hotels, but stay out of giant business districts like Midtown if you want quieter vibes.


Start researching hotels by perusing a recommended list, or search for recommendations in a particular neighborhood. Consider size, price, and amenities like breakfast or exercise equipment.There are options for student housing and hostels as well, if you’re a young person planning a less-than-frilly trip.In recent years, AirBNB and other room-sharing apps have become popular as well. Make sure to read reviews.No matter where you want to stay, check the Bedbug Registry before you book! Bedbugs became a problem in New York several years ago, and they’re not yet completely under control., Once you have your travel and sleeping plans in place, you can start making concrete plans for the fun stuff. Look up the items on your must-see list, and see if any of them require advance purchases or reservations.


Theatre tickets are best to buy in advance. There are many discount options, both online and in the city (like the famous TKTS booth for Broadway shows.)If you’re eager to see a bunch of museums and classic destinations like the Statue of Liberty, you can save time and money by acquiring a museum pass.If there’s a particular restaurant you’re simply dying to eat at, contact them in advance, as well.
 There are so many things to do in New York that it’s tempting to stuff your itinerary to the gills. However, it’s actually better to give yourself some flexible, unstructured time as well. This way, you’ll have the opportunity to rest and reflect, impulsively try a recommendation from a local, or simply linger over a delicious slice of dollar pizza.


If you’re having trouble breaking time down, think of it this way. There are three major zones of travel time: morning, afternoon, and evening. Plan to fill two of these, and chill during the other one.You might go to the Metropolitan Museum of Art before lunch and the Metropolitan Opera at night--nap or write postcards in between for best results.
 If you’re traveling from out of state or out of country, tell your bank before you leave so they don’t flag your account for fraudulent charges. They should be able to tell you if you’ll be able to withdraw from your checking account at an ATM at this time., The best laid plans will go awry if you don’t write them down. As you continue to confirm the details of your travel, write them down. A small notebook will work for this purpose, as will a notetaking app on your smartphone--just make sure you keep the information close to you.


Write down your hotel’s address and keep it somewhere safe. This should help you get back easily at the end of a busy day.Make copies of travel documents. You may want to keep one copy on your person, and another in your hotel room.Print and save reservations, and take them with you as well.

