 It's significantly easier to wake up early if you've slept well the night before. Eating a lot late at night, though, can make sleep difficult because food takes time to digest. Spicy, garlic-flavored and highly acidic and fatty foods are especially troublesome because they frequently cause heartburn if you lie down too soon after eating them.Conversely, hunger can also disrupt sleep. So if you find yourself really hungry before bed, stick to snacking on things like oatmeal, bananas, cereal and milk, yogurt, raw veggies or some popcorn., One of the reasons so many people hate waking up early is because of that rushed feeling they have when trying to hurriedly get ready and out the door on time. To help avoid some of this, choose and lay out your clothes the night before, prepare your lunch, pack up your homework and books in your satchel or book bag and make sure you have any forms signed that you need for school.


Lay out your clothes, shoes and accessories where you will put them on – whether that be in the bathroom after you shower or in your bedroom.
Have your backpack, gym clothes and musical instrument, if you have one, by the door, ready to go.
 Continue with your returning-to-school schedule and eat a hearty breakfast. It will increase your glucose level, get your juices flowing and set a good tone for the rest of your day.
 Most of us have done it, probably more times in a row than we’d care to admit. But hitting snooze only makes getting up harder and your mornings ultimately more rushed. So move your alarm – further than arm’s reach.


If you have an extremely hard time waking up, consider putting it across the room so you have to get out of bed to turn it off., Purchase and then put more than one alarm clock in different places around your room. You might set them to go off at the same time, or you might opt to have them go off at different times, but no more than 2-3 minutes apart. Otherwise, you’re apt to get back in bed after turning off the first.


Buy different types of alarms, so the buzzers sound differently and have different volume levels.
You could also use your cell phone as long as it has an alarm and is loud enough. Some even allow you to download annoying alarm tones, which might be frustrating but ultimately effective.
 Since your internal clock responds to light as its wake-up call, you can use it to help awaken yourself even if the sun has yet to rise. And there are some pretty neat gadgets out there that can help.


For example, there are a number of alarm clocks that help wake you up by slowly increasing light, as if the sun were rising, thus tricking your body to respond and say, “Okay, it’s time to get up.”Science has even demonstrated they do, indeed, help rouse people from sleep more easily and quickly, even though the light is artificial.
There are also lamps you can put by your bed that slowly turn on, simulating the sunrise. Some even offer the opposite effect, simulating a sunset for help in going to sleep.
Ultimately, however, natural light is the best way to go. It’s certainly what our ancestors relied on prior to Edison.Allowing natural light into your room by leaving the blinds or curtains open when you go to sleep is the best jolt to your rhythmic system. Yet because this is often not possible when getting up early enough for school, natural light simulators are nice alternatives.

