 When you shop, try to find clothing that comes in your favorite colors. Choose a color palette, or mix and match what looks good to you. Try to wear at least one piece of clothing or accessory each day with that color; ties, scarves, and bags are a good way to add a pop of color to your outfit. Quickly, people will begin to associate it with you.Some color palettes include:



Neutrals: black, white, brown, navy blue, gray

Universals: off-white, gray, teal, lavender, purple, taupeWarm: dark green, purple, brown, yellow, blueCool: bright red, blue, pink, white, black, Accessories are how you make off-the-rack styles look unique and special. Gather a collection of different accessories that can you can pair with different outfits. Use these items to make old outfits look new every time you wear them.Some good accessories include:


Shoes
Jewelry such as necklaces, bracelets, cuff links, and rings
Ties
Scarves
Gloves
Belts
Hats
Hair ornaments such as headbands, hair sticks, and scrunchies

, For your style to be truly unique, you will want to mark yourself off with a signature piece that you wear frequently. This could be a particular color or print, a special necklace, or a favorite jacket. When people see this style, they will start to associate it with you.When choosing your signature item, ask yourself:


Is there a particular piece of jewelry that is special to me?
Is there something that looks good with every outfit that I own?
What is my favorite bag? Favorite shoes? Favorite coat or sweater?
Is there a type of clothing that I wear that might be considered unusual, such as funky tights, floppy hats, or rainbow gloves?

, Do not feel limited to just one style or type of clothing. Many people have many styles that they adopt and mix together. The way you blend different styles can help you stand out. Experiment with different types of clothing, and see if you can work out a combination that works for you., The key to style is confidence. You want to buy and wear pieces that make you feel beautiful, handsome, or sexy. Your friends, family, and significant other should not decide what your style is. Above all else, make sure you have pieces that you love.