 Becoming a good pitcher requires a lot of practice. Having a pitcher's mound to practice on is important only if you will pitch from one in actual games. (Lots of fields do not have mounds.) Having a home plate to throw to in practice is critical. Without it you won't know whether you're making good pitches. It also helps to have a friend or teammate act as a catcher who can double as an umpire, although you can usually tell when you've thrown a strike by noting where the pitch lands.;
, Pitchers use many different grips and hand positions in slow-pitch softball. While you are learning, it is best to use a circle grip. Grasp the ball with your thumb and index finger around the full width of the ball so that your hand almost forms a circle, as if you're holding a soda can. Place your other fingers on the ball below your index finger.
 Most right-handed pitchers begin with their right foot on the pitching rubber and their left foot either on the rubber or just to the left of it. They then take one full stride toward home plate with their left leg while simultaneously swinging their right hand (holding the softball) backward. Immediately as they plant their left foot they swing their right hand forward (underhand) toward the plate.


An alternative motion is to begin with both feet behind the pitching rubber, step forward onto the rubber with your right foot, then continue forward with your left leg as outlined above. As you gain experience, you will learn the pitching motion that works best for you, including how far apart to place your feet before you start your motion.
 Most pitchers start by holding the ball at waist level (often with the ball and their right hand inside the pocket of their glove).
 At the same time, bring your right arm straight back behind you, as if it's a pendulum hanging from your shoulder. If you start with your right foot already on the rubber, move your right arm back as you begin to lean toward the plate, preparing to step forward with your left leg.
 While you're stepping, swing your right arm forward, underhand, as if your hand is swinging on that pendulum.
 This is called the release point. You will have to experiment to see at exactly which point you should release the ball. The earlier you release, the lower the ball's flight path and the farther it will travel. The only rule here is that one of your feet must be in contact with the pitcher's rubber until you release the ball.
 Let your right arm continue upward after you let go of the ball. This helps to maintain balance and lessens arm strain.
 Be ready for a batted ball before the batter swings. The ball may be hit right back at you on a line-drive or a one-hopper, and your reflexes will have to be quick. Some pitchers quickly back up several steps after letting go of the ball so they'll have additional time to react.

