 When you get out of the shower or bath, blot your hair gently with a towel. Your goal is to stop it from dripping but not to dry it completely., Using hair products in wet hair allows them to be distributed more evenly. Add the products before you wrap your hair and they will soak into your locks and boost their effectiveness. You will want to save finishing products such as hair spray until you are ready to style, but you can add others at this stage:








Volumizer
Detangler
Leave-in conditioner
Straightening balm
Curling Serum

, Combing your hair before wrapping it helps prevent damage. Wet hair is the most susceptible to damage, so make sure you comb it gently.








Use a wide toothed comb instead of a brush to detangle wet hair.
Comb small sections at a time.
Comb through tangles gently to avoid tearing your hair.
 In order to wrap your head in a towel, hang your hair upside down to fit it all in the towel.
 You will be looking backwards between your legs to let your hair hang upside down. Pull your hair off your shoulders and make sure it is all hanging downward.



Note Keep your head down until your towel is secured around your hair.
 You need a towel that is long enough to cover all of your hair when wrapped, but not so long that it will be too heavy and fall down.The towel should cover your head and still hang past your shoulders when standing upright.
If you have hair past your shoulders, you may need a longer towel.
Thin towels are better than thick, fluffy towels.
Microfiber towels and t-shirts work extremely well to do the turban tie with., While your hair is hanging down, use the towel to cover all of your hair from the back of your head.Place the long edge of the towel at your hairline on the back of your neck.
Center the towel on the center of your neck.
 Fold the towel around your head tucking one side under the other. Keep your hair inside the towel as your wrap it around your head.
 Continue to twist the towel until it reaches your forehead.
 The twist should be on top of your head going from your forehead to the back of your head.
 Place the end of the twisted towel under the turban at the back of your hairline to keep it in place. You can also use a hair clip to hold the towel in place for extra security.
 If you are taking your time getting ready, you can exchange your wet towel for a dry one to help your hair dry even faster. The more moisture your towel absorbs, the less it will be able to remove from your hair. Replace the wet towel with a dry one, and the drying process will go even faster.