 Episodes of impulsive aggression are overwhelming, making it feel impossible to think or behave calmly or rationally. They strain personal relationships, and put you, and those closest to you, in danger of harm. You deserve, and will benefit from, the help of a professional while dealing with this difficult problem. Your therapist will help you to understand the root causes of your anger, and learn to recognize and control it.


If you aren't sure how to find a therapist, talk to your doctor about getting a referral. If you are on a medical insurance plan, you can contact your insurance provider for help finding a therapist.
No specific medication is prescribed for suffers of intermittent explosive disorder, your doctor may prescribe medication to help with some of the psychological symptoms of the disease, such as depression

, When an explosive episode begins, you may feel a mounting sense of physical tension. While this tension can be very unpleasant, learning to recognize them will provide you with advance warning of an impending episode. Once you learn to recognize these precursors of rage episodes, you can begin taking steps to control them.Symptoms at the onset of an explosive episode can include:


Fast, shallow breathing.
Involuntarily clenched fists, or jaw.
Rapid heart rate.
Racing, difficult to control thoughts, often of an aggressive or violent nature.
Feelings of tightness in the chest.
 While episodes of rage are sometimes unpredictable, others may be associated with specific sources of stress at home, in school, or at work. Avoiding triggering situations will allow you to begin taking control of your explosive episodes. Frustration and stress of any variety can be the trigger for an explosive episode. Think about when you tend to experience moments or episodes of rage. Common examples of triggering events include:


Relatively minor arguments with your spouse, parents, or loved ones.
Feeling misunderstood, or that you aren't able to communicate your feelings effectively.
Feeling overwhelmed by responsibilities at work, at school, or with your family and friends.
Stress or pain from coping with another physical or mental illness.
Excessive use of alcohol or other mind-altering substance.
 Do this with the help of your therapist, who has the experience and expertise to help you decide what actions to take when you feel the onset of an explosive episode. The simplest method of dealing with an episode of rage is simply to walk away from the situation causing it. Go somewhere you can feel safe, and focus on breathing deeply, and calming down.Some find it helpful to focus their mind on counting slowly to ten, or repeating a soothing word or phrase to themselves. This helps take the sufferer's mind off of the situation triggering their rage, and gives them time to calm down.
Remember that your explosive episodes are unpredictable, and can happen at any time. Think about how you will deal with your anger if an episode is triggered in public, or at work or school, not just what you will do if an episode occurs at home.
 Rage is an overwhelming feeling, and you may display violent behavior towards those closest to you while undergoing an episode. For their safety, as well as your own, it is essential that you talk to your family and friends about what you're going through. Be honest with them, and warn them that, despite the fact that you love them, your impulsive aggression could lead you to harm them. This will better prepare them for dealing with any episodes they may experience in the future. Understanding your condition will also help them lend more effective support to your efforts to control your anger.
 Mind-altering substances can have unpredictable effects on the mood of someone suffering from impulsive aggression, increasing the risk that they may experience an episode of rage. If you are finding it difficult to give up using drugs, including alcohol, then you should seek help from your therapist, or another medical professional.