 Find a well-lit, well-ventilated area that you can paint your furniture in. Good lighting is important, as it will help you spot any imperfections in your work. The best place to paint is outside, so long as it is not windy or humid.


If you cannot paint outside or in a well-ventilated area, make sure to keep a window open. If possible, keep a fan turned on, and turned away from you, so that it does not blow paint fumes or dust towards you.
If you start start to feel sick or lightheaded, take a break and move to an area with fresher air.;
, Painting can be messy, so you will have to cover your work area with something that can get dirty or be discarded, such as newspaper. If you do not have newspaper, you can use newsprint, butcher paper, old tablecloths, or old bed sheets instead. You can also purchase cheap, plastic tablecloths from a party supply store or an arts and crafts store and use those.
 Some paint may also get on your clothes, so wear something that you do not mind getting stained with paint. You can also wear an artist's smock.


If you have sensitive skin, consider wearing gloves to protect your hands in case you get paint on them. You can also protect a manicure with gloves.
 What primer and paint you will use on your furniture will depend on what the piece is made of. Choose an indoor primer and paint intended for the surface, be it wood, metal, or plastic. If your furniture has already been painted, consider choosing a primer intended for pre-painted surfaces. The label will tell you whether or not the primer and paint will work on the material your furniture is made of.
 You can use latex, acrylic, or oil-based paint. You can also use wood stains or spray paint as well. Each of these has pros and cons:


Latex, acrylic, and oil-based paints have little to no fumes and can be used indoors. Unfortunately, improper painting techniques can result in visible brush strokes and tackiness. Brushes used for oil-based paints will need to be cleaned with paint thinner, which can create headache-causing fumes.
Wood stain gives you more of a translucent look, but it also gives you a smooth finish. It is oil-based however, and you will need to clean your brushes with paint thinner.Spray paint is fast and easy to use, but it can also be expensive. It creates a smooth finish, and you will not have to clean any brushes afterwards. You will have to work in a well-ventilated area to prevent lightheadedness, however.
 Paint comes in all sorts of finishes, with its own benefits and drawbacks:


Glossy finishes look elegant, but they show any imperfections in the paint and wood, such as brush strokes and dents. Glossy finishes can also be easily marred.
Satin or semi-gloss finishes are decent at hiding imperfections, and are easier to maintain than glossy surfaces.
Matte surfaces hide imperfections the best, but they can look simplistic.
A chalkboard finish gives you a matte surface that hides imperfections well. It can create a fun, interactive surface that you can draw on with chalk. It also does not need to be sealed afterward.
 Before you start painting your furniture black, ask yourself what you want the finished piece to look like. To you want it to be completely black? Or do you want to add some designs to it? Alternatively, do you want the piece to be a solid color with black designs painted onto it? Asking yourself these questions will help you decide how much paint you will need as well as what other supplies you will need to get (such as thin paint brushes for detailing or stencils). For example:


For a weathered or antique look, paint your furniture a matte or semi-matte black, and then buff the corners with fine grit sandpaper. Keep in mind that anything underneath the paint will show through, depending on how much you sand. This includes primer, previous paint jobs, and the original surface of the furniture.
Consider stenciling some designs onto your finished piece in a contrasting color, such as white, silver, or gold.
Consider painting the entire piece a contrasting color first, and then adding black designs using stencils.
 If your furniture has removable pieces, such as drawers and doors, take these off and set them aside. If your furniture has any pieces that you do not want painted, such as hinges, knobs, and pulls, remove them and set them aside; if you cannot remove them, then cover them with painters tape.
 Imperfections show up on black surfaces, and even more so if that surface is glossy. If your furniture has any dents or holes, fill these in with some wood filler or putty., Before you can start priming and painting your furniture, you need to sand your piece. This gives the primer a rough surface to grip on to. Take some fine grit sand paper (between 180 and 220 grit) and lightly buff the entire surface of your piece.You do not have to strip the entire previous paint job; you simply need to create a rough texture.


If your furniture has a varnish on it, then use 80 grit sandpaper., You need to remove any dust created from when you sanded your furniture. Do this by wiping the entire surface of your furniture with a tack cloth.
 Grey primer helps make shadows more visible, which will help you find and fix any imperfections. You can either paint or spray on the primer. To prevent drips and puddles, apply several light coats of primer (while letting the primer dry between coats) as opposed to one thick coat.


Be sure to choose a primer intended for the material your furniture is made out of.
 Once the primer has dried, run 220 grit sandpaper over any imperfections in the primer, such as paint drips, bubbles, and globs.After that, wipe the piece down again with tack cloth.


If necessary, apply more primer and repeat the process. Remember, imperfections show up more on black surfaces, so your primed surface needs to be as smooth as possible.
 Before you start painting, let your primer dry at least 24 hours. Refer to the directions on the can, as some primers might require more time.
 Paint and wood stains can be applied to furniture in many ways: paint brushes, foam applicators, and foam rollers. You will need a foam roller or a large, angled brush (at least 1 inch wide) for the large, flat areas of your piece. You will also need a small brush to reach details such as carvings, crevices, and corners.


Consider using higher-quality brushes or foam rollers for best results. Avoid cheap brushes with stiff bristles if you can, as these are more likely to create brushstrokes. Remember, details and imperfections show up more in black paint, especially if it has a glossy finish.
You can also purchase spray paint and spray the paint on using light, even coats. Keep the can 6 to 8 inches away from the piece.
 If you have decided to use paint or wood stain, you will need to condition your paintbrush before using it. If you are using latex or acrylic paint, then dip your brush in water; if you are using a wood stain or oil-based paint, then dip your brush in paint thinner., Brushing or spraying the paint on in many, thin layers as opposed to one thick layer will give you a smoother finish and help reduce brush strokes.If you are applying one thick layer of paint, then wait at least 24 hours before applying a another coat.If you see brush strokes, you can smooth them out by going over them lightly with a foam roller. Keep rolling over the brush strokes while the paint is still wet until the surface is smooth., Use long strokes when applying paint to large, flat areas. If your furniture is made of wood, then apply the paint with the grain, not against it. Paint the corners and details last.
 Sometimes, the paint will puddle or drip, no matter how careful you are. Other times, bits of dust may fall onto your piece and stick to the paint. If happens, take a fine grit sandpaper, such as 220 grit, and buff the surface. Then, wipe the piece down with a clean tack cloth, and apply one or two more coats of paint.
 Some paint or stains come with a sealer already in them. Others will need to be sealed for additional protection. Look for a polycrylic or polyurethane sealer in either brush on or spray on form.


You can also consider using a wax sealer, but keep in mind that the finish will not be as durable.
If you are using chalkboard paint, do not use a sealer, as it will ruin the surface and prevent it from functioning.
After you have applied the sealer, sure that you give the sealer enough time to cure before you use the furniture. This can take anywhere between 24 hours to 1 week.
 Once the paint and sealer has dried, put your furniture back together. Remove any taped-off areas, screw on the knobs, pulls and hinges, and reinsert the drawers and doors.

