 A 10-gallon tank can work for a single axolotl. However, bigger is generally better when it comes to an axolotl. Opt for the biggest tank you can fit into your home. A 20-gallon tank is a good size for an axolotl.Fill the aquarium with water completely, the way you would fill it for fish. Tap water is safe to use.
You should keep a lid on the aquarium at all times. Axolotls will sometimes jump out of their tanks.;
, You need a filtration system in place when caring for an axolotl. An external canister filer works best, which you can purchase at a local pet store.Any filter you install should have an spray bar or other outlet to control water flow. While axolotl's need some water flow, too much can cause them to stop eating.
 Substrate is material that lines the bottom of an aquarium. The bottom of an axolotl tank should be lined with large fish tank pebbles (larger than the axolotl's head) or fine sand (fine grain sand being the ideal substrate). Do not use small pellets or rough sand (such as blasting sand). An axolotl may accidentally ingest such substances., You do need to provide lighting for an axolotl the same way you would light a fish tank. Bright lighting may actually cause an axolotl to feel distressed, so opt for a plant lighting if you add a light at all. Axolotls do not need a lot of light to thrive, so lighting is usually so you can see the animal.Minimize how often you keep the light on. Lights can generate excess heat, which can be bad for an axolotl.
 Usually, you do not need a tank heater to keep an axolotl tank sufficiently warm. The proper temperature for an axolotl hovers between 60 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 16 and 21 degrees Celsius). This is generally room temperature, so heating the tank should not be necessary.However, make sure to adjust the temperature of the room that contains the tank if you live in an area prone to extreme heat or cold. You may need to keep an air conditioner or heater in the room during some months.
 You can buy night-crawlers and frozen bloodworms at a local pet store. These should be the staple of your axolotl's diet. You can also provide frozen shrimp and bits of chicken for a treat. In general, avoid live food.Feed your axolotl every other day for half an hour. Provide the axolotl with as much food as it can eat in a half hour time frame., Once a week, remove 50 to 60% of the water from the tank. Then, replace it with fresh water. Tap water is safe to use if you have a filtration system in place., If your axolotls breed, you should remove the babies from the tank using a net and place them in a separate aquarium. Older axolotls may prey on younger ones, so it's not safe to keep axolotls of different ages in a tank together., Axolotl are best kept in their own tank, but occasionally can do well with another axolotl of a similar size and age. However, they will prey on other types of fish or marine life. In general, an axolotl tank should only contain axolotls., Axolotls are not people-friendly pets. They do not need human contact to be happy and, in fact, this may stress them out. Only handle an axolotl when necessary, such as removing babies from a tank. Axolotl also may nip if handled.