 There are many misconceptions about impotence. You need to educate both you and your partner on the causes of ED to clear up these myths. Some common myths about ED include:

ED is just part of aging. This is not true. It is not just older men who get ED. Some young men may get ED due to another health problem or a psychological issue.

Drinking will make sex easier. Drinking before having sex may cause more problems because drinking can worsen ED.You can't talk to your doctor about ED. Also not true. ED is a medical condition and you should talk to your doctor about it.

There is no cure for ED. In reality, almost all cases of ED are treatable.;
, You are probably nervous about revealing to your partner that you have erectile dysfunction. Have a plan to determine the best time and place to engage in a heart-to-heart conversation with your partner.


Make sure you choose a place where you and your partner will be most comfortable. Perhaps the bedroom would not be the best place to talk to avoid associating the bedroom with such a sensitive topic.
 Sometimes it’s hard to find the right words when addressing a sensitive topic. Consider practicing what you will say during the opening of your conversation. It might be easiest to begin by telling your partner that you are uncomfortable talking about your erectile dysfunction.For example, you might say, “I’m really embarrassed to talk about this, but I want to talk about the problem I’ve been having when we’re having sex.”

, You partner needs to know how you’re feeling about having erectile dysfunction. Explain how your feelings impact you emotionally and mentally. This will go a long way in helping your partner get a better understanding of what you are going through and how to support you as well.For example, you might say, “I feel like our entire relationship has changed because of ED. Who wants to be with a man that struggles with keeping things going in bed. When I start thinking like this, I just want to be left alone.”

, Try to understand that your partner may have a lot of questions and concerns about what you have shared. Be open to hearing your partner out.


You might find the conversation uncomfortable and even a bit embarrassing. Your partner might express feelings of disbelief or hopelessness. This is normal, however, remind yourself that you’ve now tackled the hardest part, and you should be proud of yourself.

