 The number of people in your household includes you, your spouse, children under 18 years of age and anyone else with whom you live and buy and share food.If you live alone or live with others but do not buy and share food with them, the total number of people in your household is 1.
if you live with your spouse and two minor children, the total number of people in your household is 4.
If you live with others and all of you buy and share food together, count each individual member towards the total number of people in your household.
If any person in your household is over the age of 60 or disabled, that person is considered a "qualifying member." That person might qualify for benefits separate from the rest of the household. If this is your situation, contact your local IDHS office to ask how this will affect your eligibility.;
, To qualify for SNAP, you will need to disclose the gross monthly income for your entire household.Add income from all sources, including earned income (before payroll taxes are deducted) and unearned income, such as cash assistance, Social Security benefits, unemployment insurance and child support.
Add income earned by every member of your household.
 Assets are defined as anything you own that has monetary value. Calculate the total value of your assets, including:Liquid assets: cash, money in a checking account or savings account
Non-liquid assets: cars, property, real estate
Note that some non-liquid assets, including your home, clothing, furnishings and one car, will not count towards the asset limit. Contact your local IDHS office to find out which non-liquid assets you should include when calculating the total value of your assets.

Press "Calculate Now!" to find out whether you qualify and, if so, how much money you are eligible to receive in benefits.
 Even if the SNAP calculator indicates that you meet the required income and household member guidelines, you will not qualify for SNAP if:You have an intentional program violation on your record.
You are living in a hospital, jail or other place where meals are provided.
You are on strike.
You were convicted of a drug felony on or after August 22, 1996.
You are an undocumented immigrant.



Apply online by filling out the Application for Benefits Eligibility (ABE) on the IDHS website: https://abe.illinois.gov/abe/access/. Submit it electronically.Download and print a paper application at http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=33698. Fill it out, sign it and then mail, fax or submit it in person to your local Family Community Resource Center.Apply in person at your local Family Community Resource Center. Use the DHS Locator (http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?module=12) to find the Family Community Resource Center nearest to you.If you do not have internet access and have questions about how to obtain and submit an application, call IDHS at 1-800-843-6154.
 Once your local IDHS office receives your application, you will be asked to come to the office for an interview. If you are unable to come to the office due to a disability or conflict with your job, you can probably arrange for a phone interview.Interviews are typically scheduled within 14 days of filing an application.
Take the documents the IDHS caseworker tells you to bring to the interview. These will likely include: proof of identity, proof of your residence and proof of social security numbers for all people in your application.,,
You cannot use your LINK card to buy: prepared meals from a grocery store, alcohol, tobacco, soap, paper products, pet food or other nonfood items.

