 Use your web browser and go to http://www.canon.com/cig/.;
, On the fields provided, enter the email address and password you used in registering to log in. Click the login button to proceed.
 On the landing page, the list of cameras and camcorders linked to your account will be listed. Click the device you want to register web services on.


Refer to this article for details on how to link a Canon camera to Canon Image Gateway.
 From the left menu, click the “Web Service Settings” box. You will be brought to the Web Service Settings page where you can configure all the available web services for your camera.
 The list of available web services for your camera is displayed in table format. You can set up to 8 web services to be displayed on your camera.
 Identify the web service you’d like to configure for your camera. Click the “Settings” button under the Settings column for the service you want to use.


For example, if you want to set Facebook in your camera, select the “Settings” button for Facebook.
 The selected web service page will load. Click on the “To” button on the right side. You will be brought to the web service’s page where you can grant access to Canon Image Gateway to link with your selected account.


For example, if you’ve selected Facebook, you will be brought to Facebook’s page where you need to grant Canon Image Gateway authorization to access your data.
 Follow the on-screen instructions in authorizing Canon Image Gateway to link with and access your account. Each of the web services have their own mechanism to do this. Just read and follow the given instructions.
 Once authorization has been granted, you will be brought back to Canon Image Gateway to complete the process. Click the “Set” button to complete the adding of the web service.
 After the setting up of the web service is done, you will be brought back to the Web Service Settings page. The newly added web service will now have a check mark under the Settings Complete column.
 To enable the web service to appear on your camera, you have to turn on its display. Click the “ON/OFF” button on the last column titled “Display on camera.”


Make sure ON is displayed for the web service.
 Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back.


You have to connect your camera to Canon Image Gateway so your web service settings will be updated.
 At the back of the camera, press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu.
 From the lists of options under the Wi-Fi menu, select “Canon Image Gateway.” The camera will connect to its Access Point and connect to the Internet. Once it has successfully connected with Canon Image Gateway, it will download and sync all the settings for all the web services enabled.
 Once the update is completed, you will be able to see the newly added web service right from your camera’s Wi-Fi menu.


You can now connect and upload photos directly to the web service.

