 There are many different styles of digital cameras, ranging from low-tech point-and-shoot cameras to high-tech, expensive cameras meant for trained photographers. Also, smartphones today come with quality cameras preinstalled into them.


Buy a digital camera at your comfort level. Point-and-shoot digital cameras are usually less than $150, whereas higher quality cameras cost several hundred dollars.
Ensure that your digital camera can hold a memory card and that it has a USB cable.;
, There are some common ways to do this: via the memory card, via the USB cable and via the cloud.


If you choose to transfer photographs to your computer with the memory card, then you must be sure that your computer has a port for a memory card. If you are not sure, contact your computer's manufacturer. If you have the port, then you will simply insert the memory card into this port.
If you want to transfer photographs with the USB cable, give it a test run to make sure it works. Find where to plug the cable into your camera, which is usually near where the battery is located, and then plug the USB into the USB port of your computer.
You can also transfer photos from your smartphone to your computer using your USB cable. Plug your smartphone's charging cable into it, and then plug the USB end into a USB port on your computer.
iPhones have a cloud, called iCloud, that allows you to sync your photos with your MacBook, if you own one. You will have a Photos app on both your iPhone and your MacBook, and when you take photos with your iPhone, these will automatically update on your MacBook the next time you open the Photos app.
Another option is Dropbox, which will be discussed in more detail later. Dropbox uses a cloud system, as well, and as long as you have an account, you can use the app on your smartphone to get the photographs onto your computer via the Dropbox cloud.
 These will likely ask you if you would like to open the folders on the memory card, camera, or smartphone.


When you open the folder of your digital photographs, you can see them in more detail than on your camera screen. This will help you decide which ones you would like to keep and which ones need deleted.
You may also receive options such as opening the folder in a particular program. If you anticipate wanting to edit the photos, then open them in a program that will allow you to do that. If you do not want to edit the photos, then a photo viewer will work.
 If you edit the photos, then be sure to save the version that you edited.


When you edit photos, you can do things such as resize, crop, remove red-eye, and rotate or flip photos.
You can also edit settings such as brightness, contrast, hue, and saturation.
Save the photos in a place where you can easily find them. Creating a specific folder for those photos is recommended so that you know exactly where they are when you search for them later.
Use a common naming system when you rename the photo files. You can number them, name them by event, or use a combination of numbering/naming and dating.

