 There are rescues for every kind of breed, including toy poodles. You can also use the Internet to find poodles up for adoption in local animal shelters.


Websites like Petfinder and Adopt-a-Pet may be able to link you to toy poodles in your area that are up for adoption. Animal Shelters can help you find rescue groups for specific breeds.Post on social media. Mention you're looking to adopt a toy poodle and would prefer to go through a rescue or shelter. Even if someone does not have a lead now, he may reach out to you in the event he sees a toy poodle in need of a home down the road., Professionals in the pet industry can also help you find a toy poodle. Veterinarians, boarders, groomers, and trainers often network or work with rescues. Reach out to any experts you know. Tell them you're looking to adopt a toy poodle from a rescue or shelter. They might be able to help with your search., When choosing your poodle, you want to ask the right questions. Poodles from a rescue often come with a very extensive history. You want to know as much information as you can to make sure the dog you're considering is right for you.


Ask about any known health issues. Dogs are often given to a rescue if they have chronic health conditions owners had difficulty managing.Ask about the dog's personality. Are there any behavioral issues you should be aware of before adopting? Make sure you know his age, whether or not he's housebroken, and how he responds to other animals.Try to learn a bit about his overall energy level. If he's hyperactive, make sure you can accommodate his energy level., Adopting a rescue dog is a wonderful thing to do. You'll be giving a previously abandoned dog a second chance. However, there are some drawbacks. You might not know the animal's full history. She may be at high risk for inheritable disorders without your knowledge. Rescue dogs may also be prone to behavioral problems their whole lives. Before settling on a rescue dog, make sure you're ready for the commitment.

