 Before going to sleep, meditate in a quiet, dark room. Taking a meditation training course may give better results, but to start out, just pay attention to your breathing, or imagine ascending or descending stairs. The goal is to stop thinking and enter a quiet, comfortable state, and from there slip into a lucid dream.


Keep in mind that "Wake Induced" lucid dreams are rarer and more difficult than dreams that become lucid after you're already asleep.
There are many meditation guide videos online specifically designed to help you lucid dream.
 One common experience among first-time lucid dreamers is waking up due to the excitement of having a lucid dream! Usually, you'll get some warning before hand as the dream feels "unstable" or you begin to notice sensations from the real world. These techniques can help you keep the lucid dream going:Spin your dream body around or fall backward. Some people report that this helps, although the reason is unknown.
In the dream, rub your hands together. This can distract you from the sensations of your actual body.
Continue doing whatever you were doing before the dream became unstable, asserting that you are still in the dream. This is much less effective than the techniques above.
 If you send a different sound frequency to each ear, your brain will interpret the two sound waves' overlapping pattern as an audio beat even though no beat is included in the sound. This definitely changes the brain's electrical activity, but so far scientists are unsure whether this can actually stimulate lucid dreaming.There are many websites out there with collections of binaural beats, so it's easy to try it out if you can sleep with ear buds in. Most would-be lucid dreamers use beats that mimic Theta brain waves, which occur in REM sleep, but some swear by Gamma or Alpha beats instead, or a progression through several types.


Binaural beats can come with soothing background music, or just the beat itself.
 Gamers report a much higher rate of lucid dreaming than the general population.While more studies need to be done, it's possible even a couple hours a week could increase your chances of a lucid dream. The type of game played does not appear to make a difference., Galantamine, a drug synthesized from the snowdrop plant, may be the most effective drug for inducing lucid dreaming. Take 4 to 8 mg in the middle of the night for best results; taking it before bed can worsen sleep quality and cause unpleasant dreams.Due to this possibility and the unpleasant side effects listed below, galantamine is only recommended as an occasional supplement.


Talk to a doctor first if you have any medical issues. Galantamine can worsen existing conditions such as asthma or heart problems.
This drug also increases the chance of sleep paralysis, a harmless but often terrifying experience of being awake for several minutes without being able to move your muscles.
 Vitamin B5 or Vitamin B6 supplements can increase dream vividness, weirdness, and emotional intensity, which can lead to lucid dreaming.However, you may need to take a dose of 100 mg for this effect to be noticeable. This dose is much higher than recommended for daily intake, and if you take it regularly over a long period of time, it can lead to unwanted side effects.Use this only for a special lucid dreaming occasion, and at your own risk.


Check with your doctor first if you are taking any medications, or if you have a disorder involving bleeding, the stomach, the intestines, or the heart.
This drug sometimes causes people to wake up in the night, so it may be counterproductive if you're a light sleeper.

