 If you have a general idea of what you want or would like to achieve, it can be tempting to simply start working towards it. But, if you don't have clearly defined goals, you might find yourself working or drifting towards a vague goal or a goal that has changed. Defining a goal can prevent wasted time or energy. It may actually motivate you to accomplish goals.


For example, an employee may not feel like starting a vague assignment that has no clear structure or guidelines. But, employees are more motivated to work when they're given clear goals and feedback.Examples of vague or general goals include: "I want to be happy," "I want to be successful," and "I want to be a good person.";
, This is vital to understanding what you really are trying to achieve. Define any general or vague terms.For example, if you stated that you want to be successful, you must define what success means to you. While it may mean making lots of money to some people, others may consider it to mean raising healthy, confident children.


Defining general terms and goals will help you start to see yourself as the person or quality you're defining.For instance, if you see success as meaning professional success, you may create goals to get professional training and launch a career.
 It's normal to think you want something without really questioning why you want it. But, sometimes you may decide that those goals don't actually match the dreams and desires in your life. A good example of this stems from social perceptions and ideas. Many children might say they want to be doctors or firefighters when they grow up, not really understanding what it means or discovering later that those goals have changed.Ask yourself if your goals have been influenced by people around you, like the expectations of parents or significant others or by social pressure from peers or the media.
Your goals should be something you want to do for you, not someone else.
 Are you trying to achieve or do something to prove someone wrong? While the "right" reasons are different for everyone, you need to ask yourself if your goals are right for you. If not, you might find yourself feeling unfulfilled or burnt out.For example, if you want to become a doctor, is it because you want to help people or because they make a lot of money? If your motive isn't right for you, you may have a harder time accomplishing the goal or feeling fulfilled by it.
 It's easy to become carried away when thinking about goals. But, there are some things that may be outside your control. Depending on what kinds of goals you set, this may become a problem. Your goals should be realistic and attainable.For example, someone might want to be the greatest basketball player ever, but factors like age and height may be limiting and beyond your control. Setting goals that aren't achievable in the first place can make you feel let down and unmotivated.

