 It may seem like too much trouble to go through all the paperwork, fees, and a court appearance in order to change your name, but it is worthwhile to make the change you prefer official.


Illinois, like many other states, permits you to change your name simply by consistently using that new name, but that type of change won’t likely be accepted by the Social Security Administration, your financial institutions, or even the state Department of Motor Vehicles for your driver’s license. Official, certified documentation of a name change is they way to go.
In Illinois, you must be 18 years old and have lived in the state for at least six months in order to petition for a name change for yourself. There are also restrictions if you have a felony record or are a registered sex offender., Like any government process, there is some paperwork, some fees to pay, and some time to wait in order to make your name change official. The three forms you need, which are available online or from your county courthouse, include:Request for a Name Change. This is in essence your application form, in which you provide information about yourself, your reason for desiring a name change, and the new name you wish to have. This form must also be signed by a witness known to you; a signature by a notary is permissible but not required.
Notice of Filing a Request for Name Change. This document provides information to be published, by your request and at your expense, in a local newspaper that circulates within (or barring that, nearby) your county of residence. This may seem quaint, but advertising the proposed change in a newspaper is required by law.
Order for Name Change. This is the document the judge will sign and which orders your name to be legally changed (or not). If approved, this form (or any certified copies thereof) will be your key to changing your name at the Social Security Administration, DMV, and so on.
 Fill out each of the three forms as indicated (but not areas specified for the clerk and/or judge) and file them with the Circuit Clerk at the courthouse of the county in which you reside. Bring three extra copies of each form along with the originals.The clerk will give you a hearing date (at least eight weeks after the filing date) and stamp your original forms and copies.
You will be required at this time to pay a filing fee, which varies by county. You may also apply for a fee waiver at this time, however, if you have a financial hardship.
 Contact a newspaper in your county, or, if your county lacks one, a paper nearby. The court clerk should have information on available papers. Provide the paper a stamped, completed copy of the Notice for Filing a Request for Name Change form.The notice must appear in the newspaper once a week for three consecutive weeks, with the first appearance at least six weeks before your hearing date.
Publication fees are your responsibility.
Once your notice has run three times, make sure the newspaper provides you with a Certificate of Publication or sends it directly to the clerk. If it is given to you, file it with the clerk before your court date.
 Arrive early just in case, confirm your room number, and wait for your name and case to be called. Make sure you bring the following with you:Stamped copies of the Request for Name Change, Notice of Filing a Request for Name Change, Certificate of Publication, and Order for Name Change.
A photo ID with your current name.
Any additional documents related to your request, such as evidence regarding the passage of time since a criminal conviction.
You may be questioned under oath by the judge, so answer truthfully.
The judge will sign your request whether it is granted or denied. It it is granted, you can request additional copies of the Order for Name Change from the clerk.
 If you are under age 18, the name-change process itself is quite similar, but the paperwork is different. Also, at least one parent or guardian must approve of the change.


The forms you need are as follows: Petition for Change of Name (Minor); Decree of Change of Name (Minor); Notice of Motion ; Notice of Publication .
Minor name changes only need to be advertised if one parent cannot be located. A non-cohabiting, non-consenting parent whose whereabouts are known must be sent the Notice of Motion and given the opportunity to attend the court hearing.

