 That way, the employee can read all the relevant documentation immediately in their own time and can raise questions about things they need to know more about.


Include personnel forms
Include employment policies and guidelines
Take time to talk through these items (see below).;
, This includes the people that they won't have much to do with but they should still be aware of. In fact, new recruits should know who is in the organisation and what each person is responsible for. You never know the day when they might need to connect with a person they normally don't work to or with, for one reason or other. This includes field workers, virtual workers, and part-timers.


Meet both formally and informally. Show the new recruit around the office and meet them in person as they do their work. Then, hold a get-together to welcome the new recruit, such as a morning tea, or drinks after work.
 Ask them if they have any questions and take the time to talk them through this. Clarify such things as vacation leave, sick leave, pay schedules, and any other immediate relevance.


Alleviate any concerns they have. Doing this now can save a lot of supposition and errant ideas from the outset.
Introduce them to Human Resources.
 Make it known that you're available, as are any other relevant persons, to ask questions of. Let them know that no question is too small or too strange to be asked, and let them feel comfortable when asking by listening and not belittling their knowledge. Nerves can make even the smartest person forget simple things.


Show from the outset that you expect to take this person into the collegiate and collaborative atmosphere of your organisation, and that they're viewed with equal importance as all other staff members.
 Don't expect them to shuffle back to their desk or forklift and know what to do. Walk them through everything, including where to find files and tools, where the tearoom is, and when they can take legitimate breaks. Ask them if there is anything they're unsure about.


At this stage, if it becomes clear there is a knowledge gap, perhaps consider getting training organised quickly. Hiring smart people means they will learn fast, especially if they know you don't have misgivings about what they don't know but simply expect them to learn it, fast.
 Either do this yourself or find someone else who is suitable. It is important that they feel there is at least one person to whom they can go when they don't know what to do or decide about workplace issues and work.


Choose someone who is very experienced, calm, and resourceful for this role. It should be a person who isn't easily flustered by an extra "responsibility".
Ask the mentor to guide, counsel, role model, validate, and protect the new recruit. In addition, ask the mentor to encourage and motivate.
 If you are their first point of contact or the person in charge of ensuring the new recruit succeeds, make an effort to check in on them regularly to see how they're going and to provide reassurance.


Give feedback both through formal processes of progress review and through regular informal catch-ups. Be sensitive to their concerns and if there are problems, find positive, constructive solutions rather than coming across negatively.
Address any concerns that they feel about not knowing things that are relevant to their job. It may be as simple as misunderstanding how the information flow proceeds or it could be as serious as misunderstanding the company's role itself. Be sure to alleviate all misunderstandings before they turn into points of conflict with coworkers and bosses.
 Reassure the new employee that the right decision was made and that their presence is greatly appreciated. Be sincere when you express your happiness at their joining your organisation.


If you get feedback from the new recruit months after employing them that they still do not feel a part of the organisation, take this very seriously. It may be that you have missed warning signals or overlooked things that they have said in passing to you. It may be that they don't feel there have been things done for them that were done for other employees. Or, they may have missed out on vital training or recruitment procedures necessary to do the job well; sometimes these things can be overlooked if the employee starts during a really busy part of the year.

