 If you're at home, especially if you're by yourself, you need to make sure that you have any emergency phone numbers as accessible as possible, that way if something happens you don't have to go on the hunt for them.Have the numbers of emergency responders like the police, the fire department, or an ambulance.
You might also have poison control centers, or a local consulting nurse number in case of an accident or illness that you're not sure constitutes an emergency.
Have the number of a trusted neighbor or local friend that you can contact if something happens.
 If there's been a fire or an accident, or so on you don't want to have to dig through a bunch of stuff to find your emergency devices. Make sure everyone in the house knows where they're located.Keep the first aid kit in the bathroom in the same place so that you don't have to hunt for it if it's needed.
Make sure that you have one or more fire extinguishers in the right places around the house: in the kitchen and by a fireplace are two good places. Also, you want to ensure that you and the people in your household know how to use the fire extinguisher in case there's an emergency.
Place a flashlight in an obvious place. If the lights go out or there's a problem, you'll know exactly where the flashlight is.
 While you can't plan for everything, it's a good idea to have an emergency plan for the major problems that could happen while you're at home, especially if you're at home alone.


Have multiple escape routes for if there is a fire. Make sure that everyone in your household knows what to do and where to go.
Depending on where you live you might have an emergency plan for a tornado, a hurricane, an earthquake, and so on.
You might also try to make an emergency plan for if you ever had a home invasion: you might also figure out escape routes out of the house, where you might hide in the house, where you would go for help, and so on.
 It's really important that you have an early alert system for any problems that might happen while you're in the house. This could be anything from a fire, a carbon monoxide leak, or a home intruder.There are a variety of different alarm systems. Figure out which one works for you, or what your needs are. If carbon monoxide isn't a problem in your home, for example, then you won't need an early alert system for it.
Always make sure that your alarm system is set and that it has all the appropriate batteries and wiring. There's not much point in having an alarm system that's never functional.
 Unless you live in a place where no one locks their doors (many small towns) then you should keep these locked, especially if you're home alone. This is particularly important on the ground floor which can create easy access for any burglars or intruders.


Depending on the area you live in, you may need to install bars on your windows, especially at the ground floor.
 If someone comes to the door and asks to speak with you about something, avoid telling them that you're the only one there. If you live in an apartment building and someone you don't know wants to buzz you in, avoid doing so unless you're absolutely sure of them.


You also don't want to post on Facebook or other social media how you're home alone.
This is especially important if you're a kid and you're at home alone. While things rarely happen the way they do in movies (like Home Alone, for example) you don't want to risk anyone deciding your house is vulnerable because you're the only one there.
 The best thing to do with a spare key is give it to a trusted neighbor and get it from them if you lock yourself out. Otherwise you should make certain to hide the key really well.


This means, don't hide it under the front mat, or a nearby flowerpot. That's the first place a potential intruder will look.
An example might be hiding a key to the shed on a hook beneath the back porch and having to use the key to the shed to get the house key from a hiding place in the locked shed.
 If you get home and see a broken window or the door open when it shouldn’t be, then you should not go and investigate. Instead go to a neighbor's house and call the cops.


If a light is on that shouldn't be on, call the home phone and check that it isn't a family member back when you didn't expect them.
Checking to see if the intruder is still in your home can lead to bad consequences for you, so it's best to call the cops and let them handle it.

