 One quick way to build your confidence is to set an easily achieved goal and then complete it. Make it something small like going to the gym after work or studying for an hour after school.If you have confidence from completing small tasks, it will help to boost you up to completing more difficult assignments.
 Take a moment to reflect on all of the good things that you have achieved. Thinking back on these things will boost your self esteem and make you feel more comfortable talking to others. List things like good grades, promotions, awards, and positive reviews from classmates or coworkers., Another quick way to boost your confidence is to make sure you look presentable when leaving your house. Be sure that you are showered, that you’re wearing clean and unwrinkled clothes, and that your hair is neat and tangle free.Keep a small mirror in your bag or a phone with a camera so you can check your appearance before speaking to an intimidating person. You won’t have to worry about how you look.
 Sometimes the worst self esteem killers are the people closest to us. If you have a friend who belittles, criticizes, or insults you, distance yourself from them. Answer their calls less and spend less time with them. Surround yourself with people who lift you up and compliment you, instead.If you have a family member who is negative towards you, they can be more difficult to avoid. Try to ignore them or walk away when they are rude.
 People who feel better are more likely to exude confidence than those who are tired, out of shape, or have bad eating habits. Be sure to get at least 7 hours of sleep per night, exercise at least three times a week, and eat lots of fruits, veggies, and protein., A confident person is often a happy person. Each day, plan out at least one fun activity for yourself. If you have something fun to look forward to, talking to someone who intimidates you will feel like one minor bump in the road before achieving your ultimate goal or reward. Plan to watch your favorite show, hang out with friends, have some ice cream, or go shopping.