 Rods vary in width, flexibility, and length. Flexibility is known as action and rods must have enough to absorb the tension of the type of fish that you are catching once it strikes. If you’re fishing at a location with a lot of debris than you must choose a rod able to withstand movement through the debris.Fiberglass fishing rods are best paired with crank baits, jerk baits, reaction baits, and treble hooks.
Carbon-fiber fishing rods are great if you are a professional level fisherman as they work best with precision casting.
To get more fight out of bigger fish or when casting for smaller ones, use an ultra-light fishing rod for more flex. These rods usually range from 4 - 5.5 feet in length and are paired best with casting lures and flies to catch crappie, trout, bass, bluegill, and other panfish.
 Choose spinning rods made from graphite or fiberglass with a cork or PVC foam handle. Choose a length between 5 - 8.5 feet when fishing bass, trout, pike and walleye. Longer spinning rods should be used when casting with two hands for fish including steelhead and salmon.The spinning reel hangs under the rod unlike bait casting or spin casting rods.
 These rods work best when using fishing reels that are mounted above the handle. Made of graphite or fiberglass with a cork or pvc foam handle, these rods are very similar to spinning rods. They can be anywhere from 5 - 8.5 feet in length. Use longer rods with a longer grip for two-handed casting when fishing steelhead or salmon.


Use larger rods when fishing with larger bait and for larger fish.
 Designed to either shorten or expand, telescopic rods range anywhere from 20 - 30 feet in length but can be collapsed down to as short as 1.5 feet. Choose telescopic rods made out of graphite, fiberglass, or composite material to ensure both durability and flexibility. Each section is designed to fit into another section while keeping the structural integrity of the rod.Telescopic rods are meant for easy transport. Make sure you follow proper maintenance procedures including using tip covers for each section of the rod when transporting. The sections should close easier if they are shorter in length. More sections translate into better weight and stress distribution that can create a farther cast and less breakage when you are involved with a stronger fish.

