 Tickets are often priced according to the time of day when the train runs. Most people want to travel by train between 4:00 and 7:00 in the evening, or any time in the morning prior to 10:00. Therefore, tickets for trips that operate during those times are often priced more expensively than off-peak times. If you’re in no particular rush to arrive at your destination, look for tickets at different times of day to locate off-peak tickets that can save you money.Sundays and Fridays are also peak travel times, since the rail lines tend to attract people traveling somewhere or other for the weekend on Friday, then returning Sunday from wherever they went.
 Railway companies tend to jack their prices up as the date of departure draws closer. In order to avoid getting gouged, book your tickets as soon as you know when you want to leave and where you want to go.Buying early is especially important when shopping for deals around holidays. When lots of people are traveling, ticket prices rise dramatically.
 While it is good practice to buy your tickets early, you might, paradoxically, be able to get your tickets cheap if you buy them at the last possible moment. This is because when the train departs the station with empty seats, the rail company has no way to recoup the costs of the unsold tickets. Therefore, they attract late-coming customers by steeply discounting unsold tickets.However, if you choose to buy your tickets at the last minute, there’s a good chance that the tickets will all be sold out. Therefore, it is best to plan ahead and buy your train tickets well in advance of your planned date of departure.
 Rail companies often price their tickets in seemingly inexplicable ways. For instance, tickets to Detroit might cost $50 for a Wednesday trip, but $30 for a Thursday trip. If you do not urgently need to get to Detroit on Wednesday, check for tickets on adjacent days. If you have the good luck to find cheaper tickets on a different day, think about pushing your schedule back to take advantage of the lower rates.