 Locate the app on your iPad. It has a red app icon with something that resembles an arrowhead. Tap on it.;
, All the albums and photos from your media gallery will be brought up on your screen.
 Navigate through your photo albums and select the photo you want to scribble on. Tap on it. The photo will be brought to full screen.
 There are two round buttons on the screen. On the left side is the button that controls the size and color of what will appear. On the right side is the button that contains the different writing and drawing tools available.
 Tap the tools button on the right, and it will be expanded. You can see buttons for smileys, common marks, highlighter, shapes, texts, and arrowhead. Tap the tool you want to use to mark on the photo.
 Tap the color and size button on the left, and it will be expanded. You can see all the available colors and the different pen sizes. Tap on the color and the size you want to use.
 Once you’ve selected the tool, its color, and its size, use your finger to write or draw on the photo. You can put your marks anywhere.
 When you’re done, tap the X mark on the top left corner. A menu will appear. You can choose between “Discard Changes” or “Save to Photos.” The first option will remove everything you’ve done on your photo and exit the screen. The second option will save your photo with all the markings done to your media gallery.
, You can get the map for your current location or for any address. There are two buttons on the screen. One is for Nearby and the other is for Address.


Finding your current location. Tap the “Nearby” button, and a map will appear on your screen. It will zoom in to your current location. It’s identified by a blue dot on the map.
Finding another location. Tap the “Address” button, and a general map will appear on your screen with a search field at the top. Enter the address of the location you want in the search field, and tap the “Search” button on the keypad. The map will automatically draw to the location you’ve set. A red pin will drop to identify it.
 Use your fingers to move around the map and to zoom in and out. When you have reached the desired map view, tap the “Snap” button on the top right corner. The current map view will be saved as a photo, and it will be brought to full screen.
 There are two round buttons on the screen. On the left side is the button that controls the size and color of what will appear. On the right side is the button that contains the different writing and drawing tools available.
 Tap the tools button on the right, and it will be expanded. You can see buttons for smileys, common marks, highlighter, shapes, texts, and arrowhead. Tap on the tool you want to use to mark on the map.
 Tap the color and size button on the left, and it will be expanded. You can see all the available colors and the different pen sizes. Tap on the color and the size you want to use.
 Once you’ve selected the tool, its color, and its size, use your finger to write or draw on the map. You can put your marks anywhere.
 When you’re done, tap the X mark on the top left corner. A menu will appear. You can choose between “Discard Changes” or “Save to Photos.” The first option will remove everything you’ve done on your map and exit the screen. The second option will save your map as a photo with all the markings done to your media gallery.
, A blank canvas will be brought to full screen.
 There are two round buttons on the screen. On the left side is the button that controls the size and color of what will appear. On the right side is the button that contains the different writing and drawing tools available.
 Tap the tools button on the right and it will be expanded. You can see buttons for smileys, common marks, highlighter, shapes, texts, and arrowhead. Tap on the tool you want to use to mark on the paper.
 Tap the color and size button on the left and it will be expanded. You can see all the available colors and the different pen sizes. Tap on the color and the size you want to use.
 Once you’ve selected the tool, its color, and its size, use your finger to write or draw on the paper. You can put your marks anywhere.
 When you’re done, tap the X mark on the top left corner. A menu will appear. You can choose between “Discard Changes” or “Save to Photos.” The first option will remove everything you’ve done on your paper and exit the screen. The second option will save your drawing as a photo to your media gallery.
 You can get the PDF files you want to mark from your email app or your cloud app, for example Dropbox. Open it.
 Navigate through your emails or your cloud directory until you find the PDF file you want to mark.
 Tap the PDF file. Most email apps and cloud apps support viewing of pdf files. If yours does, it will be loaded on your screen.
 On the header toolbar, tap the square icon with an arrow pointing up. This will bring out the menu for sharing. A list of apps that can support the PDF file will be displayed. Swipe through them and tap “Open in Skitch.”


The document will be opened in Skitch, and you can view it in full screen.
 There are two round buttons on the screen. On the left side is the button that controls the size and color of what will appear. On the right side is the button that contains the different writing and drawing tools available.
 Tap the tools button on the right and it will be expanded. You can see buttons for smileys, common marks, highlighter, shapes, texts, and arrowhead. Tap on the tool you want to use to mark on the document.
 Tap the color and size button on the left and it will be expanded. You can see all the available colors and the different pen sizes. Tap on the color and the size you want to use.
 Once you’ve selected the tool, its color, and its size, use your finger to write or draw on the document. You can put your marks anywhere.
 When you’re done, tap the X mark on the top left corner. A menu will appear. You can choose between “Discard Changes” or “Save to Photos.” The first option will remove everything you’ve done on your document and exit the screen. The second option will save your document as a photo with all the markings done to your media gallery.

