 Sulfates in shampoo are great at stripping away dirt and oils, but they are incredibly drying to hair and can cause excess frizz. Opt for shampoos and conditioners that are sulfate-free to reduce the drying, fizzing effect on your strands., Hair products such as hair spray can dry out your hair.Before you buy any hair product, check for alcohol in the ingredients list. If you spot alcohol in the ingredients list, don’t buy the product.


Not all alcohols dry out your hair. Fatty alcohols Lauryl alcohol, Cetyl alcohol, Myristyl alcohol, Stearyl alcohol, Cetearyl alcohol and Behenyl alcohol, will not be as drying., Tools that expose your hair to heat, such as blow dryers, straighteners and curlers, can cause damage that may contribute to frizz. Using these products often can cause permanent damage, so it is best to save them for special occasions.


If you choose to blow dry your hair, consider investing in a diffuser to reduce the amount of direct heat on your hair.When using a standard blow dryer, wait until hair is 90% air dried, then use a blow dryer to dry the last 10% of your hair. This will help to reduce the damage caused by the heat.When using heat-stylers, you may also want to consider using a special spray to protect hair cuticles from the heat, and to lock in moisture. There are many products that will add a layer of protection to your hair cuticles so that they are not as easily damaged by the direct heat., Regular shampoo dries out your hair and the friction that comes from washing your hair can contribute to frizz as well. Try using a dry shampoo in between washes to help eliminate oil near your scalp. This will control frizz by reducing your need for continual washing.








Be sure to look at your dry shampoo to see if it uses a non-fatty alcohol. Short-chain alcohols can actually make the problem worse over time.
 Applying styling products right after getting out of the shower can help to lock in moisture.Just be sure to wring out your hair first or the products will not absorb. Look for products that contain polymers and silicone, which help fight humidity.


For fine, wavy hair, try using mousse. It will not weigh your hair down as much. For thicker hair, try gels and creams, which can hold up against thicker curls.When using products on frizzy hair, make sure to focus the product toward the ends of your hair. Work the product up until it is about halfway through up your hair. The ends dry out faster, and applying product to your scalp will only make your hair look greasy.,