 A change of address due to a move is not a matter for disputing your credit report. A dispute is the means for correcting something that is blatantly incorrect. This may include either an address that you never used, or something as simple as a typographical error.For example, if your correct address is 123 Main Street, but it appears on your credit report as “124 Main Street,” you should treat this as disputing an error.
 If you wish to notify Experian of an error in your address, you can do so either by mail or online. Making the report online will usually lead to faster service.You can make online corrections at http://www.experian.com/disputes/how-to-dispute.html. You will see a link to “Start a New Dispute Online,” and then follow the steps from there to report the correct address.
You can notify Experian by mail of any disputed information by writing to Experian’s National Consumer Assistance Center, P.O. Box 4500, Allen, TX 75013. In your letter, include a clear statement that your address on your credit report is incorrect. Provide the information that currently appears, and then state what you believe the correct information should show. If you have supporting documentation, like a utility bill or driver’s license, you should include copies.
 For Equifax, you can begin the dispute process online, or you may submit a report by mail. Reporting incorrect information online is usually going to produce faster results.To report corrections online, begin at the Equifax Online Dispute page at https://www.ai.equifax.com/CreditInvestigation/home.action. Click on the link to “Get Started,” and then follow the steps to submit your report.
To report incorrect information by mail, you may write to Equifax Information Services, LLC, P.O. Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374.
 You may dispute incorrect information to TransUnion either by mail or through its online process. The online reporting will lead to faster results.


To report online, visit the screen to dispute an error online, at https://dispute.transunion.com/dp/dispute/landingPage.jsp. This screen will prompt you for a userid and password. If you have not used this system before, you will need to create an account. After that, you will be able to enter the details of your dispute. Tell them about the incorrect address, and then provide the new information. You can use the same account to check on the status of your dispute later on.
To report an incorrect address by mail, for TransUnion you will treat it just the same as an address change. Send a letter requesting the correction, along with two forms of proof, such as an ID or utility bill, to to TransUnion, LLC, Consumer Disclosure Center, P.O. Box 1000, Chester, PA 19016.

