 This is a powerful free DVD authoring program for Linux. You can install it from the Terminal by typing sudo apt-get install devede.
 After installing DeVeDe, you can launch it from your Linux menu. It will be in the "Sound & Video" section, or you can search for it.
 This will start a new video DVD project.
 This will let you browse your computer for video files to add to your project.
 If you are in the US, select NTSC. If you are in Europe, select PAL.
 If you know what you're doing, you can use the Advanced options to adjust the audio and video quality settings for the file conversion process. Most users can leave these at their defaults.


One major setting you may want to use in the "Advanced options" section is the "Split file into chapters" option in the "General" tab. This will add chapter markers to your video file at the interval you set, allowing you to quickly skip between parts of the movie. This is especially useful for full-length movies.
 Once you've added the video file, you'll need to adjust the Title settings for it. Select "Title 1" from the "Titles" list and click "Properties". This will allow you to change the name of the Title and modify the behavior for the Title button if you want.
 The amount of space available on the DVD will be displayed in the bar in the "Disc usage" section.
 DeVeDe will create a very basic menu for your DVD by default, which you can preview by clicking "Preview menu". Clicking the "Menu options" button will allow you to create a custom menu using your own images and music.
 Like your video format, you'll need to choose NTSC or PAL for your disc format.
 Once you're happy with your video files and menu, you can click the "Forward" button to begin the ISO creation process.


You will be prompted to select where you want the ISO file to be saved. DeVeDe doesn't actually burn the project to disc, but creates an image that you can burn with another utility.
Once you've selected the location you want to save the ISO to, DeVeDe will begin converting the video and creating the ISO file.
 This is the best format for burning DVD videos. DVD-RW discs allow you to reburn, but they don't work in all DVD players.
 Virtually all Linux distributions come with a burning application installed, but the actual app will vary depending on the distribution you are using.
 Use your burning app to burn the ISO file to your blank DVD. Once the burning process is complete, your video DVD is ready to use in any DVD player.

