 Use big letters and leave some room between letters to separate syllables.


Write the word in a blue. You will later be drawing vertical lines to separate syllables, which you can color in red. This will provide visual contrast and help you picture how words are broken up.
Look at where the vowels fall in your word. Every syllable will have a vowel, but may not always have a consonant., Prefixes are sets of letters added to the beginning of a word to give it a specific meaning.For example, the word "play" is different than the word "replay." "Play" means to show something once; "replay" means to show something again.
Many prefixes are usually one syllable, for example rewind, predetermine, and postmortem.
Some prefixes have more than 1 syllable. If your prefix has more than one vowel and the vowels are separated by consonants, it is more than one syllable. For example: "anti" is a prefix with two syllables. "Ant" is one syllable and "i" is the other.
Prefixes with more than one vowel that are not separated by consonants most likely are only 1 syllable. For example: "eu" in "eulogy" is only 1 syllable.
 Separate the prefix from the remaining letters in your word.


For example, "re | wind." Now you can start to see how your word is made up of smaller chunks of letters.
For prefixes with more than one vowel, look at the where the vowels fall. If your prefix has more than one vowel and has consonants between them, draw a line after the first consonant that follows your first vowel. For example: "an | ti."
Many words don't have prefixes. If your word doesn't have a prefix, don't worry about this step.
 Suffixes are like prefixes, but they are added to the end of the word to make them mean something different.


For example: "calculate" means something different than "calculator. Calculate is when you find the amount of something; calculator is a tool for helping you find that amount.
Like prefixes, suffixes are usually one syllable but can sometimes be more than 1. Common suffixes include "s," "ed," and "ing," as in "computers," "computed," and "computing."

, If your word has both a prefix and suffix, you should have two lines drawn in your word so far.


For example: "re | wind | ing."
If your suffix has more than one vowel, follow the same rule as with prefixes. If vowels have consonants between them, draw a line after the first consonant that follows your first vowel. For example: flex | ib | le.
Some words don't have prefixes or suffixes. If your word does not have a suffix, do not draw a line.
 If there are two separate words have been put together, draw a line between them.


For example: "tree | house" or "water | slide."

, If you have a section of letters with multiple vowels that are separated by consonants, divide it so that there is at least one vowel in each segment.


For example: "comput | ing" would be broken up into "com | put | ing."

, Pause every time you get to a line. This should help you audibly separate your word into smaller chunks.

