 Even if you are a seasoned math teacher, you may not be up to date on new methods and techniques for solving a certain problem. Therefore, before you begin to teach a new concept, take a few hours to refresh your memory on the theory behind the concept. Read about any new methodologies that may be used to solve a particular problem.


This will ensure that you are ready for the many, many questions that students may have. It may also give you new ideas and examples to help students learn.
 For some reason, in the subject of math, students get the idea in their head that they either are good at math or they aren’t. While math may come more quickly to some than to others, with the right tools, anyone can learn the math skills they need to become successful.Therefore, you should encourage your students, and don’t let them believe they are just “bad at math.”


If one of your students say, “I just don’t get it. I can’t do math, and I will never learn this.” You can reply with something like, “I know this is a challenging topic, but it’s not true that you can’t do math because, just like everyone can learn to read, everyone can learn to do math. Let’s try approaching this topic in a different way.”

, If the student is made to feel bad about giving a wrong answer, they are unlikely to want to give any more answers. Therefore, you should avoid scolding them or making them feel stupid for trying.If they get the wrong answer, ask the student to show you how they came to that answer. This way, you will be able to show them exactly where they went wrong.
 When you are teaching them something new, find a real world problem that is related to the concept you are teaching, and ask them to think about and tell you how they might solve it before you explain each step. This will help the student feel a sense of involvement and accomplishment when you both get to the method you are teaching together.For example, if you are teaching students about least common multiples (which refers to the lowest quantity that is a multiple of two or more numbers), give them a real life example, where they are a manager trying to schedule a meeting with 5 colleagues. Give them the availability of the 5 colleagues, and ask them how they would figure out when the best time to hold a meeting would be.
Not only does this allow them to become engaged in the problem, it also demonstrates how math is important in the real world. This is good because many students believe that they won’t use the math they learn in the real world.
 If you are working one-on-one with a student, you can plan to teach the subject with that particular student in mind. For example, if you know the student you are working with needs visual examples, you can incorporate videos or stories to help them. However, if you are teaching to a classroom of students you will have different students with different ways of learning and understanding. Therefore, be prepared to explain a single concept in several different ways.Have visual explanations such as YouTube videos ready to go, have real world problems prepared, and of course, have a more theoretical explanation of the concept for those who tend to learn best simply through direct lecturing.

