 Establish a workout routine about 6 months before your wedding. Try to work out at least three times a week for thirty or more minutes. This is the minimum amount of time needed to start impacting your body and seeing results. Working out doesn't only tone and thin your body, it's also a great stress reliever. If you can't make it to the gym or a fitness class, there are things you can do on your own as a workout. Take a run or a brisk walk around your neighborhood. You can also buy free-weights at stores like Walmart or Dicks Sporting Goods if you want to lift weights.
Stretch before a workout. Stretching is essential to making sure you don't injure yourself before a workout. Stretching also increases your blood flow and circulation, which is energizing and can improve your mood. If you enjoy stretch-related exercise, try out a yoga or Pilates class. , This can mean things like taking the stairs instead of the elevator, or biking instead of driving. Doing this won't take any time out of your schedule, but it will make you happier and healthier. These are good ways to keep up your fitness in the busy weeks before your wedding. , As you are starting your fitness routine, make an effort to eat healthier. Choose 1% milk as opposed to 3%. If you are eating a sandwich, choose a whole grain bread. Try to find the healthy version of everyday things that you eat. These changes make it easier to transition to a healthy lifestyle without giving up your normal diet. Recreating your favorite foods at home is a great way to do this. If you crave pizza, buy a pizza crust from the grocery store along with sauce, low-fat cheese and some veggie toppings. This will satisfy your craving in a healthy way.
 Try to make half your plate at meal times contain either fruit or vegetables. They are essential in giving you the vitamins, minerals and fiber you need for great health. Keep fresh vegetables like baby carrots or sugar snap peas around for snacking. Snacking on veggies is filling and good for your body. , Food is awesome, but if you're not hungry anymore then it's time to stop. Getting into this habit will help you maintain or even lose weight. Slow down how fast you eat, and really consider whether you are still hungry. Sometimes you get full before you mentally realize it, so eating more slowly will help you be in touch more with your body and hunger. , You want to glow on the day of your wedding, not be worried about blemishes. In the months before your wedding, be sure to wash your face twice a day with a facial cleanser.


To wash your face, splash lukewarm water on your face. Use your fingertips to apply cleanser gently to your face in circular motions. Rinse with lukewarm water again and pat dry with a clean towel. If you wear makeup, be sure to remove makeup before with a gentle makeup remover before washing your face. Just washing your face will not remove all makeup.
Do not wash your face more than twice a day. Washing to much can irritate or dry your skin. Try to wash your face only at the beginning and end of the day, or after sweating. , Moisturizing protects and revitalizes skin. Even if you are prone to oily skin, it's important to moisturize daily. It's best to moisturize at the beginning and end of the day after washing your face. Taking a bath or shower actually dries your skin, so any time you get wet it is a good idea to moisturize afterwards. You can buy moisturizer that is made for your skin type. If you know that you have especially oily, dry or sensitive skin, get a moisturizer specifically formulated for your skin type.
 Not only can wearing sunscreen prevent skin cancer, it can also keep your skin looking healthy and great. Take care when you are in the sun in the months leading up to your wedding by applying sunscreen thirty minutes before going out in the sun to all exposed body parts. Make sure that the SPF is at least 15 or above. Pay close attention to covering your face, which is a sensitive area. Reapply every few hours that you are in the sun according to the directions on the bottle. If you are worried about your face getting burned, consider wearing a hat as well as sunscreen for long periods in the sun.
If you have acne-prone or oily skin, use a water-based sunscreen.
If you are outside swimming, get a sunscreen meant for water exposure.

