 Spray it with cooking spray, being sure to get in all the corners. Put it to the side for later., Place a medium-sized saucepan on the stove. Add the ingredients for the sugar syrup: sugar, honey, water, and cream of tartar.Set the temperature to high heat. Once the candy is boiling, lower the temperature to medium-high heat.Use a candy thermometer to track the temperature. It's done when it reaches 260 degrees Fahrenheit. It should take about 15 minutes., Put a large saucepan on the stove. Add the ingredients for the cornstarch mixture: cornstarch, confectioners' sugar, water, and cream of tartar. Stir to mix the ingredients together.Turn the heat up to medium. You can do this step in the last few minutes the syrup is cooking, when the syrup is at 250 degrees Fahrenheit. The cornstarch should boil in a couple of minutes. When it does, turn the burner off.Keep the pot on the stove. Stir the mixture. Take it off the stove., When it reaches 260 degrees Fahrenheit, remove the syrup. Add it to the cornstarch mixture, mixing well.Put the pan back on the stove. Turn the burner to medium heat. When it reaches a low boil, turn the heat down to low. At that temperature, you need to cook it for 30 minutes to an hour. It's done when it thickens and is a light amber.Be sure to stir often., Once it reaches the right stage, take the pan off the heat. Add the rosewater, pistachios, and food coloring., You'll need them in the next step., Cover it with plastic wrap, letting it touch the surface. The plastic wrap is to stop a skin from forming., Take off the plastic the next day., Sprinkle the confectioner's sugar over a cutting board or clean marble counter. Place the candy on the board. You may need to use a knife to separate it from the pan., As you cut 1-inch pieces, coat the pieces in the cornstarch mixture. Use a very sharp knife when cutting., Once the candy is dredged, stack it in an airtight container. Use wax paper to separate out the layers.You can keep it on the counter for about a month, as long as it's not too hot in your kitchen.