 The main focus of the HCG diet is healthy weight loss, and it is counter productive if you don't have the weight to lose.;
, Dieting is difficult, and while the HCG diet is one of the simplest diet programs around, it still requires the dedication to actually want to get rid of your fat.
 Do your research and find the most suitable supplier with the highest quality product.
 They are to be taken 3 times a day, before meals. Try not to eat for 15 minutes after taking your drops, though. Each dose is .38 ml under your tongue. Some companies only supply a small dropper, leaving you to guess, and often resulting you in running out of HCG before you should. The higher quality companies will supply you with a clearly marked oral syringe, making measuring your dose extremely easy.
 For the first 2 days of taking the drops you will be consuming full portions of high fat foods, such as: eggs, avocado, dairy, nuts, fatty fish, and olive oil. This loads your normal fat cells, preparing your body to burn off the abnormal fat you are trying to get rid of. The average American diet is sufficient for this stage, but stay away from fried foods and fast food.
 You will remain on 500 calories a day for the remainder of the diet, save for the last 3 days of drops, which we will cover in the next step. There is a plethora of cook books and recipes available specifically for use on the HCG diet. Acceptable foods could include lean beef, chicken, lean fish, egg whites, citrus, green vegetables, shrimp, etc.
 This step is to clear the HCG from your system, and prepare you for your maintenance phase.
 You made it through the most difficult part, but you aren't out of the woods quite yet. You lost all that weight in such a short amount of time, but this next step is to make sure it remains gone. For 3 weeks, you will bump your caloric intake up to 1500 calories a day. This is to train your body to remain at it's current weight and to prepare your body to reintroduce starches into your diet.



You have a couple options now. If you are happy with your new weight, you can begin to reintroduce healthy carbs back into your diet. If you still have more weight you would like to lose, you can start the diet again from the start (the fat loading stage) Be wary though. If you have been on the drops for 40 days or more, you will need to wait 30 days before you can begin taking the drops again.

