 Take time for yourself every day to refresh and relax. This might be something small, such as going for a walk or watching a basketball game. Sometimes, you might choose something more substantial, such as taking a vacation. Give yourself something every day that you can look forward to., Building up your confidence and esteem is a necessary part of living with depression.


Make a list of your strengths and achievements. Have a friend or family member help you if you’re having trouble putting this list together. Tape this list to your fridge or bathroom mirror as a reminder of your worth.Pay attention to your personal hygiene. You’ll feel better inside and out when you take care of your body.
 It can be difficult to remain positive when you are depressed, but having a positive outlook on life can help you manage your depression more effectively. Acknowledge negative thoughts and let them go.Begin to replace negative thoughts with more positive ones.


For example, if you are upset because your bills feel overwhelming, try replacing this thought with, “I feel more in control because I’ve cut down on my monthly spending.” Speak these words out loud, which can have a positive effect on your outlook., Give yourself some motivation by setting goals for yourself. It’s important to make these goals attainable, so you might want to start out with smaller goals and work towards larger ones.


Reward yourself when you achieve your goals.
For example, set a goal to spend at least 15 minutes three times a week with a support person, such as your sibling or best friend. You might also set a goal of scheduling two relaxing activities per week, such as going to a movie or getting a massage., Some research has found a link between depression and repressed creativity. When a creative person finds it difficult to find an expressive outlet, he may be prone to depression. Give yourself a creative outlet by painting, writing or participating in an art class., Sunlight provides you with vitamin D. Some research suggests increased amounts of vitamin D and sunlight can have a positive effect on your mood. Open up the curtains or go outside to feel the sunlight on your face and lift your mood., Some health problems can make depression worse or more difficult to deal with. By taking care of other health problems, such as dental problems, diabetes, high blood pressure, or other issues, you’ll ensure that your body is in good physical health.

