 After introducing yourself, inquire about your conversation partner. Most people love to talk about themselves, so ask them about their work, their interests, or what they like to do for fun. For instance, you might ask, “So, do you have any weekend plans?”Seize upon commonalities, if any emerge in the course of conversation. For example, if someone intends to see a movie you’re interested in seeing, exclaim, “Ah, yes, that film looks interesting! I intend to see it as well!”

, After introducing yourself to someone at the party, you could try using flattery to create good feelings between you and the other person. For instance, you might say, “Wow, I love your earrings” or “That’s a sharp suit. Where’d you get it?”, This can encompass a range of different conversation subjects depending on the circumstances of the party. For instance, if you’re mingling with strangers at a Halloween party, you could say, “Wow, I love your costume” or “So, tell me about your costume.” If you’re at a party for the opening of a museum exhibit, ask your conversation partner, “Have you ever been here before?” or “Are you familiar with this artist?”Talking about the food or venue in a positive way are also appropriate.
 Good conversation should be a give-and-take experience. Don’t ramble on endlessly. Share your feelings or ideas, then allow someone else to jump in. If your conversation partner hasn’t said anything in a while, ask them a question or solicit their opinion just to ensure you., If someone tells a whimsical or lighthearted joke or story, laugh or respond with an equally lighthearted comment. This will make the conversation enjoyable for everyone involved., If someone asks you how you know the host, you could answer with a plain answer like, “We work together.” Instead, try to spice your answers up with a story. For instance, you might reply to the same question about the host by saying, “I met her on my first day of work. She had all these pictures of pigs spread out on the light table and was looking at each one carefully with a magnifying glass.”Include funny or memorable details in your story. Smile and laugh when appropriate.
 There are several ways to end a conversation. You could declare your intention to get another drink or some food. You might also make an observation like, “It’s rather warm in here,” then exit the conversation.Finally, you could drag someone else into the conversation to “replace” you. For instance, you might say, “Shirley, come over here and listen to what Gina was saying about bees. It’s truly fascinating.”
There’s no right or wrong time to end a conversation, but if you’re bored or if someone is talking your ear off, you should think about leaving.
 Mingling requires moving around, meeting lots of people, and not getting stuck in one place. After exiting one conversation, find or start another., When mingling with strangers at a party, do not criticize the host, the other guests, or the venue. This will get a bad reaction from many people. Plus, since you’re talking to a stranger, you could be talking to a relative or close friend of the host, who might be deeply offended by your comments.For the same reason, avoid subjects that focus on pain, misfortune, or tragedy.
Gossip or controversial topics are also taboo.

