 Reinvention starts at the mind. You won't be able to reinvent yourself if you're stuck in the same old thinking patterns. While you may have many healthy thinking patterns, you could always improve some of the aspects of your thinking as you move forward in your journey. Here are some great places to start:



Think more positively. If you find yourself often picturing the worst thing that could happen in any scenario, thinking that everyone is mad at you because you've made a mistake, or convinced that nothing you do can improve your life, then it's time to make a concerted effort to be a more positive thinker every single day. Start by pinning down your negative thoughts and practicing positive responses to assure you that you're going down the right path.
Improve your thinking about the future. Many people are filled with anxiety and dread when they think of the future -- but not you! At least, not anymore. Make sure that any thoughts of the future, however uncertain, put you in a happy and excited place.
Improve the way you think about yourself. Gain confidence and learn to love the person you really are, how you look, and what you do. Without confidence, you won't have the ability to change.
Improve the way you view your situation in life. Learn to be more grateful for the things you do have instead of focusing on the things you want.
 Though you may think you're a model mother, significant other, or friend, there is always room for improvement. If you want to reinvent yourself, it's time to change the way that you interact with others -- whether it's the mailman or your husband of thirty years. Here are some things you can do:


Be a better friend. Take the time to listen to your friends more, to help them with their problems, and to do little favors that will light up your friends' days. Work on being less selfish and more caring toward your friends.
Be a better significant other. Take the time to be more romantic and more adventurous, and to tell your loved one how you really feel every single day.
Be a better employee. Whether you're the boss, or working on the ground floor, take the time to get to know your coworkers and to be kind and helpful.
Be a better citizen. Take the time to be generous and to volunteer in your community, whether it's to teach children how to read at your local library, or to clean up your community park every Saturday.
 Unless you're a complete health guru, it's likely that you can take some steps to improve your overall health. Improving your body will lead to major improvements in your mind, and you will be better equipped to deal with daily problems and will feel more positive and energetic along the way. Here are some great ways to improve your health:


Find a new exercise routine. Take a yoga, salsa dancing, or karate class, and fall in love with the new activity as well as its health benefits.
Take time for a few 20-minute walks a few times a week. Taking walks will not only improve your health, but it will give you time to reflect on your new vision for your future.
Be a healthy eater. Learn to eat three balanced meals a day, filled with healthy carbs, lean proteins, and plenty of fruits and vegetables.
Do whatever you can to reduce stress in your life -- this will have numerous health benefits. Take the time to unwind for half an hour before you go to bed, minimize your extra commitments, reduce caffeine intake, and try to eliminate as many stress-causing factors in your life as you can.

