 Decide if you want to open and close your drape by pulling a cord or if you want to manually pull the fabric itself to open and close your drapes.









A rod that uses a cord is called a traverse rod. The back side of a traverse rod has a series of small plastic carriers or decorative rings onto which the drapery panels are hung with the use of hooks or pins. The carriers or rings then slide open or closed as the cord is pulled. Pinch pleat drapes work well with traverse rods.

Decide if you want your drapes to open and stack on the left or on the right side of your window or evenly on each side. Choose a left pull, a right pull or a middle draw traverse rod accordingly.
Motorized traverse rods are a high-tech option that allow you to open and close your drapes with the flip of a switch.


A rod that requires you to open and close the drapes by hand is called a stationary rod. Tab top, back tab or grommet drapes work well with this style of rod. Since the tabs or grommets slide onto the rod, the panels can be pulled open or closed easily.

If you want to keep the drapes open and pulled away from the window, you can use tie-backs to hold them in place.
A spring tension rod is a special kind of stationary rod that adjusts to fit inside the window frame. The ends of the rod are covered in rubber to prevent it from scratching and damaging the frame. A tension rod is used for sheers or other light-weight fabric panels.
A cafe rod is another type of specialty rod. It's small in diameter and fairly plain in appearance. It's meant to hold lightweight drapes and is typically used in kitchens or bathrooms.


If you plan to layer your drapes, that is, hang sheers under your drapes or a valance over them or both, you may want to purchase a double- or triple-rod set. Another option is to purchase an additional rod for each layer.
Consider the style and design theme of your home when you purchase your drapery rods and pick something that will complement the look of your room.;
, Taking accurate measurements is key to success when hanging a curtain rod. Measure 3" out and 4" above your windows and mark the spots with a pencil.









If your rod is more than 5' long, mark a point 4" above and at the center of the window where you may want to install a support bracket for extra stability.
If you want to give the illusion of higher ceilings, measure 1" down from the ceiling for your top measurement. You may have to adjust this measurement a bit if your rods have large finials (decorative end pieces).
 As you measure, use a level and sturdy metal tape measure to ensure that your line is perfectly straight. If it's not, your curtains will hang unevenly.
 Using the hardware that came with your drapery rod, hold it in place at the pre-measured height and width and make small pencil marks to indicate where the screws will go.
 Make the hole tiny, just enough to get the screw started.









Don't start with a screw - it will likely damage the woodwork.
If you make the hole too big, it may be too wide for the screw and leave your rods loose.
 Purchase sheet rock anchors at your local hardware store and gently hammer them into the holes that you drilled for the bracket hardware. The anchors will help ensure that your rod stays firmly in place.
 Using the hardware that came with your rods, screw the brackets into the anchors installed on your wall. Make sure your screws go straight into the wall, not at an angle. .








