 Your competitive advantage is what your business offers customers that your competitors cannot offer. Competitive advantages can arise from exclusivity, quality, uniqueness, or cost. For example, one business might be able to undercut all of its competitors on price and remain profitable. Another business might have a competitive advantage by offering a unique or patented service. Figure out what your competitive advantage is and then use it to form your primary marketing statement.For example, the premium music streaming service mentioned in the previous example might advertise as "the only platform that streams at a rate of 1411 kbps."

, Your marketing efforts need to effectively get your message across to your ideal customers. Focus on tailoring your message so that it speaks to the problems and needs of your ideal customer. Your advertising content and visuals need to be in line with the interests and values of your ideal customer while still reflecting your business's brand.


Try to pinpoint your target customer's "pain points," which are problems that your product or service can solve, and design your marketing strategies around addressing them.

For example, a customer might be unhappy with the quality of the product or service they are currently using. Other pain points might include high prices or hard to use products or services.


This should also be applied to the channel you use for advertising. Only use those that your ideal customers are likely to use as well.For example, some customers may not use the radio or television very frequently, but often find themselves browsing online. In that case, you would want to focus marketing efforts online.
 Your marketing materials need to do more than just tell your ideal customer that you can fix their problems. You need to give product details in a concise way, being clear about exactly how your product or service is used and what it does.


Then, provide proof of your claims by offering some type of data or content to back up your claims.
These can include customer testimonials, reviews, success rates, rankings, or other statistics., Whenever you launch a new marketing strategy, make sure to track your returns from that strategy. Look for rises in sales that occurred after a new strategy was implemented. You can then compare the return to the cost of the strategy to assess your return on investment.


This metric can then be used to redirect future marketing efforts to make them more efficient and effective.