 Not fueling your body can cause sleepiness and fatigue. By eating a balanced diet of at least 3 small meals a day, along with healthy snacks in between, you fight off fatigue by keeping your blood sugar levels in check. Eating throughout the day also helps you sustain your energy levels.


Don't skip meals, especially breakfast. Start the day with protein and complex carbs instead of sugary foods. Too much sugar in the morning can cause you to crash later in the day. Try eggs and whole-grain toast., Diets with high concentrations of fat can make you sleepier during the day. A study done at Penn State University found participants who ate more fatty foods were sleepier during the day. Diets high in fat can also decrease alertness.Carbohydrates were found to help fight fatigue during the day. Diets high in protein also help give you sustained energy.
Don't eat lunches with high concentrations of fat. Instead of fries, eat a baked potato.
 Dehydration can cause sleepiness. Drink water continuously throughout the day. On average, you need 6-8 cups of water a day. If you are doing any physical activity, have 2 cups of water before the activity and 2 more after.


If you feel thirsty, you're already dehydrated and need to drink more water.
Your urine should be a light color if you are drinking enough water., Instead of getting a sugary snack, like a candy bar, eat a healthy snack. Snacks full of protein and other healthy ingredients will help give you lasting energy without the crash.


Try peanut, almond, or cashew butter on apples, celery, whole wheat crackers, or a piece of whole wheat bread.
Put some fresh fruit into Greek yogurt or unsweetened plain yogurt. Also try honey or nuts in it, too.
Eat baby carrots, cucumbers, or cherry tomatoes with low-fat cream cheese dips.Eat avocado with tomatoes, nuts, or other vegetables.
 Caffeine helps you wake up by getting your heart pumping and stimulating your body. It also helps improve concentration and attention span. However, caffeine can be addictive and cause headaches and anxiety.Coffee is a common way people get caffeine. An average cup of coffee has 95-200 mg for an 8 ounce cup.Consuming coffee can give you "jitters" after you drink it, so you may want to limit your intake.
Tea is another common way to get caffeine. Tea may be more effective at keeping you awake because in addition to caffeine, it has three other stimulants that work with caffeine: Theophylline, Theobromine, and L-theanine. Coffee gives you a kick after drinking it, whereas tea works continually through the day to keep you awake and alert. Tea won't give you that wired, jittery feeling after drinking it.In some individuals, caffeine can cause fatigue., Many people use alcohol to help them sleep. This might seem effective because you quickly fall asleep after drinking the alcohol. This is because it sedates your body. However, when the body starts to metabolize the alcohol, it overshoots, which can wake you up in the middle of the night. To help fight sleepiness the next day, don't drink alcohol to help you fall asleep the night before.


Alcohol has been shown to disrupt sleep patterns, which can make you feel sleepy the next day.