 Maybe you’re both into hiking or you’re both into amusement parks, or maybe one of you likes the beach and the other prefers the mountains. Find someplace that has something for both of you, especially if your tastes differ. It can be a sweet gesture to choose the destination that your new spouse loves, but if there’s nothing there to interest you, it will be far less fun for both of you.;
, No matter how blissful you might be feeling, it’s hard to enjoy a vacation if the weather has you miserable, the lack of things to do is boring you out of your mind, or the tourist crowds are unbearable.


Assess the weather. If you’re getting married in a month of extreme heat or cold, you may want to find someplace more temperate to party. Check climate data websites to see what the average temperature is for the time of year you plan to visit.Travel during Shoulder Season—the period of time between peak and non-peak tourism dates. You might save quite a few pennies by coming in just after the high demand has gone, and not only will the pace be more laid back and enjoyable for you, you might find the locals friendlier and more welcoming when you’re not part of a mob of tourists.Delay your trip. Consider putting off your honeymoon for a few months if you’re getting married during your dream destination’s off season. This could have the side benefit of giving you more time to save.
 If you’re traveling in low season, or even Shoulder Season, some tourist destinations may have limited hours, or be closed altogether. The last thing you want to do is show up to a shut-down town. Consult the websites of the attractions you wish to visit to find a listing of their hours during your travel dates.
 While predicting the price of airfare can be difficult, most experts agree that purchasing your tickets around 60 days in advance will offer you the cheapest deals. Experts also suggest that ticket prices are now lowest on the weekends, so you should strive to purchase on a Saturday or Sunday.Start comparing airfare several months ahead of when you plan to purchase, so you can get a feel for fluctuations in cost for the flights you want to take. The more you pay attention to the average cost of your preferred flight, the more likely you are to recognize and snag a great deal.
Play around with flight options. Perhaps flights into or out of your destination city are cheaper on a different day, or a flight with one or more layovers is significantly cheaper than the nonstop version. Many airline websites allow you to look at price calendars to see which days are cheapest in the month you plan to travel.
Use a flight aggregator website or app to scour flight prices and options in one easy search. These sites look beyond what the larger airline travel sites offer, and often don’t charge a convenience fee, resulting in a more complete listing of less expensive choices. Beware, however, that some airlines don’t list on flight aggregators, and might offer a cheaper option to those who purchase through them directly., Avoid getting shut out in a booked-up city by reserving your room ahead of time. There is nothing fun or romantic about driving around, becoming more and more frustrated as you’re turned away from full hotels.


Weigh what is important to you when choosing a hotel. A nice room is a must, but it is also important to research location, transportation, safety, and accommodations outside of guest rooms. Hotel parking, internet, airport shuttle, proximity to attractions, and breakfasts are among things you should take into consideration when choosing your hotel.
Look for hotels that are centrally located to where you plan to spend most of your time. Shorter commutes can mean more time for fun!
Investigate big crowd events. Even a small convention, a sports game, or a parade can book up a city. If you want a quiet, romantic experience, make sure that your hotel isn’t hosting a prom or the venue for an army of rowdy convention-goers.
 Getting there is most important, but you must also consider how you’re going to get around while you’re there. You don’t want to waste time trying to figure out how a city’s subway works, or waiting for taxis in an off-the-beaten-path hotel.


Reserve a rental car. If your budget allows a little extra cash, rental cars are more comfortable and provide you with much more freedom and flexibility than public transportation. As with hotels, you want to research and make advance reservations for a rental car to get the cheapest and most convenient option.If you’re choosing public transportation, spend a little time before you leave studying subway maps and bus schedules so you’ll have an idea where you’re going before you get there. You can even calculate your anticipated fare costs and purchase subway and bus fare cards online before you go. Look up current taxi fare rates in your destination city to help budget for your trip., Reserve tour admissions and attraction tickets ahead of time whenever possible to avoid waiting in long ticket lines and to save a few dollars with online purchase-only discounts.
 Choose some nicer local restaurants you’d like to visit, then call or go online to see if they accept reservations. If they don't, ask if they have call-ahead seating.
 When in doubt, call the concierge at your hotel to see what dining and entertainment reservations they can secure for you. If they're unable to help you ahead of time, stop by their desk on your first day at the hotel.
 While a lavish, luxury vacation might sound enticing, remember that you have to come back to the real world when it’s over. You don’t want to start your new lives together with unnecessary debt. It can be easy to overspend with a charge card, and you could find yourself paying interest on that vacation long after the fun is over.Set up a vacation savings account that automatically deducts a few bucks from your paycheck is a practical way to save for your honeymoon. Disable online banking for that account—it can be easier to resist dipping into the funds for impulse spending when you have to physically go to the bank to withdraw money., Some experts recommend you spend no more than one week’s pay on any given vacation. Researching, making early reservations, and planning ahead will help you stay on budget.


Remember to include unexpected expenses, such as cold medicine, a visit to an urgent care, or replacement items due to lost luggage.
If you’re renting a car, remember to budget for parking, meter fares, and gasoline. If your hotel charges a parking fee, budget for that as well.
If you’re planning to use public transportation, budget for cab fare, bus fare, or subway fare. Don’t forget to budget for tips!

, They might be able to offer some cheaper travel packages than what you can find on your own. Be upfront with them about your spending limits, so you don’t get talked into something you can’t afford.
 If your dream hotel doesn’t appear to have any bookings available online, or if the rack rates are too high, call the hotel and ask if they can help you out. Front desk employees often know of discounts they can offer that aren't listed online.
 There are many cheaper ways to stay. Research all the available options in your destination’s area, including hostels, vacation rentals, B&Bs or even house swaps. You might just find a charming spot that is perfect for your romantic trip., Airports charge insanely high fees and taxes. The same rental car company in a nearby suburb might cost you much less.
 See if your destination city has a combination pass that includes discounted admission to local attractions, and search online for coupons or promo codes. Buy tickets online for discounted prices.
 Some couples choose to leave directly from their reception, while others wait a few days, a few weeks, or even a few months to work around employment demands, money shortage, or seasonal considerations.


If you have a lot of out-of-town family or friends attending your wedding, you may not want to leave in the middle of the reception, just when the party is getting good. This is especially true if those guests are bunking at your place.
Going home after your wedding to several days or weeks of routine life might feel like a letdown. Also, you might spend your first few days as a married couple stressing out about last minute travel details.
 Scientists at a Finnish university conducted a study and found that vacation happiness peaks at 8 days. Be sure to accommodate work needs, extended family needs, and holidays when making your length of stay decision., If you'll be leaving behind an empty house or apartment, find someone to take care of your things while you’re gone. Enlist a trusted friend or family member (perhaps your best man or maid of honor) to pick up your mail, turn your lights on and off, water your plants, and feed your pets. You don’t want to be worrying about what’s going on at home while you’re away.
 Pay special attention to TSA requirements if you’re flying, as well as customs requirements to get into and out of foreign countries you might be visiting.


If you’re traveling internationally, refer to the Consular Information Program, which will keep you up to date on any travel warnings, public health concerns, and provide you with information about passports, tourist visas, vaccinations and other details you need to know about your destination before you travel., Recent natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, or wildfires could render your destination a poor tourist choice, as could predicted weather events, such as hurricanes, blizzards, or sudden drops in temperature. Additionally, a recent terror event near your destination or at an airport or tourist attraction on your schedule could change your travel plans considerably.
 Have your plans in place several weeks before your big day. You don’t want to be handling the headache of travel arrangements on the day of—or even the week of—your wedding.
 Find a few moments to pack the basics several days before the wedding. This is especially easy if you’re planning to travel to somewhere that’s in a season opposite of where you live. After the stress and exhaustion of pulling off a wedding, it’s nice to be able to toss in a toothbrush and go.

