 Since she is only sending you one word text messages, try turning it into something funny. Say something like: "A cat has your tongue, huh? I hope you're not allergic :)" It makes her one word response funny instead of weird or uncomfortable. It also shows her your playful side.You can also say something like: "You must be on some important spy business today. Tell James Bond I said hi :)"
Make sure you are appropriate with your teasing. You don't want to offend her or make her feel uncomfortable. Try to feel out her boundaries to know what kind of teasing is best for her.
 If you want her to respond to your texts, you need to hook her in with something interesting and funny. Start off with something like: "Something so weird just happened to me." When she responds, make up something ridiculous like: "A zombie just ran into my room. But I took care of it. Good thing I know about apocalyptic survival."


The more ridiculous you make your story, the more likely she will be to respond.
Make sure you don't take it too far. You want to make her laugh, not make her uncomfortable., Whenever she answers, exaggerate your responses to her one word replies. For example, you ask her how her day was and she replies "Okay." You can respond with something like: "Woah, calm down there. You don't need to be so enthusiastic :)" The added emoticon helps her know that you are saying it in jest and aren't mad at her reply. It will also hopefully make her want to respond with more detail in the future., Since she isn't responding to you, lay the blame on yourself for the lull in conversations. Make fun of your conversational skills with quips like: "Wow, I must really be off my game today. I'm not usually this boring :)" The added emoticon lets her know that you are not mad at her and are poking fun at yourself.


Don't be self deprecating. You want your quips to be funny, not make her uncomfortable or make you look sullen and unhappy., If she isn't being super responsive, you can make up playful answers for her to get her interested in the conversation and let her know how funny you are. When you ask her a question, make up a playful answer for her. Tell her something like: "What are you doing this weekend? Let me guess, you're going to take your dog on a rocket ride to the moon. That's so sweet of you :)" This playful banter can help bring her back into the conversation, even if it is to tell you how silly you are.Make sure whatever you say is appropriate. You don't want to take your scenarios over the top.

