 The vinegar reacts with the rust to dissolve it off of the metal. To use, soak the metal in white vinegar for a few hours and then scrub the rusty paste off.









If the object is too big to soak directly in the white vinegar, pour a layer over the top and allow it time to set. You can also wipe it down with a rag soaked in vinegar.
Try dipping aluminium foil in the vinegar and using it as a brush to scrub off the rust. It is less abrasive than steel wool, but will still do the trick in removing the rust.
You can use regular vinegar and simply allow your rusty metal objects to soak in it for up to 24 hours before rinsing. This method should not require as much scrubbing.;
, Sprinkle salt over the rusted area so that it is thoroughly coated and then juice a lime over the top. Use as much juice as you can get, and allow the mixture to set for 2-3 hours before scrubbing off.









Use the rind from the lime to scrub the mixture off. It is strong enough to remove the rust without further damaging the metal.
A lemon can also be used instead of a lime.
 Mix baking soda with water until it is thick enough to spread on the metal. Allow time for it to set and then scrub off.









Try using a toothbrush to scrub the baking soda off, and rinse with water.
The baking soda mixture can be watered down as much as you would like, there is no exact recipe.
 Cut the potato in half and cover the cut end in dish soap. This will make a chemical reaction with the rust, making it easier to remove. Place the potato on the metal and leave it for a few hours.









To reapply, simply cut off the used end of the potato and add more soap, letting it soak into the metal for more time.
If you don’t have dish soap, you can use baking soda and water instead with the potato., Take protective precautions with this method––use rubber gloves, goggles and protective clothing. Do not smoke or directly inhale the fumes of the acid.









Wash the rusted item with washing-up liquid rinse and carefully dry.
Mix about 25ml (a teaspoon is 5ml) of oxalic acid with 250ml of warm water.
Soak the item for approx 20 minutes or clean down the item with a cloth or brass brush.
Wash fully and dry the item when rust removal is finished. Finished.

