 You should be able to hear the cartridges move together inside of the pen. You only need to shake the pen a few times.;
, Press the tip of the pen against a hard surface all the way down. Keep doing this until some of the ink forms at the base of the tip and you can draw a steady line onto your nail without trouble. Just test out a few lines and dots. You can even keep practicing designs until you're comfortable with using the pen.
 Use a q tip or folded toilet paper to remove the nail pen tests or any nail polish residue from past manicures.
 You'll need a clear base coat on your nails first before using the nail pen or polish if you're going to use any. Wait for the base coat to dry.
 You can use any color nail polish you want for a solid background to make the nail pen designs stand out, or just leave your nails as they are with the base coat. If you chose to paint your nails, choose a color that will make the nail pen stand out and correspond well with the color. If you're using a white nail pen for example, try using dark colors like crimson, black, violet, or navy blue. Start painting a strip from the cuticle to the tip of your nail, going from left to right until you've painted the entire nail. Use a q tip and acetone or ideally a nail polish remover pen if you have one to clean up any nail polish left outside the nail. Make sure the nail polish dries all the way before using the nail pen. This is important, because if you don't, the nail pen might smudge or make holes and dents in the colored layer and you'll have to repaint that nail and wait longer for it to dry.
 You can use the nail pen to make small dots to form into simple hearts, flowers, or letters or use it for stripes and other designs. Be creative, but don't try too hard to make something complex for your first few attempts at using the nail pen. Simple little patterns can go a long way.
 Adding a clear coat on top of any type of manicure will keep the color and design sealed, protecting your work while giving it a shiny finish.
