 During sleep, the skin repairs that damage. Because of this, the amount of sleep you get has a direct and visible effect on the appearance of your skin. It’s recommended that healthy adults should get between seven and nine hours of sleep every night. Aim to get a minimum of seven hours daily.Getting enough sleep can help slow down the appearance of aging skin.
It also reduces stress levels, which can contribute to premature aging of the skin.
Sleep deprivation can make mature skin look dull and lifeless. It may also exacerbate other skin conditions, such as acne and rosacea., When you must touch your face, such as when you’re washing it or applying skin-care products, thoroughly wash your hands with soap and warm water first.


Never squeeze or pinch at acne blemishes and avoid picking at your skin.
Both of these habits can unfortunately result in permanent scarring, especially for mature skin.
 As skin ages, oil production diminishes.This can leave it looking dry and dull. Combat this by keeping yourself well-hydrated every day. The daily recommended amount of fluid for healthy adults is approximately 13 cups (3 liters) for men and 9 cups (2.2 liters) for women. Try to get a large amount of your hydration from water, but beverages fruit juices, sports drinks and tea and foods that contain water (like watermelon) can also keep you hydrated.


Take in an additional 1.5 to 2.5 cups (400 to 600 milliliters) of fluids on days when you exercise or sweat more than usual., Ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun have been proven to accelerate the aging of skin and a large amount of visible aging is directly caused by sun damage. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with a minimum of SPF 30 on your face and neck every day — rain or shine. If you’re planning to spend time in the sun, apply sunscreen all over your body and reapply it every couple of hours.


Whenever possible, wear sun-protective clothing, a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses for additional defense.
Try to stay out of direct sunlight for significant periods of time — look for shady areas.
 Smoking will make your skin dry and your complexion dull. It contributes to premature aging, most significantly around the mouth, and causes skin to become less supple.


If you’re a smoker, talk to your doctor about smoking cessation options.
If you’re not a smoker, do your best to avoid second-hand smoke.
 Everyone’s skin is different, and a dermatologist can evaluate yours and offer customized suggestions and solutions. If you’ve tried OTC retinoid products and are unsatisfied with the results, a dermatologist can recommend different products or prescribe stronger retinol formulas.

