 When you are anxious about a performance, your pulse will become elevated. This is your body's response to the stress and worry of your impending performance. You may hear your heat pounding in your ears if you are anxious enough.


This may also cause you to blush or your body temperature to rise.
Elevated pulse if related to the increase of adrenaline that is released in your body when you get nervous.;
, When you have performance anxiety, you will likely breathe heavier than normal. This goes hand in hand with an elevated pulse, since your body is working harder due to the extra blood pumping through your body.


This may make your chest feel tight or you to feel lightheaded. Make sure you try to control your breathing to prevent this from happening. , Another common symptom of performance anxiety is dry mouth. This will cause your whole mouth to become void of moisture, which may also make your throat feel tight or dry.This can also make your voice crack, which may make you more nervous, especially if you have to speak, sing, or act.


Try drinking some water or other refreshing beverage to help alleviate the dryness.
 When you are nervous about your performance, you will likely have sweaty hands. They may also feel cold to the touch, making them feel clammy.This may be uncomfortable and cause you to worry about how you will seem to others, especially if you have to interact with others while you are performing.


Try putting some powder or other drying substance on your hand to help prevent the extra sweat.
 When you are nervous about a performance, you may have a physical response in the form of trembling. This can affect your knees, lips, hands, and voice. These changes may be bad enough for others to notice.


This obviousness can make you even more nervous about your performance, especially since you are likely worried about what others will think., Another common manifestation of performance anxiety is an upset stomach. You may also have nausea as well.This is because you are so stressed and upset about how your performance will go.


If your performance anxiety is really bad, you may be sick enough to vomit.
 Another common form of performance anxiety is sexual performance anxiety. This type of performance anxiety stems from social pressure to perform well sexually, live up to societal expectations of physical prowess, and perform to a certain sexual standard. The main symptoms of sexual performance anxiety, in addition to those of normal performance anxiety, are:


Impotence in males
Vaginal dryness in females
Premature ejaculation in men
Inability to orgasm in both genders