 People who were caring can become mean and even abusive when they are under the influence of an addiction. If your partner physically harms you, perhaps hitting you, shoving you, or grabbing you hard enough to leave bruises, you need to leave the relationship.If your partner is violent towards others you care about, you are also being abused.
Make safety a priority. Find a safe place you (and your children and pets) can stay. If you feel that it is unsafe for your partner to know where you are, be especially conscious of where you go and who you tell.
Contact the National Domestic Violence hotline at 1−800−799−7233 for assistance in creating a safety plan to leave your partner.
Learn more about creating a safety plan here: http://www.womenslaw.org/laws_state_type.php?id=13422&state_code=PG and here: http://www.thehotline.org/help/path-to-safety/#tab-id-1


, Abuse isn't always physical. Your partner may not hit or shove you, but they may neglect you altogether. Alternatively, they may belittle you, calling you stupid or saying that no one else will want you. If your partner is often mean and belittling to you, that's a sign of emotional abuse, and you should get out of the relationship.Your partner may also try to manipulate you. For instance, your partner may make you feel responsible for anything that goes wrong, or they may try to make you responsible for their feelings, such as saying things like, "If you'd done it right, I wouldn't be so mad."
When your partner uses, they may have extreme emotions that they take out on you. Your partner may get very angry while on a substance and direct that anger at you., Another sign of abuse is when someone tries to control you. For instance, your partner may limit your access to friends, try to control your medication, or watch what you're doing all the time. They may not like you to go out on your own. If your partner is always trying to push you to stay within certain unreasonable boundaries, that is a sign of abuse., Sex should always be an act where both parties enthusiastically consent. If your partner forces sex on you, that's obviously illegal. It gets a bit murkier when your partner manipulates you into having sex even when you don't want to. You may "agree" but not really want to do it, which is also abuse.For example, your partner may say, "Your dinner was awful. You have to make up for it by having sex with me."
Watch for signs of abuse in your children. If your partner has created an environment that's abusive for your children, you need to get you and your children out immediately.They may become more withdrawn, have behavioral problems or changes, or appear more depressed overall, just to name a few.