 A variety of mobile applications are available that help you track your depression. These applications have a variety of tools that can help you monitor your depression, learn new activities and communicate your experience to a medical professional.
 The Start application, which is designed by Iodine and part of Apple’s Care Kit medical development tools, helps you track depression. It lets you share your data directly with a medical professional.You take a short questionnaire at two week intervals, which is called the Patient Health Questionnaire. Taking the questionnaire helps you determine whether your symptoms have improved. You use the application for six weeks, and then use the results to decide with your doctor whether the medication is working., This is a smart phone diary application that helps you track how you relate and respond to events throughout your day. You write about events in your life, related moods and intensities.This can help you track your depression while taking an antidepressant. If you start it prior to taking an antidepressant, you can use the diary application to determine if your mood has improved after starting an antidepressant.
 This application helps you monitor your mood and learn mood enhancing activities. It can be helpful for mild depression, but is not useful for people with moderate or severe depression.In any case, it can be one tool, amongst others, to help you track your mood while taking antidepressants.
 This application helps you monitor your emotional states and includes a great graphing feature. It can help you monitor your depression so that you can more accurately report your experience to a mental health professional.With accurate tracking and reporting to a mental health professional, you will have a better sense of whether or not the antidepressant is working.


What’s My M3. This application helps you monitor your “M3 score,” which is a number that helps your doctor determine whether or not your mood disorder is treatable.By tracking your M3 while on antidepressants, you can communicate your M3 score to your doctor.

