 You should not let your kids walk the animal on their own until they are at least 10 years old. A child will not be able to control the dog properly if it gets excited and pulls away from them. This can lead to your child getting hurt and your dog running away.Properly leash training your dog should make taking walks safer. However, you should never let your child walk the dog unsupervised.;
, An adult should supervise all interactions between your dog and your children. They can help control the dog’s behavior and intervene if the dog attacks or hurts the child. Your dog may also try to assert its dominance by nipping and mouthing at small children. If you see that behavior, remove the child and gently scold your dog by telling it no sternly.Never hit or yell at your dog. This could scare your dog and lead to behavior problems.
 Because large breed dogs tend to have poor body awareness, they often bump into things and knock things over. This applies to household items, other animals, and small children. The same is true of excitable dogs. To keep your dog from knocking over your child or knocking things down onto their head, train it to behave indoors and secure or put away any dangerous projectiles, items hanging on walls or resting on shelves, in your home.For example, you should train your dog not to jump up on people and discourage it from running indoors.
 One way to keep you child safe is by denying your dog access to certain parts of your home. You can put up dog barriers in certain doorways to prevent your dog from entering specific parts of your house. This will keep the dog from knocking over your child or biting it., Because large dogs can be particularly dangerous to small children, you should avoid purchasing a large breed dog until your child is at least six years old. At that age, the dog will not be able to smother or knock over the child. It will also be more difficult for the dog to bite the child’s face.If you have a small child and want a dog, you may want to consider a medium sized dog.

