 A drinking glass is placed in the center of the table, filled with the alcohol of choice. There should be at least four players around the table. Two players on opposite sides of the table are chosen to start at the same time, and each is given a quarter and a cup. Make sure that each of the players is separated by an equal amount of space between one another., Each player must attempt to successfully bounce his or her quarter into a cup as quickly as possible. If a player misses, the player must quickly try again. As soon as a player gets their quarter into the cup, they pass the quarter and the cup to the player on their right. If a player shoots the quarter into the cup on the first try, then he may pass it to any player at the table., The goal of the game is to try and get one of your opponents to have both cups and quarters at the same time. If a player ever has both quarters at the same time, then that player is the loser. The player who passes the second cup to the opponent with the other cup is said to have "screwed" the loser.However, it is not good enough to simply pass the cup to the opponent with the other cup. You must stack the cup inside your opponent's cup.
This action serves to prevent the loser from attempting another shot, since oftentimes the loser is unaware that their opponent has "screwed" them.
 At this point, the loser is allowed one final shot into the stacked cups. If the loser misses, he or she must drink the penalty beverage, which is often a shot or a large portion (perhaps all) of an alcoholic drink. If the loser makes the final shot, then the tables have been turned on the other players.Some rules insist that all other players take penalty drinks, others require only the player who "screwed" the loser to drink. Sometimes the player who "screwed" the loser is given a single shot just like the loser had, and the two take turns shooting until someone misses.
Another option for the penalty beverage is that the player who "screwed" the loser is allowed to spin a quarter, and the loser has to drink a beer or a mixed drink for as long as the quarter remains standing. In the case where the loser makes the final shot, she must then spin a quarter and everyone else drinks for as long as the loser allows it to spin.
 The game ends when everyone decides to mutually quit playing, or everyone is too intoxicated to continue playing. However, you can make up your own rules as to how to end the game. Some versions of the game make it so that a player is eliminated after losing five times. You continue until the last person is standing.