 Pick one that is pretty thick and durable, like an upholstery fabric. Cushions can take a lot of physical abuse, so making a cushion out of delicate fabric might look good at first but it will not last very long.


The amount of fabric you buy will depend on the size cushion you are making. Measure your cushion insert (or decide on a size of insert if you do not have one already). You will need 2 1/2 times the length of the cushion insert, as the fabric will be covering both sides of the cushion with a little overlap. Your fabric should also be a few inches wider than the width of the cushion insert, as you will need a bit extra for seam allowance.;
, When you get your fabric home, be sure to wash the fabric in a hot cycle before making your cushion cover. This will shrink the fabric, assuring that it will not shrink any further if you wash it after the cushion cover is made., Get is nice and smooth, as it will probably be quite wrinkled after it was washed and dried. Be sure to use the appropriate heat setting on your iron for the fabric you are using.
 To make sure that you cut your lines straight, use a straight edge to mark your lines before cutting them. The length of your fabric should measure 2 1/2 times the length of the cushion insert. The width of your fabric should measure the width of your cushion plus two inches.The extra two inches will give you enough extra fabric for seam allowance and the fluff of your insert.


If your insert is very fluffy you may need to add a few more inches to the width. If you are unsure of what width you should cut, put your insert on top of the fabric. Make sure the width of the fabric will fit up to the center of the sides of the insert plus a few inches for seam allowance.
Your piece of fabric should end up being shaped like a long rectangle, with two long edges and two short edges.
 Place your fabric on a table with the wrong side facing up and one of the short edges closest to you. Fold the short edge closest to you up a half inch and then fold it over once again. This will make the raw edge of your fabric concealed. Pin and then sew along the inside of the folded edge.


Repeat this on the other short end of your fabric.
 Place the fabric on a table with the right side facing up and one of the shorter edges closest to you. Fold the bottom of the fabric up 3/4 of the height of your cushion insert. Then fold the top of the fabric down, also 3/4 of the height of the cushion insert. This will make the ends overlap and the total height should be equal to the height of your cushion.


Once you hold the fabric you should have the wrong side facing out.
Pin along these two edges, through both layers, and sew along the seam.
 To push the corners fully right-side out you may need to stick your fingers or a chopstick inside the cushion cover once it is turned right-side out., You will need to squeeze it inside between the overlapping flaps on the back of the cover. Work it into place, putting your hands inside if need be to get the corners positioned correctly.


Iron your cushion cover before putting in the cushion if it has become wrinkled.

