 If your child gets freaked out by taking a bath, it can help to create a ceremony or ritual around the task to help ease your child's concern and make bath-time more enjoyable.


For instance, add bubbles, colored salts, or bath glitter to make the water fun and less intimidating. Use special soap or shampoo in your child's favorite color or scent.
Doctor also advise giving smaller children massage-like baths involving gentle kneading as you wash to promote relaxation and increase the bond between you and your child.
In addition, create a ritualistic event surrounding bath-time. Beforehand, you might enjoy a nighttime snack. Then, afterwards, you might read a bedtime story. Sandwich the undesirable activity in between two enjoyable ones so that your child comes to expect it as part of the daily ritual., Tell your child about how much fun they’ll have after they learn to swim. Point out that their older siblings or other children they look up to enjoy swimming, too.For instance, say something like, “If you learn how to swim now, you’ll be able to play with your cousins at the lake this summer. Won’t that be fun?”

, Toys can lure even the most reluctant kids into the pool or the bathtub. Consider getting a variety of toys that your child can play with as their swimming skills progress.Floating toys like boats and balls are good choices for beginners, while colorful rings that sink to the bottom of the pool can help kids learn to swim underwater.
 Sometimes a little outside incentive can motivate a reluctant child to do something they don’t like. Make bath time or a swimming lesson more appealing by promising your child a treat after they’re done.A sticker, a favorite snack, or some time doing a fun activity are a few good rewards you could offer.
 Nervous kids need a lot of reassurance, and praise is one of the best ways to help them feel more confident. Provide plenty of encouragement when your child tries something new or faces one of their water-related fears.Praise your child’s efforts instead of their ability. Say something like, “I’m really proud of you for putting your face in the water so bravely today!”
Remind them that it's normal and okay to have fears. This is a great opportunity to teach your child to face fears with courage and intention.

