 But keep in mind that whichever hand is in the front will also be closer to the opponent. Therefore is it not logical to put the strong hand in the front so that it will reach the target faster?;
, This can be done through explosive movements when doing exercises such as push ups or pull ups. Make sure to train both biceps and triceps since it is important to have the proper strength both directions.
 Instinctive techniques will in most cases be basic techniques such as Jab, Cross, Hook punch, Straight punch, Roundhouse kick and Side kick. So do yourself a favor and train those basic techniques until they are as perfect as can be.
 Another important element of using footwork is proper function of the rear foot by using it as a spring. This is done by slightly raising the heel of the ground which will help you use explosive movement with your foot to penetrate the target more deeply.
 Speed is important when throwing a strike and there are a lot of factors that will determine the speed of your technique. Here are a couple of examples:


Train your reaction speed: This is simply how fast your brain is able to see when a target appears. One way to train this is through using focus mitts and having a training partner quickly flash them at you while your job is to hit it as soon as you see it. Reaction drills is important because it allows your brain to quickly send the correct signals to your muscles whether it being to attack or defend.
Train yourself in target recognition: This is learning how recognize the correct targets when they appear. one way to train this is by using focus mitts and having a training partner flash them at you while he mixes up the angle and position of the mitt. Then it is up to you to use proper type of technique to reach the target. Target recognition is important because it allows your brain to be faster in deciding which technique to use when a target opens up on the opponent.
Train initiation speed: This is basically how fast you are able to start a movement after your brain recognizes an opening. This can be trained through explosive strength training (see step #2) and relaxation exercises. Relaxation exercises are basically when you relax the muscles in a certain limb and then quickly activating them through a tight and fast movement. Training this will help you get to your target more quickly.
Train the speed in your movement: This is the actual movement of the fist going from point A to point B. The main way to train this is by learning to always use direct techniques. Repetition of a technique will also improve movement speed because it will get your body used to the movement.
Train your retraction speed: This is simply being able to get the fist back into guard position as soon as the target has been hit. This can be trained be doing any type of drill involving having to strike at a target whether it being by striking a punching bag or focus mitt. Retracting the punch is important because if the hand or kick is left extended there will be a greater chance of the opponent grabbing on to you. It is also important to get the hand back so that it can help defend you against punches.
Train your snapping speed: A snapping motion is one of the fastest ways to deliver a punch, however if not trained properly it will lack in power. Snapping can be done by simply relaxing the limb and then quickly thrusting the strike in a whipping motion. Snapping strikes are mainly used against specific weaker targets on the opponents body and is an excellent method for dazing the opponent right before delivering the final blow.
Train yourself in not telegraphing: Non-telegraphing means to not show the opponent that you are about to punch. There are two parts to non-telegraphing which is before and after the initiation of the strike. Before the strike is initiated it is important not to telegraph with the body since this is very dangerous towards a skilled fighter. After the initiation it is important not to use big motions since it makes it easier to see where the punch is coming from. If non-telegraphic motions are used then the strike will look faster to the opponent than it really is simply because it is harder for him/her to see it.
 Having power in your punches is also important. Here are a couple of skills to think about when training power:


Improve your muscle strength: Improving the right type of muscles will help improve the force of the punch (see step #2). Strength can be used to push back the opponent when throwing the strike.
Train in delivering higher power: Power is determined by the force and velocity of your strike. One way to train power is by using a heavy bag. Your mass will also determine the power of your strike. The difference of a strength punch and a power punch can clearly be felt. A strength emphasized punch will hurt the surface of your body and push you back and a power emphasized punch will be felt in the core of your body while only pushing you back slightly depending on the amount of power.
Use momentum: Momentum is when power is obtained through a continuous motion such as generating power in a punch by rotating the body. Momentum can be created by rotating the shoulders or rotating the hip.
Learn how to use alignment: Alignment is when the joints are locking out right before the strike. It is very important not to fully extend the joints since this might cause injury to your joints if your opponent pushes back hard enough at impact. Alignment is mainly used during straight punches or kicks, but this doesn't mean that it cannot be used to a small extend during an angled strike.

