 Keeping an organized and neat closet is the key to having a clean bedroom. You should make the most of your closet space and organize your clothes by season and color. If you have a larger closet, it may be a good place to store your additional items or to keep your shoes and accessories. Here's how to organize your closet:


The first thing you should do after you've sorted your clothes into the "Keep" and "Store" piles is to take one more hard look at your clothes. If you haven't worn a certain item in over a year, it's time for it to go. The only exception for this rule is if you have a very formal gown or suit that you haven't had a chance to wear.
Organize your clothes by season. Keep the summer, spring, winter, and fall clothes on the same part of the closet. If you have room for storage in the closet, store those off-season clothes in a bin in the back of your closet.
Hang up as many of the clothes as you can. Try organizing them by the type of garment they are. For example, when you hang up your summer clothes, keep tank tops, t-shirts, and dresses separated.
Make use of the space below your clothes. If you've hung up your clothes, you should still have a few feet of space below them, so don't waste it. Use the space for a storage bin or for a shoe rack.
If you have a door that opens instead of a sliding door, invest in a shoe rack or jewelry holder that hangs over your door. This is a great use of space. If you don't have a door there, you can consider hanging one of these over your bedroom door.
If you have room in your closet for a dresser, this is the perfect place for it.
 Your dresser is the place where you store your additional clothes or accessories, so it should be as neat as possible to prevent you from turning it upside down every time you search for another piece of clothing. Here's how to organize your dresser:


Organize the top of your dresser. Take all the clutter from the top of your dresser and put it in a plastic bin at the corner of the dresser. If there's a better place for the clutter, like your bathroom, desk, or top drawer, put it there.
Find a good use for your top dresser drawer. Don't just use the top drawer to throw in everything that doesn't have a good place. Decide what this use will be, whether it's for socks, comic books, or baseball cards.
Organize the rest of your drawers. Create a drawer for your underwear, a drawer for your pajamas, a drawer for your athletic gear if you work out a lot, and then one or two drawers for the tops and bottoms you wear every day.
 If you have a desk in your room, you should keep it as organized as possible. Come up with a game plan for separating and organizing all of your important items so you avoid a mess in the future. Here's how to do it:


Designate a place for your scissors, staplers, and other office supplies. This could be an area on the corner of your desk or your top drawer. It should be easily accessible since you'll use these items often. Vow to keep all of the desk things on the desk. If you use the stapler, return it to the desk, or it may get lost.
Designate a place for your writing utensils. Have a cup or small case for keeping your writing utensils so you no longer have to spend fifteen minutes looking for a pen. As you do this, go through your utensils to make sure that all of them work. Toss out the ones that can barely write.
Create a filing system for organizing your papers. Create folders or drawers designated for different tasks. One drawer could be used for important papers that you don't use often, such as the title to your car, your lease, contracts, and other important forms. Another drawer or folder could be designated for papers for a certain subject or aspect of your life. Don't mix these up.
Minimize the clutter on the surface of your desk. Try to keep the photos and mementos on your desk at a minimum to give yourself more room to work.
 Once you've tackled your closet, dresser, and desk, your room should begin to look like a new calm and organized place. However, you're not done quite yet. Before you can truly say your room is organized, there are a few more things you should do:


Make your bed. Part of having an organized room is putting things in their place, and your bedspread and pillows should go where they belong. If your bed is cluttered with so many pillows or stuffed animals that you can barely sleep in it, then it may be time to store or get rid of some of the items.
Get rid of the clutter on your walls. Some eye-catching posters and paintings are nice and a whiteboard or calendar can also help you get organized. However, get rid of extra old posters, torn photos, or random papers you've taped above your desk so your room and life feel less cluttered.
Organize any other remaining pieces of furniture. If you have a night stand, a filing cabinet, or a bookshelf, make sure that they are as neat, tidy, and as logically organized as the rest of the items in your room.
Put any remaining items in their place. If you still have some items hanging around, find a place for them.

