 Coal and natural gas are the most common sources of energy that gets turned into electricity. The burning of these substances is a major factor in world air pollution. Reducing your reliance on electricity is a great way to play a part in saving the planet.Here's what you can do:


Use solar power for home and water heating.
Shut off electrical equipment in the evening when you leave work.
If you have central air conditioning, do not close vents in unused rooms.
Lower the thermostat on your water heater to 120.
Turn down or shut off your water heater when you will be away for extended periods.
Turn off unneeded lights even when leaving a room for a short time.
Set your refrigerator temperature at 36 to 38 and your freezer at 0 to 5 .
When using an oven, minimize door opening while it is in use; it reduces oven temperature by 25 to 30 every time you open the door.
Clean the lint filter in your dryer after every load so that it uses less energy.
Wash clothes with warm or cold water instead of hot.
Turn off lights, computers and other appliances when not in use.
Use compact fluorescent light bulbs to save money and energy.
Plant trees to shade your home.
Replace old windows with energy efficient ones.
Keep your thermostat higher in summer and lower in winter when you are away.
Insulate your home as best as you can.
 Another big source of air pollution that has led to global warming is emissions from cars, trucks, planes and other vehicles. The manufacture of the vehicles, the gas needed to run them, the chemicals they burn, and the production of roads all play a part. If you can drive and fly less often, you'll be doing a lot to help save the planet.Walk or ride your bike instead of driving, whenever possible. Find bike routes in your town and use them!
Join a carpool or vanpool to get to work if biking or walking isn't an option.
Report smoking vehicles to your local air agency.
Maintain your vehicle properly. Purchase radial tires and keep them properly inflated for your vehicle. Paint with brushes or rollers instead of using spray paints to minimize harmful emissions.
 Buying local helps combat air pollution in two ways. You don't have to travel as far to get what you need, and products don't have to travel as far to get to you, either. Making smart choices about where your food, clothes, and other goods come from can help make a dent in air pollution.


Shop at farmer's markets and buy food that was produced as close to your home as possible.
When you're online shopping, pay attention to how far the items you order will travel before they arrive. Try to find items that won't have to travel long distances.
Pay attention to where your clothes, electronics, home goods, and other possessions were made. As much as possible, buy items that were made in your region.
 Industrial farming practices are not only harmful to individual animals, they're unsafe for the planet itself. Factory farming produces a lot of air and water pollution. You can address this issue in a personal way by doing the following:


Eat more vegetables. This simple change is a way of opting out of the factory farming industry.
Question where your meat comes from.
Buy only locally-sourced meat from a small farm.
 Identify local groups working to combat air pollution, and find a way to get involved. By educating yourself and others about the problem, you can have a greater impact than you'd have by simply making lifestyle changes.


Join a group that plants trees to help clean the air.
Become a bike activist. Work to have safe paths built in your city.
Contact your local representatives to speak up about issues particular to your region. If there's a factory spewing pollutants into the air, for example, get politically active to put a stop to it.

