 After your accident, you need to rest the first 24 hours. Try a firm mattress with a neck support pillow for comfort. After this time has passed, you can slowly resume activity instead of sitting in bed. Limit your work and other daily activities for the first few days after the injury occurs, then return to normal activities as pain allows.


Avoid lifting anything heavy for 6 weeks to 6b months, depending on the severity of your case.Spread out your activities throughout the day. If doing household chores, do not lift heavy clothes from the washer to the dryer. Have breaks often to rest your neck. If carrying children, use the stroller or switch arms often.
 Apply ice to your neck, back, or shoulders for the first 48-72 hours after the injury. This helps reduce swelling and the pain. Ice treatments are most effective if you apply them 10-30 minutes at a time, as often as once an hour. Do not put ice directly on skin. Use a towel to wrap the ice to avoid frostbite.


Avoid heat initially because it promotes swelling., Switch to moist heat on the fourth day after the injury. This will help restore flexibility to your muscles. Apply the heat on the neck 10-30 minutes at a time, as often as once every 2-3 hours. You can make your own moist heat pack. Fill a cloth sock with 4 cups of uncooked rice. Tie the sock at the end. Microwave for 1-3 minutes.If you want you can add essential oils to the rice to make it smell good.
 Your doctor may recommend over-the-counter pain medications. He may also suggest anti-inflammatory medications to decrease the pain and promote healing. Tylenol is used mostly for pain, though it does not help with swelling. NSAIDS like ibuprofen, aspirin, and Aleve will help with the swelling and pain. You can take Tylenol and NSAIDS together because they do not interact with one another and work differently for pain control., If your injury is severe enough, the doctor may prescribe you medications for the pain. These can include muscle relaxants such as Valium to help the spasms caused by the trauma. Narcotics like Vicodin and Percocet can be used as well for pain in severe cases.


If you run out, another follow up is recommended to see if further testing needs to be done., In more severe cases of whiplash, a doctor may use trigger point or epidural spinal injections to treat whiplash. For the epidural steroid injections, the medication is injected to help with pinched nerve pain in your neck. The spinal cord has nerves that branch out to the arms and legs. Injecting the medication in the epidural spaces helps the pain in these nerve areas. The steroid also helps with the swelling directly on the nerve that is swollen. There may be a total of 2-3 injections needed for this pain.


Facet joint injections or facet blocks are also used for helping pain. The facet joints help us move, so you may need medication to help them feel better. Though not as common as epidural injections, they are effective. Trigger points are balls of muscle that become inflamed. The doctor can inject a painkiller in this area to help with inflammation as well.The stronger medications and spinal injections reduce your pain so that you can work on healing the soft tissue injuries. You do this through treatments such as physical therapy.

