 People often hold a lot of tension in this area of their body, and when you don't have time to do a full massage, focusing on the neck and shoulders can provide instant relaxation. To massage the neck and shoulders, use the following technique:


Use your fingers to grasp the side of the neck and gently press on the muscles and tendons. Knead with your thumb and forefingers. You can massage the head at the same time with your free hand.
Rest your fingers over the shoulders and place your thumbs on the muscles located on either side of the neck. Squeeze the shoulders and press in with your thumbs. The motion should be slow and steady.
You can also use your forearms to massage the shoulders. Rest your forearms on either shoulder and gently rock back and forth to loosen the shoulder muscles.
 Work down from the shoulders on either side of the back, rubbing the muscles as you go. When you get to the lower back area, knead the tight muscles there with your hands and thumbs. People who stand or sit for hours every day often develop pain in this area, so you might want to spend extra time loosening the muscles.


Remember not to exert pressure on the spine and other back bones. Focus on the muscles to either side of the spine.
Go deeper by kneeling beside the person and placing the heel of your hand on the lower back muscle on the opposite side, with your fingers pointing away from the body. Place your other hand on top of your first hand and lean into the muscle. Knead the muscle this way for a few minutes, then switch to the other side.
 Use both hands to form a circle around the upper arm. Knead the arm muscles with your palms and fingers, working your way down to the wrists. Repeat with the opposite arm, then work on the legs, starting from the thighs and kneading the muscles until you reach the ankles.
 Have the person you're massaging turn over so that his or her face and torso are now facing up. Massage each hand between your thumb and forefinger, taking care to work the muscles in the palms, thumbs, and each individual finger. Do the same with the feet, making sure not to press too hard on the bones.


Use gentle, even strokes on the feet. Try not to tickle the person, since that could break his or her state of relaxation.
Bend the hands and feet back and forth to stretch the muscles as you massage them.
 Kneel behind the person you're massaging and use your fingers to rub his or her temples in circles. Gently rub the forehead and sinus area. Place your fingers on the person's scalp and massage it using the same motion you'd use to shampoo your hair.

