 Tanning is often considered a sign of health, beauty, or the ability and the time to spend time in the sun.Tanning is, however, associated with skin aging and skin cancer.It is also important to understand that tanning does not protect a person from sunburn.If you are going out into the sun, wear sunscreen, especially if you are trying to avoid more getting more of a tan.
The American Academy of Dermatology recommends a broad spectrum sunscreen with UVA and UVB protection, and that is at least SPF 30 or higher. The sunscreen should also be water resistant., Some exposure to the sun allows the skin to manufacture an important vitamin, vitamin D. To get the right amount, you should get moderate exposure of the face, arms, legs, or back from the summer sun for about five to 30 minutes. This can be done between the hours of 10 AM and 3 PM at least twice a week without sunscreen if you have darker or already tanned skin.If you are lighter skinned, avoid getting into the sun during peak hours and instead allow some moderate exposure to the sun outside of the peak sun hours to supply the needed Vitamin D without significantly increasing the risk of skin damage or skin cancer.


The New Zealand dermatology association suggests that lighter skinned individuals can spend five minutes in the sun before 11AM and after 4 PM, which are the peak sun hours. Because of the light tone of their skin, lighter skinned individuals achieve healthy levels of Vitamin D during this time period. Darker skinned individuals can spend 20 minutes outside the peak hours and achieve healthy levels of Vitamin D.The American Academy of Dermatology does not recommend any sun exposure other than the incidental exposure you might get by getting your mail, walking your dog, going between your parked car and your office, or any other normal, everyday activity.Sunscreen does decrease the amount of Vitamin D production, but the benefits of protecting the skin are important to understand.
 There are also food sources of Vitamin D, including fish and fish oil, yogurt, cheese, liver, and eggs.

#*You can also try other foods and drinks that are fortified with Vitamin D, such as breakfast cereals, milk, and juice., When dealing with your skin and the sun, it is important to understand the risks of skin cancer so you can avoid them as much as possible. If you think you have skin cancer or might be at a high risk, talk to your doctor immediately to get tested or learn the best preventative measures for your particular case. Risk factors that increase your chance of skin cancer include:


Fair skin
A history of sunburns.
Excessive sun exposure
Sunny or high-altitude climates
Pre-existing moles
The presence of precancerous skin lesions
A personal or family history of skin cancer
A weakened or suppressed immune system
Exposure to medical radiation
Exposure to certain cancer-causing substances