 For most people St. Basils Cathedral is the first Russian monument that springs to mind. Make your way to the Red Square on your first day in Moscow and visit the hub of Russia’s growth since the 14th century. Take the iconic photo which tourists travel miles for and stand in frame with St. Basils' distinct multicoloured domes which tower over the Red Square.
 If you’re looking to uncover Soviet secrets and trace Russian history, head below Moscow's main streets. Moscow is known for its distinctive metro stations, ranging from traditional or classic to modern and innovative in their design. For more underground discoveries, a visit to Stalin’s bunker or the Underground Command Post Tagansky are two Soviet military bunkers worth seeing for any history lover.
 This fine art gallery in Moscow is a must-see when you’re in the Russian capital. See the museum’s collections of art and visit a European museum unlike any other. With a collection of Socialist Realist art and a sculpture garden named ‘the graveyard of fallen monuments,’ explore traces of soviet history in this impressive art gallery. You’ll need at least half a day to immerse yourself in this expansive collection of art.
 Take a stroll down the historic Arbat street, a kilometre-long walk through the centre of Moscow. There’s no better way to take in local culture and experience Moscow lifestyle firsthand. Becoming a hugely popular tourist destination, Arbat Street is one of the oldest surviving streets in Russia, giving visitors a taste of Russia’s origins and creating a bustling hub of street art, cafes, stalls, restaurants and bars.
 Once an iconic Russian amusement park, Gorky Park officially reopened in December 2011 as a popular cultural and leisure site, now one of the most popular spots in Moscow. With an ice rink, open air cinema, free wi-fi, spaces for art projects and cafes, this park packs out on weekends so head down early to secure a nice spot on the grounds.
 Within walking distance from the Red Square, the State Historical Museum has exhibitions which range from collections of ancient artifacts through to contemporary examples of Russian life. The striking red building contains priceless artworks from the Romanov dynasty among its many exhibits. Pushkin is the largest museum of European art in Moscow containing both fine art and archaeological collections. Designed in 1898 to resemble an ancient temple, with columns and architectural design embodying this style, the museum building is equally as impressive as the collection inside.
 No one does a sauna quite like the Russians. There are several Russian banyas located across Moscow for those looking to soak up this traditional Russian past time.

