 Wings can be made from simple cardboard you have around the house or from the container of something you ordered from a store. The cardboard can be decorated later, so it doesn’t matter what color it is, but white foam board or poster board are also good choices., Feel free to trace the shape of the wings before you begin cutting. The shape of the wings is up to you, but one way to do it is to make them almost comma-shaped. Start at one end and begin cutting a rounded shape. Cut further into the cardboard, making the top ridge of the wing curve downwards to where it meets the bottom cut. Use scissors or an exacto knife.

The length of the wings depends on who will wear them. Make them long enough to stick out a few inches beyond the shoulders or make them longer and set them against the wearer’s back so they point downwards instead of out.
You can fold the cardboard in half in order to cut both wings out at the same time, but if you do them one at a time, don’t worry if they’re not identical.
You can trace the shapes of wings using a writing utensil before you cut, but the wings don’t have to be perfectly symmetrical. Your decorations later will cover the imperfections.
 If you’re designing the wings for someone else, hold them up against the person’s shoulders or else try to judge your own shoulder width. You’ll need to make a couple of holes where the wings will stay secure against the shoulders without feeling tight., You can use scissors, a screwdriver, a pen, or another household implement to make the holes. Put one hole on the top portion of the shoulder part of the wing. Place a second hole farther down. Do the same with the other wing., The string will form loops for your arms. White ribbon is a choice that matches the color of the wings. The amount of ribbon you need is determined by how much shoulder space the wearer will need. Wrap the ribbon around that person’s shoulder before you cut, providing some extra ribbon to be knotted. Place each end of the ribbon through the holes from the back side of the wings. On the front side of the wings, tie the ribbon together.

Less fragile string can be used and is especially good for children who will move a lot while wearing the wings. Use shoe laces or elastic cords.
 The way you make the wings look more angelic is up to you. Feathers are an obvious choice for angel wings, but coffee filters and toilet paper also work. Use tape or glue to stick the material to the backs of the wings.You can paint the cardboard white before you add the fluff. This may help prevent brown spots from showing through, but often you can cover the entire back side of the wings with enough white decorations.
Glue or tape the feathers at their bases as they point downwards to create an even, orderly appearance.
Squeeze squares of toilet paper from their center so that they form a points, then glue them onto the cardboard.
Try folding coffee filters in half and filling in the wings from the outside-in, keeping the folds of the first filters on the edges of the wings.

