 Training clickers are very simple devices that you can buy from your local pet store. They make a small clicking sound that your dog will learn to associate with positive behavior.Clickers are useful because they provide a sound that is more consistent than your own voice or vocal commands.
Clickers are most effective when used in tandem with treats. That way, the dog will associate the clicking sound with the positive reinforcement of the treat.
 They can be small, fingernail-sized treats. You can purchase these from your local pet store or grocery store. Avoid using human food as treats. It may not be healthy for your dog and may encourage begging at the table., Do this in a quiet, secluded place with no distractions or other dogs. Don’t say anything to the dog before tossing the treat. Simply show it to him, then throw it behind him.After the dog eats the treat, he may spend time looking for more. Stay patient and wait while he does this.
 Eventually, your dog will look back at you. As soon as you see him turn toward you, mark it with a click and a treat. Do this immediately so that he’ll associate the treat with the fact that he looked at you.You can also praise the dog for performing the desired behavior.
 Toss another treat behind your dog. Again, he’ll find it and eat it, and likely search for more. Wait for him to look at you. When he does, respond immediately with a treat and a click.Repeat this pattern five to ten times in one sitting. By then end of the session, your dog will probably look back at you pretty quickly after finding the treat.
Continue to practice this for a week or more depending on how long it takes your dog to master orienting toward you.
Once your dog has mastered the behavior in a place with distractions, practice without offering him a treat or using the clicker. Instead, simply give him verbal praise and pet him.
 If your dog fails to grasp the goal of orienting toward you, try holding the treat up to your face before you give it to him. Some trainers consider this “cheating,” but it can be helpful if the dog is struggling to meet your eyes.