 Using a miswak twig to brush your teeth is easy and fun! If you have a "fresh" twig — one that hasn't been used yet — start by chewing off of the bark at either end of the twig. Stop when you've exposed an inch or so of the wood underneath. Spit out and discard the bark.


A slight "spicy" or "burning" taste can result from chewing on a miswak twig. Though some find this slightly unpleasant, it's not harmful.;
, When you've exposed the wood underneath the bark at the tip of your twig, start chewing on it. You're aiming to soften this wood so that it breaks up into thin, fibrous bristles. This should only take a minute or two — you'll know you're ready when the tip of the wood is soft enough that it can be fanned out slightly like a small brush.


Ideally, you want a very slight resistance to the bristles (similar to what you'd get from a soft-bristled toothbrush).
 Traditionally, miswak is performed without toothpaste or other oral health products, though you may use these if you wish. To perform miswak in the traditional style, simply dip the bristly end of the twig in water (like you would before adding toothpaste to a toothbrush).


Alternatively, many traditional miswak practitioners use rosewater in place of ordinary water for its pleasant scent.
 You're now ready to brush. You can grip the stick however feels comfortable to you — keep in mind that you'll be brushing with the tip of the stick, rather than the side, as with a toothbrush. Traditionally, miswak sticks are held by putting the thumb of the right hand just below and behind the bristly tip, putting the little finger under the back of the stick, and wrapping the remaining three fingers over the top., Now, start brushing! Press the bristly tip of the stick into your teeth and move it gently up and down to scrub their front surfaces. Move slowly around your mouth, taking your time and hitting every surface of your teeth with the bristles. Don't press extra-hard — your goal is to gently scrub the teeth, not scrape or gouge them. To someone who's used to using a toothbrush, miswak may feel somewhat awkward at first, but after a few attempts it quickly becomes intuitive.


Don't forget to clean the backs of your teeth just as you would with a toothbrush!

, Keep your miswak stick fresh by using a knife (or your bare hands) to cut or break off the old bristles when they become worn. Depending on how often you clean your teeth and the type of stick you're using, your bristles' average lifespan will vary. In general, you'll want to cut your stick's bristles away every time they get the appearance of an old, ratty broom. Usually, this will mean cutting them every few days.There are some notable exceptions to this rule. Some types of processed, commercially-sold miswak sticks have lifespans of over six months due to the preservatives added to them.
 When you're done cleaning your teeth, quickly clean your miswak of any debris and give it a brief rinse. Keep the miswak in a clean but open space, not in a bag or container, which can encourage mold growth by trapping moisture next to the stick. Keep miswak sticks away from any sinks or toilets to avoid the accidental transfer of bacteria due to splashes.

