 Your level of withdrawal symptoms will be influenced by the amount of Oxycodone you have taken in the past. Think about the length of time you have taken Oxycodone. If you have taken Oxycodone for a long time, you probably have developed a tolerance to the drug. This means that you will more than likely experience worse symptoms.If you haven’t taken the drug for very long, your withdrawal symptoms won’t be as bad.
The dosage of Oxycodone you have been taking will also determine how bad your withdrawal symptoms will be.
 Withdrawal symptoms can wear you down. A medically managed detox can help lessen the severity of the withdrawal symptoms. You will go through this with a doctor. They will slowly taper the drug so the withdrawal symptoms will not be as difficult for you to cope with.The medications they prescribe will help you deal with the withdrawal effects by helping the brain think it is getting the oxycodone, which relieves some of the symptoms.During the detoxification process, you will be given lower doses of Oxycodone over a period of time, along with drugs to help with the withdrawal. This may take awhile and usually occurs along with therapy and counseling. Drugs used for this include clonidine, suboxone, and naltrexone.
Possible side effects of detox drugs include headaches, sweating, nausea, problems sleeping, constipation, dizziness, and possible allergic reactions., You may need a little extra help getting over your oxycodone addiction. This is okay. If you are suffering from a moderate to severe addiction, you may find that going to an inpatient rehab facility will help you cope with withdrawal symptoms. The first week of withdrawal is the hardest physically, while the weeks after that may be difficult mentally and emotionally. An inpatient facility can help you deal with the mental withdrawal symptoms.For example, you can get counseling and therapy in a stress-free environment that will help you learn how to manage the mentally difficult withdrawal symptoms that may lead to a relapse. Your sessions may include talk therapy, group therapy, cognitive behavior therapy, or family counseling.
Inpatient rehab programs generally are for 30, 60, or 90 days.
Your doctor may refer you to a rehab facility, or you may find one on your own. You may need to talk to the local hospital or look online for a treatment center that specifically treats oxycodone addiction.
Some insurance companies may pay for inpatient rehab. You will have to call your insurance company to find out what your plan covers. You can also talk to the treatment center about financial options.
 Even if you have a mild addiction, you may need some extra support. Unfortunately, you may still suffer from physical and mental withdrawal symptoms that are difficult to deal with. You may benefit from outpatient treatment programs.Outpatient programs can provide you with accountability as you recover from your addition and deal with the withdrawal symptoms. They also can offer support for you during difficult times.
These programs also provide you with individual and talk therapy.
 Sometimes, relapses happen even though you are trying not to go back to oxycodone. If you happen to relapse, you need to watch how much you take very carefully. You are at a high risk of overdosing during a relapse. Your body cannot handle the same amount of Oxycodone it could before the detox period. That means you cannot take the same amount you used to.If you take Oxycodone during a relapse, make sure to take a significant less amount since your body has adjusted while you weren’t taking it.

