 If you have the right hardware, you may be able to squeeze more power out of it by increasing the clock speed and voltage. This is referred to as "overclocking," and is not without risk. Increasing the voltage too much can fry your equipment, but if you can get more power out of your hardware you can see significant performance boosts. Heavy overclocking will require more advanced cooling techniques. Not all hardware can be overclocked.See Overclock a Graphics Card for instructions on overclocking your video card.
See Overclock a CPU for instructions on overclocking your CPU.
 There are several programs available that are designed to boost performance while playing games. These optimizers will suspend non-essential background processes, defrag your game folders, and perform other optimizations. Your mileage may vary with these, especially if you've already taken the time to close background programs and regularly maintain your hard drive. Popular boosting programs include:Razer Cortex
Game Gain

, If you haven't upgraded your computer in a while, a few upgrades can go a long way towards increasing game performance.:


RAM - Most games released these days require 4 GB of RAM at minimum, with 8 GB being recommended in most cases. RAM is pretty cheap, and installing it is easier than you may think. See Install RAM for instructions.
Video Card - One of the best ways to improve your video games' performance is by upgrading your video card. These can get a little expensive, but even a mid-range card can provide a significant performance boost if you haven't upgraded in a while. See Install a Graphics Card for instructions.
CPU - Your CPU is less important to gaming than it used to be, but if you're running a really old computer you may want to upgrade to a quad-core processor. Upgrading your CPU is usually the most complex task when it comes to computer upgrades, because it usually necessitates a new motherboard (and RAM), which will also require reinstalling Windows. See Install a New Processor for instructions.

