 Making sure you come to terms with what is upsetting you can help you center in why you are grieving.;
, Places like your room, the bathroom, or other places that you feel comfortable with can help you unwind and feel less insecure and uncomfortable when you feel like crying.
 Try not to be around others; school would be a place you shouldn't (but can, of course) cry in because you are with your peers, or other people who may take advantage of you in your time of weakness.
 Sometimes people feel more comfortable crying when it is darker and harder for others to intrude on their personal moment. Some people feel better burying themselves in a blanket or sheet so that they feel more isolated.
 It's okay to think about whatever you feel like crying about, but do not think mean thoughts about yourself. Do not think things like "I'm so worthless" or "I'm weak, I can't believe I'm crying" or "I deserved to be treated/spoken to that way. It's my fault." Hurting yourself with such things will only make you feel worse; remember, you're crying to release bad emotions, not create new ones!

, Chances are, you don't want others knowing that you were crying, so give yourself time to wipe your tears away and catch your breath. When you feel ready to leave your "place of sanctuary" walk and talk as you normally would; if you don't want other to know you've been crying, try to keep your behavior as normal as possible.


Putting a cold water bottle under your eyes can help if you're feeling pain or the area is slightly swollen. Also, do not rub your eyes with your hand; wipe them gently with a soft fabric, to make sure there is no extra redness (and you don't want to irritate or scratch your eyes.)

, This may sound strange to you, but making sure you have enough time to cry and clean up will minimize complications (your siblings walking in, or your parents calling you to do something, to name a couple.) If you need an hour or just five minutes, make sure nothing will get in the way of your grieving.

