 Unless you're a zombie, this means eating foods that will help your brain function well.


Foods with omega-3 fatty acids are recognized as very good for your mental acuity.You've probably heard a lot about fish being "brain food," and it's true! Cold-water fish like salmon, tuna, trout, herring, and sardines are all rich in omega-3s, and can even lower your risk of developing Alzheimer's. Don't like fish? Many foods are including omega-3 supplements in them, like eggs and organic milk. Natural foods such as soybeans, walnuts, pumpkin seeds, and flaxseed (oil and seeds) all are rich in omega-3s––just be sure to consume every food type fresh to avoid rancidity.
Eat your fruits and vegetables regularly. Foods with antioxidants will protect your brain cells (and the rest of your body) from damage by free radicals. Broccoli, romaine lettuce, spinach, and chard are all great veggies to munch on, and they taste great. From the fruit aisle, pick up some mangoes, melons, and apricots. When's dinner?
While you're enjoying dinner, enjoy a glass of red wine. Moderate alcohol consumption has been shown as a factor in improved memory, and it also contains antioxidants and resveratrol, a polyphenol that may help protect the lining of blood vessels and increase levels of good cholesterol.Green tea also contains free-radical-fighting polyphenols.Limit your intake of fatty, processed foods or refined sugary treats. They're fattening, tooth-rotting, trans-fatty, nutritionally deprived foods that do battle in your body rather than support it. If you keep eating these foods, when you get dentures you'll probably forget where you put them!

, Physical activity can help increase blood flow to your brain, improving function. Do a short series of stretches as soon as you get out of bed in the morning to help your mind wake up. If you have the time, aim for 30 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise three or four times a week, such as brisk walking, cycling, jogging or dancing.
 An adequate amount of shut-eye each night will help your brain perform at its best the next day. Aim for seven to nine uninterrupted hours (the precise amount is dependent on your body's own personal need, which varies from person to person). Importantly, get out of bed as soon as you feel well-rested, at the same time every day––the routine establishes a healthful, regular pattern. If possible, establish a solid routine in which you go to sleep at the same time every night.
 If you struggle to remember what happened during the previous day, start keeping a journal. Jot down important items of information or other things you'd like to remember, even food intake, people whom you said you'd catch up with again and books read. Review as necessary.

