 There are are lots of free resources available if you just know where to look. For example, if you are a college student (or even an alumnus), you probably have access to free career services. If you belong to a gym, you might have access to a free personal trainer who can answer your fitness questions. You can also look for public events like career fairs.
 If you need career advice, try to find someone who has worked in your field for a long time and will be able to share his or her experiences. For students, teachers can be an invaluable resource, even if you don't have a class with them.


If you can't think of anyone to talk to, try connecting with people on LinkedIn or asking friends, family members, or teachers to connect you with their contacts.
If possible, join a club or organization for people in your industry. This will give you access to industry news and help you make connections with people who might be able to offer you career advice.
If someone you don't know is taking the time to offer you free advice, be sure to respect his or her time. Come prepared with questions, take notes, be flexible about meeting time and place, and thoroughly express your gratitude. Be careful not to ask too much of this person., Plenty of professionals are happy to give some complementary advice. If you need advice on what kind of tablet to get your boyfriend for his birthday, for example, you shouldn't hesitate to ask someone who works at an electronics store for his or her opinion. If you have a legal or tax problem, many professionals offer free consultations, which may help you decide if you need to hire someone.
 Sometime people are just not comfortable offering professional advice to friends and family, and sometimes there are legal or ethical reasons why they cannot. If you have friends who are doctors or lawyers, for example, it's perfectly fine to ask them for advice, but be sure to ask them if they are okay with it first.Approach the situation delicately, and let your friends know that you won't be offended if they can't offer you advice by saying something like, "I don't want to put you in an uncomfortable situation, but are you able to offer me some advice on a legal issue I'm having?"

, For some kinds of advice, it may be best to pay for an experienced professional to really walk you through your options. This can be helpful for many kinds of advice, from financial planning to career counseling to psychiatric counseling.


Make sure to consider any biases the individual you are hiring may have. If he or she is affiliated with a company or organization, make sure you understand the relationship. For financial advisers, ask whether their compensation is tied to the products they sell. You can still get useful advice from professionals who aren't 100% bias-free, but it is helpful to understand where they are coming from.