 Extra weight adds stress to the Achilles tendons and may contribute to serious injuries. Proper diet and exercise can help keep off unwanted weight and allow you less stress and greater flexibility as you exercise and throughout your daily activities.Try to get at least 30 minutes of moderate-impact cardiovascular activity for at least five days a week to help maintain a healthy body. Activities may include running, walking, swimming, instructional fitness courses, or anything that elevates your heart rate.
Practice portion control and eating a balanced diet that focuses largely on vegetables and fruits, with a secondary emphasis on proteins such as meats or vegetable proteins. Try to keep simple carbohydrates and refined sugars to a minimum to maintain a healthy weight.;
, Consistently tight muscles can contribute Achilles tendon injuries, so it is important to make sure that you regularly stretch out both your calf and your adductor muscles. Even on days when you choose not to exercise, spend a few minutes stretching out these areas.A daily yoga practice with a focus on the legs can help you keep these areas stretched, even if only undertaken for a few minutes a day.
You may also stretch your calf by extending your legs alternately, either by taking a lunge-like stance or stretching straight forward down your leg and toward your toes while seated.Stretch your adductors, or inner thighs, by placing both your legs outward and moving them far apart from one another. Bend your hips forward and push your hands down your legs for as far as you are comfortable. Take a few deep breaths before releasing., If you find you are more prone to tension or resistance in your Achilles tendon, try a protective heel pad or orthotic insert specially designed to alleviate stress on the Achilles tendon. These can usually be found in specialty footwear stores, athletic stores, and some drugstores or pharmacies.These orthotics can be worn on a daily basis or just when you exercise, depending upon your personal needs.
Complete shoes are also available for supporting the Achilles area if you find you want daily support and durability.
Those with pre-existing arch and heel problems are more likely to have Achilles tendon issues, and may find orthotics a helpful preventative measure in everyday life.

