 Oftentimes people enter an argument feeling like they need to “win,” and prove they are “right.” This attitude, however, seriously limits your ability to work through the issue or problem you’re disagreeing about.If you are determined to “win” an argument, you are showing your partner that you don’t really care about his thoughts and feelings. This behavior makes the relationship more adversarial and will shut down lines of communication.
This attitude also suggests the argument is more about feeling dominant and justified than resolving any underlying problems that started the argument.
Trying to defeat your partner won’t help you establish a long and happy relationship. People on the “losing” end of an argument often feel the need to retaliate, react, and respond and it is likely you won't walk away feeling pleased with the end result.
 Just like entering an argument with the attitude that you will “win” it is detrimental to a relationship, so is using unfair tactics in an argument with your significant other. Yelling, giving the silent treatment, placing blame, and intentionally making comments you know will hurt your partner are destructive tactics that will not resolve any relationship problems.You can articulate that you are upset and frustrated without resorting to these unfair tactics. For example, instead of placing blame or making accusations, focus on how you are feeling, and be as specific as possible.
Rather than emphasizing, “You did this to me,” explain what you feel hurt by or upset about. Resorting to accusations often makes the other person defensive and they won’t want to invest time in listening to your concerns.
Don’t use words such as “never,” and “always,” because these expressions are rarely accurate and often increase tension.
If these behaviors emerge during an argument, take a break from the discussion and return to it when you and your partner are feeling more calm. Go for a walk, take a few deep breaths, write in a journal, or play with your children. You’ll have your emotions more in check when you return to the discussion with your significant other.
 It’s often tempting in an argument to throw other issues into the mix, and pile on complaints. This approach, however, will make your problems seem overwhelming and limit your ability to resolve any of them.Concentrate on what the specific issue or problem is so you’re able to tackle it without things getting more complicated and negative.
 It’s normal to make mistakes in a relationship, but refusing to admit you may have done something wrong or hurt someone will not help you maintain a long and happy relationship. To resolve problems that may arise and to build confidence and trust in your relationship, both individuals should be able to acknowledge when they make a mistake. If your significant other has a concern or issue, consider it carefully. Since she probably knows you better than anyone, there’s a good chance her concern is valid.
Ask her for specific suggestions on how to prevent this from happening in the future.
If you can accept your own mistakes, your significant other will be more willing to acknowledge her mistakes.
 Holding grudges and refusing to let go of past hurts will make both you and your significant other unhappy. While it can be challenging to learn to forgive, it will result in a longer-lasting, healthy relationship.It can be helpful to reconsider why you felt hurt in the first place. Ask yourself if what happened is as significant as you felt at the time, and be willing to acknowledge that something you said or did may have played a role in the situation.
Ask yourself if something in your past may be causing you to hold on to a grudge.
Think about the benefits you might gain from forgiveness. Holding on to negative feelings will make you upset, anxious, and stressed, and forgiving someone will probably make you feel better.
If you keep bringing up things that hurt you in the past, both you and your significant other can feel overwhelmed and hopeless about the future of your relationship., Although you might feel like you and your partner need to resolve every issue that arises in your relationship, this isn’t necessarily realistic in the long term. People can have a long and happy relationship while still disagreeing with each other.Sometimes what we identify as issues in the relationship aren’t the major problems we initially think they are. Try to gain some perspective on the situation by asking yourself if the issue is really a deal breaker and needs a clear resolution.
Successful couples will be able to compromise, adapt, and acknowledge when something isn’t worth jeopardizing a relationship over.
 If you are having trouble resolving a situation with your significant other or communicating about your relationship, don’t hesitate to seek help from a couples therapist, relationship counselor, or other mental-health professional.Waiting until the issue becomes serious and threatens your relationship will only make it harder to resolve.
It can be helpful to have someone who is objective and experienced in dealing with relationship issues mediate or facilitate the discussion.

