 Disability compensation is a tax-free benefit that is given to veterans with disabilities (illnesses, injuries, etc.) that stem from their military service. This includes people with disabilities that show up after the service has been completed, if the problems are known to be related to circumstances they endured during service.Disability payments are designed to compensate for medical bills and loss of working time as a result of the disability.


The amount of the payment is dependent on the severity of the disability and how many dependents the service member has.The severity of disabilities is rated in terms of a percentage, from 10% (lowest) to 100% (most severe), in ten-percent increments.
If you have a disability of 30% or more, and you have dependents, you may be entitled to an additional allowance.
Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) is available to the spouse, children or parents of service members who died during active service or as a result of service-related disabilities.Special Monthly Compensation (SMC) is available to veterans, spouses and surviving family members who need extra compensation to pay for assistance or home care. These payments are made in special cases, such as when someone who has lost an arm or is permanently in a wheelchair and is unable to perform daily tasks.;
, Disability compensation is only awarded in certain cases. Most importantly, your disability must be connected to your service, or you must the surviving spouse or parent of someone who died in service or as a result of his or her disability. Disabilities may have first emerged during active service. However, you may also be eligible for disability compensation if an existing disability was aggravated (worsened) due to service.
Possible disabilities include injury, disease, and mental health conditions, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
 The quickest and easiest way to apply for disability benefits is by signing up for an online eBenefits account.You can process your claim entirely through this online account. If you prefer to use a hard copy application, download, fill out and mail in the appropriate form. You can also call 1-800-827-1000 and have the form you need mailed to your address.For general claims, you will need to fill out the "Notice the Veteran/Service Member of Evidence Necessary to Substantiate a Claim for Veterans Disability Compensation and Related Compensation Benefits,” VA Form 21-526EZ.
If you are seeking DIC, you will need to fill out the "Notice to Survivor of Evidence Necessary to Substantiate a Claim for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits," VA Form 21-534EZ.
You will need to show a copy of your discharge or separation papers (DD214 or equivalent). If you don't have your papers, the VA office will have to locate the information instead, which will lengthen the application process.
You will also need to show dependency records (marriage or birth certificates, for instance), if applicable.
You will need to provide medical evidence, such as doctor and hospital reports, indicating your disability.The VA will provide a medical examination, if this is deemed necessary to determine your benefits eligibility.If you are able to supply all of the application evidence yourself, you can file a Fully Developed Claim (FDC) which will expedite the decision process.You can file an FDC using the same eBenefits service or VA forms 21-526EZ or 21-534E (whichever is applicable).
If you already have the evidence, you can also begin filing your FDC before or at your discharge using the Quick Start Program or Benefits Delivery at Discharge (BDD)., The pension program provides tax-free payments to certain veterans or their survivors (spouse or children) who have low incomes or other financial difficulties.Eligible veterans and survivors who are housebound or require aid and attendance can receive a higher monthly payment.”Veterans Pension” is specifically for low-income veterans with a wartime service record and their dependents.
”Survivors Pension” is for low-income families of deceased service members with a wartime service record.
 To receive Veterans pension benefits, veterans must have served at least 90 days, with at least one day served during a wartime period.If your active duty took place after September 7, 1980, you must have served at least 24 months, or the full period for which you were called up, with at least one day during a wartime period. You must also have received other than a dishonorable discharge. At least one of the following requirements must also be met to receive a pension:


You are 65 or older with limited income (as determined by Congress each year).You are completely and permanently disabled.
You are a patient in a nursing home receiving skilled care.
You are receiving Supplemental Security Income.
 To receive Survivors pension benefits, the veteran must have served at least 90 days, with at least one day served during a wartime period.If the veteran’s active duty took place after September 7, 1980, you must have served at least 24 months, or the full period for which you were called up, with at least one day during a wartime period. The veteran must also have received other than a dishonorable discharge. In addition:

Your income must be below an amount determined by Congress each year.If you are seeking spousal benefits, you must not be re-married.If you are seeking benefits for or as a child, the child must be under 18 (or under 23 if attending a VA-approved school), or permanently incapable of self-support due to a disability that emerged before age 18.
 To apply for Veterans pension, download and complete VA Form 21-527EZ, the "Notice to Veteran of Evidence Necessary to Substantiate a Claim for Veterans Non Service-Connected Pension Benefits." To apply for Survivors pension, download and complete VA Form 21-534-EZ, the "Notice to Survivor of Evidence Necessary to Substantiate a Claim for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits." Either application can be mailed to your local regional VA benefit office.


You can use the online VA Facility Locator if you aren’t sure where the nearest one is.To complete the application, you must be able to provide proof of your income (such as tax records).
You must also be able to show proof of your service record, such as copies of your discharge papers.
 Veterans also get priority when they apply for most federal jobs. Programs are also available for family members of veterans.


If you are an employer, there may be incentives available to you, like salary subsidies for hiring veterans.
The Transition Assistance Program (TAP) is available to help veterans find the best way to transition to civilian life.This program offers short courses (two to four hours) that provide information on education, finding employment, and getting benefits.
If you have a service-connected disability, you can meet a Vocational Rehabilitation Counselors (VRCs) or Employment Coordinators (ECs) to discuss your employment options., Both active duty service members and veterans may be eligible for vocational benefits. However, eligibility requirements are different in each case:If you are an active duty service member and you expect to receive a discharge for reasons that are not dishonorable, and you obtain a memorandum rating of over 20% from the VA, you may be eligible for vocational benefits.If you are a veteran, and have received a discharge that is other than dishonorable, as well as a service-connected disability rating of at least 10%, you may be eligible for vocational benefits.
 To apply online, create an online eBenefits account and click on "Apply for Veterans Benefits via VONAPP." Fill out the Vocational Rehabilitation Form (VA Form 28-1900) and submit your application.You can also fill out VA Form 28-8832 and mail it to your nearest VA facility.


You can use the online VA Facility Locator if you aren’t sure where the nearest one is.If you are an active duty service member with a disability that emerged or worsened during your service, you can begin applying for vocational benefits immediately.To complete the application, you must supply personal and contact information as well as proof of your service record and discharge papers.
 If you would like to advance your education and learn valuable skills, the VA offers programs for both veteran service members and their families.These benefits can help pay for tuition, books and living expenses while you are advancing your education. The level of compensation and requirements for how it may be used differs depending on your situation. The following assistance programs are available:


The Post 9/11 GI Bill offers provides up to 36 months of educational benefits to people who served after September 10. 2001.The Montgomery GI Bill offers benefits to active duty and Reservists.To be eligible, you must have at least two years of active service, enroll in the program, and contribute a portion of your income during service.The Reserve Educational Assistance Program (REAP) provides education benefits to reservists who are called to duty during a time of war or national emergency.The Veterans Educational Assistance Program (VEAP) allows you to make contributions from your military pay to put toward educational expenses.The government will match these contributions 2 to 1.
The Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance Program offers assistance to children and spouses of veterans who died during service after September 10, 2001. Benefits are also available for dependents of veterans who are permanently and totally disabled due to active duty service.The National Testing Program provides reimbursement for mandatory fees required to take education-related tests such as the SAT, ACT, GRE, TOEFL, and LSAT.The National Call to Service Program provides benefits who serve an additional period of active duty, participate in a reserve program after a period of active duty, or work for a national program of service (such as AmeriCorps) after a period of active duty., Once you've determined which program is best for you, you will choose a school that falls within the requirements for that program. Resources are available to help you determine what career path is right for you, and which educational program can help you meet your goals.The VA Benefits website has tools to help you choose a school, including resources on affordability, attending foreign schools, and utilizing your educational benefits.You can apply for free counseling services for assistance in choosing a career path you will enjoy and be successful doing., Once you've figured out which program you want to pursue, you can apply online or visit your local VA office to fill out an application in person. You will then need to talk with the registrar at the school or training facility at which you wish to enroll.Benefit distributions vary widely depending upon the type of benefit. For instance, if you choose to study at a public school as an in-state student, tuition and fees may be paid directly to the school, while other benefits may be paid to you directly.
 Depending on the length and type of service, affordable psychiatric and medical assistance is provided to veterans and their families. This includes hospital care, critical care, surgery, and more.All enrolled veterans are eligible for VA medical care. However, benefit coverage depends upon your status, and the benefit elections you make.
 The VA helps veterans and their survivors purchase homes by guaranteeing loans and providing assistance with building and repairing existing homes. The assistance available depends on the length of the veteran's service., Life insurance coverage is automatic for most active duty members and reservists, and is converted to Veterans' Group Life Insurance (VGLI) after service is over.If you have questions about your life insurance coverage, visit the VA Benefits website or contact your local VA facility.Additional life insurance may be available in some cases, such as if you have a disability due to your service.
 Benefits are available to service members who are also members of special groups. Depending on the needs pertaining to the special group, benefits may include housing, healthcare, employment assistance, and more. If you are a member of one of the following special groups, visit the VA benefits website for more information:


Elderly VeteransGulf War VeteransHomeless VeteransIncarcerated VeteransKorean War VeteransLesbian, Gay & Bisexual VeteransMinority (African American, Asian American/Pacific Islander, Hispanic, Native American/Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian) VeteransNative American and/or Alaska native VeteransFormer Prisoners of War (POWs)Veterans Living AbroadVietnam War VeteransWomen VeteransWorld War II Veterans