 If you don't own your home or business property, ask your landlord if you can have a bird sale. Make sure that whoever is buying your birds considers whether they can have them in their home, too.;
, Nobody ever opts to purchase an unhealthy bird as it's unappealing and will cost them a lot of time and money to get it back to health. If you have an unwell bird, raise it back to health yourself before you put it up for sale. What tasks you need to perform daily to gain some healthy birds are listed below.


Sustain your bird with a healthy diet. Birds generally live on a diet of aviary feed, seeds or pellets which contains nutrition for your birds to thrive. Be sure to choose a high-quality feed, don't get anything that looks dodgy. You can supplement your birds with fruits and vegetables but some vegetables might be bad to your birds such as hot peppers or avocados - don't take the risk, search up food that shouldn't be fed to birds.
Give your bird a fresh supply of water along with their meal. Make sure the water is fresh, clean and cool. You should top up their water supply daily and clean the container weekly.

Interact with your birds. Tame, friendly birds are in higher demand rather than skittish ones. Keep your birds happy and stimulated by providing a spacious cage with toys and mind games. If you want to take it to another level, train your bird (especially if it's a parrot).
Make sure every bird is healthy. Look out for any strange differences in appearance or behavior, and consider having them checked over by a vet. They should be active and flying. Make sure they have all the basic needs of care to make sure they are extra healthy at the time of sale.
 Look at current prices in pet stores and online/classified listings to find out what that type of bird generally sells for. Remember that many people prefer to adopt animals from shelters, and that laws pertaining to the sale and ownership of particular birds vary from area to area.Investigate any local restrictions and expectations before setting a price for sale.


Small aviary birds usually don't go for too much. Try to compete with nearby pet stores because if the birds in the pet store were cheaper than yours, people will opt to go there instead. Canaries usually go for $5-$20, finches go for about $40 and budgies go for $30. Try choosing cheap prices whilst creating profit for yourself.
 If you're going to look for buyers, you need to first let others know that you are out there. There are many ways to advertise, mainly through social media, websites, flyers or even local billboards. Here's a few ways and how;

Social media. Facebook is the best way to gain customers easy and fast. Create an account and seek a group that specialises in selling animals. Put in the price, a picture and description of your birds. You'll also want to state that you're a reliable breeder.
Websites such as Craigslist and Gumtree. Reach out to websites that let you sell animals on them, this is another fast way to get customers. Provide a title, picture, description and a way for viewers to contact you (email and phone).
Flyers. Create a professional flyer that states what birds you are selling, a description of them and you as a breeder, a picture and a way to contact you. You can hang flyers on poles and billboards or simply post them to mailboxes.
 If you're making an actual business of selling birds, you'll likely want to set up permanent housing and display areas for all of them so that potential buyers can browse and choose between them. If you're just selling one pet, setting up a long-term display area is less important.
 Do your best to answer all questions your potential customers have about the birds. This will help them feel at ease purchasing from you. Provide with an honest yet positive description about your bird. If the buyer is interested and ready to make a purchase make sure to state any warnings about the bird such as whether it bites, etc.


Your description can include whether your bird is tame, any tricks it has learned, it's good with children, doesn't fly off, what food it enjoys, etc. But what you will need to warn to any potential buyers, is whether the bird bites, claws, flies away, is noisy, etc.

