 It's easy to become lost in your own little world with someone that you have feelings for, but if you're trying to hide your feelings, it's best if you avoid spending time alone together where situations are more likely to make it hard to hide how you feel.


Spending time alone will only cause your feelings to grow and create more opportunities for you to accidentally give yourself away-- a hug that lingers too long, a brush of the hands that leads to hand-holding, or a gaze into his or her eyes that says more than you meant to say. Keeping other friends nearby can give you a way to avoid those tempting scenarios and also keep your affection from growing.
If you typically spend time alone with this person, avoid setting off any alarm bells in their mind by gradually shifting to more group-oriented get togethers. For example, if you usually grab drinks after work together, arrange beforehand for another mutual friend to meet up with the you at a particular location. That way, when the object of your feelings asks if you want to grab a drink, you can say that you already have plans but he or she is welcome to join.
 Don't try to impress them or show off too much for them. It shows that you're looking for attention and most people will figure out why.


Similarly, don't go out of your way to run errands or do favors for your friend. It might be easy to go overboard with helpful favors since you really like this person and care for his or her well-being, but it will be obvious that your feelings are not what they were before if you start acting in new ways.
 Try to notice their flaws or things about them that you don't find attractive or sexy. We often tend to elevate people we like to a superhuman status and forget that they have flaws and failures just like everyone else.


Try to think of them as a sibling. If a relationship with this person is just not possible (for instance, you're gay and they are not, or they are married), the best thing you can do is re-frame how you view the person so that he or she is off-limits to you, too, instead of just the other way around.
 If the feelings have gotten too strong and you feel you can't hide them any longer, you may have to reduce the amount of time you spend with them or cut out your relationship altogether.


For example, if your friend is married or in a serious relationship, and you cannot stop thinking about them romantically and you are afraid you are going to try to act on your feelings, it might be better for both of you to lose a friendship than for your friend to lose their marriage.

