 When browsing local book stores or online shops, one might feel the urge to buy material that is way out of one's personal language level. Novels for example, even famous ones, children's books, if you have just started learning, or material like movies, or TV shows. The sad truth is, that as a beginner this kind of material is more frustrating than helpful, as a too high number of new words and grammar items will just impede your natural progress and lower your motivation. It is very important to choose material that suits your level of knowledge and vocabulary.
 The good thing about music and song lyrics is that we connect them emotionally and have a much easier time shifting those words into our long-term memory. On the other hand, when listening to music, we don't ascribe too much importance to the correct use of grammar, the learning effect is much more passive. Things you might look for are:

Search for your favorite song in any foreign language
See the exact translation to every word of the song
Sing along to it
Learn it by heart
Practice with a number of language games
Use the built-in vocabulary trainer to never forget the song

, This is especially important and sets you apart from normal fans and listeners of that foreign music. If you know, even only rudimentarily what all the words in a song are supposed to mean, you can automatically get an insight on how the language works. Make sure to review this step, as it is easy to forget the meaning of the most unusual words., Have you ever had a school assignment to learn a poem by heart? Didn't you also get a deeper sense of understanding what the poet meant, after you learned it? The same effect applies to music. Once you know a song by heart and have a rough understanding of its meaning, in theory, you just put 30 to 50 new words into your long-term memory. But not only the words themselves are being processed. Having the song always in your mind, sets your brain free to ponder about it even when you aren't consciously thinking about it., And enjoy learning it! Learning a song should be fun and give you insight into a different culture, explain to you what people of different countries care to sing about. If it is just simple, but not your type of music, then your progress will also slow down.

If you are into Anime or Western Animation, try theme songs!
Disney songs have always been translated into up to 30+ languages.
Pop Songs are usually easy to understand, as they have similar themes.
Children's songs might also be helpful, as they are also being used to teach the language to native children

, If you want to have a long lasting effect from your learning efforts, write flashcards like you would do with any other textbook. Write down the words you didn't know and see how much easier the reviewing gets, when you already formed an emotional connection with these words., Try to incorporate the words you just learned. They might seem outdated or lyrical but if people correct you, you learn something new, if they laugh, you can make a new friend!

But always remember: Songs won't teach you key phrases like "Hello" or "Goodbye". Make sure to learn them in advance when travelling to a foreign country. They will probably make up 90 percent of your initial conversation!

