 Drink about 8 glasses of water a day and cut back on the junk food. If you need use skin products such as Clean and Clear or Proactive.;
, Focus on your smile instead. If you have a smile on your face and your are personable style really doesn't matter...people see past what you are wearing. Actually studies have showed that people who smile a lot are perceived as prettier than when they don't.
 Even if someone is the prettiest in the world, she's not liked if she's mean. Treat everyone friendly even those people who aren't your friends. Who knows, maybe they'll be your friend sooner or later.
 Work hard at getting good grades in school, just being pretty won't get you far. Plus you will have your parents off your back and maybe you can even make a friend, helping someone else understand something. Bonus: You can get extra marks for being a good role model.
 People will be annoyed if you're Miss McBrag!

, If you're rejected by someone, don't make a big deal, remember it is truly their loss. Plus you never know why they rejected you, maybe it something you can't see now but will work itself out later.
 A balanced diet keeps your blood sugars level which helps with mood and concentration. You will be more pleasant if you're not starving yourself and you'll be able to understand what the teacher is saying better too. Again, a little junk food is okay once in a while. Don't focus on weight, we are not all built the same, be happy for being you! Again weight is not a factor in popularity, it is your smile and friendliness. If you're sad over things you can't change, you've wasted precious time of your life for nothing.
 If you're trying too hard to impress people they will see through that and think your fake (defeats the purpose). If you don't agree with something everyone else is on board with don't be afraid to speak up if you need to. Don't go out of your way to share what is not necessary either. But for important things ie: drugs, don't do it just cause everyone else is, that will only throw you off your path to success. Your friends won't care if you do it or not, it is your company they want. Let it pass by you in the circle, after a while you won't even be asked, they will know where you stand. After a while you will know if you want to still hang with these people or not, but at least you are in the frame of mind to make that decision.
 You never know who is friends with who and when that will change. What you say might come back to bite you. If you have opinions about others share them with those you know for sure won't blab, like your parents or a cousin or someone removed from the group you are referring to. Also, never assume people are talking about you, that is flattering yourself, there are lots of other things people talk about and it may just look that way. If they are talking about you, who cares, just think if they want to fix it they can talk to you, if not it is their choice to be upset about something they don't have full clarification of.(keep in mind people are usually upset about things they have misunderstood) Don't start the cycle, end the cycle.

