 Straightening shampoo and conditioners contain deep-penetrating proteins to help coat, unwind and shine up your hair.Avoid products with sulfates as these foaming agents remove moisture from the hair which promotes frizziness, and in turn prevents straightness.Ask a local hair stylist for help in determining which brands are high quality.


If you can, less shampoo is more. Shampooing your hair less will allow it to soak up your natural oils. If you must shampoo daily, try using dry shampoo on alternating days.
 Dry shampoo is a powder that is massaged into the roots of the hair to remove excess oil and grease. It will keep your hair looking fresh and clean without needing to wet shampoo daily, which strips it of moisture. Dry hair is frizzy, out of control hair. When in a pinch, cornstarch can be used in place of dry shampoo.


Dry shampoo is best used the night before. A quick application before bed will allow the powder to absorb into your hair and prevent powdery-looking locks.
 Look for products with organic oils such as coconut, argan, or shea. Avoid compounds like mineral oil and petrolatum, which prevent moisture absorption in hair.Hot oil treatments can be purchased or home made. Warm the oil and massage through the hair. Let the oil absorb for 30 minutes and wash with quality shampoo and conditioner.
Make your own moisturizing hair mask. Mix half a cup of milk with half a cup of water. Warm and comb through the hair using a wide toothed comb. Allow your hair to soak up the moisture for 30 minutes then rinse and condition.
When you have naturally oily roots, apply conditioner on the ends of your hair. By skipping the roots, you stop adding additional oils to your hair.
 Hair is porous, especially when previously damaged, and will absorb heat quickly. A heat-protectant spray contains proteins that work into the hair sheath and prevent damage from the heat. A light spritz and comb from your hair roots to tips will help seal in moisture and protect your hair.

