 Locate the plastic retainer clip at the bottom of the center shaft. Firmly grasp the clip between your fingers, open it, and pull it out. Under the clip should be a cut out portion of the shaft with a thumbscrew adjustment wheel.The cabinet will need to be completely empty when you make this adjustment. Do not attempt to complete the process when the shelves are loaded, especially if they are heavily loaded.
 Use your fingers to turn the thumbscrew adjustment wheel in the cut-out portion of the center shaft. Rotate the wheel clockwise to raise the door and counterclockwise to lower the door.


Generally you can expect that for each full rotation of the screw the height will be adjusted by about 1/32 in (0.8 mm).
You may need to apply gentle pressure to the underside of the bottom shelf to aid the adjustment if you are attempting to raise the door., After adjusting the door to the proper height, return the retainer clip to its original position at the bottom of the pole. The clip should fasten back into place firmly.It's a good idea to tighten all of the adjustment screws attached to the center shaft, shelves, and door after setting the height. Doing this could prevent the door from falling out of alignment again.
 Using erasable pencil, lightly outline the current position of the top and bottom brackets. If lighting is too poor inside the cabinet to make these marks easily, use a flashlight or electric lantern.Doing this will give you a reference point to work from as you make the adjustment. Pencil marks can be erased once you complete the process.
 Use a screwdriver to remove the setscrews and loosen the star washers holding the pivot housing in place on both sides of the pivot pole. Adjust the pivot housing and pivot pole until both are centered and aligned.When the star washers are in place but before fastening the setscrews, take a step back and look over your Lazy Susan. If the side clearance is still uneven, remove the washers and readjust the pivot.
Use your outline to guide your adjustments. For example, if the left side is low, you’ll likely need to move the pivot pole and housing to the right.
 Once you tighten the star washers, you’ll be ready to return the setscrews to their original position. When the screws are in place, check the side clearance of the Lazy Susan again to make sure that it wasn't altered as you refastened its hardware.This adjustment may take care of your side clearance problem. If the lower half of your Susan appears to be misaligned, you’ll had to adjust the pivot base in addition to its top.
 Open the door wide enough to expose the bottom bracket on either side of the Susan. Loosen this bracket by removing the fastening setscrew and star washer with a screwdriver. Now you can realign the pivot cam (metal arm) base so that it’s centered.You’ll have to repeat this process on the opposite side of the Lazy Susan where you’ll find an identical bracket/pivot cam base.
Work on brackets one at a time. After you’ve taken apart, realigned, and refastened the first bracket, move on to the next one.
When properly centered, the pivot cam bases of both sides should be aligned with regard to the center pole.
 Be careful when refastening; if you jostle the pivot cam, it could be knocked out of alignment. Replace the star washers and reattach the setscrews for the bracket. When fastened, similarly adjust the opposite side bottom bracket/pivot cam base.Verify that the position did not become altered while you were returning these pieces to their original positions by stepping back and evaluating the evenness of the side clearance.
 Sometimes these alignments (especially those made to pivots) can require several attempts before they are resolved. Double check door alignment after completing the top and bottom adjustments, especially.If the side clearance is still unequal, you will need to readjust the top pivot pole and/or bottom pivot cams.

