 A tired, hungry child will be much more difficult to work with. Shopping with young children inevitably takes longer than shopping solo, so allow for extra time if at all possible. And be sure you are well fed, rested, and in a good frame of mind, too; if you are crabby, you are also be more likely to have problems with the trip.

If possible, go on a trip to the playground beforehand. Getting physical energy out and having fun tends to make for more relaxed children.
Try to keep shopping trips short. It is sometimes tempting to try to get everything done at once, but children have short attention spans and typically do not really enjoy stores. If possible, go to one store in the morning, and then one in the afternoon rather than attempt two back-to-back trips.



 

;
, It can save time and help keep you on task so you don't forget a major item, and then have to go back again.
 With a picture-based list even a young child can stay busy checking things off. Older children can be responsible for part of the list all by themselves.
 You don't have to be overly heavy-handed about this, but a reminder helps make clear what's expected. Also remind about any potential rewards, such as making a special lunch afterwards.
 Avoid carts that have broken, or no safety straps in the seating area. Many children are seriously injured by shopping carts. If you see a broken belt, tell a manager. Some stores offer carts with special seating, cars on the front of the shopping cart or seats off of the back of the cart. The cars only fits small children and it's hard to see the child once inside.
 As you go by through the store they can be carrying out their special job and that should also make the shopping trip easier and faster for you as well. At the end of the trip praise them on how well they did their job so that they earn a sense of achievement.


Suggestions for Special Helper Jobs:






Read the list to you.






Find a bunch of five bananas






Hand your list of deli purchases to the deli worker, and bring the items back.






Get a liter of milk.






Find the cheapest paper towels.






Find a coupon for you. (Even non-readers can match pictures to products.)






Remind you to get an item (even if its on the list already).
 If you're meandering through the aisles, flirting with the cute seafood manager, and shuffling through your flier, you'll try the patience of the little ones.
 The grocery store is a real-world situation in which reading, math, problem-solving and more are easily taught.


Count the fruits and vegetables as you get them from the bin.






Have your child read the list as you walk the aisle.






Have your child find the cheapest item.






Have your older child figure which item is cheapest per unit.






Read the item's label out loud, point to the word, and put it in the cart.






Have your older child find the cereal with the most fiber, the least calories, or most Vitamin C (or whatever feature you're looking for).






Ask your young child what animal made a certain food (milk, eggs, cheese, bacon, etc.)






Point out colors of foods. Ask them if they can spot a red food, purple food, or yellow food.
 At the end of the shopping trip, thank your children for their excellent work. A reward may be in order for a successful trip. However, pick a treat that you can be consistent with week to week. It does not have to be large. Ideas include:

Stickers
A trip to the park after the groceries are put away.
A favorite song on the way home.
Avoid sugary treats. A cookie for a good shopping trip may sound like a good idea, but not when you get whining for cookies every time you set foot in the grocery store.

