 Outpatient treatment centers is a treatment option where you visit the center to receive treatment, but return home that same day. Outpatient treatment centers provide flexible options for people, and are generally cheaper.Outpatient centers are good for those who have a job they want to continue doing, a job that fulfills them, or a job they are still able to complete.
This option is helpful for early or less serious illnesses.
You might choose this option because you need to be at home, or you have a strong family and friend support system.;
, The next level after outpatient services is a more intense and structured outpatient service. You may do Intensive Outpatient Program (IOP) or Day Treatment, which is partially hospitalization treatment.An IOP treatment generally lasts three hours a few days a week. You get therapy, nutrition counseling, along with supported meals.
Day Treatment consists of treatment for six or more hours a few days a week. Day Treatment may also be done seven days a week. During this treatment, patients eat meals under supervision. This may be an option after being released from an inpatient treatment center.
 Residential, inpatient treatment is a treatment option where you go to stay at a treatment center for an extended period of time. Residential care is beneficial for people who have been battling with an eating disorder for a long time. Inpatient treatment centers are also effective for those who may self-harm or have a substance abuse problem.Inpatient treatment centers help remove the stress of daily life so you can focus on healing and recovery.These treatment centers are helpful if you feel you are unable to heal on your own. It might also help if you don’t have a support system.
Inpatient treatment centers are helpful for people who have already been through treatment once. Inpatient treatment facilities also offer personalized care around the clock., Eating disorders cover a wide range of conditions, the two most common being anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. Some eating disorder centers treat both conditions while others may be specifically for anorexia or bulimia.If you don’t know what eating disorder you have, talk to your doctor to determine if you are anorexic, bulimic, or have a different form of eating disorder.
People with anorexia generally restrict the food they eat or refrain from eating at all, therefore causing themselves to be extremely thin. People with bulimia often binge eat and then either vomit, fast, use laxatives, engage in extreme exercise, or a combination. Both conditions result in fear of gaining weight and an extreme dislike of how their bodies look.
 Residential recovery treatment centers require an extended stay on site for patients. The length of stay depends on your symptoms and your financial limitations. Most residential treatment centers require a minimum of a 28-day stay.Month long programs range from 28 to 30 days. These help you learn about how to deal with your eating disorder, get counseling, and learn proper nutrition. Many of these programs are covered by insurance.
60- or 90-day programs may be needed for more severe cases. Some people may need up to six months in a center. You may be able to determine an individualized duration of treatment based on your needs., Eating disorder treatment centers can range from a few thousand dollars for a month to upwards of $50,000. You should investigate how much the treatment program will cost you before deciding on a program. After learning the cost, explore payment options.Insurance plans may cover the treatment. Contact your insurance provider to discuss if they cover an eating disorder treatment, and if they do, how much they will cover.
You may be able to check into public insurance from the state or federal government to help pay for your treatment. Discuss this option with the eating disorder center and a public insurance agency. You may also check into private or group insurance programs.Some eating disorder centers offer financing for qualifying patients. Discuss this option with the clinic to see if this is an option for you.
You may have to consider private loans or loans from friends and family, or use your savings to finance the treatment stay.

