 Dogs like physical affection, and it can bond them closer to their owners. Spend time petting or grooming your dog nearly every day.


Dogs can be sensitive to touch at first. Touching them each day can build up their sensitivity and get them to crave your touch.You can also groom them on a regular basis. Just something as simple as brushing their coat with a brush can show your dog physical affection.
 Even if you're at work all day, it's good to have some time alone with your dog. Taking your dog for a walk every day can be a good way to reaffirm your bond with your dog.If you go on a walk with your dog, make it an engaging activity for your dog. Instead of walking aimlessly, try to give your dog specific goals and landmarks to walk or run to that you can do together.
Talk to your dog or teach them a trick. If you try a new trick every few weeks, this will bond you and your dog together and keep them focused on doing well for you.
 Dogs like to have structure, since it gives them a clear sense of purpose. When you play with your dog, try to make them task-oriented.


Give them directions on where to run, jump, and play. Playing catch is a good example of directed play.
Dogs also like to please their owners. Focused activities can tell your dog that they have fulfilled your expectations and you're happy with them., When you are training your dog, it’s especially good to give positive reinforcement. Additionally, praising your dog can make you grow closer together.While treats may be the most common type of positive reinforcement, it’s also important to speak to your dog positively. They will associate your tone of voice with your mood and feel happy as well.
If your dog does not respond to treats, a toy may also be a good way to praise your dog. They may also like physical affection from you, such as being petted, as a method of praise.
 Dogs like to be trained, since they like structure. You can either have your dog join a class or do it just with you. In either case, you should be heavily involved in any training with your dog.If you are training your dog, always use positive reinforcement. Dogs like treats and voice training (like "Good boy") that tell them they are doing well.
Pay attention to your dog's mood. They need to be in the right mood for training. Otherwise, it will not be an effective training session and will be frustrated with you and your dog., If you're working a specific skill or behavior, a training or activity class can be fun for you to do with your dog. These classes can be good for you and your dog to use to bond over a shared activity.Activity classes can work from puppies to adult dogs. For puppies, these activity classes may be especially useful to teach them discipline and some general training.
If you have a new dog that's not a puppy, it may be a good idea to bring them to a training class. Even if they are trained, you and your dog could use the class to learn how to work together.

