 It should fit into the thin, rectangular slot on your computer's housing.

Most Windows computers have an SD card slot in the computer housing, but if yours doesn't, you'll need a USB adapter.
If you're attaching a micro-SD card, you'll need to buy a micro-SD-to-USB adapter.;
, Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen or press the ⊞ Win key.

On Windows 8, place your mouse in the upper-right corner of the screen, then click the magnifying glass icon.
 It's on the lower-left side of the Start window., You may have to open multiple folders to do this.

For example: if your music is stored in a "Music" folder that's in Documents, you'd click Documents and then double-click the "Music" folder in the main Explorer window.
 You can click and drag the mouse across the music files to select and highlight them, or you can hold the Ctrl key while clicking individual files to select each one you click. You can also select an entire folder of music files instead of the individual files.

If you want to select everything in the current folder you can press Ctrl+A.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the File Explorer window., Both options are in the "Organize" section of the toolbar that's at the top of the File Explorer window.


Copy to will make duplicates of the selected music files and keep the originals where they are so you can transfer the duplicates to SD card.

Move to will transfer the original music files from their current location so you can put them on the SD card. They will not remain in their current location.
 It's at the bottom of the drop-down menu below the option you clicked (Copy to or Move to)., It will be beneath the "My Computer" or "This PC" heading.

You may first have to expand "My Computer" or "This PC" by clicking the arrow next to it.
 The button you see here depends on the whether you selected "copy to" or "move to" earlier. Doing so will prompt your music to begin transferring to your SD card., The time it takes for the music files to transfer will vary based on your computer's speed and the amount of music you're putting on the SD card., Once the files have been copied, click the thumb-drive shaped icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen, then click Eject. You can then unplug the SD card from the computer.

You may have to click





before you are able to see the thumb-drive icon.

