 Great Danes have an innate need to please, so your puppy will be easy to train.Since your Great Dane is so large, it is important to start as early as you can to help him learn good behavior. This will ensure that, as he grows, he will listen to you and follow your lead. This will be easier for you because he will be harder to convince to do things the older and larger he gets.


The earliest you can start to train your Great Dane is at around eight to10 weeks old.;
, Punishing or beating your Great Danes when he is not acting in the way you want him to is out of the question. Instead of learning from your punishment, your Great Dane will learn to be scared of you or learn to hate you. If your Great Dane behaves out of fear of punishment from you, your dog may become frustrated or anxious. This may lead pent up anger which may cause your Great Dane to become aggressive.


Given the size of a Great Dane, you could be a danger if the aggressive behavior is turned on you. This means that it is even more imperative for such a large dog., Training through rewards is the best method to get your Great Dane to train properly. It is more constructive as a training method because your dog will associate your training with pleasant things. Whenever you give a particular command, reward your Great Dane's behavior with a treat or other positive reinforcement.


This will connect your dog's behavior with the pleasant feeling.
Begin with easy commands, such stay or sit. , If your Great Dane is behaving badly or is engaging in behavior that he shouldn't, you should give short, sharp commands in a calm voice. This should be a phrase, such as "No" or "Uh oh", that you say firmly to him.


Once your Great Dane corrects his behavior, you can praise him for that behavior.
Even if your Great Dane does not respond right away, do not get upset, yell, or hit your dog. This will only make him fear you. , No portion of training your Great Dane will happen over night. You just have to keep with all the different types of training. Your dog will eventually catch on as long as you stick with it.


If a particular treat is not working, mix it up. If the training method is not working just right, switch up how you are approaching it to ensure that you are reaching your dog and training them as successfully as possible., Your Great Dane needs to be introduced to other dogs and people early in his life. This will ensure that your Great Dane acts accordingly around other dog and people. To do this, take him to a dog park, invite people to your house, or enroll him in socialization classes, which are given by professionals.


This is especially important for your Great Dane because, if he attacks other dogs or people, he can do major damage.Be sure that your Great Dane has all his shots before you take him around other dogs.

