 In the US, puppy mills are regulated by the USDA. As long as the mills provide dogs with basic care, such as food, shelter, and water, they are allowed to operate under the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). This means that the puppy mill may not be illegal, and you cannot take direct action. That said, some states and counties have specific animal welfare laws that might restrict or outlaw these mills.In the US and Canada, there are about 70 municipalities that require pet stores to get their animals from shelters and not breeders or mills. If you live in one of these municipalities, you can find stores that buy from mills and report them.
 Because puppy mills are permitted under the AWA, you may have to prove that there is extreme neglect in the mill to force it to close. This can be extremely difficult to do. As long as puppy mills provide the dogs with basic food, water, and shelter, they can keep as many dogs as they like, even in dismal conditions. That said, you can start to slowly build a case.


If the dogs are sheltered outside in kennels with no protection from the elements, you may be able to make a case for animal neglect.
If you know of sick puppies that came from the mill, you may be able to demonstrate that the mill is not providing sanitary care.
Never trespass on property or break into a facility that you suspect might be a puppy mill. You can be arrested, and this will not help close the puppy mill. Instead, gather what information you can legally, and file a report with the authorities.
 If you have evidence that a puppy mill is neglecting their dogs, you can contact the appropriate authorities to shut them down. There are many different legal venues you can reach to open an investigation.The USDA is responsible for overseeing puppy mills and breeders in the US. In most cases, they will be the first and only place to file a complaint.In the UK, your local authority is responsible for licensing breeders or puppy farms. Visit your council for more information about reporting a puppy farm.If puppy mills are illegal in your area, you can contact law enforcement to report your suspicion of a local puppy mill. They will handle the investigation and collect evidence.
 It can be extremely difficult to shut down a puppy mill on your own, and it is not advised that you contact the mill yourself directly. Instead, reach out to a local or national organization with experience in animal defense. They will be prepared to handle the legal aspects of the closure. Some places you might call include:


Animal Legal Defense Fund
Humane Society of the United States
The Puppy Mill Project
National Mill Dog Rescue

, If you do manage to shut down the puppy mill, you should make sure that all of the dogs find new homes. Otherwise, the dogs will likely end up at a shelter, and many might be euthanized.


You should petition friends on your social media sites to encourage them to adopt or to share the news that these dogs need homes.
Upload notices on websites like Petfinder and Adopt-a-Pet to reach out to potential homes.
You can hold an adoption event where you pair the dogs with new owners.
You may want to organize temporary shelter for these dogs at a local no-kill shelter.

