 Dry air can aggravate your sinuses and make it harder for mucus to drain from the nasal passages, which prolongs congestion. Using a humidifier in your bedroom or living room adds moisture to the air to prevent dehydration, help clear your sinuses, and soothe your throat. Aim for the right humidity. The air in your home should range from 30% to 55% humidity.


If the humidity is too high, mold and dust mites may thrive, both of which are common causes of allergies. Mold also causes an unpleasant smell and can discolor surfaces. If the humidity falls too low, it may cause dry eyes as well as throat and sinus irritations. The simplest way to measure humidity is with a gauge called a humidistat, which can be purchased from most hardware stores.
Both portable and central humidifiers must be cleaned thoroughly. Otherwise, they tend to become contaminated with mold and bacterial growth that may be blown through the house. Stop the humidifier and call your healthcare provider if you develop any respiratory symptoms that you feel are related to the use of a humidifier.;
, Steam helps loosen mucus while also washing away any foreign matter like dust or pollen that came into contact with your nasal passages. For a quick steam treatment, you can heat up a pot of distilled water just shy of boiling. When it starts producing quite a lot of steam, remove the pot from the heat. Place a towel over your head and lean over the pot, closing your eyes and breathing deeply for about 5-10 minutes.


The water should be around 175-185 degrees F (80–85 degrees C)., A warm towel applied to the forehead or neck may help relieve sinus headaches caused by inflammation and congestion in the nasal passages. Heat opens up blood vessels, which increases blood flow and supplies oxygen and nutrients to reduce pain and relax sore muscles. To use this method, soak a small, clean towel in lukewarm water for 3–5 minutes, then wring the water out. Apply it to your forehead or neck for 5 minutes. Dip the rag back in the water and place it again. Do not apply heat for longer 20 minutes, which would be 4 rotations, unless recommended by your doctor or physician.


You can also use a hot water bottle or gel pack to apply heat compression. Do not use heat higher than 105-115 degrees F (40–45 degrees C) because it can burn the skin. People with sensitive skin shouldn’t use a temperature higher than 85 degrees F (30 degrees C).
Do not apply heat if there is swelling or fever. Use an ice bag instead.
Don’t use heat on injuries, wounds, or stitches. People with poor circulation and diabetes should practice caution when using warm compression., Saline sprays add moisture to nasal passages and help clean them of crusts and mucus. The first time you use the spray, you may have to prime it by squirting a few times into the air until a fine mist comes out. When using a pump spray, gently blow your nose into a tissue to clear it of mucus. Remove the cap and lightly shake the bottle. Tilt your head forward slightly and breathe out slowly. Hold the pump to your nostril with your thumb at the bottom of the bottle, and your index and middle fingers on top. Using a finger on your other hand to close the nostril on the other side. Squeeze the pump as you breathe in slowly through your nose. Repeat these steps for the other nostril.


If the pump spray is used correctly, the spray should not drip from your nose or down the back of your throat. Try not to sneeze or blow your nose just after using the spray. Also try to aim straight. Point the nozzle of the nasal spray container toward the back of your head. If you don't spray straight, you will waste the medicine and may cause more irritation in your nose.
If you use a pressurized canister, wash it at least once a week. When using a pressurized canister, gently blow your nose into a tissue to clear it of mucus. Make sure the canister fits snugly in its holder. Lightly shake the canister several times before using it. For this type of spray, follow the same method of use as with other sprays except you should keep your head upright.
Some nasal sprays may sting slightly or cause irritation. Look for a spray with a sodium chloride content of 0 to 3% to avoid irritation. If you have sensitive skin, a saline spray with a sodium content of 0.9% will work best. This is called a physiological saline solution.
Most saline sprays are safe to use as often as you like on a daily basis. If you experience nosebleeds, discontinue use for a few days. If bleeding or irritation continues, speak with your doctor., A neti pot is specially designed to flush the mucus from your sinuses to decongest and relieve cold symptoms for several hours. During this process, which is called nasal irrigation, a saline solution is poured into one nostril and carries mucus out the other. Start by making a saline solution using 1/4 teaspoon of kosher or pickling salt, 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda, and 8 ounces of warm distilled water around 105 degrees F (40 degrees C).


Fill the neti pot with 4 ounces of the saline solution. Standing over a sink, tip your head to one side and hold the spout of the neti pot to your upturned nostril. Pour the saline solution into one nostril and let it flow out the other. Repeat with the other nostril.
Start with one irrigation per day while you have symptoms. If you feel better, use 8-16 ounces of solution in each nasal cavity 1-2 times daily, or as often as you need.
Neti pots are available at most drug stores and health food shops., Gargling salt water helps moisturize your sinuses, allowing mucus to drain and preventing postnasal drip. It can also help soothe a sore throat. Place 1/2 teaspoon of sea salt in a glass of distilled or sterilized warm water and stir until it's dissolved. Gargle the water for 1–2 minutes, then spit it out instead of swallowing.


If the salt irritates your mouth or throat, you can also use plain, distilled warm water for gargles. Repeat every few hours., Oil pulling is an Ayurvedic remedy in which you swish oil in your mouth to remove harmful germs and bacteria from your mouth. Vegetable oil contains lipids that absorb toxins and pull them out of saliva.Take a spoonful of oil and swish it in your mouth for one minute to gain the benefits. Next, spit it out and wash your mouth nicely, preferably with lukewarm water.


If you can, try to swish the oil for up to 15-20 minutes. The longer you do it, the more benefits you receive. To make sure the oil absorbs and detoxifies as much bacteria as possible, aim to do this with an empty stomach.
Buy organic, cold-pressed oil. Sesame oil and olive oil can work, however coconut oil is the most popular because of its taste and natural antioxidants and vitamins, such as vitamin E. The medium chain fatty acids of coconut oil incorporate themselves into the membranes of viruses and bacteria, which subsequently bursts them thus killing them off. Streptococcus mutans is an acid-producing bacterium commonly found inhabiting the mouth. It is a major cause of tooth decay, as it binds to tooth enamel and damages it. Coconut oil was the only oil that killed Streptococcus mutans in a study.Oil is also a natural moisturizer and it helps prevent dehydration in the throat and mouth., While it's important to blow your nose while you have a cold to help keep your sinuses clear, don't blow too explosively. The pressure from blowing hard can impact your ears, giving you an earache on top of your cold. Be sure to blow gently, and only as often as necessary. Experts recommended that you blow by holding a finger over one nostril and gently blowing the other into a tissue. Repeat with the other nostril.


Wash your hands each time you blow your nose to avoid chances of other infections by bacteria or viruses.