 It is recommended by firefighters that you mount smoke detectors high on the wall, or on the ceiling away from windows and exterior doors. (This is not the case for carbon monoxide alarms, about which, see #2, below.) Smoke fills up a room from the ceiling down, so having the detectors high should alert you early on. It is also recommended that detectors be placed at least 10 centimeter (3.9 in) / 4" from the wall when installed on the ceiling, and 10 centimeter (3.9 in) / 4" from the ceiling for wall installation.;
, When installing a carbon monoxide alarm, choose a location where the alarm will stay clean, and out of the way of children or pets.
 It is important to install detectors near sleeping areas and on every level of your home. Also place a detector in hallways and a carbon monoxide detector near heating, such as gas furnaces. Avoid installing a smoke detector in the kitchen. Unless, of course, you want everyone to notice your lack of culinary skills! Also keep detectors one meter / 3.3 feet (1.0 m) from the doorways of steam emitting areas, such as the bathroom, laundry or kitchen.


Measure the distance between the mounting holes on the back of the mounting bracket.






Mark the same distance on your chosen location.






Drill small holes at the marks.






Attach the mounting bracket to the surface with the screws. See "Tips" for seeking professional assistance.






Mount the rest of the detector into the bracket.



Routinely test your detectors. Push the test button to elicit a loud noise. If there is no noise, or a faint noise, you should check or change the batteries. For smoke detectors, you can also test the detector using simulated smoke. See How to Test a Smoke Detector.
 A good way to remember is: Every time you change the clocks, change the batteries. Always test the unit after a battery change, to confirm that the batteries are properly installed and working.
 This needs to be replenished over time, so be sure to check this as well as the batteries.
 It's simple but it's an important step to take to help protect your loved ones and your home. To provide additional certainty on top of the detector, take a moment to develop a safety escape plan. Make sure that all the members of the family know this plan, know how they can escape and where they can all reassemble again once outside the house. Include special needs such as infants and the elderly when developing your plan.

