 Weeds generally look different from the rest of your lawn. You may spot flowers appearing, especially if dandelions are a problem for your lawn. You may also notice different patterns, colors and textures appearing in your lawn, indicating the growth of other species of plants.


It can be challenging to spot weeds on a lawn that is closely mown, so put the mower aside for a bit to see if you can spot any patches of weeds growing.;
, Grass is not a broad-leafed plant, while most weeds generally are. This difference makes it easier to target broad-leafed weeds with your chemical weedkillers.


Some weedkillers are even designed to nourish your grass while killing the weeds. Check out products at your local garden supply store.
 Weeds tend to grow most during the months between spring and fall. Avoid spreading the weedkiller at the end of the fall season when the weeds are about to go dormant, as doing this will not do much to stop the weeds from reappearing in the spring.
 You can either apply a general ‘weed and feed’ lawn treatment over the entire lawn, or manually apply a targeted weedkiller to individual weeds that you spot.


If you have a large lawn, consider getting a backpack sprayer to apply the chemicals; it may be easier than continuing to refill the watering can.
 Weedkiller is likely to be more effective if used about two weeks after feeding the lawn. This is because the feed will boost the weed growth and give you more weed surface to drench with weedkiller.


However, do not feed your lawn ahead of time if you are planning on using a weedkiller that also contains fertilizer.
 A spray bottle can make manual applications more efficient. If possible, set the spray bottle to the most streamlined nozzle, rather than a nozzle that will allow weedkiller to turn into mist over your lawn.


If you do not want to use a spray bottle, you can also get a weedkiller gel that you apply directly to the leaves of the weeds.
 Try to apply weedkiller when you haven’t recently mowed the lawn. Doing this allows the leaves of the weeds (those parts that will absorb the weedkiller) to regrow again after the last mowing so that applying the weedkiller is easier.
 It is ideal to apply the weedkiller if there has been rain in the last few days. If you have a sprinkler system, apply the weedkiller in the morning after the grass has dried but when the ground is still wet. Checking for moisture is a good idea because weedkiller can harm your lawn if it is applied when the soil is too dry.


Don’t apply the weedkiller if rain is predicted for that day, as the rain could wash away the weedkiller, making it ineffective.
 Applying weedkiller more often could do damage to your lawn. You should also avoid using weedkiller on a freshly laid lawn.


Wait until the lawn gets established. This should take roughly a year.

