 If your friends are fighting you will probably think you should intervene to try to calm everybody down. This could work, but be aware that your intervention might be interpreted as siding with one over the other, which will only make things worse. Once you are involved in the fight it’s hard to get back out of it again.
 If you think it might be something which blows over after a couple of weeks then it is good idea to just employ some stalling tactics. They might be really angry to start with and insist you pick a side, but remain neutral and don’t fan the flames. If you can be a voice of reason and de-escalate the tension then you might be able to help them return to being friends. This way you won’t have to choose one or the other!

, If you’re friends have fallen out and you are still spending time with them separately, don’t let a situation develop where you become the passive receiver of all their angst. You might find that one friend says something like "she’s so annoying, she never listens to me, and she’s so selfish". Don’t get involved in a slanging match, instead calmly say you disagree.


You could say, "actually, I think she can be really kind, but nobody’s perfect all the time. If you think she’s really annoying, that’s too bad."

, It might seem like the most important thing in the world to the two protagonists, but you don’t have to let their falling out dominate your life. If you feel like this is what is happening, you should explain to them that it’s not fair and they are making you unhappy. Use neutral language, try not to take sides, but try to change the subject.


Say something like, "I know you’re upset, but can’t we talk about something else? Maybe we could just go and do something fun and forget about it for a while."
Politely but firmly change the subject if you have to.
If you just get back to having fun together, the fight might start to seem a lot less important.
 If it comes down to it and it is impossible for you to stay friends with both of them, it is a good idea to think about how they each reacted to the falling out. Ask yourself how they treated you, as well as each other. If you think one turned on the other, or one of them was especially pushy towards you, maybe this isn’t someone you want to be good friends with.

