 For all parts of the design, you want the tomahawk to have some heft, especially if you plan to throw it at targets. For this reason, construction paper or even a fairly flexible cardstock will work best, but you can use plain 8.5”x11” printer paper if you use two or even three sheets of paper.;
, Line the sheets up perfectly even and roll them into a tube. You want to roll along the 8.5” axis so that the tube is still 11” long.The diameter of the tube should be fairly small, so roll it tight. The diameter shouldn’t be more than about 1/2” to 3/4”.
 Place three small pieces of tape along the edge of the tube to hold it together. One piece in the middle and one along each end will work fine for now. You don’t have to get fancy with the tape either. Scotch tape will do.
 Since the paper design doesn’t have the weight and heft to rotate end over end very well when you throw it, you can flatten the handle to help make the shape a bit more aerodynamic. Simply set the tube down flat on your work surface, squish it down, and crease the flattened shape.
 With a pair of scissors, take one end of the flattened handle and cut a 1” slit down the crease where you flattened it. The two slits should be exactly across from one another in a straight line that is parallel to the flat side of the handle., As with the handle, construction paper or flexible cardstock will work best, but you can still use regular 8.5”x11” printer paper if you use two or three sheets of it.
 Line up the sheets of paper so they are flush with one another and fold them in half along the 11” axis.This means that after the fold, the 8.5” side will still be 8.5” long.


Many younger students may be familiar with calling this folding it the “hamburger” way instead of the “hot dog” way.
 Make sure that the pages are still perfectly aligned and fold it in half again. This time fold along the opposite axis—the side that’s still 8.5”.After these two folds, the pages should form a rectangle approximately 4.25”x5.5”.
 Now you want to fold the paper one final time along the same axis as the first fold—the one that is approximately 5.5” after the second fold.This last fold will be a bit more difficult to make since the paper will have gotten pretty thick. By making the head of the tomahawk dense like this, it will have more heft to rotate when you throw it.


The final product will be roughly 2.75”x4.25”. Probably a hair less since the folds themselves take up some of the length of the paper.
 In order to stop the paper from unfolding, place more of the Scotch or packing tape over the edges of the paper on the three open sides., This part is completely optional, but if you want to give your tomahawk head a more authentic shape, then you can begin by drawing the shape onto the currently rectangular head.While you can get as creative as you want, the general tomahawk shape is a teardrop shape or like that of an elongated baseball diamond—meaning one rounded side and one that comes to a triangular point.


Use as much of the current rectangle as possible. You don’t want to trim too much of the paper away when cutting the shape.
 With your desired tomahawk shape drawn onto the rectangular head, you can simply cut around the template. It may take a bit of work to cut through the thickness of the folded paper, but a decent pair of scissors can still do it.


You can discard the excess.
 Since you will most likely trim away some of the taped portion when you cut out your design, you will need to add another round of tape around the edges of the head. Make sure that the paper is perfectly aligned before taping it.
 With both the handle and head of the tomahawk complete, you can put the pieces together. Start by sliding the head of the tomahawk into the 1” slit you made in one end of the handle.The placement should leave the majority of the larger, rounded edge protruding from one side of the handle with only about 3/4” of the triangular point protruding from the other side.
If you chose not to cut out a design and you’re still using the full rectangular head, then it’s important to make sure about 80% of the head is off to one side of the handle. If the head is too balanced in the handle, then the tomahawk will not rotate correctly when you throw it.
 With the head of the tomahawk properly set in the handle, you can tape it in place.Tape around each part of the groove with a liberal amount of tape. You want to make sure that the head of the tomahawk doesn’t jiggle in the handle at all.
 Since the design is just paper, throwing the tomahawk will pretty quickly lead to wear and tear on it. If you have some duct tape handy, you can easily reinforce the tomahawk by wrapping the head and connection to the handle., Now that you’ve made your tomahawk, you should get some practice throwing it. Set up some targets—away from anything fragile—and throw the tomahawk at them by gripping the handle, lining up your aim with the target, and throwing the tomahawk with some spin to it. It should rotate end over end toward the target.


The rotating motion actually stabilizes the tomahawk’s path the same way rifling on a gun barrel spins a bullet to stabilize it’s trajectory!

