 Make sure this is something you are very serious about. It can be a great thing if you are doing it for the right reasons. Celibacy is not embraced by a majority. It is done by those who have found meaning and contentment in being single. Those who see no pain or emptiness in being by themselves seek celibacy. When you feel and believe that you would not need someone to fulfill your desires and you can keep yourself better at happiness and comfort you experience celibacy.;
, There are many reasons why people take this vow. The most common is to avoid sexually transmitted diseases, and to engage in intense studies as the celibacy frees an enormous amount of time from your schedule. It will save you some money too, especially on a student budget.
 This is a lifelong commitment that you are about to make. One must bear in mind that any choice in life is their own and those who choose other paths need not be underestimated. Each individual choice could be respected and allowed. Other lifestyles are just as human as yours. Hence, there is no need to expect others to follow your way of life or judge others as carnal.
 It is very important to tell those who are the closest to you about your decision and convince them to support you every step of the way.


Find a friend or mentor that has gone through this period in life and ask questions about his or her reason for making their choice.
 You may avoid temptations especially at the start of this lifestyle. Do not put yourself in situations that might lead to sexual activity, such as close quarters with someone to whom you are physically attracted to or may get attracted to. Don't spend time alone and secluded together unless you absolutely know that you can control of yourself in that situation. You can still be intimate and close with them, as long as you are in control. (it also helps for them to know of your statutes with this lifestyle).


Avoid listening to others' feelings about your decision, if they do not agree with yours. It is your choice and yours alone. Instead, talk to friends and people that will not judge you, or this choice you have made.
 It is a fact that after a certain amount of time, if you do not remind yourself of what you are missing sexually, you will stop feeling strong urges. However, this can be hard if you regularly engage in watching social entertainment like movies, TV shows, and many advertisements and commercials that continually show hormonally and/or sexually led relationships. Learn to ignore these; they are society's standards, not yours.
 You may involve yourself in activities with other people and be happy doing what you love. You need not put yourself to other sacrifices or abstinence from bonding or making close friends. Try to find people who you think will understand you and your choices. Doing this alone can be challenging. You may tell them that you need some moral support.
 Pursue your favorite hobby activity. You may avoid people you may be sexually attracted to. You may choose to connect with some other spiritual or personal activities instead.


Avoid temptation and concentrate on other important things. To keep up the commitment, go back to school, get a new hobby, or buy a pet. Keep yourself as busy as possible.
For the most part, continue to keep anything about sexual romance or hormone induced relationships away from your vision. Make a list of all you have wanted to do. You do not have a mate holding you back, so take that trip or write that novel.
Celibacy is said to be a great way to improve mental powers and concentration.
 Doing things alone will help you to grow and challenge yourself on why you wanted to be celibate in the first place. Self empowerment is a powerful thing when used humbly. The joy of learning and focusing more into engaging in other activities of life will help to occupy your mind. It will also tire you out and make you sleep well.
 Many take a vow of celibacy to be a part of a religious group. Different religions have their own say in it accordingly. Some adorn a finger ring with their religious symbol bearing on it a sign of celibacy. Celibacy in a religion is expected to bring a deeper and devoted connection with God.

If religion is a part of your decision to be celibate, read the Bible or other religious books for guidance and strength. Turn to your Priest or religious community in times of weaknesses and needs.
 Some vow to remain a virgin until they get married. This form of celibacy is only until marriage. Hence, their life partner gets to start and share their life with a virgin. This marks the honesty and dedication towards a purer start of a marital life. Some take the Virginity pledge for the same which is also called the Abstinence pledge, some daughters attend a Purity ball dance with their fathers and some participate in the Silver Ring Thing program. A Purity ring could also be worn by those who seek celibacy.
 You can then both be each other's strength, and learn something together such as an instrument which will keep the mind busy.
 Celibacy allows a romantic relationship to grow and develop tenderness, maturity, and self-giving. True love takes a long time, and staying away from sex makes the relationship more stable, not less. A man is impressed by a woman's sweet and gentle "No," if he has pushed her. It increases his respect and trust in her. It makes him want to be a better man, even if he's been a player in the past. The delightful erotic tension is the beginning of legendary love stories that make for good marriages.
 These waves are the ones which will try to carry you away from celibacy. You can learn to control these waves in many ways but most important is TO BE AWARE of your moods and what affects them. Here are some yogi tips:

Practicing yoga as part of your routine can help a lot, either by yourself or in a group. If you do not fear the temptation, join a group. In most cases there is little interaction between the students and you don't look at the others.
 Always reassess your vows every four to six months to make sure that you want to continue to do this. If you have decided that you do not want to live this lifestyle anymore, then go ahead and do what you desire.
 Celibacy is never effective when forced on yourself. Humans are social beings and mostly they prefer living with fellow beings who appreciate and care for them. They like someone who they belong to or could share their lives with. When someone desires to live life by themselves, they are confident to survive and enjoy living that way. When this is voluntary is when they can experience peace and normalcy.


If this state is forced, the individual is bound to experience frustration, depression, loneliness, incompleteness, hallucination and much more. Hence, it is best to leave it to the individual to make their choice to choose their lifestyle. However, if at some point one feels that they can no more be a part of this group, they may chose to go otherwise. It goes without saying that it is also a crime to force someone into celibacy.

