 You do not need to own a Mother-of-Thousands plant, but you need access to one with plantlets.;
, As Mother-of-Thousands grows, small plantlets, similar to buds, grow along the ridges of plant leaves. Take more than one, because the plantlets can easily die. Do not worry about harming the plant itself by taking the plantlets. They all fall off anyway, and the Mother-of-Thousands will have more energy to grow when it does not have to support the plantlets anymore.
 Keep them in the bag until you can transplant the plantlets. Don't let them dry up, or they will die.
 It does not need to be deep. The roots will not be very deep at first, so a large bowl is not necessary.
 They do not need to be pushed into the soil. Mother-of-Thousands naturally propagates by dropping its plantlets.
 This will help keep moisture in, as well as working as a makeshift greenhouse.
 Windowsills work wonders, but remember that the more sun the plantlets get, the more attention you will need to give them.
 Mother-of-Thousands is a succulent, which means it does not need much water. It does need moisture to stimulate the growth of roots, though.
 Stimulated by the moisture and the soil, the plant grows roots via mitosis of meristematic-type tissue in notches in the leaves. You may start to see small, thin, white roots sprout from the base of the plantlets. Make sure you keep an eye on the moisture and height of the plantlets.
 They are now ready to stretch for the sun!

, You can test the plant lets by gently lifting them. Be careful when doing this; you can damage the small roots if are too rough.
, Unfortunately, some species of Mother-of-Thousands, and their lookalikes can die after blooming small purple-pink flowers late in life. Not all plants will develop these flowers, it happens very sporadically if at all. Their life-span can be extended in preparation for the appearance of flowers by simply watering it less once it grows to about 1 foot (0.3 m) to 1.5 feet (0.5 m). Be careful not to let it get dehydrated, there is a fine line between too much and too little water. If it does look like its life is about to end, simply take a couple of its plantlets and grow a new plant or two.

