 You don’t need your phone to capture the world around you. To remember your vacation and share those memories with others, you can grab a disposable camera or bring a Polaroid camera. The latter type of camera has come back into style. Some of the new styles even allow you to take photos on sticker paper, and others have a digital component where you can save the file before you print it out, allowing you to have both a physical and a digital copy.

Alternatively, you could seek out a photo booth. Many tourist spots – and even some stores – have a photo booth so you can capture fun memories. While most require cash, some now take credit cards.
Buy a waterproof disposable camera if you would like to take pictures near a body of water.
 There’s an artist hiding inside you! Take the time to observe and transfer what you see to paper. Let others see your vacation through your eyes, or keep the drawings to yourself. Start by doing quick sketches - spend five minutes committing the scene to paper. Don’t worry about getting every detail.

Try blind contour drawings. To do this type of drawing, avoid looking at the paper. Look only at the subject. Keep your pen or pencil on the paper, and give yourself over to creativity. You’ll get an abstract image, but the more you do, the more life you’ll breathe into your drawings. Take home rubbings. This technique is very popular at old historic sites and cemeteries. Lay a piece of paper over a hard surface, then rub a stick of chalk, charcoal, or even a crayon over the surface to get an imprint of what’s on the other side., Writing can give you a chance to think about what you’re doing, allowing you a fuller, more rounded experience. A journal can help you remember a funny conversation you overheard or something you’ve never seen before. It doesn’t take long to make a note about something unique, and the time you spend writing will provide you time to reflect on the enjoyment you’re having. You can bring a journal with you or buy one on location if you’re looking for some local flair.

Jot down thoughts about your vacation as they occur to you.
Pen an essay. You can keep it to yourself or even share it as a blog post once you’re home again.
Write poetry. Allow the inspiration from your new surroundings to fill you up.

