 Certain foods can trigger acne outbreaks or make existing outbreaks worse. If you want to eliminate acne quickly, you need to commit. This means altering all aspects of your life, including your diet.


Dairy and carbs, especially empty carbs like processed flours and sugars, can trigger acne. Cut out these food options to try and curb your breakouts and opt instead for whole wheats, fruits, and veggies.Chocolate is often listed as a potential cause of acne, but the link has not been well established. While some studies indicate chocolate can cause acne, or worsen existing outbreaks, further study is needed. However, if you're hoping to cure your acne fast it might be better to err on the side of caution and ditch the chocolate.Greasy foods have also been blamed for acne, but this has little scientific basis. However, working in a greasy environment, such as a fast food kitchen, can cause acne as oil sticks to the skin and blocks in hair follicles.;
, Oftentimes, you're engaging in behavior that causes or worsens acne without realizing it. If you want your acne gone fast, you need to avoid certain behaviors.


Don't pick at your acne. This will make it worse and lead to more infections and scarring. It will also make the lesions more red and swollen.
Oftentimes, people assume poor hygiene has caused their acne and respond with heavy washings. This irritates the skin, making existing acne more apparent and increasing the risk of infection. Stick to gentle washings twice a day with a mild soap or an acne cleanser.Stressing about acne can easily make it worse. While stress is not an established cause of acne, the hormones released during stress have been linked to worsening of symptoms.
 Acne is caused when hair follicles become plugged up with oil and dead skin. Using products heavy in oils, like certain make-ups and hair products, can make acne more likely. Go through your cabinets and identify any substances that may be causing your acne.If you wear make-up, look for oil free products. Make-up is often identified as a cause of acne but your acne should not be affected by make-up as long as your products contain little or no oil.Look for water-based or mineral-based make-up instead.
Sunscreens also sometimes use heavy amounts of oil. Look for more natural, oil-free brands of sunscreen.Look for "noncomedogenic" on the label. Neutrogena has great sunscreens that won't cause acne breakouts.
Hair products in particular tend to be very oily. Look for natural brands of shampoo and conditioner. Oftentimes, salon products are better made than department store conditioners. If you're looking to eliminate acne, it might be worth the added price., Over-the-counter acne medications only work if they contain certain ingredients that target acne. Make sure you know what ingredients to look for so you don't end up buying an over the counter cream or lotion that has little effect on fighting breakouts.


Benzoyl peroxide kills acne-causing bacteria while removing dead skin cells that can clog pores.Salicylic acid works mostly as a preventative agent, making sure pores do not become plugged. While it's a great product for longterm prevention, it might not be the best ingredient to look for when striving to end a breakout in a short period of time.Glycolic acid and lactic acid, sometimes called alpha hydroxy acids, remove dead skin cells and reduce inflammation. Look for products containing these ingredients if you want a fast cure.Sulfur also removes dead skin cells that cause acne and is a good ingredient for a fast cure., Benzoyl peroxide is the best agent for a fast cure. When initially looking at products, start here as it has a high success rate for a wide range of people.


Benzoyl peroxide creams come in a range of strengths, from 2.5% to 10%. Stronger is not always better and many people actually respond best to 2.5% strength cream.In general, it takes a few days to see results. Follow the instructions for any cream you purchased and do not apply more, as this can irritate skin. Be patient. Do not expect overnight results, but in 3 to 5 days improvement should be apparent., Side effects, like redness and dry skin, can occur when using acne products. Until you know how your skin will react, it's best to keep dosages low.


Your skin needs to adjust to treatment gradually. If you've never tried over the counter medications before, ease your skin into the transition. Start with the lowest dosage.While you may want to try a high dosage to cure acne fast, this might backfire. If your skin becomes irritated, or if you have a reaction, acne will worse and other skin issues, like rashes, may form. It's best to use products correctly, at a low dose, and hope for a swift cure than to risk side effects., If you've been trying for awhile to get rid of your acne, try using a combination of products.


Different products combat the varying causes of acne. Using multiple approaches to treat acne may pay off, especially if your breakout is particularly intense.Many people find combining benzoyl peroxide with salicylic acid can cure existing breakouts while preemptively stopping future breakouts.You could try using a salicylic acid face wash, and a benzoyl peroxide cream.
Be careful, however. There is a slight chance benzoyl peroxide with salicylic acid can make acne worse for the first few weeks., Bovine cartilage is a substance found in a cow's body that provides structural support to the bones. When extracted, it can be a quick and powerful acne cure.


Look for creams that contain 5% bovine cartilage. These can be found at department and health stores across the country.Apply the creams twice daily for optimal results., Many lotions contain green tea extract, a herbal derivative of green tea leaves. It can be effective in combating acne breakouts.


Look for lotions containing at least 2% green tea extract. These can be found at department, drug, and health food stores.This method works best in teens and adolescents and with people suffering from mild acne. If you're older, and your acne is severe, you might want to try another option., Aloe vera is a plant species that is used in small amounts in many gels and creams. It's very effective when it comes to fighting acne.


Aim for a 50% aloe vera gel and combine it with a conventional acne drug. Studies show using aloe vera alongside other medications is significantly better than using other methods alone.Try to apply aloe vera while using an over the counter face creams. Use the amount recommended on the bottle. Do not use more than needed as this might result in skin irritation.Aloe vera can work fast, but this is not always the case. It can sometimes take up to 8 weeks to work.
 Tea tree oil has long been considered good for the skin. Tea tree oil is effective in treating acne, but takes longer to work and you should not look to it if you want a fast cure.


Tea tree oil's main benefit is that it has less side effects than benzoyl cream and tends to eliminate acne more effectively. However, it takes significantly longer to have an effect. While it might be great for a longterm cure, it's not the best option for fast acting treatments.Tea tree can cause contact dermatitis if you have an allergy. If you notice symptoms worsening, cease use.Tea tree oil should never be taken orally, and can be particularly harmful to children if taken by mouth. Always dilute tea tree oil with another oil, like olive or almond oil, if you do choose to use it., Some oils have antibacterial and antiseptic properties that can help eliminate acne fast. If you're looking for a fast cure, they're worth a try. Remember, however, that you should never ingest essential oils. Only apply them topically.


Spearmint or peppermint can be diluted in a quart of water and applied to the face. The menthol in these substances has antiseptic properties.
Lavender, thyme, and calendula all have antibacterial properties that can cleanse the face and eliminate blemishes quickly.
Rosemary and oregano have antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. These are hard to find in essential oil form, so you can instead use kitchen spices by diluting half a teaspoon of dried herbs in water.

