 The service should not begin before sundown, and the traditional timing is to wait until three medium sized stars can be viewed in a single glance at the sky.There are, however, other means of determining when to start:


Some people start Havdalah one hour and ten minutes later than they began Shabbat. So, if Shabbat began at 6:00 PM on Friday, Havdalah would begin at 7:10 PM on Saturday.
Others base the start time on sunset in their location, and add approximately forty-five minutes. So, if that day’s recognized sunset time is 7:13 PM, Havdalah would begin just before 8:00 PM.
There are online and printed guides available to help you time out when to begin Havdalah. You can also ask around regarding the traditional start time determination where you live.
 Many celebrants choose to pour just a bit more wine than the cup or glass can hold, allowing some to spill over onto a plate positioned underneath. This is meant to represent the hope for an overflow of blessings in the week ahead.At the conclusion of the Havdalah service, some people dip their pinky fingers into the spilled wine on the plate and rub their eyebrows and/or ears with it. This indicates a hope to see and hear good things in the coming week.
 While it is traditional to hold up the wine, spices, and candle at various times during the Havdalah service, the fine details tend to vary. Here is one version to consider following (it assumes a right-handed person; reverse the hand directions if you are a lefty):Pick up the wine in your right hand; pray; move the wine to your left hand and continue to hold it.
Pick up the spices in your right hand; pray; smell the spices and pass them around for others to do the same.
Bless the candle while another holds it or, if alone, while it rests in a holder. During the blessing, all present can extend their hands toward the candle so that their fingernails reflect its light.
Move the wine back to your right hand for the final blessing.
 As with most elements of Havdalah, variations exist in the specific phrasing of the blessings given. You may wish to consult your local community regarding common phrasing and content. Here, for example, is a more detailed version of the final blessing:Barukh atah Adonai, Eloheinu, melekh ha'olam

Blessed are you, Lord, our God, sovereign of the universe


hamav'dil bein kodesh l'chol

Who separates between sacred and secular


bein or l'choshekh bein Yis'ra'eil la'amim

between light and darkness, between Israel and the nations


bein yom hash'vi'i l'sheishet y'mei hama'aseh

between the seventh day and the six days of labor


Barukh atah Adonai

Blessed are You, Lord


hamav'dil bein kodesh l'chol (Amein).

who separates between sacred and secular. (Amen)



, After the Havdalah candle has been blessed and the service completed, the candle is extinguished. Many people choose to use the blessed wine to do this. For instance:After the final prayer, the leader of the service drinks some of the wine.
The rest of the wine is poured into a dish or bowl.
The lit candle is dipped into the poured out wine.
Alternatively, the candle flame can be held over the empty dish, and the wine poured onto it.

