 If you are feeling stressed out in other areas of your life, it can be very easy to become irritable and take this out on your partner. Taking some time to check in with yourself and evaluate your stress levels and the source of your stress (which may or may not have to do with your husband) can help you have more positive interactions with your partner and you can take steps to change or deal with whatever is causing you stress. Stressors may be internal or external. Some things that may be causing you stress include:


Major life changes (change of job, moving, pregnancy, death of a loved one)
Workplace stress (an overly demanding job, upcoming deadlines, a difficult boss or coworkers, a toxic work environment)
Social stress (issues with friends or not having social support)
Fears, insecurities, or feelings of uncertainty or lack of control
Lack of balance (having too much on your plate, doing a disproportionate amount of the housework)

, There are many constructive ways to manage and minimize stress one you have identified the cause. Exercise is one of the most effective ways to deal with stress. It releases endorphins and boosts mood while improving your physical health. Try to incorporate 30 minutes of physical activity into your daily life (you can break it up into 10- or 20-minute segments to make it more convenient). Try dancing, taking the dog for a long walk, jogging, taking the stairs instead of an elevator, playing a game with your kids (like soccer), or taking an exercise class at the gym.Other ways to positively manage stress include:


Meditation
Yoga
Spending time with your friends/support network
Writing in a journal
Taking a bath

, You may find that you are stressed or feel resentful toward your husband because you feel like there is an uneven balance in your responsibilities. Learn to be assertive and respectfully ask for help when you need it.For instance, you might find that you have too much on your plate trying to work, pick up your kids from school and take them to their extracurricular activities, clean the house, and get dinner ready. Try saying to your husband: "I have a lot going on right now and I could really use your help. Can you make dinner and clean up the kitchen tonight?"
Being assertive doesn't mean being mean or aggressive. It means recognizing what you need and want and asking for it, while respecting the other person. Be willing to compromise and have a calm discussion about how to better share responsibilities.
 One way to reduce stress in your life is to cut out things that cause you stress or to stop overextending yourself. Learning to say "No" to things when you have reached your limits for what you can take on can have a major impact on your stress levels. Look at your commitments and ask yourself what things you "must" do and wha things you feel you "should" do. Try to cut out some of the "shoulds" to avoid taking on too much.Consider if your environment is stressing you out. If the news is making you anxious and stressed, turn it off.
Try to avoid people who stress you out. If you have friends, acquaintances, co-workers, or family members who cause you to feel stressed, limit your time around them as much as possible, or end the relationship. If it's someone you can't complete avoid, minimize your interactions as much as possible. For instance, if you have an annoying coworker who stops by your desk, you can say, "Excuse me, I need to use the bathroom," or "I'm in the middle of a project, I can't talk right now."

, You need to consider the true sources of your negative thoughts — are they really just about your husband or something/someone else? For example, do you have a tendency to view things in a negative light anyway? It might be helpful to consider exactly what you want out of marriage and out of your husband in particular.Write down a list of qualities that you require from your partner. Then, see how many of those traits you possess. For example, if you listed "funny" but you haven't been laughing lately, you may need to work to rediscover your own sense of humor.

