 You want enough water to completely cover your noodles — two to four quarts should be enough. Wait until the water reaches a full, rolling boil before continuing. You can prepare the steamer below while you wait.


If using ordinary chow mein noodles, do not add salt (they are usually already salted). If using soba noodles, add a tablespoon of salt to the water.;
, Carefully drop the noodles in the boiling water. Stir them immediately and continue to stir frequently while they cook.


Check the noodle packaging for cooking instructions. Most chow mein noodles should be done after about 5 minutes of cooking.
 When the noodles have a pleasantly soft texture, pour them into a strainer in the sink. Rinse immediately with cold water to stop the cooking process. Let the noodles drain for several minutes, then spread them out on a paper towel-lined cooking sheet to air dry.
 Place a steamer rack in the bottom of a 3 to 4-quart pot. Add enough water to come up to the level of the rack. Heat until boiling. Add the broccoli florets, taking care not to let the steam burn you. Cover and steam cook until the broccoli is soft (about 4 minutes).


When finished, pour the broccoli into a strainer and rinse with cold water to stop the cooking. Set aside.
 Place the cooked noodles in a large serving bowl. Add soy sauce and stir or shake to coat completely. Let the noodles sit absorbing the soy sauce while you make the dressing in the next step.
 Place the ginger, sugar, garlic, and red pepper flakes into a mini chopper or food processor. Pulse until finely ground. Add the vinegar and both oils to the ginger mixture. Pulse again until well blended.


If you don't have a food processor, you can simply chop the ginger and garlic into tiny pieces and toss them with the rest of the ingredients. Alternatively, try using a mortar and pestle.
 Toss the noodles in the dressing to coat completely.
 To the noodles, add the cooked broccoli, sliced green onions, sliced bell pepper, sliced cabbage, shredded carrot, and mung bean sprouts.


Congratulations — your noodle salad is ready to eat!

