 Like in any form of visual arts photography requires some knowledge about how colors react to light. There are two color properties that can be helpful when trying to get photographed objects to turn out correctly. Once you learn how to correctly identify the color situation you're dealing with and how these situations affect different hues of color you can photograph colors more accurately.



Additive colors are the result of adding white light to a color against a black background. In this situation if you add equal parts of red, green and blue you'll get white.Whenever you use a lighted screen such as the computer screen you use this system. This color system is called RGB or Red, Green, Blue system.
Whenever your using high exposure or a flash you are adding a white light thus this is a additive color situation.

Subtractive colors are the results of what you if illuminate a colored filter from behind with the white light. If you mix all of these colors together in equal parts you get black. It's the opposite of the additive.This property is most commonly used in mixing colors with any art mediums not involving light. This systems as also called the CYMK or Cyan, Yellow, Magenta, Black.
If your object is an art project on a sheet of white paper or is surrounded with a lot of white without flash you are in a subtractive setting.;
, Others may have a way you can opt in or out between modes or systems. Check out the manual or ask questions on discussion forums on photography for more information on this feature.
 Search for art sites, camera stores and shops that sell these filters or you can make your one using any color plastic or glass transparent item like a plastic cap, sunglass lens, 3-D glasses lens and take any colored item and experiment with how the color of that filter affects that color being viewed. Many cameras with large millimeter lens have special filters and lens available for purchase but the smaller lens ones are hard to find. If they are too expensive or not available you can always make your own.


You can use these filters as well as other equipment in many different applications when using the camera. Place them over the flash to color or diffuse the light that comes out of the flash. Put clear filters over the lens it self to see how it affects the colors.
There are now new small camera accessory kits and zoom lens that are actually made to fit over the camera lens of an Android smartphone or iPhone. However these can easily fit over the lens of smaller digital camera. Consider experimenting with these as they are very inexpensive.

