 Proper training is essential to having a happy Weimaraner. Training should start when the Weimaraner is a puppy. Without early training, that puppy will grow into an adult that will be a real challenge to control.Puppy kindergarten is a great way to start training a Weimaraner puppy.In puppy kindergarten, your Weimaraner will start learning basic obedience skills and learning the proper way to interact with other dogs.;
, Weimaraners need clear, solid leadership so they know their boundaries.Your Weimaraner will be happy when it knows exactly what to do and what not to do. Leadership should not be harsh, though. Harsh leadership will make a Weimaraner wary and fearful, making training very difficult.A Weimaraner needs lifelong training so it always knows the right thing to do.
When you give your Weimaraner commands, say them only once in a clear, authoritative voice. Do not yell.
If you see your Weimaraner misbehave, do not punish or yell at it. Instead, firmly say ‘No!’ and do not reward the behavior.
 Your Weimaraner aims to please you. If you reward your Weimaraner with a tasty treat and verbal praise when it follows your commands and behaves well, it will continue doing the right thing.Your Weimaraner will be so happy to please you and get rewarded in return!

, Weimaraners are very energetic dogs. They can also feel very anxious when separated from their owners. Therefore, crate training may seem like a bad idea, but it’s actually recommended for Weimaraners.When done properly, crate training will give your Weimaraner a safe space to sleep, rest, and play when you’re not home.
Crate training will also help prevent your Weimaraner from being destructive while you’re away.
Start the crate training when your Weimaraner is a puppy.
 Weimaraners can be wary of strangers.Socializing your Weimaraner throughout its life will help it feel comfortable with new experiences, other dogs, and other people.It will also make your Weimaraner feel confident, stable, and happy. Examples of socialization are:


Scheduling play dates with friendly dogs
Introducing your Weimaraner to friendly friends and family
Varying the route of your walks
Taking your Weimaraner to a dog park

