 You [[Media:shouldn't be alone with your feelings through a divorce. Make it a point to be around family members or friends who offer you support and can help assuage your feelings of guilt by filling you with positivity.


Find a valuable confidant. It can be really helpful to find someone you know you can trust and use them to express your feelings. They can help give a new perspective that lessens your guilt.
 If you have friends that are judging your divorce on moral or religious grounds, you may want to spend some time apart rather than let them guilt you into feeling bad about your choice.
 You can find these online and they are usually in a group setting with people going through similar situations. There will usually be a structure where you can talk about the feelings you have and maybe even have a person in the group assigned to you that you can call when you're struggle. DivorceCare is one group that offers groups and seminars to help get over divorce and have locations in nearly every state.There will generally be support for people of all ages and of all stages in the divorce process. The groups generally sign something agreeing that everything said in the group is confidential so you don't have to worry that what you say will leave the group.
There are also online groups, if this is something that appeals to you more. They will have chat and forums for people to talk to one another without needing to sit with an in-person group. The most common groups are "Divorce Support" and "First World Wives," that can be located using a search engine.
 If your friends or are group are not giving you the support you may want to get professional help. Private therapy with a licensed therapist can help give you the tools to help cope with your guilt. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is often used to help change one's perceptions about the divorce. Look online for a therapist in your area and find one that is specialized in helping counsel people with the difficulties of divorce. Both pre and post divorce therapy is available so that you can cope with the different stages.
In some cases, medication may also be helpful if you are having emotional and physical symptoms. Talk to your doctor if your guilt is causing depression or anxiety that

