 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the carrot cake, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, line a 10-inch (25-cm) by 15-inch (38-cm) jelly roll pan with parchment paper. Spray the paper with nonstick cooking spray and lightly flour it before setting it aside.If you don’t have parchment paper, you can substitute foil.
You can use butter to grease the pan in place of the cooking spray if you prefer.;
, Add 3 large eggs to a large bowl. Use a handheld electric to beat the eggs on high for 3 minutes, or until they are slightly frothy.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
If you prefer, you can mix the cake batter in a stand mixer.
You can also mix the cake batter by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
 After you’ve beaten the eggs, add ⅔ cup (133 g) of sugar. Beat the mixture for another 3 minutes on high, or until it becomes pale and frothy., Once the sugar is mixed into the eggs, add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of vegetable oil and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Mix the ingredients in on medium until they are fully incorporated.You can substitute canola or avocado oil for the vegetable oil if you prefer.
 Add ¾ cup (94 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (4 g) of baking powder, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground ginger, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground nutmeg, 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground cinnamon, and ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of ground cloves to a separate large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully blended.You can substitute cake flour for the all-purpose flour if you want your cake to have a lighter texture.
 After you’ve mixed all the dry ingredients together, gradually add them to the wet ingredients. Mix them in on medium-low until they are just blended.Be careful not to overmix the carrot cake batter. If you do, you may end up with tough, chewy cake.
 Once the batter is fully mixed, add 2 cups (100 g) of shredded carrots. Use a rubber spatula to gently fold them into the batter until they are fully incorporated., When you’re finished mixing the carrot cake batter, carefully pour it into the prepared jelly roll pan. Use the rubber spatula to spread it evenly throughout the pan.The batter will be fairly thin, so be sure to spread it to all the corners of the pan.
 Once the batter is in the pan, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the cake to bake for 15 to 16 minutes, or until the cake is cooked through but still soft on top.You can tell that the cake is done if the top springs back when you touch it.
 While the carrot cake is baking, lay out a clean kitchen towel on the countertop. Liberally sprinkle the towel with approximately ¼ cup (31 g) of powdered sugar so the length of the fabric is covered., As soon as the cake is finished baking, immediately turn it out onto the kitchen towel. Start with the short end of the cake and roll it up tightly with the towel.If the parchment paper is stuck to the bottom of the cake, remove it before you begin rolling it up.
 When the cake is rolled up in the towel, leave it to sit out on the counter. Let the cake cool completely, which should take at least 1 hour.You want the cake to be room temperature before you add the filling, or the cream cheese frosting may melt out of it.
 To prepare the filling, add 6 ounces (170 g) of softened cream cheese and 4 tablespoons (57 g) of softened, unsalted butter to a medium bowl. Beat the two together on medium until the mixture is smooth.If you’re using a stand mixer to make the frosting, the paddle attachment usually works best for creaming the cream cheese and butter together.
 Once the cream cheese and butter are creamed together, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Mix it in on medium-low until it is fully incorporated.You’ll get the best flavor if you use pure vanilla extract.
 After the vanilla is blended in, add 2 cups (250 g) of powdered sugar to the bowl. Beat the sugar in on low until it is fully blended and the filling has a medium consistency that spreads easily but isn’t so thin that it will ooze out of the cake.If the filling is too thin, you can add more powdered sugar.
If the filling is too thick, add ½ to 1 teaspoon (2 ½ to 5 ml) of water to thin it out.
 Once the cake is cooled and the filling is prepared, carefully unroll the cake. Make sure that it lays flat on towel so you can easily spread the filling over it.If you like, you can sprinkle the top of the cake with more powdered sugar before you add the filling.
 When the cake is laid out flat, use a butter knife or offset spatula to spread the filling all over the top of the it. Next, start at the short end and roll the cake back up tightly with the filling inside.Leave a ¾-inch (19-mm) border on all sides of the cake when you spread the filling.
 Once the cake is filled and rolled up, carefully wrap it up with plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for at least 1 hour to firm it up., When the cake is firm, remove it from the refrigerator and take off the plastic wrap. Place it on a platter and dust it lightly with powdered sugar before cutting it into slices and serving it.For the most decorative looking ends, cut off about ½-inch (13-mm) from each end of the roll before serving. That will make the cream cheese swirl visible.
Wrap any leftover carrot cake roll in plastic and store in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for up to 3 days.

