 Sometimes kids fight to get attention. You may notice your kids fighting more when you are not present in their day to day lives or less involved in their daily routine. Address this issue by spending one on one time with each child on a more constant basis. Doing this can help your kids feel acknowledged and loved, leading to less fighting between them.For example, you may take 10 minutes out of your day to play with one child and then spend 10 minutes tucking your other child into bed. Or you may set aside 30 minutes to hang out with one child and then 30 minutes to spend time with your other child.
If you have a partner, you may also talk to them about having more one on one time with each child on a more constant basis. You may plan outings with each child so you spend quality time together and bond.
 If you see your kids modeling good behavior, acknowledge it and encourage it. Doing so will let them know that acting in a positive way is beneficial for them and should make them feel good. You may reward them with verbal praise, such as, “It was nice of you to share with your sister, thank you for doing that” or “I appreciate that you worked out the fight as a team, great going both of you.”You can also give your kids material rewards for positive behavior, such as a candy or a new toy. However, try not to give your kids material rewards only, as this can cause them to expect items as rewards all the time.
Experiential rewards, such as a trip to get ice cream or a fun outing as a family, can often be more effective than material rewards.
 Being a good listener for your kids can make them feel supported and acknowledged. Try not to brush off complaints or concerns from your kids. Sit down with them and be a good listener so they know their voice matters. Ask them thoughtful questions to help them express their feelings and maintain eye contact when they are speaking to you so they know you are listening.For example, perhaps your child expresses anger at their sibling for taking their toy. You may then ask your child, “Why does that make you upset?” Listen to your child’s response and encourage them to express their feelings to you.
 Your kids will watch your behavior and model themselves after you. Be a good role model for your kids so they learn how to share, play well together, and appreciate each other. Be caring, generous, and compassionate when you are around other adults and other children. Avoid fighting or arguing in front of your kids, as this can end up reinforcing negative behaviors where conflict is acceptable.For example, you and your partner may have a "no fighting in front of the kids" rule, where you agree to keep arguments away from your children. Or you may try to work through issues with your partner in a calm, collected manner rather than shout or yell at each other so your kids learn how to deal with conflict in a positive way.
 As a parent, you may know that there are certain situations where your kids tend to fight or argue. Your kids may fight over the same toy or they may argue over who goes to bed first at night. Be aware of any patterns in your kids' behavior and avoid these situations to reduce the fighting between your kids. You can also try preparing for these situations in advance so there is less arguing.

For example, if you know your kids tend to fight over the same toy, you may have a talk with them about the importance of sharing the toy. Then, if they do end up fighting over the toy, you can remind them of the talk you had earlier and encourage them to share.
You can also try having two toys on hand so both child is occupied with a toy and there is less fighting when it comes to play time.
 If the arguments between your kids do not get better and appear to be getting more angry or physical, you may want to bring them to a therapist. You may go to the therapist as a family to try to work on these issues or bring your kids to a child therapist.Speak to the therapist beforehand and describe the situation. The therapist should be able to recommend which type of therapy would be best for your kids.
Your primary care doctor can recommend a child therapist. Your pediatrician may also be able to give you a referral to a child therapist.

