 A list will help you stay on track while you shop, which can prevent you from overspending. This can also save you from forgetting a necessary item. It may take a while before the items you are looking for show up in stock, so even when shopping online, a list can be helpful.You may want to divide your list into two parts: necessary items and things that would be nice. This will help you separate your needs from your wants.
 Peruse clothing magazines or the selections at brick and mortar stores to learn the current trends in kids’ clothing. If you don’t know what your children will think is stylish, this technique can give you direction.Bring your kids along with you while window shopping so they can point out styles they like. Afterwards, you can shop together at brick and mortar secondhand stores or online ones to hunt for that style.
 Waiting for a dressing room to open up and the process of changing into and out of clothing can add a great deal of time to your thrift shopping. Dress your children in an outfit that you can easily slip potential items over so they can try on clothes quickly and efficiently.


It will be cinch to try potential garments on over a light top (like a tank top or t-shirt), easily removable shoes (like flip-flops, sandals, flats, crocs, and so on), and pants that fit well., Even if a garment looks like it's in perfect condition, this may not always be the case. Check hems, seams, and difficult to see parts of the garment (like the armpits of shirts, the inside of pockets, and so on).


Loose threading at the seams or hems of an article of clothing is generally a sign that the garment is coming undone.
In some cases, you may be able to get an even better discount by pointing out damage. Show loose threading, holes, discoloration, and so on to clerks, and ask if you can get a better deal.
 If you have two children that are roughly the same size, or if your child has a friend of the same size who wants to come shopping, this can create friction. If both children want the same item, it can create an unnecessary hassle.Beyond the practical reason of diffusing potential arguments over who gets what, one-on-one time with your kid will be valuable for relationship building. Take this time to ask about school, friends, and so on.

