 Practicing good oral hygiene on a daily basis can help lower your risk of infection and thrush. Brush your teeth for at least two minutes in the morning and two minutes before bed everyday., It doesn’t matter if you do this before or after you brush or if you do it before bed or when you wake up.Just be sure to make the time once a day to do a thorough job flossing your teeth to help reduce the risk of thrush.
 If not, you should be replacing your toothbrush every three to five months., If you wear dentures, be sure to soak them in a chlorhexidine solution. You can get this from your pharmacist., How often you need to visit the dentist may depend on your own specific dental health. You should be going once or twice a year regardless to have a regular cleaning. Your dentist can provide a much more thorough cleaning than you can at home, which will decrease your likelihood of getting thrush.Ask your dentist how often you should make appointments. They will have a better idea, based on your medical history, how much care you’ll need., Keeping your hands clean can help lower your exposure to bacteria and diseases, as well as lower your risk for thrush.


Wash your hands before and after handling food.
After using the restroom.
Before and after caring for a sick individual.
After touching items frequently touched by other individuals in public, such as door handles and escalator railings.
 Antibiotics contain properties that can disrupt the natural pH balance in your mouth and increase the risk for thrush. Rinse with water or brush your teeth immediately after taking antibiotics.If you currently take antibiotics, talk to your healthcare provider about alternative treatments that won’t increase your risk for thrush.
 Foods that contain mold and yeast can lead to Candida yeast overgrowth in the body and increase your risk for thrush.Avoid consuming processed and refined carbohydrates such as breads and pastries, lower your intake of cow’s milk and cheese, and stop consuming alcoholic beverages high in yeast content, such as beer and wine.
 Exercise can help strengthen your immune system and prevent you from developing diseases and health conditions that can lead to thrush, such as type 2 diabetes. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that adults engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity per week, as well as muscle-strengthening exercises that work all major muscle groups on two or more days per week., Getting an adequate amount of sleep every night allows your body to repair itself, and can help fend off diseases and illness. Start going to bed earlier and improve your sleeping environment as necessary to ensure you get the needed amount of sleep every night., HIV, AIDS, cancer, diabetes, and vaginal yeast infections are all examples of health conditions that can lead to the development of thrush. For example, if you suffer from type 2 diabetes, manage your blood sugar level by lowering your intake of sugar and exercising as recommended by your healthcare provider., Thrush is a common side effect of many prescribed medications. If you currently take any medications for which thrush is a side effect, talk to your healthcare provider about the possibility of alternate treatments that will lower your risk for thrush.


Don’t start or stop taking any prescribed medications without consulting with your healthcare provider beforehand, even if your current medications increase the risk for thrush. Your physician can perform an evaluation and determine whether any alternative treatments can effectively treat your condition without increasing the risk for thrush.
 If you are currently nursing an infant, keeping bottles and nipples clean can help lower the risk for thrush.,, Thrush infections are common after the use of antibiotics that tend to kill off good bacteria that can keep the yeast that causes thrush in check.


Always consult your pediatrician before deciding whether or not to give antibiotics to a child.
 This may be an indication that you have a yeast infection on your nipples that can easily infect your child. Don't stop breastfeeding until you consult with your doctor first., Failing to treat vaginal yeast infections during pregnancy can result in your passing thrush to your infant. Inform your physician and OB-GYN of an existing vaginal yeast infection so the proper treatment steps can be taken to keep your baby safe from thrush.