 Aussies are low-maintenance when it comes to grooming since they have a wiry, weather-proof and dirt-proof coat that does much of the work for you. Comb their coats at least once a week to control shedding and ensure that the natural oils from their skin are distributed throughout their fur.Use a bristle brush, pin brush, and/or a metal comb to brush your terrier’s coat in the direction of hair growth. Stick to detangling its overcoat; don’t try to penetrate to its undercoat.
 The feathery hair around your dog’s face and extremities should be kept short to keep them comfortable and prevent matting.Use a scissors to keep the soft, spiky hair around their eyes, ears, tail, and paws short so that they can comfortably see and don’t collect dirt.
If you’re worried about using shears around your terrier’s face and ears, get an electric shaver designed for small breeds. Always be sure to shave in the same direction as their hair growth.
 Three to four times a year should do the trick. Aussies have sensitive skin, so frequent bathing can leave them with itches and rashes while compromising the natural weather-proofing of their coats.Bathe them only when necessary using a mild, hypoallergenic dog shampoo. Lather them up from the neck down (to avoid getting soap in their eyes or ears), and rinse them with warm water.
 Australian Terriers have perky ears that are susceptible to infections. Keep them clear of wax and dirt by gently wiping them out with a cotton ball dipped in a mild canine ear cleaner.While you’re at it, be on the lookout for any signs of infection, such as redness, rashes, swelling, discharge, or foul smells. If you notice any of these symptoms, take your dog to the vet.
 Doing so will keep your dog from bad breath, tartar buildup, and bacterial infections. Simply lift your Aussie’s lips to expose their teeth, and brush them as would your own.Be sure to use an angled brush and toothpaste that are made especially for dogs. Human toothpaste, especially the ones containing fluoride, can be poisonous to canines.
 To avoid cracking or excess growth, use a small clipper especially designed for canines to trim your Australian Terrier’s toenails on a regular basis. Starting with their front paws, go one paw and nail at a time. Be sure that your dog stands still while you do it.Always check the underside of your dog’s toenail before you trim it to see where the nerve in it ends. You should only cut off the bit that extends beyond the nerve. Play it safe by erring on the side of leaving too much rather than painfully cutting your pet’s nerve endings.

