 If you want writing inspiration, start by reading. Go to the library or bookstore to get futuristic, sci-fi, speculative, and/or dystopian novels and short stories.


There are a huge variety to choose from. Try everything from classics like Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World to recent favorites like Susan Collin’s The Hunger Games.
If you’re looking for critically acclaimed futuristic fiction, search for books and short stories that have won the genre’s top honors: The Hugoand Nebula Awards.As you read, take notes about the things you admire about a particular text since you may be able to incorporate similar techniques into your own work.
For instance, you may like how a particular story is told from the perspective of two different characters or how another introduces its setting through a chase scene.;
, The best way to generate ideas about what the future in your story should look like is to do research about what things are like today. Often times, the best futuristic fiction offers worlds that are possible projections of our future based on the potential consequences of current scientific, environmental, and political trends.Since you’re writing about the future, focus on what seems cutting edge. Look into recent developments in science, space programs, and technology. Consider what is happening to Earth’s environment or what scientists project will happen in our future solar system, galaxy, or universe.
You can also research current social and political trends and conflicts, such as struggles for women’s empowerment, economic inequality, or rising tensions among world superpowers.
You can narrow the scope of your research by focusing on the trends that interest you most or by deciding what topic it is that you would like to offer some commentary on.
 If you’re particularly taken with a specific scientific development or theory, why not use it as your inspiration? Think about a world in which the theory has become reality or a promising scientific development had been fully realized.For instance, if you’re interested in physicists’ Many Worlds theory, write a story in which you make that abstract theory come to life by depicting a multi-dimensional universe.
If you’re keen on robotics, you might want to imagine what Artificial Intelligence will look like in the future, when we have completely automated lives.

