;
, This will open your music library. If you don't see your song list when you open iTunes, you're either in the iTunes store or in a different library (e.g. movies, shows, audiobooks, etc.).


If you're still in the iTunes store, select "My Music" at the top center of the screen.
If you still don't see your song list, you're viewing your music by a different category–either Artist, Genre, Composer, or Album. One of these words will be in the top right part of the application. Click it to reveal a drop down box, then select "Songs".
 Above your song list, you'll see column headings (e.g. name, time, artist, etc.). The selection boxes are located in the column below the check mark—by default, this is the far left column.


These may currently be selected (meaning the boxes are checked) or deselected (the boxes are empty).
You can change the order of these columns and also which columns appear. The selection box column will always be present, but it may not be the first column if it's been moved.
 Click each box to select it, this will add a check mark.The songs with boxes checked will play one after another.
 You can select all songs on a Mac by holding down ⌘ Cmd and clicking one box. On a PC, hold Ctrl and click one box. All boxes will now have check marks. Click again to deselect all songs.


It is important to click inside the box here. Clicking on the song name will highlight only that song, inside of checking all song boxes.
 Hold down ⇧ Shift and click on the first and last song name of the group you want to select. This will highlight the songs. Right click on your song selection to reveal a drop down box. Select "check selection" to check the boxes of your song selection.


It is important to click the song name here, not the box. Clicking the boxes will only check those individual songs instead of highlighting a group of songs.
 Once your desired songs are checked, you can select the "Play" button at the top of the application. When you click the button to skip to the next track, your next selected song will play.


To save a specific selection of songs to listen to again, you can make a playlist by right clicking anywhere on your song list and selecting "New Playlist from Selection".

