 Breasts are made up of specialized milk-producing tissue separated into lobes, as well as fatty tissue that surrounds them. Blood vessels provide circulation to the breast. Connective tissue, made from a protein called collagen, helps hold them up. , This may not result in dramatic change, as vitamins are linked to overall breast health and not growth specifically. However, consuming the right vitamins may help maintain and support your breasts at their current size.Vitamin C helps collagen restore itself. Collagen helps hold your boobs up and give them shape, so restoring and strengthening it can help give your boobs more lift.
Vitamin B6 helps your body make more red blood cells. Increasing the number of red blood cells will improve circulation to your whole body, including your breasts.
Vitamin E is an important part of cholesterol control, and can help regulate the fat deposits everywhere in your body, including in your boobs.
 Studies show that women with low levels of estrogen (the female hormone) in proportion to testosterone (the male hormone) tend to have smaller boobs. While scientists are divided on whether foods containing phytoestrogens, or dietary estrogens, have much effect, many women claim to have experienced breast growth by supplementing their diet with these foods. Some foods containing phytoestrogens include:


Nuts and seeds with oils, like fennel, walnuts, cashews and sesame seeds
Soy products like tofu, soy milk and soy nuts
Whole grains like brown rice, quinoa, oats and barley
Legumes, also known as beans
Certain vegetables like beets, collards, carrots and cucumbers
Certain fruits like plums, raspberries, apples and pomegranates
Some beverages like coffee, red or white wine, and black or green tea

, Gaining or losing a few pounds can make a big difference, depending your body type. Gaining weight will cause your body to store more fat in your breasts, while losing some may narrow your waist, making your boobs appear larger.


Gain weight if you have a thin build. Since boobs are made up of a great deal of fatty tissue, increasing your fat stores by eating more can help enhance the size of your breasts. However, note that if you gain weight, you'll gain it all over your body.
Lose some weight if you have a stockier build. Losing a few pounds will most likely make your breasts smaller, but a slimmer waist will accentuate your breasts and make them appear larger in contrast.

