 Use an adjustable protractor to measure the actual angle of the inside corner. Divide this measurement in half to determine the number of degrees your cut will need to be.


Place the right side of the protractor against one wall forming the corning. Open up the left side of the protractor, extending it all the way open until it is perfectly flat against the wall on the other side of the corner. Note that the protractor should be parallel to the ceiling and floor at this point.
Most corners will be roughly 90 degrees or only an angle or so off that mark, but for the sake of accuracy, it is important that you find out the precise measurement before proceeding. Divide this measurement by two and make your initial bevel cut according to this figure.
 Guide the blade of a manual coping saw with your thumbnail and make a square starting cut.


Your coping saw should be perpendicular to the molding as you make your starting cut.
Using your thumb as a guide will help you make a more accurate cut.
Cutting a square starting cut is especially important if you have a piece of crown molding with a complex profile.
Keep the molding clamped to a sawhorse or hold it in place with your knee while you work with the saw.
Do not force the blade. If it starts to straw from your cutting line, back up and restart the cut.
 Angle the saw by 30 degrees and shave off more wood from the back of the molding. Stay just outside your cutting line as you work on this part.


Remove more wood from the back than from the front.
Saw slowly and carefully.
You should only cut away material just outside the initial cutting line. If extra material needs to be removed, you can do so gradually with sandpaper.
 You will need to remove notches if you are working with molding in complex shapes. Cut notches and details out that follow the curve of the the shape.


This piece of molding will need to fit over a piece of molding that has not been altered. In other words, each notch will need to correspond to an area that curves outward, so that there is room for that outward curve in the other piece to fit. Anywhere that curves outward, then, should have a notch of comparable width and radius going into it from the side.
You will usually have to approach these notches and details from several angles before you can get them just right.



Place your crown molding upside down in your miter box when you cut the bevel, with the bottom at the top.
Attach a wood stop to the table so that the molding will be held at the right angle.
Use a blade with fewer teeth when cutting the crown molding.
Make the fit tighter by re-cutting with your coping saw at sharper angles as previously described. Angles that hit in the back will need to be removed.
 Position a piece of crown molding with a flat edge flush against one side of the corner. Glide your cut piece of molding over this unaltered piece, lining them up as evenly as possible.


If you're lucky, the two pieces will fit together perfectly on your first try. Usually, though, you will need to make a few more adjustments before you get a perfect fit without any gaps.
 Mark any trouble spots of excess material lightly with a pencil. Use a rat-tail wood file or 100-grit sandpaper to shave off this extra wood.


If the joint is close to fitting and the gaps are very small, the sandpaper should be enough.
Use the file if you need to remove larger amounts of wood.
 Butt the two pieces of molding together into the corner. Nail in the first, then the second, making sure that they fit together evenly before doing so.


A nail gun works well for quickly nailing the pieces of molding into place.

