 Being clean is all about being fresh and looking your best. If you're clean, you'll look great and feel even better.



Take a shower every day, preferably in the morning. The shower will wake you up, and there's a chance your body could sweat in the night.
NOTE: If you have brothers or sisters who take showers in the morning, and there is only one shower, take a shower before you go to bed. If it's hot out, don't sleep with the covers, and sleep with the sheets instead!
Wash your hair every other day. Washing it too often can strip natural oils and cause frizziness.
Find shampoos and conditioners that suit your hair's texture. If you have a dry scalp, you may consider using a dandruff shampoo.
Don't use too much of any product. Too much gel or mousse can result in a really bad hair day!;
, Drink a lot of water and find a lotion that suits your skin. There are different types of lotion for different skin types.


If your face is oily, always use moisturizer. It may seem ironic but it's still important. Use one that's meant for someone who has acne.
If your skin is dry, use a thicker cream based moisturizer. It will help your skin stay moisturized longer.
 Washing your face will help wash away dirt and layers of skin that build up over the day.


Try to find a face wash that is appropriate for your skin. You probably want a "non-comedogenic" wash, which simply means that it won't clog your pores.
If you're beginning to get pimples, use over the counter acne products. If it's getting worse and you're worried about it, visit your doctor who can prescribe something to help.
 Find a length that compliments the shape of your face and that you're happy with. Your hair makes a big impact on your image.


Ask your hairstylist what would be suitable for you. Choose a hairstyle that is easy to maintain.



Nice smelling soap can give off a perfume scent, as can deodorant!

, Almost everybody has them at some point.


Try to stay clear of getting more than two colors. Even two colors may look a little too harsh for your face. Choose pastel or neutral colors--they look very pretty on braces.
Stay away from yellow and neon blue! They will make your teeth look yellow, and not white.
 Wear clothes that properly fit and that you feel good in.


Dress for the weather. If it's summer, wear something that's light and cool. If it's winter, wear something that will keep you warm.
 Certain colors look better on certain skin tones and with certain hair colors.


Wear blues, greens, and browns to bring out your eyes, and pinks to bring out the pink in your cheeks.
Redheads look beautiful in green; however, avoid lime or neon greens. Try to find dark forest greens that make your hair stand out.
If your skin has yellow tones, be careful wearing oranges and yellows.



Go for different shoes in different seasons. If you live in a place that gets cold during the winter, you obviously wouldn't wear flip-flops in December.
 A smile is a great accessory! Brush your teeth twice or more every day to get a beautiful white smile.


If you can't brush your teeth after every meal, chew on a piece of sugar-free gum. It'll make your breath smell nice and keep your teeth clean.
 Confidence is attractive, so be proud of who you are.


Throw your shoulders back and your chin up high.
Keep your hair out of your face and smile.
 Everyone is unique. Your "flaws" aren't something to be ashamed of—they're what make you distinctly YOU.


Don't try to be someone you're not.
Remind yourself everyday of the people who love you! Your family, your best friends, your pets, your teachers... it will boost your confidence!

