 The "subject" is the person on whom you will perform the cold reading.


Select the person you will "cold read" ahead of time if possible. The more time you have to learn about your subject, the better. Some cold readers actually have accomplices visit or interview the subject prior to the cold reading so that the cold reader can then use this information to dazzle the subject and the audience.
Asking for a volunteer is also a good way to choose someone, as volunteers are likely to be receptive and, more importantly, will likely want to believe that you can communicate with the dead or that you can see things about them that you should have no way of knowing. However, watch out for skeptics.
"Shotgun" the audience. Shotgunning is a technique in which you make one or more broad general statements, such as "I'm sensing someone who has had some marital problems recently," or "There's someone named, I think, Billy, that's asking to communicate with his granddaughter." As you address these statements to the audience, watch for reactions. There's almost certainly someone who has recently had marital problems or whose grandfather went by the name Billy.
If you want to narrow your pool down further, you can try to refine your "knowledge" by then making more specific assertions, such as, "This Billy, he lived a long life. He used to enjoy fishing, no hunting maybe - being in the outdoors." Focus on the people who reacted to your very broad first statement and then look for further reactions. Using this technique allows you to gain the subject's confidence and to amaze the audience before the reading has even begun.;
, Even if you have only a little time to get to know your subject, you can still learn a lot by "profiling" them.


Look at readily available visual clues about the person that will tell you something about them. Their age, the way they dress, their height and weight, and the presence or absence of a wedding ring are among the many clues that can help you immediately learn more about the person.
Read the subject's body language. Before the reading starts and throughout your cold reading, watch the subject's body language carefully. Involuntary gestures, facial expressions, and changes in posture can tell you whether the person is becoming anxious, which is usually a good sign that you have said something that is correct or are about to do so. Looks of disappointment can signal that you've said something wrong, and if you correct yourself slyly and quickly, the person and the audience (if there is an audience present) will be amazed at your correction.
 As you observe the subject, think about certain things that you could reasonably guess about them. Some of your assumptions will be wrong, but it helps to build a character in your mind.
 Introduce yourself and get the subject's name. Look in their eyes and tell them, if you haven't already, that you can communicate with the spirit world. Explain that the person on the "other side" really wants to communicate with them, but that you are merely a vessel or "go-between" and you will need the subject's help. This makes the reading more dramatic, prepares the subject for the possibility of mistakes and enlists their cooperation.

