 Using an over ornamental or fancy font style will make your letter look unprofessional. Stick with Arial or Times New Roman at a size of 11 or 12. , In the top left of your letter include your name and address. Even if you are sending the letter in an email, this is a good idea in case the letter gets printed out, all the information will be there.


Some cover letter writers will include this info centered in the header with their name in a slightly larger font. You do want your cover letter and resume to stick out, but adding too much flare can detract from the content of your letter. It may also make you seem unprofessional. Use your discretion., Skip a line after your own address and then include the receiver's information as well as the address of the school.
 Avoid starting your letter with “To Whom it may concern.” Instead, if you know who is in charge of the hiring committee, address the letter directly to them. If the job is for an elementary or high school position, you might address it to the principal or assistant principal.
If you are applying for a job at a college, address your letter to the Chair of the department you are hoping to teach in.
If you can find these names online, don’t be afraid to call the school office and ask.
 Schools may be reviewing resumes for multiple jobs. Start off by telling them what job you are interested in.”I’m interested in applying for the 4th grade Math Teacher position.”
I am writing today to express interest in the Adjunct Literature Professor position in your department of English.”

, If you heard about from someone who already works at the school, include that information.


Letting them know you found out about the job from their website can show you have an interest in that school in particular.
 Do a little research about the school. Read the mission statement. Mention something that attracts you to this particular school.


"I know that one of Douglas Elementary's key missions is to incorporate issues of diversity and social justice into your curriculum. This is already something I try to bring into my own classroom on a regular basis, and I am excited by the prospect of working with other like minded educators and seeing what they have to teach me."

, This only needs to be a few sentences.


Was there something about this position that took your attention over others you’ve seen?
What is it about the experience you’re hoping to gain or challenges you’re hoping to face that excites you about the job? , “I believe that my Masters Degree in Special Education, as well as my three years of classroom experience make me an excellent candidate for this position.” If this is your first teaching job be sure to include any relevant internships or student teaching experience.
If you were a teacher's aid in college you can mention that here.
 Briefly explain any degrees you hold. This doesn’t need to be a recounting of your academic history, just your degree and perhaps the school where you got it. Feel free to mention any honors or awards you received.
 This is your chance to tell them a bit about you as a teacher. Include examples from classes you’ve taught.
You may mention classes you’ve taken in the past.
 Let them know if you have experience with students with special needs. Include the grade levels you’ve taught or any special classes you’ve been a part of. "I have had the opportunity to work with several students with learning disabilities."
"I received special training (be specific about where and when) to help me understand and aid students with severe trauma."
If you have any supplemental training such as dealing with students with emotional disorders include that here.
If you speak more than one language or are proficient in American sign language be sure to include that information along with any certifications you hold.
 This is a good thing to keep in mind throughout, but adding a few sentences in your third paragraph about why you love teaching or what initially drew you to the profession will give administrators a sense of who you are and what you can bring to a classroom.


"My passion for teaching began the summer of my sophomore year of college when I spent the summer as a camp counselor and was given the opportunity to teach a class focusing on local plant life."
Include a brief example or specific moment from a class you were in that inspired you.
Talk about a past experience where you felt like you really helped a student or group of students. Why was it important to you?

,, If you’ve coached little league or been a mentor to a young person. If you have proficiency using Microsoft Word or Photoshop you can mention this as a skill you can teach your students or use to help create classroom materials.
 Using words like coach, facilitate, foster, guide and support when describing your classroom culture or teaching style will make you sound more dynamic., They’ve just read all about your credentials. Close the letter gracefully in a few sentences.
 Thank them for taking the time to review your resume.


"Thank you for taking the time to read my letter and review my CV. I look forward to hearing from you."

, Tell them you look forward to the possibility of getting to meet with them.


"I am available to meet at your convenience."
Say you are interested in learning more about the school.
Mention something specific. “I look forward to the possibility of getting to talk with you further about your award winning math team.”

, Skip a few lines and write “Sincerely” at the bottom of the letter on the left.


Be sure to capitalize “Sincerely”
Put a comma after the the word.
 Skip five or six lines after sincerely and type your full name. Print the letter out put your signature in the space between Sincerely and your typed name.