 Remove anything that shouldn't be there, such as twigs, stems or foreign matter.;
, Allow to sit for a few minutes to cool a little, then pour into a heatproof bowl to which you've already added the tea leaves. Steep for 10 minutes.
 Replace with cold water. Allow to steep for an hour.
 This time, press them through a fine mesh strainer, pushing down to drain out as much water as you can.
 Add the juice of 1/2 of the lemon, 4 cloves of fresh garlic, one half of the diced jalapeño pepper and green onions and 1 tablespoon of fresh minced ginger.
 When you have a paste, transfer it to a ceramic or glass airtight container and seal.
 Place in a cool and dark place, away from heat or light sources.
 Boil them as instructed by the package or see how to cook green lentils. Alternatively, use canned lentils. Once cooked, the lentils are ready for the next stage.
 Use high heat. Add the lentils with care and fry for 4 to 5 minutes. They will sizzle and spit, so be careful. Fry until crispy, then remove with a slotted spoon; do not allow them to burn. Place the fried lentils on kitchen paper towel to soak up the oil and cool.
 Add the remaining 8 minced garlic cloves to the sesame oil, in another saucepan. Fry over a medium-high heat until the garlic turns crispy but not burnt. Remove from the heat and leave aside to cool.
 This salad is placed together in bundles or clumps. Make the salad as follows:


Place the chopped lettuce across the entire serving plate. This forms the base of the salad.
Place clumps of tomato halves, roasted peanuts, fried garlic, fried lentils, sesame seeds, diced jalapeños, diced green onions and lemon wedges around the salad, keeping each ingredient in a distinctive clump or pile.
 This forms the main attraction of the dish, so be generous.
 This helps to add flavor and keep the salad in good form for serving. You now have two options:


Either serve the salad in this form, in individual, distinctive clumps.
Toss the salad together using salad tossers or forks, mixing completely.
 Serve immediately, the salad is now ready to be enjoyed.

