 Do they go on work trips or unusual outings with friends and insist on you staying behind? Is their reaction odd or suspicious when you confront them about these outings? They may be trying to evade you in order to keep their affair under wraps. Has your spouse taken up a new hobby or interest? If so, they might have picked up a new interest from their lover. Any sudden change in your spouse's routine or lifestyle could indicate infidelity.Write down exactly when your spouse goes to work, goes to the gym, goes for lunch, etc. Call your spouse's place of work when he or she is supposed to be there, and see if he or she picks up.
Their routine may vary due to the work that your spouse does, so take care to consider other factors when using schedule as an indication of cheating.
 If your spouse believes you are on to them, they may take extra caution in hiding their affair, making your job of unearthing the truth more difficult.Act cool and natural with your spouse even as you’re gathering evidence and picking up on the signals he or she is unconsciously broadcasting.
 Have you found receipts for flowers, gifts, or other strange expenditures? If so, contact your bank or credit card company about the charges to get more information. Confront your spouse about his or her spending. If their answers are elusive, unclear, or suspicious, it's likely your spouse is cheating.


Questions about finances depend on the specific expenditure, but might include:

"Do you think these charges are correct?"
"Did you buy ____? "
"When did you buy ____?"
"Why did you buy ____?"


Elusive or unclear answers include:

"I don't remember."
"It's none of your business."
"Let's talk about it later."



, Check your spouse’s text messages and cell phone calls. You might be able to find text or voicemail messages which indicate they are having an affair.


Even in the absence of explicit statements revealing an affair, you can use context clues to figure out if one is going on. If you notice a high volume of texts or calls between your spouse and someone else, it could be because they are having an affair. Other indirect evidence of an affair could be references to outings or recreational activities they shared together, but which your spouse didn't share with you.
 Your spouse may be communicating with their lover through social media, email, or internet chat service. Check his or her profiles for messages which indicate an affair is going on.


You should also check browser history. If the browser history has been deleted recently, it may indicate your spouse is concealing a recent web session which included viewing their paramour’s social media page.
 As an unknown third party, the detective can easily document your spouse’s movements to reveal infidelity (or, hopefully, a lack thereof).


Get a referral for a detective specializing in proving suspected extramarital affairs.
If you are unable or unwilling to invest the resources into getting a detective, do some digging on your own.Ask neighbors and your spouse’s coworkers about his or her habits. Try to discover if they were seen coming or going at odd hours (especially at times they claimed they were elsewhere), or if they’ve been seen frequently in the company of someone who might be a romantic interest. If you have access to your partner’s cellphone, social media profiles, or email, check them for incriminating messages.