 If you're visually impaired, picking out books with large fonts can make the letters easier to see and will make it less complex to read. In some libraries or bookstores, several of the same books will be published in difference font sizes.Pick out the books with the largest fonts, or the fonts that are more visible to you.


Not all types of writing are published in different book sizes or fonts which includes magazines, newspapers, or comics. Sometimes you may need to use tools such as a magnifier, a low vision device, or text-to-speech apps.Choose books that a simple font such as Ariel or APHont. Fancy fonts make it harder to read with a visual impairment.;
, This method is very useful if you are completely blind or have lost most of your vision. Braille is a written language for the blind and visually impaired and uses your sense of touch.Many books today are written in Braille for the visually impaired to read. You can find many Braille books online, but plenty can be found for free at libraries for blind and visually impaired people., Some books are published in contrasting colors (e.g black background with white text) so they can be read more easily. High contrast books can be found in libraries or bookstores, but if you can't find the books you want in this format, you may want to use a yellow acetate overlay, or a filter.

You can color contrast most wording online. There are many different settings and programs that allow you to color contrast your screen so you can readier easier.Usually the best contrasting colors when reading a book are black and white. The background of the page can be black and the text can be white, or vice versa. Other contrasting colors may be harder to see and may make reading more difficult for you., There are many programs and apps out there that have text-to-speech, which can allow you hear to the story aloud. Many devices such as computers, phones, and tablets will usually have a text-to-speech program into them, which can you find in your settings with the help of a sighted person.Hearing the story aloud may be easier for you if you are completely blind or have lost most of your vision, or if you need to read a large amount of text.
 If you are visually impaired, using a tool such as a handheld magnifying glass or low vision device can be very useful to help you see more closely. A goose-neck magnifier can also be useful if you are sitting on a desk or table, since the magnifier is easy to bend and move around when you're trying to read the words.Do note a goose-neck magnifier may not be the perfect tool for every situation when you read. If you're trying to read on the sofa or on your bed, it can be difficult to use since it requires a smooth surface to stand onto. It's best to use it if you're working on a desk or table., The online world has plenty of novels, chapter books, poems, storybooks, and articles that can all be read online using a computer or other electronic devices. Many of these devices include tools that can increase the font size of the text, color contrast with the page, read aloud using text-to-speech, switch the text into bold wording, and include other features to help make reading easier with your visual disability., If you are completely blind or have lost most of your vision, audio books can be especially help if you enjoy reading long chapter books or novels. An audio book is an audio recording, CD, or cassette that has the recorded text of the entire story. You can find many of these online or at your local bookstore or library.Many audio books today can also be downloaded on your computer or MP3 player. There are also many audio book apps you can find on an iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch., Before you begin reading, find a comfy spot where you can relax and sit comfortably as you read the story. If you are sitting on a desk, be sure to keep your back straight and keep the page in a good distance to read. If you are laying on a couch or bed, make sure the book is in front of you and that you are holding it comfortably.If you are using an audio book or electronic device, make sure the level of volume is up correctly and that you're able to hear at a comfortable level.
 Be sure the area you're in is quiet enough so you can focus on the reading. This is especially important if you're using audio versions to read. If there's a bunch of screaming and loud sounds in the background, how do you expect yourself to hear the story clearly? This not only makes it difficult to understand the story, but causes you to lose your focus as well.A library is a good option for a quiet area to read in. Many people are reading as well and you'll be able to read at peace.
 If you're visually impaired, having tools such as goose-neck lamp, magnifying glass, or goose-neck magnifying glass make it easier to read. Prepare these materials next to you so you can read with ease.Keep a reading stand next to you, if needed. A reading stand helps keep the book at a good angle and distance to read from., If you're reading a long story, or if you're studying, having a small snack and/or drink next to you can help keep you engaged into the story and keeps you stomach calm. Choose healthy snacks such as sliced fruit, vegetables with a dip, raisins, granola bars, cheese with crackers, and salted popcorn.Drinks such as tea, water, 100% fruit juice, smoothies, and milk are good drinks to consider while you read.


Keep all drinks into a canteen or metal bottle with a cap to avoid them from spilling onto your book. Be sure to close the bottle tightly after you've taken a sip; You don't want it to spill over the book or electronic device.Avoid eating snacks that are messy and could possibly ruin the book or materials. Try to avoid eating snacks that are sticky or crumbly as these type of snacks could possible damage your book or materials.
 Once you're done reading, be sure to store your materials in a proper place for another time. This is especially important if you're using electronic devices. Keep any tools (e.g goose-neck lamp, magnifying glass, headphones, etc.) in a certain area where you won't lose them.
 If you keep many books, it's important to store them in a proper and organized place so you don't lose them. You may want to place the book on a shelf and use tactile marks, Velcro strips, and/or sticky buttons to help recognize the book.If you have many books, you can organize each one by placing them in a certain order. For example, all the science books can have Velcro pieces on them and all the geography books can have tactile marks on them. This makes the books easier to recognize with your visual disability.

