 Performance of employees reflects upon all facets of their work, from work ethic to individual achievements. This method of assessment would look at each employee as a whole on an annual basis. This assessment would provide suggestions and an opportunity to improve, while recognizing any excellence.How much an individual is able to produce either in product or sales.
The quality of work produced.
How quickly an employee produces a product or makes a sale.
 Comprehensive evaluations may help identify potential solutions, particularly if your company is undergoing problems. However, it is more common that problems result from poorly designed processes, inadequate training, or poor management. Generally, a review of the entire process, with inputs, outputs, actions and deliverables, is required to resolve complex or complicated problems.


Hiring a professional assessor who can impartially appraise the everyday functionality of your business, as well as the performance of your employees, could be very beneficial.
 The obvious benefit to this approach is that your company employees may be aware of the checks, but they won't know when checks will occur. Consequently, employees that are slacking in some way or not performing to par will be exposed. Try a few different approaches so employees are on their toes.


Perform random spot checks on products.
Randomly review phone calls.
Inspect log books at random intervals.
 Client satisfaction should be your ultimate mission. Customer service experience can be used as a way of assessing employee performance. Ask customers if they are satisfied with their product or service. Getting an outside perspective on performance is smart, as it offers the potential of an objective analysis.Be cautious of overly harsh customer feedback. Some industries and businesses, such as repossession of vehicles, is bound to have overly negative reviews.
Develop feedback tools or forms so the feedback can be standardized and weighed equally.
Customer feedback is always subjective and generally only from those customers with bad experiences. Balance any review with objective measures of customer service, such as time on hold, resolution of problems, and call-backs.

