 One thing that inhibits a child’s ability to learn resilience is to be overprotected. While it is important to protect your child and keep them safe, let them have some independence that aligns with their age. Making everything seem dangerous and scary can lead to anxiety and lack of independence.For example, you may not want to let your child ride their bicycle outside because there are environmental factors that pose dangers. Your child may fall off the bicycle, have to cross the street, come in contact with a car, or even get sunburned. Instead, teach your child the proper skills for riding a bicycle. For example, they shouldn’t ride in the street, they should look both ways before crossing the street, and they should pay attention as they ride.
 Self-control is an important skill that helps a child be resilient. This helps the child develop inner strength and deal with their emotions and thoughts. Self-control and self-regulation help children learn how to deal with disappointments, failures, and frustration in a healthy way instead of an emotional tantrum.Help your children learn how to manage stress. Teach them how to control their breathing when they get upset by blowing up a balloon in their bellies. When they inhale, they blow up the balloon and can see it expand. When they breathe out, they deflate the balloon as their belly flattens.
Tell them to think of something happy, like their favorite animal or favorite place.
Teach your children to think before they act. For example, they should know that hitting, snatching objects, or throwing a tantrum has an effect on others and on themselves. Help them learn actions have consequences, so they should think about their actions.
For example, you may say, "You are upset. Close your eyes and think of your favorite pony to calm down" or "You cannot hit someone because you are angry. Instead, why don't you jump up and down?"

, Many parents try to answer kids’ questions with reassuring statements. If asked something like, “Is this going to hurt?”, the parent may respond, “It’ll be fine! It won’t hurt at all.” Instead of giving your child blanket reassuring statements, use questions to help your child come up with ways to deal with challenges.For example, if your child asks, “What if I hate everyone in my class?”, you may say, “That may happen. Let’s figure out what you can do if that is the case.” If your child asks, “Will I fall off my bike and hurt myself?”, you can respond, “Maybe. How will you deal with it if you fall off your bicycle?”

, Part of being resilient is learning to deal with failure. Some parents may want to make sure that their child is not failing so they do their homework for them, make a big deal if they get in trouble, or force the child to do things they don’t want to to avoid negative consequences. Instead, allow your children to make mistakes sometimes to learn about the consequences. Learning that failure is real can help them make better decisions in the future.If your child has a project due the next day and hasn’t done it, don’t do it for them. Let them get the bad grade so they will learn what happens if they do not complete their assignments.

