, On the right side put a moon, and next to that put the word "no" then put the numbers outside the circle on a table. Use a tumbler turned upside down on top of the paper as a pointer.
 Each of you place one hand lightly on the up-turned glass. Decide who will ask the questions. Another person could be taking notes.
,, You can add any other phrases you wish.
,, Glass or sheet protector should be fine!

, You are ready to have your first talking board séance!

, You'll need a wood board, sanded and smooth. You'll also need paint, varnish (or another clear coating), and a soldering iron (with a calligraphy tip or similar). Pencil and paper will also help.
 Soldering irons are a little tricky. Practice on some scrap wood first so that you can see how slow you need to go and how hard you need to press. It will also give you the chance to figure how to move it in order to get different shapes.
 Make sure the wood is clean and smooth.
 You can draw the design free-hand or you can use a "cheat", such as printing the characters onto transfer paper or you can purchase ink stamps from a craft store.


Make sure the designs are not too small or detailed, especially if you do not have a lot of experience with a soldering iron.
 Draw over the design with the iron. Don't rush yourself. Look at it in different lights to be sure that it looks right.
 Let the burned areas cool and then brush off any excess material. Erase pencil marks and other marks and gently wipe the whole surface with a lightly damp cloth. Let it dry before going on.
 The varnish or other clear coating will create the smooth surface necessary to make the planchette work. Carefully follow the manufacturer's instructions for whatever finish you decide to use. You will likely need to do several coats and each one takes a long time to dry correctly. Set aside plenty of time for this project.
 You can paint on even more details once the varnish has dried completely. Details are best painted on in the second to last layer of varnish, so long as it is clear and not colored.
 There are a number of ways that you can lay out your board. The design isn't so important, so long as you have all of the necessary symbols. You need to include at least the letters of the alphabet, numbers 0-9, and the words "yes","no", and "farewell".


Use the traditional layout if you want to. This is where the letters are written out in two slightly-arced lines at the center, with yes/no above and the numbers and farewell below.
You could also use a diamond layout. In this design, the letters are written in a diamond shape, with each of the four points lining up with the center of that side of the board. The numbers are written inside this diamond and the corners are allocated for the words (allowing for an additional phrase, like "not now").
You could also try a circular layout. This design is similar to the diamond, but uses an oval shape instead.
 Choose a font which fits with the design of your ouija board. Gothic fonts are good choices, as are many Western-themed fonts. You can, however, choose whatever you like best. Write some test text in a word editor to get an idea of what you think looks best.
 Many believe it's a good idea to add certain symbols to the corners or other location on your board. Beliefs vary, but common symbols include: the moon, sun, and stars; the symbols for the elements; the symbols for the planets; and symbols or images in neurologically significant quantities (12, 13, 7, 3, etc).


You can also embellish your board with physical objects, such as set spots for candles, attached stones (quartz is good for this purpose), or places to put the elements (a bowl of water, a branch, etc).
 Choose a color scheme for your board. Darker, earth tones tend to be better at calling forth the spirits, but if you're looking to contact particularly cheerful spirits, there's nothing wrong with using colors you think they'd prefer. If you're trying to contact someone in particular, try their favorite color.


Try to use colors that contrast well. You want to be able to see your text easily.
 You'll need a planchette (the device where you place your hands) in order to use your ouija board. You can rescue one from a random set you find at a dollar store, or you can make your own.

