 There are two types of trusts that you can establish for the care of a pet, a testamentary trust or an inter vivos/stand-alone pet trust. A testamentary trust is established through your will, whereas a stand-alone trust can be established during a pet owner’s lifetime and go into effect without probating a will.


If cost is a consideration, you should consider setting up a testamentary trust. It is much easier to establish through a will and requires less start-up costs.
If you choose a testamentary trust, you should include a provision in your will that gives the executor the power to use estate funds for immediate care of the pet before the pet goes to its new home.You can also set up a joint bank account with the pet guardian so that he or she has some emergency funds to cover the cost of the pet until your will is probated.If you choose to set up an inter vivos trust you will need to hire an experienced trust and estates attorney to set up the trust. This is a more costly choice but you can set up this trust so that it is in effect while you are still alive and there is no delay in distributing the funds upon your death., The beneficiary of the trust cannot be your pet. The guardian that you choose to care for your pet will become the trust’s beneficiary so you must choose someone that you trust.


You should name several additional caretakers should your first caretaker be unable or unwilling to care for your pet.
Your pet’s caretaker should not be the same person that you choose to administer your trust (the trustee).
 A trustee is the person that handles the business of your trust—making sure the payments are made and that the funds are being used for their designated purpose.


You should choose alternate trustees just in case the first trustee in unable to carry out their duties.
In your will or trust document, the pet owner should bequeath the pet to the trustee with instructions for the trustee to turn over custody to the guardian/caretaker., As discussed below, you need to calculate the cost of care for your pet and set aside the money or assets to fund the trust. Your trust document should also describe how and when the trustee should pay the guardian. When funding a trust, a pet owner should consider:


The standard of living that he or she wants for the pet.
The amount and timing of distributions for the care of the pet.
Whether there will be any distributions for the guardian. This may be a good idea if caring for the pet is burdensome., It is very important that you clearly and specifically identify the animal that is meant to be cared for under the trust. An unscrupulous guardian could continue to take funds even after your animal dies by purchasing a replacement pet. While this is fraudulent conduct, it would be difficult to prove without a clear and specific description of your pet., As part of the trustee’s duties, you can require that they regularly check on the well being of your pet. This ensures that your funds are being used for the designated purpose and that your pet is being provided for and cared for in the manner that you wished., Once you have decided on all of the above components of the trust as well as the assets that you will use to fund the trust, you are ready for the trust to be created.


You must make sure that the trust complies with your state law. You can view state law regarding pet trusts at: https://www.aspca.org/pet-care/pet-planning/pet-trust-laws.
For an inter vivos trust, you should hire an estate attorney to establish the trust.
If you are creating a testamentary trust, you can view sample testamentary trust language at: http://www2.nycbar.org/pdf/report/uploads/8_20072453-ProvidingforYourPetintheEventofDeathHospitalization.pdf.

