 You can choose a color and style of durag that work for you. Many people prefer doo rag that are a stretchy material that can be seen through when stretched. This makes them more breathable when they’re tied tightly around your head.








Line the center seam up with the center of your head for symmetry.
Place the durag so that the front edge sits between your eyebrows and your hairline. Make sure your hairline is covered. If you have sideburns, they should stick out underneath.;
, Take one tie in each hand. Pull both ties back behind the head so that they cross in an “X” behind the head. The ties will want to roll up so that they seem more like ropes than bands of fabric.








Pull the ties back on their respective sides of the head. So the tie on the right hand side gets pulled back along the right side of the head.
Ties should rest between the ear and the head, so that the ears stay exposed.
If you don’t want the ties to roll up like ropes, you can press them flat against your head as you pull them and wrap them.
 Once you’ve crossed the ties in the back of your head, pull them back in front. Make sure they cross in the center of your forehead. Then pull them all the way to the back of your head.








If you want them to lie flat, you can smooth them out at this point also.
Don’t pull the ties too tightly or you can get headaches.
 Tie the ties into a knot at the back of your head. It should sit at the base of your skull. Begin as though you were tying your shoes. However, instead of making loops, simply make a double knot.








Be careful not to tie it so tightly that you can’t undo it later.
 The flap will now be hanging down your neck underneath the ties. Pull it down as though you were trying to get it to touch your back. This will tighten the durag and give some nice compression on your hair.








Don’t pull too hard or it will feel uncomfortable.
 Once the flap is pulled tight, you may want to tuck or tie it up. This prevents the flap from hanging down on your neck, which can get hot, or look sloppy.








You can roll the flap up from the bottom and tuck it over the ties so that they hold it in place.
If the flap is long enough, you can tie it in a knot and then tuck it up into the ties. This will create a small bump where the knot gets tucked.

