 Gaining too much weight during pregnancy may make your gout symptoms worse. However, you should not try to lose weight during your pregnancy. Focus on healthy eating and gaining an appropriate amount of weight during your pregnancy. Even if you are obese, you will still need to gain between 11 to 20 pounds during your pregnancy.Speak to your doctor for specific dietary and weight gain recommendations during your pregnancy.
If you are carrying twins, triplets, or more, then you will need to gain even more weight during your pregnancy. Talk to your doctor to find out what is healthy for you.



The cooling effect of ice will cause vasoconstriction of the capillaries around the affected joint, thereby limiting the amount of the leaked fluids and helping to treat the localized edema (swelling) at the inflamed joint.
You should never apply ice cubes directly onto your skin as this can easily cause tissue damage. Instead, wrap the ice or the ice pad in a cotton towel then place it on the affected joint.
If no ice is available, then you can also use a pack of frozen vegetables, such as corn or peas. Wrap the bag in a paper or cloth towel before using.
Ice the affected area for about twenty minutes, three or four times daily to decrease pain and inflammation.
 If the affected joint is part of her lower extremities, such as the big toe; she is advised to sit or lie down while supporting her ankle with a cushion beneath. The same goes for the ankles and knees.


If the affected joints include the elbows, wrists or fingers, support them with cushions raised to chest level using the aid of an armchair or desk.
 A natural solution that any woman can use to suppress the edema (swelling) around her injured joint is to use cold fresh cabbage leaves.


Cabbage leaves are a very traditional way to get rid of swollen joints. They contain very strong anti-inflammatory components, such as sinigrin, lactic acid and vitamin C, which are all known to have antioxidant and antibacterial agents. This gives the cabbage leaves their natural powers to fight swelling and decrease edema.
It's a good idea to put the cabbage leaves in the fridge so they are nice and cold before use. When you are ready to use them, take a leaf and wrap it around your big toe (for example) then wrap a bandage around it to keep it still. You may need to remove the harder, middle stem of the cabbage to make it easier to wrap.
Leave the cabbage wrap on overnight, as it can help to ease the gout attacks that tend to happen at nighttime. Alternatively, you can use the cabbage wraps during the day, for four to six hours at a time.
 If you are having any painful gout attacks that are affecting joints in your upper body like the wrists or fingers, make sure to avoid using tight accessories for a while, like bracelets or rings.


These closed accessories can form an additional source of pressure on the swollen, irritated joints and this can be a real annoyance, especially in the last trimester of pregnancy.
If you notice any signs of edema (swelling) at your wrists or fingers, remove your jewelry, and consult your doctor immediately, before any gout attacks begin.
 However, do not do exercise that causes pain to your affected joints; for instance, if your big toe is affected with gout and it hurts to walk, opt for a different exercise instead such as riding a stationary bike at the gym.
 Another safe, natural way to ease the swelling of joint inflammation caused by gout is by drinking dandelion tea. Dandelion is a natural herb that helps the kidneys by excreting all the extra unwanted fluids from the body.


Dandelion is a natural diuretic that is very helpful in easing and treating localized edema at the affected joints. This is explained by its high concentrations of potassium which works to decrease accumulated fluids in the body and balance the body's minerals.
The tea can be made by adding one teaspoon of dried dandelion leaves to one glass of water, which should then be boiled. The tea should be allowed to steep for five minutes before drinking.
Discuss the use of dandelion leaves with your doctor first, as he or she may advise against you drinking it if you have any gall bladder diseases, if you are taking any blood thinners, or are at risk for hyperkalemia (increase in potassium levels in blood) because you are taking a potassium sparing diuretic at the same time.
 A moderate amount of caffeinated coffee may help to ease gout symptoms as well.However, make sure that you do not drink more than one eight ounce serving of coffee per day while you are pregnant.

