 If you are talking to a friend who is acting jealously toward you, use “I statements” to help you communicate your feelings with him. Start by saying “I feel” and then describe your feelings in relation to one specific thing that person has done or said.


For example, you can say, “I feel uncomfortable when you say mean things about my other friends, because it makes me feel like you want to be my only friend.”
The “I feel” statement should not be followed up or changed in a way that makes it not about your own feelings. For example, do not say things like “I feel like you,” “You make me feel,” or “It makes me feel.” These statements take away from your ownership of your feelings. For example, "You make me feel uncomfortable" is not specific. Additionally, it blames your feelings on someone else.
Here are a few words you can use to convey your feelings: pressured, anxious, nervous, on-edge, afraid, confused, resentful, insecure, empty, mad, annoyed, etc.
 You should talk about only the behaviors you can observe and not what you assume the motives for the behavior are. This is the best way to deal with a problem like this because it allows you to accurately express your feelings without accusing the other person.


For example, if your friend tells you that you are his best friend in a way that makes you feel obligated to say it back, say “I feel pressured to say you are my best friend when you tell me I am your best friend several times in one night.” Do not say "You are trying to force me to say you are my best friend."
Avoid using labels, over-generalizing, threatening, moralizing, giving ultimatums, mind-reading, or making assumptions when you talk about the behavior of the other person. For example, don’t say, “I feel uncomfortable when you try to force me to call you my best friend.” This is called mind-reading, and it means you assume that you understand what is going on inside of the other person's head.
Talking about his behavior in terms of a specific action can make the person feel less resentful and guilty than if you were to confront him with assuming statements, which are common in confrontations.
 Give the reasons for why you feel the way that you do. You should reflect back on your own understandings, memories, feelings, anticipations, expectations, etc. in the friendship or relationship with regard to the jealous behavior.


For example, you can explain your feelings by saying “I feel anxious when you ask me if I am going to hang out with my other friends, because I expect you to get upset if I say I want to hang out with my other friends.”
You can also talk about how you interpret the meaning of what she did. For example, you can say “I feel anxious when you ask me again if I want to go hang out with my other friend instead of you, because it makes me feel like you are insecure about our friendship”
Avoid blaming your feelings on the other person in your explanation. For example, do not say, “I feel pressured to text you back because you are such a jealous person.”

