 This is always the first step to connecting with your spirit. If you've been bashing yourself for living the "wrong" life or mulling over the past, now is the right moment to stop that. Know that when you say negative messages to yourself, you are diminishing your own spirit, taking you further away from where you want to be. A great exercise to try is to observe your thoughts for one day, without labelling them either good or bad, and instead just watching them. This will help you love yourself more and bring healing to your spirit.;
, This step is a continuation of the exercise from the first step. When you can eliminate judgement from your mental space, you'll see the thoughts you have with more clarity. For many people out there, we've been told what spirituality is in religious terms, meaning that you must follow a certain set of rules. Its possible when you no longer judge your thoughts as right or wrong, that you'll shed unnecessary concepts or beliefs no longer helping you. At this stage, some people see beyond emotional reactions and gain understanding the triggers that cause emotive reactions.
 Healing doesn't happen in a day, especially for spiritual healing. You may work on your spirit for a decade and find one day that you've fallen into an old belief that you'd thought to be long gone. There's no benefit in further beating yourself up, just be patient, this is life, so allow it to happen. If you're working to stand up for yourself with healthy boundaries and find that you fumble, don't worry, the lesson will reappear again for you to retry. Patience will be one of your greatest allies when healing, because we often have to repeat lessons a few times before getting them right.
 As mentioned earlier, the majority of us grew up under the notion that spirituality happens in a temple under a strict code of rules and regulations. If this environment makes you feel uncomfortable, then this is likely a place that will stifle your spirit. Various metaphysical healers and philosophers have often pointed to spirituality being an awakening process. What this means is that we already know what areas light up our spirits, it's just a matter of awakening to them. For some people, when they get on a stage in front of others and sing their heart out, they feel that bright connection to their spirit. For others, when they work on a mechanical project, they feel connected to something bigger in that moment. As you heal, you'll feel your spirit and be able to more accurately hone into it.
 Healing can often elicit images of depressing hospital rooms and the like. This does not have to be your healing process. Laughter will heal your bones faster than sitting in a situation you find to be depressing. Go to an amusement park, join a drum circle, get a dog, take that dog to the park, and the list goes on. Sunshine will blow away old cobwebs around your spirit if you spend some time in its warmth. Remember that healing is a process of making you stronger, which will allow you to laugh and cry more often.
 Allow those emotions to come out of their suppressed cases. If you hear a story that touches your heart, don't hold back the tears; if they're coming, this is your spirit talking physically. As a society we've learned that certain emotions are okay and that others aren't, yet this is a false notion. Your emotions play an integral part to your life's journey, don't bind them to ideas brewed from misinformation. If you find yourself in an uncomfortable situation, then validate that emotional response; don't beat it up for happening. As you heal, you'll find yourself becoming more comfortable expressing your true feelings, rather than what you believe others want.
 Your spirits lift to new heights when you give to others, because you know that you're using your gifts to their fullest potential. When you give, you'll find that you get more in return. When you help others heal, you'll find yourself healing in the process. Giving back doesn't mean you have to volunteer somewhere destitute, or to even leave your house, because it's different for everyone. Some people love writing inspirational blog, others enjoy cooking meals for their loved ones, and so it goes. Give back what you love doing, because you'll bring a wonderful spirit to others and yourself.

