 If you are feeling like your needs are not being met in your relationship, then this might be partially due to a lack of assertive communication. To ensure that you are communicating with your partner as effectively as possible, try to develop some assertive communication skills.

If something is not going the way you want, say it right then instead of waiting or silently dealing with your frustration. For example, if your partner gives a short answer when you ask about his or her day after work, then you might say, "When I ask you about your day, I'd love to know all the details even if you think they're boring. I'm still interested."

, You should listen to what your partner says. This is important when they are responding to your wants and needs and telling you what they need. Your partner may believe they have been meeting your wants and needs, or have a different way of approaching things. Listen to what your partner says with an open mind and respectful attitude.Don’t get mad if your partner doesn’t agree with you or understand right away. Be open to listening to their point of views so you can come to a compromise.
 When you tell your partner about your wants and needs, make sure to be specific and clear. Being vague or speaking in general terms may only create confusion. Your partner may not know exactly what you mean, or their interpretation of the general statement may be different than yours.For example, if you say, “I need more intimacy,” your partner may get the general idea but not know exactly what you need. Their version of intimacy may be different than yours. Instead, be specific. You might say, “I need you to kiss me more often and talk to me about your day.”

, If you have never told your partner what you want or need, you may have many things you want to ask for. However, try not to overwhelm your partner by asking for too much at one time. This might make it seem like your partner is doing everything wrong or cause unneeded stress in your relationship. Instead, ask for one thing at a time.Start with the most important thing that you need from your partner. Once the two of you have worked on it, you can move on to another want.
 Telling your partner about your wants and needs doesn’t just include things you want to happen. It also can include things you don’t want to happen. You should tell your partner know what your boundaries are so they can give you want you want and need.For example, you should tell your partner where your privacy boundaries are. If there are things, boxes, or boxes that are private and off-limits, explain this to your partner.
If you have sexual boundaries, you should explain these clearly to your partner. There may be some negotiation where your sexual needs and wants are concerned, but if there are things you are unwilling to do, let your partner know.
Try saying, "I don't feel comfortable fulfilling all of your fantasies. However, I am willing to try a few new things that you want to."

, If there are needs or wants that may stem from a conflict, try not to blame your partner. Instead, use “I” statements and keep things factual and calm. Blaming or being dramatic will not do anything to solve the conflict or get your needs met.


For example, if you feel the house is a mess, you may want to say, “You never do anything to help around the house!” or “The house looks like a tornado hit it!” Instead, be factual and say, “The house is messy right now” or “Things are not as neat as they could be.”
Keep the statements about you instead of your partner. For example, don’t say, “You are being clingy.” Instead, say, “I miss spending time with my friends.”

, You and your partner come from different backgrounds, even if you grew up in similar areas. This means that the way you and your partner approach certain things may differ. You may solve problems differently, have different levels of communication, or show affection different ways.As you think about what you want and need, you should consider the way your partner handles things. If you need your partner to show affection, they may be showing affection in their way. You need to figure out how your partner may be meeting your needs in their own unique way.
This doesn’t mean you can’t ask for your partner to do things you need, but your partner may think they are already meeting your needs.
You might say, "I understand that you think sitting side by side on the couch is spending quality time together. However, I would like you to touch me and talk to me in the evenings instead of just watching television. We can talk for half an hour and then watch a television program."

