 Some require a hefty fee, some do not. Ask around for une opinion or if a friend has a set of CDs or a program you can borrow. Popular options are Rosetta Stone, Pimsleur, or Michele Thomas. Every program is best for a different type of learner.


Pimsleur does not give you a book. It's a set of CDs--good for aural learners and those with long commutes. It does use English and allows you to translate. It utilizes backchaining, as in, "porte," "la porte," "-ez la porte," "Fermez la porte," to practice pronunciation.
Rosetta Stone is a computer program and does not allow any English and relies heavily on pictures. It plays memory games and is ideal for visual and sensory learners.
Michele Thomas (on CD and YouTube) advocates a slightly different style of teaching. He emphasizes patterns in language and utilizing cognates. You start with one basic sentence, such as, "Je vais au restaurant," (I am going to the restaurant.) and he leads you to, "Je vais au restaurant ce soir parce que c'est mon anniversaire." (I am going to the restaurant tonight because it's my birthday.) Your vocabulaire expands as you build on the blocks you already have.
Duolingo.com is another site which trains you in French: memorizing by training to translate (English-to-French; and French-to-English), listening comprehension and more.
 The best way to learn a language (apart from living in the country, of course) is to practice every day with others. Taking a class forces learning into your schedule, holds you accountable, and gives you resources in others that you wouldn't otherwise have.


Check out your local community college or university. Though the class might be more expensive, the perks of being a student and having access to the facilities lessen the blow to your wallet.
Find a language school. These classes are often much cheaper, smaller, and offered on nights or weekends. If you live in a fairly diverse area, one shouldn't be too far away.
 The internet is a beautiful thing. Loads of people are looking for an easy way to make an extra $50 a week. You can cater the learning to your schedule and develop your own curriculum.


Don't let just anyone be your tutor. Just because you can speak the language does not mean you can teach it. Aim for someone who has done it before, not someone with four years of high school French.
 Odds are there are loads of people just like you of all demographics and ages. Visit your local area colleges or language institutes for information.


Practice with someone. You can find a penpal online or you can visit your local chapter of the Alliance Française. Delve deep into your online contacts for anyone who might be able to move you forward--that friend from high school who studied abroad? Your cousin Alberta who moved to Vancouver? Do whatever you can to guarantee success.

