 Don't bottle up your emotions. Trying to repress feelings often leads to more pain. Rather than ignoring the pain, open yourself up to the full spectrum of emotions. Grieve for what could have been. Express gratitude that this friend has been in your life. Think of the good and bad times. Whatever emotions come, accept them.If the emotions are too overwhelming, take a break from thinking about your friend.Relax, recharge, and approach the situation again when you're ready.Sometimes a good cry can be cathartic. If you need to cry, find somewhere you're comfortable and let it out., In the midst of these strong feelings for your friend, you may neglect taking care of yourself. But practicing self-care in this time will help you regain confidence and maintain supportive relationships as you process your emotions. Do activities that strengthen your physical and emotional well-being, and take care of your personal hygiene.Emotional self-care might include: Reading a book, spending time with a friend, listening to music, getting a massage, or learning something new.Physical self-care might include: Going for a walk, exercising, getting enough sleep, staying hydrated, or scheduling a medical check-up., Humor really can be the best medicine. Comic relief can help you de-stress and keep a light perspective in life. Watch a silly movie, read humorous novels, or visit a local comedy club. At the very least, laughter can distract you when you need time away from your thoughts.Sometimes people use humor as a coping mechanism in hard times. Make sure that you're not using jokes to repress painful feelings., Getting your feelings out (whether in words, art, or song) will help you collect your thoughts and process all the emotions you might be feeling. You can share your work with others, or you can just keep it for yourself. The important part is expressing yourself fully.If you're not the creative type, start a journal. Seeing your emotions on paper will help you work through them., While getting over a crush on your friend, your self-esteem may plummet. You may worry that nobody will ever love you like you wish your friend did. Believing in yourself again can help you cope with the pain and cultivate hope in the future. Write down your strengths on a piece of paper to remember when you're feeling low, and set reachable goals every day to remind yourself that you can do hard things.Sometimes low self-esteem is a symptom of depression, which is not as easily cured on your own. If you think you may be depressed, consider telling a loved one or seeing a counselor.