 Your heart is a muscle, and like any other muscle, it requires exercise to stay healthy and become stronger. A strong, healthy heart is less susceptible to cardiovascular disease, and a strong, healthy body is less likely to harbor risk factors such as obesity or high cholesterol / blood pressure / blood sugar.An average of thirty minutes daily of moderate exercise is usually considered sufficient to provide cardiovascular health benefits. Added frequency and intensity of exercise further enhances those benefits.
Being slightly out of breath and lightly sweating are usually good indicators of moderate exercise. Brisk walking, swimming, biking, gardening, dancing, and really just about any physical activity that reaches this level will suffice.
Breaking up the 30-minute average per day makes no difference in the benefit. So, three 10-minute brisk walks in a day are equivalent in benefit to one 30-minute brisk walk.
 While cutting back on saturated fats, sodium, and sugar benefits cardiovascular health, replacing them in your diet with more fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and healthy fats provides a substantial additional boost.Strive to eat 5-10 servings of fruits and vegetables daily. They contain vitamins, minerals, and fiber that help combat the buildup of plaque in blood vessels. The fiber in whole grains (such as oatmeal) is also beneficial.
Lean proteins, as found in beans, lowfat yogurt, chicken, and fish, among others, provide important nutrients without also delivering high saturated fat content.
Oily fish like salmon, mackerel, and fresh tuna also provide Omega-3 fatty acids, a type of polyunsaturated fat that can essentially help lubricate and thus protect the cardiovascular system. Always seek out poly- and mono-unsaturated fats instead of saturated or trans-fats.
 Studies suggest that oral health is an important component of overall cardiovascular health because bacteria from the mouth can enter the bloodstream through the gums. People who have higher blood levels of certain disease-causing bacteria in the mouth are more likely to experiencing hardening of the carotid artery in the neck.


Remember to brush and floss your teeth twice daily.
Remember to visit your dentist at least once or twice a year.
 The average adult requires 7-9 hours of sleep nightly, yet many fail to reach that average. Sufficient restful sleep enables the body to revitalize and recharge, and also can reduce stress levels and blood pressure.If you wake up in the morning without the aid of an alarm and feel refreshed, that is a good sign that you are getting enough sleep.
If you set aside 8 hours nightly for sleep but wake up groggy and lethargic, you may not be getting restful sleep due to a medical condition such as sleep apnea (a blockage of airflow that causes frequent, temporary stops in breathing). Talk to you doctor about taking a sleep study and/or utilizing sleep aids.
 If you know you have -- or think you may have -- multiple risk factors for developing cardiovascular disease, it is imperative that you have regular medical screenings to take stock of your current condition and risk. This can then lead to a development of effective prevention or treatment options with you medical professional.Have your blood pressure checked at least every two years, and more frequently if you have risk factors. This is a simple, painless procedure that can reveal a great deal about your cardiovascular health.
Get cholesterol tests done at least every 5 years starting at age 35 (men) or 45 (women) even if you are healthy with no risk factors, and earlier and more frequently if you are at a higher risk for cardiovascular disease. This requires a simple blood draw and lab testing.
Consider having fasting blood sugar testing done every three years starting at age 45 even if you have a low risk of developing diabetes, and earlier and more frequently if you have a higher risk.
Regular physical examinations and other medical tests as warranted can also be important tools in preventing cardiovascular disease.
 Be proactive in discussing your concerns about and risk factors for developing cardiovascular disease with your physician. Talk to your doctor about any concerns you may have about taking medications. If you do decide to take medications, take them as prescribed and dedicate yourself to making necessary lifestyle changes.


Your doctor might prescribe statins to reduce bad cholesterol, beta blockers to reduce blood pressure and heart rate, or calcium channel blockers that relax arterial walls, among other options.You may be prescribed a daily low-dose aspirin, which thins the blood and thus makes blockages less likely. Do not begin an aspirin regimen on your own, however, because aspirin can increase the risk of internal bleeding, for instance.Modern medicines can do wonders, but in the end it is up to you to make the necessary lifestyle changes that give you the best chance of preventing cardiovascular disease.

