 One of the President's most significant roles is as our ambassador to the wider world. The president must meet and talk with world leaders from across the globe, and a US president is an especially crucial go-between for deals and peace talks. For better or worse, the United States is often the diplomatic head of major treaties and conversations -- make sure you've got someone who can handle the pressure of these talks with grace and poise.


How does the candidate respond to criticism or comments? Do they keep composure or fly off the handle?
How does the candidate respond to a crisis or tragedy? Do their speeches have a tone that inspires and leads in times of need?, The people a President chooses to serve beside them are just as important than the policies they enact, as individual jobs shape laws and policy for years to come. And the president may hire over 10,000 people each term.More than any campaign promise, the people a President chooses to delegate work to will shape their Presidency profoundly. While you don't know exactly who a candidate will hire, there are ways to get a good idea of their leanings:


A Vice President is frequently a trusted advisor and surrogate, standing in for the President in discussions and negotiations and advising on key situations. What is their track record, and what do they usually support or oppose?
Who does the candidate choose to speak on their behalf? Other politicians who frequently campaign for a candidate are often vying for a spot in the administration if they win. Are you comfortable with these people leading as well?
What Presidents does the candidate admire? What traits do they seem to respect in others -- honesty, experience, intelligence, courage, business success, etc?, Without a doubt, one of the most important duties of a President is appointing Supreme Court Justices, who all serve for life and make perhaps the most lasting, important decisions in the country. In 2016, for example, whoever wins the election will likely fill an open spot immediately, and the court is currently split between liberal and conservative judges. This means that whoever wins the election will likely pull the entire court their way -- at least until the next judge passes away or retires.


Consider recent major Supreme Court cases, and check online to see how each candidate feels about them. If you agree with their assessment, you'd likely agree with the people they'd put on the court.
A president has 4-8 years of service. This means that any justices over the age of 80 are at risk of leaving within their term limit, meaning the President gets a "free" pick. The more justices near this mark, the more seriously you should consider the Supreme Court in your decision., The US democracy is full of checks and balances that prevent any one President from completely running the country. This is a good thing, but it also means taking in any outlandish promises with a grain of salt, especially if the opposing party is vehemently opposed to it. The president often dictates policy, but they don't actually write any laws.


What issues do the candidates claim they cannot compromise on? Do you agree that there is no room to budge, or do you see some common ground?
Historically, have you seen evidence that a candidate can work with opponents in order to make progress (such as votes/bills in congress, work as a governor or leader with disagreeing state legislatures, etc.)? Is the candidate someone who can put aside small issues for the greater good?, Economic decisions, while key, are decades-long processes that are largely determined by Congress and the Fed, not just the president. Social issues, like gay marriage or abortion, require laws and court rulings to be enacted, few of which the President can do unilaterally. But, especially in recent years, the Commander in Chief has taken the primary role in our interaction with other nations, including deciding war and peace, with Congress largely sitting behind.


While war is supposed to be approved by Congress, the US has not had formal congressional approval since WWII. The President has, instead, used their Constitutional authority as Commander in Chief to direct "military engagements." Sometimes they have congressional approval (Afghanistan, Iraq) sometimes they don't (Libya).