 Being really spooky takes time, so don't expect to have Scooby & the Gang chasing you overnight. First off, you need to give yourself a really spooky image.;
, Dracula's fangs and cape can really accentuate a spooky outfit, and Frankenstein's stitching and mechanical accessories also make a great start. Remember that Halloween is a great time to stock up on essentials for a cost that doesn't leave your "spiderweb purse" empty!

, Makeup is essential on both men and women. A pale white face with some eye makeup as dark as your soul are utterly essential (unless you're aiming for a Frankenstein/Zombie look, where pale green tinges are acceptable)! Fake blood around your pitch black lips can really send a shiver down people's spines, and for the real artist, try drawing bones or bats across your face.
 Most people would think "Great! I look like Herman Munster, I am all ready to go out and be spooky", but think again! You need to be able to act spooky as well. Greet your friends with a frightful "boo!" and leap out at them as if springing from the grave. Practice walking in a distinctive, spooky fashion. Perhaps a zombie-like stance (think Dawn of the Dead), a werewolf prowl or a ghostly glide whilst emitting menacing wails. For the expert, an even scarier "crooked back fiend", hunching over whilst waving your clawed hands towards unsuspecting victims. For this look, introduce a twitching eye, a homemade hunchback and screeching bizarre noises.
 Sleeping is a necessity even for the spookiest among us. A coffin or dungeon would be most appropriate. But if these are un-attainable attaching yourself upside-down from a curtain rail will suffice, make sure to keep your arms crossed to really give the neighbours a fright!

, For entertainment purposes, (even Dracula get bored sometimes!) try reading a Goosebumps book by candlelight or visiting the local graveyard to meet up with your pals from beyond the crypt.
 Every ghoul need to eat, but a diet of simply moldy pumpkin, maggots and human blood may get a little boring though try to limit yourselves to foods that look spooky. Ketchup or jam "blood" sarnies look hair-raising but taste delicious and adding green food colouring to milk really adds a scare to your cereal. On Sundays try a terri-fry-up: Bacon made from the pigs of the damned, eggs laid by raven and black (soul) pudding are horrifically tasty!

, It could be your dog, your relatives, or even your skeleton friends., Remember: location is very important; after all, you can't spook your friend in a water park in the afternoon, as they wouldn't care. But if you spook them in a graveyard at nighttime, then they will be sure to get the shivers down their spine., Have it looping in your room/hideout or eerily emanating from your portable digital device.,