 Sit comfortably in a chair or in your bed before starting. Make sure you are undisturbed, and then take several deep breaths to center yourself and relax. Crystal Sphere Massage can done with yoga or meditation practice to increase relaxation and increase the pain relieving effect. Consult the following definitions related to Crystal Sphere Massage:

Trigger Points- localized tensions inside the muscle tissues that most often occur on certain locations in the muscle, and are a result of continuous contractions in the muscle fiber. When touching them, they feel like knots or strings. A trigger point is painful, but you may immediately feel release by pressing them. It is a natural reflex to touch such spots to relieve pain. They are usually along the center line of a muscle. The number one purpose of Crystal Sphere Massage is to remove muscular trigger points, which, as a result, leaves the muscle smooth, flexible, and relaxed.



 


Acupressure Points- places on the meridians that are located near the skin. The subtle energy system describes 12 or more meridians and other subtle energy organs and channels in the body. Acupuncture points are those points on the meridians that are accessed by acupuncture therapists with an acupuncture needle. Such points may not be as near the skin and not available for acupressure. Acupressure points are not the same as trigger points. Both types of points are used for applying pressure. Acupressure points is to open blocked energy channels (meridians) and remove the blocked energy stagnant in the point.






Pain: An unpleasant physical sensation caused by a noxious stimulus, an event in which bodily tissues could be harmed. Pain can be graduated along the scale of mild pain to unbearable pain. Pain can be localized or diffused all over. Pain can be temporary, intermittent or chronic. There is also mental-emotional pain and spiritual pain, which can not be healed by a Crystal Sphere Massage.






Locating points: You want to find the tense areas of your muscles that cause you pain and discomfort. Touching the skin, you may find knots or string-like tensions inside of certain muscles. They are painful to touch. Pressing on a trigger point will begin releasing the tension that causes problems.





;
, A muscle consist of muscle fibers,and those are composed of numerous microscopic units (sarcomeres) surrounded by an inter connective tissue called fascia. Muscles attach via tendons on our skeletal bones.
 For example, if you have a headache, you may suspect the trigger points are in the muscles in the head and neck. Touching your head and neck will direct you to where the accurate points are. In the case of head and neck pain, you will most likely find trigger points along the muscle that creates a V from behind your ears down to the sternum at the front of your neck (this muscle is called: Sternocleidomastoid).
, Sometimes the entire muscle is so tense that it feels like a wall of concrete. Apply heat prior to treatment, or do a general massage to relax the area. # After finding a particular knot, press on it to notice the level of pain, and also notice if pain is felt somewhere else as well. That is called referred pain.
, Make sure you have found the point accurately. # Increase pressure to about 70 % of your maximum pain tolerance. Yes, this can be painful but know that your muscle is screaming to release the pain burden it stores for you. The pain should be felt as a “good pain”, meaning you want to press on it as you feel that the pain is reduced or simply melts away.



Use a very slow pulsing motion up and down and as well a tiny rotation on your trigger point. Stay at least 20 seconds on each point along the muscle you are treating. (see also Massage Pressure and Length of Session below).
 A muscle consist of muscle fibers,and those are composed of numerous microscopic units (sarcomeres) surrounded by an inter connective tissue called fascia. Muscles attach via tendons on our skeletal bones.