 There is a company that makes a dedicated Smash Book, and you can buy their products in stores and online.Walmart
Amazon
Jo-Ann Fabric and Craft Stores
Kohl's;
, Smashing can be as simple or as intricate as you would like it to be. Here are some ideas of supplies you might want to help you decorate:Scrapbook paper
Colored card stock or paper
Pens
Scissors
Markers or colored pencils
Glue, a glue stick, or double-sided tape
Decorative tape
Ribbon
Sequins
Stickers
Stamps
Pockets or envelopes

, People commemorate many different things inside Smash Books. What you want to put in it is up to you.Vacation
Wedding
Birth
Recipes
Birthday
Graduation

, The items do need to be flat or as flat as possible so that the Smash Book will close easily.Photographs
Recipe cards
Ticket stubs
Certificates
Maps
Post cards

, Smash Books are meant to be imperfect and fun. You can have an order to your entries, or they can be a little disorganized.


A pre-made Smash Book of this type will likely have pre-designed pages, including some text. You can use those designs to help you create a style for your entries.
Stick down scrapbook paper or another type of paper of your choice. Use it as a background before putting on other memorabilia.
Cover an entire page with a map, a photograph, or other memorabilia.
Stick things at fun angles.
Add stickers, sequins, and other embellishments, if you want to take the time to jazz it up.
 A Smash Book is partially considered a journal, so it may feel appropriate to you to add titles to your entries or to write short descriptions of them.


Use markers or stickers to add titles. You can also print them from your computer so you have customized font.
Keep it flexible. If you do not have a lot of time to spend on it, only add enough detail to help you remember when you look back through it later or none at all, if you would rather.
 You might have enough items to fill your Smash Book at once, but more likely, you will start it out and then add to it as you save more items.