 Sometimes, the best way to stop a bully is to stand up for yourself. Be direct and tell the bully exactly what bothers you about their behavior. Tell the bully if the behavior continues, you will report them. Avoid becoming emotional, as the bully may use this against you.Pull your shoulders back, lift your chin, and say something like, “I will not accept name-calling from you. Please stop.”
Only speak out against a bully if you feel safe to do so. It may be best to allow an adult or someone in authority to handle a bully rather than placing yourself in danger.;
, Recording documentation of ways you are being bullied is helpful. Save emails and notes and take pictures of any physical evidence the bully has provided, and present them to someone in charge (such as a teacher, manager, or in some cases, the authorities). Having witnesses who will attest to the abuse is also helpful.For example, if a bully wrote an offensive name on your locker, be sure to take a photo and show a teacher or principal before removing it.
 Tell someone. A bully has no right to abuse you, and you aren’t under any obligation to take the abuse. Ignoring bullying typically doesn’t work, as bullies usually don’t stop until they are threatened with consequences, such as suspension or termination.Most of the time, bullying continues because the victim does not report the issue.Alerting a principal or guidance counselor, or telling your boss about the bullying is the first step towards ending the abuse. Go to the person and say something like, “Carlos calls me names and starts rumors about me in the workplace because of my sexuality. I tried to overlook it at first, but it is causing me stress and disrupting my productivity.”

, Unfortunately, prejudicial bullying doesn’t just come from people you know — it can occur from complete strangers. If you sense danger when you are out in public, change direction, cross the street, or run into a crowd. Carry a whistle with you to attract attention in case you feel threatened, and always stay alert.Keeping yourself safe may also mean getting distance from prejudiced people. If you are a target for racism, homophobia, sexism, or religious discrimination, you may need to avoid being alone in places where others are known to not be open-minded to your differences. Although this may be upsetting, you need to consider your safety first.

