 Fight the urge to bury the secret. It takes a stronger person to recognize a mistake than to ignore it.;
, Many kids get the instruction, “Think about what you’ve done.” Adults must also take time to see whom they affected, and in some cases it may be multiple people.
 If there are future consequences associated with a wrong, then you should try to repair the damage before it gets out of hand. On the other hand, waiting a little while to talk to the person may be the correct thing to do in cases where confrontation may hurt them and cooler heads would prevail.
 This is not a hunt for excuses, but rather a way to help you avoid similar behavior in the future.
 It is natural to place the blame on others. However, taking full responsibility may actually be the cleanest and easiest way to right the wrong.
 Similar to blame, excuses for a wrong can make the victim feel like you are trying to shy away from an apology.
 Explain to the person that you recognize that it was wrong, and that you are sorry for your behavior., Give them the opportunity to ask why or say something about being hurt. Try to avoid defensiveness, even if their response is emotional.


Remember that although you may have been preparing an apology, they may not have been preparing a response. Reacting in an emotional way to a wrong is very normal.
 Just as an apology is yours to give, forgiveness is theirs to control. It should come when and if they are ready to forgive.
 You should aim to apologize to everyone who was directly or possibly even indirectly affected.
 Allow yourself to feel guilt or sadness. The confrontation is likely to also be difficult for you.
 Make any behavioral changes that you can to avoid the situation in the future.
 It may be an emotional time for you. Speaking to a friend or counselor can be helpful.
 Once you have completed these steps, take what you learned and understand that you will be able to approach future situations with more maturity and experience.
 Worrying about things that are out of your control is likely to hurt only yourself, after the wronged parties have moved on. Repeat the motto “Nobody is perfect.”