


Buckram is a sturdy material used to form hats. If you cannot find buckram, you could substitute another stiff fabric. Two layers of canvas or cotton lined with interfacing may work.
Use white material or material that matches the color of your hair to prevent the base from being too noticeable.
The size of the base does not need to be exact, but it should be large enough to support the veil yet small enough to be covered by a decoration later on.
Draw the oval on the fabric using a fabric pencil or chalk.
Cut the buckram using sharp sewing scissors or shears.
You could also substitute this stiff base for a more flexible one made of felt. The veil will not have as much form or support, but it will still work as long as you handle the veil with care afterward.
For a playful variation, cut out a heart instead of an oval.The heart should only be visible from the underside of the veil. You could use a cookie cutter or other template to trace the shape onto the fabric, or you could draw the heart free-handedly. Try to make the heart roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm) by 3 inches (7.6 cm).;
, Use enough wire to cover the entire perimeter of the oval with about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of overlap.


Hat wire is thinner than a wire coat hanger, but it is heavier than chicken wire. If you need to substitute it for another type of craft wire, look for something that you can bend with your fingers but capable of holding its form under minor pressure.
The wire should be directly on top of the oval's edge.
If using a flexible material, like felt, or an unusual shape, like a heart, the wire is not necessary.
Position the overlap so that it extends along the long side of the oval, rather than around the shorter width-side.
 Attach the wire to the buckram oval using a zigzag stitch. You can make the stitch using a sewing machine or by hand.


Some may find it easier to stitch the wire to the base as you bend it instead of waiting until after the wire is fully formed.
Use thread that matches the color of your buckram oval.
Make sure that you sewing machine has the ability to do a zigzag stitch. There should be a specific setting on your machine, and the machine will need to have a needle that can move from side to side.
Follow your sewing machine's instructions regarding how to set the length and width of the stitch. You will need a moderately long stitch to cover the wire, but the width will need to be set on the low side of the middle.
Sew as usual. Start sewing on one side of the wire. As your press the pressure foot and move the material, the needle should move from side to side. Adjust as needed to allow the needle to cross over both sides of the wire.
To hand sew the stitch, push the threaded needle on the inner side of the wire through the back of the fabric.
Pull the thread through and cross it over the wire in a small diagonal.
Loop it around to the back of the fabric again and push it through the underside of the fabric so that it comes out directly next to your original stitch. Continue in this pattern all the way around the wire.
 Use your hands to gently bend the wire, giving the entire base a slight curve.


The curve should match the curve of your head or hairstyle. The base will rest to the side of your head, near the back, so try to form a curve that is suitable for that position.
 Hand stitch a small side hair comb along the long side of the oval base.


The comb should have no handle and should be roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) smaller than the length of the oval.
This comb will need to be inserted into your hair style and is, ultimately, what will keep the veil in place.
Use the same thread you used when attaching the wire.
Weave the thread in between the top of the teeth at both ends of the comb. Do not stitch along the entire top of the comb; only use enough thread to hold the comb in place at the ends.
 The veiling should be roughly 18 inches (46 cm) wide.


Use white Russian veiling or a similar type of net veiling. Russian veiling has a sturdy diamond-shaped net appearance, with gaps that are roughly 1/4-inch (6.35-mm) in size. This style is more fitting for a birdcage veil than delicate veiling is.
You can usually find veiling at fabric stores, bridal stores, or online.
 Fold the veiling in half and trim away the top pointed corner of the open side of the veiling.


Do not trim away the bottom corners and do not trim away the top corner of the folded side.
You only need to cut as much as necessary to round off the corner.
Use a wheel-style fabric cutter if possible. If not, sewing shears or scissors will also work.
 Unfold the veil and gather it up as you weave the needle and thread in and out of each joint or gap.


Knot the thread to the bottom corner of the veiling. The thread should already be attached to the needle, and you should have enough to make it through the entire length of the veil.
Weave the needle and thread in and out of the veiling gaps along the edge of the veil. You should be sewing lengthwise, from corner to corner, along the 1-yd (91-cm) side of the veil.
Gather the veiling slightly as you weave the thread through it. Do not pull the thread as tightly as possible, though. The veiling should be loosely bunched up, not tightly held together.
The final length of this gathered side should be about 2 inches (5 cm) longer than the length of the base.
Finish your stitch by knotting the thread to the other corner of the veiling.
 Hand sew the veil to the base using a zigzag stitch over the edge of the veiling.


The veiling should be placed more toward the center of the base instead of the edge. The middle of the gathered veiling should roughly align to the middle of the oval base.
Curve the veiling around the base so that the corners of the gathered section reach the bottom of the base. Do not bring the corners together. Instead, there should be at 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of space along the edge of the base separating the corners of the veiling.
 Two of the flowers should have five petals while the third, and largest, should have six.


Note that if desired, you can skip this step and use a pre-made fabric flower purchased from a craft store or bridal store.
The cardboard should be fairly thin and flexible. If you do not have cardboard, heavy cardstock or construction paper would also work.
Draw the flower shapes by hand using a pencil before cutting them out with scissors or a crafting razor.
The size of the flowers do not need to be exact, but they should be large enough to mask the base of the veil when attached. Make the largest flower about 7 to 8 inches (18 to 20 cm) in diameter, the middle flower roughly 6 to 7 inches (15 to 18 cm), and the smallest flower approximately 5 to 6 inches (13 to 15 cm). The length of the petals should be about the same size as the center of each flower, if not a little smaller.
 Place the cardboard flowers onto white cotton and lightly trace the shape with a sewing pencil or chalk.


After tracing the flowers onto the fabric, cut the shapes out of the fabric using sewing scissors or shears. Make the edges as smooth as possible.
You could also look for a type of lightweight fabric that is ravel-proof to avoid having a flower that becomes ragged over time.
You only need to use one layer of fabric for each shape, giving you three flower-shaped cutouts of white fabric when done.
 The biggest flower should be on the bottom and the smallest should be on top.


Alternate the petals. Align the five-petal flowers so that the petals of the top flower fill in the gaps left between the petals of the middle flower. Arrange these top two flowers so that all the gaps between the petals of the bottom flower are also filled.
 Fold the stack of flowers in half three times.


Fold the stack in half from side to side.
For the second fold, fold the stack in half from top to bottom. The stack should now be a quarter of its original size.
For the final fold, bring the two straight edges together, forming a triangular shape.
Peel the petals out. Hold the folded stack together by the point and carefully peel the petals outward, creating the appearance of a blooming flower.
 Continue holding the tip of the flower as you hand sew the pieces together.


Make the stitch above the point at which you're holding the flower together. There should be roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of fabric below the stitch line.
Weave the needle and thread through all the layers of the flower, binding them together. Make several stitches by weaving the needle through several times, securing the flower from one side to the other.
Knot both ends of the thread to hold the flower in place.
 Sew the flower to the top of the buckram base, matching the center of the flower to the center of the base. This finishes your veil.


Bend the point of the flower so that it lies flat against the base. Sew the flower onto the base near the stitch line of the flower in order to maintain the flower's shape.
Rearrange the petals of the flower as needed to camouflage the base.



For a classic 1940s style veil, consider using black veiling and a black, feathery flower.
To add a touch of “something blue,” use baby blue veiling. Alternatively, you can use white veiling and a baby blue flower or pin.
Weave your wedding colors into the design by using a flower that matches one of the colors in your wedding. To further blend things together, you could decorate your veil with a pre-made cloth flower designed to look like one of the flowers in your wedding bouquet.
 Fake feathers can give your veil added vintage-inspired style.


You could use feathers to accent the flower by positioning a few in between the flower and the base. Sew or glue them in place using a hot glue gun.
You could also make the feathers the primary focus of your veil. Glue the feathers in a fanned-out, half-circle arrangement, positioning the arrangement so that the feathers fall down the side of your head or across the top. You could leave the feathers as they are, or you could add a touch of bling with a small brooch placed at the connecting point of the feathers.
Alternatively, you could glue three or four feathers across the length of the base so that they come around the top of your head in headband-style.
 Instead of attaching flowers, pin a large brooch or a series of smaller brooches to the base.


Note that you may want to form a smaller base if you do this to prevent it from showing through.
 Hand stitch lace edging to the bottom of your veil.


Use a delicate lace pattern so that it does not compete with the decoration on top of the veil or block your vision.
Attach the lace to the veil before you bunch the veiling up and attach it to your base. The trim should extend from one rounded end of the veil to the other, so you will need roughly 1 yard (91 cm) of lace trim.

