 But don't approach your hater, if you know what they are capable of something drastic or something that can leave you hurt. Or it could leave you in embarrassment. If they are nasty to you or start swearing or being violent, walk away and don’t bother trying to talk to them again until they start being civil. Some people can be given second chances to realize that you aren’t really a bad person and they have nothing to hate you for. But some people just won’t like you in life, so don’t waste your time fretting about why they don’t like you.;
, Holding grudges against people and not apologizing can sometimes seem like the reasonable thing to do but in the end, if its your fault, only you can fix it. Apologize to them seriously, and if they don’t accept it, there isn’t much more you can do than ignore them.
 This will show them that you are friendly and kind. Give them compliments and try not to sound hurtful, don't judge them if they say bad stuff back. And if these things don't work out, just tell your friends and they can cool you down, and take a deep breath and try again. Never be offended, but if did, try not to lose control. "Control" is important, when things gets messed up, control yourself, or make excuses to get out of the situation instead of losing your mind trying to settle things.


Treat your "enemy" well and see if they respond in a reasonable way. If not, others will see that you have tried and some (perhaps most) will respect you for trying. The other people are the people whose respect is worth having.
 This only contributes to them taking advantage of your kindness. Do not give enemies one ounce of your energy. By helping anyone, especially enemies, you may be giving something to someone who doesn't "deserve" it. Your best bet is to ground out their energy (return it to Earth/heaven/God/etc) and forget about it. Don't worry- they will get exactly what they deserve that way.
 They are probably only insulting you because they are jealous. No matter what they say, it can’t offend you unless you let it. Just remember when they say something nasty to you, they want you to react. So pretend you didn’t hear it. Don’t acknowledge them or give them any attention for it. If they continue insulting you or bothering you in any way, walk away from them. Don’t look at them or talk to them; just walk away. After a few times of you doing this they will probably get bored and stop picking on you.


Once you have tried everything to solve, turn them over to the universe and walk away (mentally, if you can't actually leave).
Always remember that you can't please all the people all the time. It's impossible. Doing the best you can at the time is all you should expect of yourself or others.
 If they still carry on, you will have to learn to stop being upset by their comments and realize that whatever they say is probably a lie.
 These people will make you feel more confident about yourself and you should realize that it doesn’t matter what haters say as long as you have good friends by your side.

