 If you’re going to be wearing your oversized sweater with jeans, you can wear basically any length sweater you want. However, if you want to pair your sweater with a dress, skirt, shorts, and any other shorter garments worn on your bottom half,, you probably want a slouchy sweater that still ends around the waist. If you’re going to be wearing an oversized sweater as a dress, you definitely want something long that covers you!


Oversized sweaters go in and out of fashion, but when they are very stylish, in both men's and women's departments -don't be afraid to explore both sections – oversized sweaters are a fantastic, gender neutral wardrobe pieces.;
, Monochrome sweaters, especially those in neutral colors, are great additions to your wardrobe because they can be paired with all sorts of other clothes and accessories. Patterned sweaters can be fun statement pieces, and you can effortlessly create an outfit just by pairing them with neutral trousers, leggings, shorts etc.


There is a time and a place for both bold patterns and solid neutrals. Consider your collection of pants, jeans, skirts, leggings, dresses, and so on when deciding which kind of sweater to add to your collection.
 This will help you decide if you want a thick, chunky sweater, or a more lightweight sweater. If you’re looking for a sweater to wear over layers, you may want to get something a bit less chunky – otherwise, you’ll feel like you’re wearing a sumo suit. On the other side, you don’t want something so sheer that you’ll see the bottom layers right through it.


Lightweight, oversized cardigans are great to throw on over warm weather outfits, and big chunky sweaters look great with winter outfits. It’s all about visualizing the outfits you want to create!

, Weather permitting, this is a great combination. Wearing a big, chunky sweater over a flowy dress can create a really interesting, trendy contrast. Transform summer dresses into fall and winter dresses just by topping them with a warm sweater. For this look, it’s best to wear oversized sweaters that are cropped at the waist, so it doesn’t completely cover your dress or skirt.Wearing oversized sweaters with maxi skirts can create the ultimate bohemian silhouette. It can be hard to pull this look off without looking like you’re drowning in clothing, though. This look works best on tall people, but that doesn’t mean you can’t rock it if you’re short.
 When it comes to wearing oversized clothing, the general rule is one thing at a time. If you’re going to wear a big, baggy sweater, avoid wearing big, baggy pants too. Instead, pair your sweater with tighter jeans, pants, or leggings. The largeness (and coziness) of the sweater is balanced out by the form-fitting bottoms., There is no rule that you have to wear bottoms at all! If your sweater is long enough, pair it with tights and call it a dress. This is perfect for those cold days when you want to look chic but also want to be snug and warm. Pair it with tall boots and you have an effortlessly chic outfit.


Add a bit of structure to your sweater dress by wearing a tailored blazer over it.
 The one downside of oversized sweaters is that they certainly don’t show off your figure. If you want to accentuate your waist, there’s an easy solution. Pop a belt around your sweater and cinch it tight. Now, you have all the coziness of the big sweater, but you also have created a flattering silhouette., Big sweaters pair perfectly with big jewelry. Big, bold watches, bangles, and other bracelets look great against big, chunky sweaters. This is an easy way to add a bit of color or sparkle to a neutral sweater, or add a bit of fancy flair to a slouchy, more casual sweater. Cuff the sleeves of your sweater to show off your bracelets or watch.
 You can easily transform a big, comfy sweater into dressy work attire simply by adding a beautiful statement necklace. You can soften up a cable knit sweater by pairing it with a dainty necklace. Playing around with your jewelry can really change an entire outfit, so don’t be afraid to experiment. The lounging, weekend sweater can transition to business professional with some strategic styling.
 Pairing big, oversized sweaters with casual footwear is a no-brainer – they go perfectly with sneakers, snow boots, and moccasins. However, you can style them in a completely new way with different footwear. Try pairing an oversized sweater dress with over-the-knee boots for a fierce, eye-catching look. Take that slouchy, neutral sweater from movie night to party night by wearing it with sky-high wedges or heels.Men can pop on some dress shoes to instantly take the look from cozy to professional.


The key to styling your oversized sweater is to get creative, and get bold. Get inspiration from fashion magazines, Pinterest, and television, and try combinations you’ve never considered before. Oversized sweaters are more versatile than you may think!

