 As soon as you know you will need an extension, immediately begin preparing your letter. You need to give the recipient as much time as possible to make a decision about your situation. You also want to appear prepared, despite asking for an adjustment to the schedule.
 Consider all factors and submit a realistic request. If you ask for too little time, you may need to request another extension. Missing deadlines should be avoided whenever possible. So, it’s best to overestimate a little.


Depending on the situation, you might need to consider your letter as part of an ongoing negotiation. In that sense, it is better to ask for a longer amount of time so that you can compromise and meet in the middle.Gauge your pace based upon your current progress and what parts of the project have yet to be completed. For example, if you have worked on a consulting project for three months you should have a pretty good sense of how much is left to do.
Be aware of the time constraints facing the recipient as well. They may be under their own deadlines that will now need to be pushed back. For example, college professors are often required to submit midterm grades and schedule their paper deadlines accordingly.
 Verify the current deadline before you ask for it to be altered. You don’t want to appear disorganized by requesting an extension when you don’t understand the current situation. For example, some government entities require that you submit your request within 24 hours of initial contact with them. If this doesn’t work for you, then you can always cite the tight turn-around schedule., You are taking the time to craft the letter and your recipient will then take the time to read it, so make it worthwhile. Carefully consider your true reason for needing the extension and honestly convey this to your reader. Don’t lie or exaggerate as this will only hurt your case.


A good reason might be the desire to be thorough or cautious in your work. For instance, if you are completing a project that could potentially impact the safety of others, pointing this fact out when asking for extra time could work in your favor.
If you have multiple reasons for your request, choose the best one and focus on it. For example, if you are delaying a job offer you might want to tell them that you would like to conduct additional research into the transfer costs (if this is indeed true) instead of letting them know that you are also waiting on another offer., Details will give your letter a sense of legitimacy and craftsmanship. This is especially important if you are submitting your letter to a government panel or some other group that you have never met personally.For example, if your grandfather dies two days before your college essay is due, it is best to describe the incident as a “family emergency” as opposed to a general “emergency.” You may also want to mention his passing and some information about your travel arrangements.Have your paperwork in order before submitting any request. You may need to lay out a timeline of prior actions and applications, especially if dealing with the government or another official entity. Showing that you have followed all steps of the process up until this point can only work in your favor., No one wants to read a letter that is one whiny line after another. Instead, describe negative events quickly and concisely and move on to the positive solution that you propose. For example, if you think that an initial salary offer is too low, you might write, "I need more time to consider your offer. I do, however, think that a higher salary would allow me to do my job more efficiently."

, Give yourself at least a few minutes to read over your letter before you send it off. Look for editorial mistakes and typos. Run the grammar and spell checking software on your computer. Send it off to a trusted friend for a quick second read through. Don’t rush or skip this process or you will appear sloppy and it could impact the final outcome.