 You don’t have to go through this alone. You can ask for help from partners, family members, and friends to help you as you try to bond with your baby. You will start to feel a deeper bond with your baby if you feel secure in your parenting abilities. This may be difficult if you have PDD, but you should have people around you who can help.Ask your partners or family to help you with housework or other daily chores. You may be exhausted or emotionally drained, and you want to focus on your baby when you can.
Talk to them about helping you move towards bonding with your baby. Have them gently encourage you to try to bond and help you to not avoid it.
 If you are having problems learning to care for your baby, it may influence your bonding. You may not feel like you are fit to be a mother, and you may distance yourself from your baby. Try parenting classes to help erase this anxiety. Parenting classes can help you learn how to take care of your baby and face obstacles you may face.Talk to your doctor or local hospital about where you can find parenting classes in your area.
If you need support, ask your partner, a family member, or a friend to stay near you and help you out.
 One important thing for you to do is to take care of yourself after the birth. This helps keep you healthy, which is important for you as you manage your PDD and start to bond with your baby. You can’t take care of your baby and bond with them if you are not unhealthy.This includes resting as much you can. Try napping or resting when you baby does.
Eat healthy food and exercise. Include a balanced diet of all five food groups and try to limit junk food. Do light physical activity, like walking or yoga.
Engage in things you liked doing before you were pregnant. Don’t give up your interests just because you have given birth.
 If you aren’t bonding with your baby, you may feel upset or sad. However, you should be patient. Many times, the inability to bond with your baby goes away after a certain amount of time. Continue interacting with your baby and receiving support from your partner, family, and friends.Dealing with and recovering from PDD can take time. Don’t get upset if it takes you awhile.
Most bonds, even when the mother doesn’t have PDD, take time to form.

