 Then place four cards on the table, face up.;
, There are many ways to play the cards, such as:


Trailing. When you have no other plays, you simply lay a card on the table.
Pairing. If you have a card of the same rank as one on the table, you may play the card and pair. Take both cards and put them aside in your pile of captured cards. Ex. If there is a 3, 5, K, and 9 on the table, and you have a K, then you may capture the K on the table along with yours.
With a build, you may capture 2 cards on the table. Play the card and take 2 cards on the table that add up to your played card. Ace counts 1, Jack counts 11, Queen counts 12, and King counts 13. Ex. If there is a 2, 9, 5, and Q on the table, and a J in your hand, then you may capture the 2&9 on the table with your Jack.
Leaving a build. If you have a card that adds with a card on the table to another card in your hand, you may leave a build. To do this, you lay the first card on the card on the table and say,"Building..."and whatever number you're building. There is a risk, though, in doing this. Your opponent(s) may steal your build by taking it with the same card. If it gets back to you without being stolen, you may take it. Ex. If there is a 5 and 4 on the table, and a 3 and 7 in your hand, then you may lay the 3 on the 4 and call,"Building 7," hoping no other player steals it with a 7.
Redeals. Once everyone is out of cards, the dealer deals the same way as in the beginning of the game, but no cards go to the table.
Final Rule. The last player to capture cards after the last deal takes the remaining cards on the table.
 3 points goes to the most cards, 1 point to most spades, 2 points for the 10 of diamonds, aka the Big Casino, 1 point for the 2 of spades, aka the Little Casino, and 1 point for each ace. Continue playing until one person reaches 21 points, who is declared the winner.



Sweeps. If one player takes all the cards on the table at any time, not including the one at the end of the round, it is a sweep and scores one bonus point.
You may capture more than one combo at once. Ex. You may capture a 8, A, and 9, all with one 9.

