 Alcohol reduces the “stickiness” of the platelets in your blood, making them less capable of clumping together to form a blood clot. In fact, the claim that alcohol in moderation is “good for you” stems from this effect. However, if you have a condition that causes your blood to coagulate slowly, drinking alcohol can worsen this symptom.While one or two alcoholic beverages from time to time are unlikely to have an affect on your blood’s ability to coagulate, frequent or heaving drinking can put you at greater risk.
 Aspirin is commonly recommended as a way to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke, but it can also thin your blood, making it harder for it to clot. If you notice that your blood doesn’t clot well or that you bruise easily after you start taking aspirin, talk to your doctor about the pros and cons of continuing to take the aspirin.Don’t stop taking the aspirin without discussing it with your doctor.
 Common dietary supplements such as fish oil, Coenzyme Q10, and vitamin E thin your blood and make it harder for it to coagulate. Consult with your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking blood thinning medications.

Additionally, foods can have the same effect, including raisins, prunes, cherries, cranberries, blueberries, grapes, strawberries, tangerines, oranges, onions, olive oil, garlic, ginger, green tea, papaya, and pumpkin seeds.
Common herbs that can thin your blood include cinnamon, curry, cayenne pepper, paprika, thyme, turmeric, oregano, and peppermint.Alternatively, some foods can decrease bleeding, such as green leafy vegetables, broccoli, celery, and carrots.Eating pineapple a few days before surgery can reduce bleeding and bruising post-operation.
 For some people, the risk of blood clots is more dangerous than potential blood loss caused by slow coagulation. In fact, the clots that save your body from losing blood when you are injured can be deadly when they form within an artery or vein. In part for this reason, you should never take steps to help your blood coagulate and clot without professional medical guidance., If you are experiencing dangerous blood loss, there are some medications that are used exclusively for emergency treatment. For instance, antifibrinolytic drugs prevent blood clots from breaking down and can help prevent blood loss during surgery or following a serious injury. If you have an emergency situation, don’t hesitate to get medical attention because there are medicines available that can help your blood clot better.These drugs are administered by medical professionals, so seek treatment immediately.

