 You have to show your Christian guy that you are mature enough when it comes to spiritual matters by showing how keen you are to worship. As a Christian, you may consider this deception as you haven't arrived early to praise the Lord, you are there early to try to get a boy to like you.;
, This will be more successful if the Christian boy you like goes to the Bible classes or youth groups. If he does not, you might meet someone new.
 Show the Christian Boy you are having fun at these events! Smile, laugh, be generous and warm. A Christian guy should love a Christian girl that serves the Lord with joy and amusement.
 You need to look nice, appear to be a good listener and a fun person to be with. This will attract people with similar qualities to you.
 The Christian boy will think everyone can talk to you during the Hour of Worship. If your church doesn't have an Hour of Worship, try paying attention to the service and praying in respectful silence. Christian Boys usually like girls who behave appropriately in Church at all times.
 Don't act in any way that could be interpreted as immature. It is suggested that you should behave yourself when inside the church in a way appropriate for your age.
 Whenever you have the chance to talk to him, take the opportunity. If you are shy, and he's shy also, nothing will happen so if you want to make a boy like you, be brave and talk to him.
 For example, you could say "Hey you know what, you really did a great job handing out the hymn books."


Or, if the Christian boy has done a good job explaining something in some church related activity you could say, "I really did understand the -------- *topic* and it has now become easier for me to explain it to others!"
Go on to say, "Hmm, I am thinking if maybe you could give me some Bible studies over ------ *Place*". Your Christian boy may start to like you if you ask him to help you with your bible studies, especially if he can also help you with your English.
Try saying, "Hi", by doing this, you will look lovely! This may not make him like you. This may just make him think you are friendly.
 Look mature, look religious and respectable. You don't have to dress like you're going at a party or on a red carpet or go too far the other way a dress as a nun.


Appropriate church clothes may make a boy like you. Look presentable and you'll feel comfortable. If you want to put some makeup, keep it natural. Face powder, blush on and lip gloss will do. Remember some Christian Boys like teen girls who don't wear any makeup.
 You're inside the church so respect God. Behave yourself and don't go like "Ah! I saw him! OMG". These are suitable things to say in Church.


Remember that you're inside a sacred place. However, since you have already been gazing around looking for a boy to try to make like you, this may not be of great concern to you. Theoretically, you shouldn't be trying to make a boy from church like you in Church.
 This can be a great help for starting conversations with him. Talk about God and His disciples and the prophets to make him like you.

