 Most local governments a require that you to have a pre-moving inspection performed by them. This is to see if the move is feasible, and if the structure can survive the move.;
, Most cities require you to fill an application to move your building, a land survey, and the plans to build a new foundation and secure the structure to it. For the land survey, your will have to show the proposed location, any setbacks, and any other structures on the site. #Gather information about the building you want to move. Anything from photos to blueprints can help the movers determine the best way to move the structure. Look for documents that will help the contractors locate the main posts and beams.If the building is commercial, include information about the existing and proposed uses of the building., Choosing the new location of your building is a very important decision. You will have to examine a site’s natural hazards, utility connections, accessibility for site preparation, and the route between the two sites.One of the main things to consider is property value. Contact a real estate broker to determine if there will be a change in the value of your building.
 See if you can find someone who has moved their building before and see whom they recommend. This will help you get started. Most moving companies in your area will send out a representative to give you an estimate. The representative will determine how feasible the move is by looking at structural soundness, lot accessibility, possible route problems, and the new site location.Selecting a moving company early in the process gives them more time to provide recommendations and important contacts.
 The moving company should have a structural engineer examine both the existing site and the new site. It must be determined if your building can survive being moved. If it cannot, you will have to repair any structural problems before proceeding.The moving company will ask you if you plan on including structural additions such as a porch or garage. Decide what you want to include so that the mover can provide you with an accurate assessment of the total moving costs to relocate your building.
 Usually, you will have to pay utility fees for moving your house. These fees cover wire lifting/removal, railroad crossing, and tree trimming. Additional fees may occur if the house has to cross a park, go through the property of a neighbor, or be transported over water. Depending on where you live and the size of the building, a police or utility escort may be required for the move.Check to see if the building codes in your area require masonry fireplaces/chimneys to come down before the move. Discuss the best way to bring them down with your general contractor.
While most moving companies require you to pay these fees, they will tell you who to contact to make arrangements.
 Get estimates on moving the house, buying the permits, building the new foundation, hiring contractors, route planning, and consulting experts. Moving the building can cost anywhere from a few thousand dollars for a small building or hundreds of thousands of dollars for a large building. Decide if the price is feasible., Contact your local government and ask about all the permits you will need. You will need permits for constructing a foundation at the new site, moving the building, and restoring the old site. You will also need to get a new address for your home.


If your building is older, contact your State Historic Preservation officer before you relocate your building to see if you need any special permits from them.
 Your mortgage company must be notified of any change that affects the address of your house as it appears on the deed. Without their approval, you may have to pay the mortgage in full. Many moving companies have legal contacts to help you move., It’s best to hire a general contractor who can disconnect the services at one location and reconnect them at the new location. A general contractor can handle the plumbing, electrical, foundation, and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) contractors. This will relieve a considerable amount of stress from you, as they will take over a considerable amount of planning.


Ask friends or the moving company for general contractor recommendations.
The general contractor will also make sure work done at both the old and new site is up to code.
 Depending on the site you chose, you will have to look at many factors when moving a building. This includes erosion control, grading/clearing, driveway or parking lot construction, construction of a new foundation, and the installation of new utilities. Consult the your general contractor to make sure this process goes smooth.


Foundations provide the support for the building to stand. Some movers will move the building and keep it on a temporary lift if the foundation is not complete. This is more expensive, however, as the movers will have to come back out once the foundation is completed and move the house again.
 While most movers have comprehensive insurance that covers moving the building, you should consider short-term insurance to cover unforeseen problems that the movers cannot cover. For example, there might be existing structural faults that aren't covered by the moving company.
 Most moving companies will provide a comprehensive outline of all parties and contractors and their responsibilities. It is important to review all steps to make sure that every aspect of the move is handled. Talk to the moving company about any concerns you have.
 Your general foreman should be able to take care of this, but you want to make sure you’re not responsible for violating code.
 You may need to hire a landscaper or an excavator to cut down large trees and to remove the roots

, There can be nothing left in these areas. Depending on the size of your building, you can leave the furniture and other items where they are.
 The movers will come and move the house according to the plans. Once they are done, make sure the utilities are turned on at the new site. Check with your general contractor to make sure the old site is cleaned and restored.
 Relocating a structure is a long process with lots of factors affecting it such as environmental conditions, structural concerns, and routes. It’s a long process, but if you need to relocate your structure, it’s worth the time.