 By setting up an effective training schedule, you can workout responsibly and effectively. Making a schedule and sticking to it will help you to avoid over-training. Before you create a schedule, you need to clarify your fitness goals. Make sure to include "Train safely and responsibly" as a goal.Write down your goals. Be as specific as possible when you list what you want to achieve.
For example, you could write, "I will run the Chicago Marathon in 2017." Then you can make smaller, more specific goals that relate to your overall objective.
Make daily and weekly goals. For instance, one of your goals could be "I will log 30 miles a week during my first month of training."
You can also make general fitness goals. For example, you could write, "I want to lose 5 lbs during my first month of training." Just make sure to make sure that all of your goals allow flexibility, so that you avoid over-training.;
, Choose how many days a week you want to work out. If you are training for a specific event, you may want to try to workout most days of the week. If you are just beginning your fitness regimen, consider only working out 2-4 days a week. In order to avoid over-training, make sure to schedule a reasonable amount of training sessions.Make sure that your workout schedule fits your personal schedule. For example, are there days of the week that you absolutely cannot work out?
Don't set yourself up for failure. If you will have a difficult time working out 6 days a week, don't schedule yourself for 6 workouts. Set goals that you can feel good about accomplishing.
Make your training sessions a priority. Put each of your sessions on your calendar or in your planner.
Commit to your training sessions the same way that you commit to anything else. If someone asks you to go to the movies during your scheduled session, say, "No, I'm busy at that time. Could we go later in the day?"

, One of the biggest risks when you are training is that you will over-train a specific body part or set of muscles. In order to effectively avoid over-training aim to alternate the muscle groups that you work. Make sure that you don't perform the same workout several days in a row.If you are focused on weight training, you will want to develop different workouts for different muscle groups. For example, your leg workout will be separate from your upper body workout.
Allow your muscles to recover for 48 hours between workouts. You can strength train daily, just don't do your leg workout two days in a row.
If you are training for a race, vary your runs. For example, choose a day of the week to do your long runs.
If you make Sunday your day for the longest run, make sure to follow up with some upper body strength work or yoga on Mondays.
 When you are training, it is natural to want to focus on either strength or cardio. Maybe cardio is your priority because you are training for a triathlon. Or maybe you lean towards strength training simply because you hate cardio. If you include both cardio and strength training, your training program will be more effective and will considerably help you to avoid over-training.One way to include different workouts is to simply schedule different activities for different days. For example, in your plan it can say "Monday--40 minutes of cardio" and "Tuesday--upper body strength workout".
If you prefer, you can also do elements of each in one workout. For example, you could run for 30 minutes on the elliptical and then head to the TRX bands for some upper body strength work.
Do your cardio first if you have a light strength session planned. Even if you push yourself to your aerobic limit, a hard run likely won't impact your performance on a light day of weights.
If you like to mix up your workouts, you can do 20 minutes of cardio, 20 minutes of strength, and then finish with 20 minutes of cardio.
 For many people, stretching is an afterthought. It's something to be done if there is a little extra time before or after a workout. But stretching should actually be an important component of your training plan. It helps you to maintain healthy muscles, and can allow you to improve your fitness without over-training.Stretching improves your joint range of motion. This can help prevent injuries that could otherwise occur.
Stretching can actually help improve your performance in many athletic activities. For example, if you're a swimmer, you will increase the length of your stroke as you gain flexibility.
Focus on major muscle groups, such as calves and hamstrings. Hold each stretch for 30-60 seconds.
Consider adding some yoga sessions to your training plan. This will help you remember to check in with your body and avoid over-training.
 You must rest in order to avoid over-training. Your muscles need time to recover each week. Make sure to schedule at least one recovery day per week. Add more if you need to.One rest day a week is recommended for regular exercisers. If you are new to exercise, schedule a rest day every third day.
Every eight weeks, schedule a de-training week. This means that you will lift lighter weights or log less miles. Your body needs more significant periods of rest every so often.
On your off days, do moderate activity. You can take a long walk or a restorative yoga class.
Just don't count reps or miles. Your mind needs time to rest and recover from training, too.

