 Get a medium mixing bowl and combine three parts distilled water, one part isopropyl alcohol, and a few drops of dish detergent or dishwasher fluid. Stir these together gently. It is best to use distilled water in order to avoid some of the impurities that can be found in tap water.Be aware that there is some debate over whether or not to use alcohol as part of a cleaning solution for records. The alcohol may strip the record of its surface properties. So, be sure to use with caution and sparingly., Record stores and music stores often sell cleaners specifically designed for use on audio materials. Check the ingredients of any cleaner that you buy to make sure that you are comfortable with everything included. Make sure to follow the directions closely as well.Make sure to avoid household cleaning products, such as Windex. These cleaners are far too abrasive for records and can destroy the vinyl., You can buy these mats at record stores and they are generally made out of cork or another soft material. If you are worried about using liquids on top of your turntable, then a mat is a good idea. You can place the record flat on the mat and use the attached spindle to hold the record secure.Not all mats are designed for use with liquids. Before you clean with a solution make sure that your mat can handle it.
 Once you have a solution on hand, gently drizzle a few drops over the surface of the record. Or, moisten a towel with the solution and apply this moisture to the surface of the record. You want the record to be slightly damp, definitely not drenched., Grasp your towel and wipe in a counter-clockwise motion across the record, following the grooves. Be gentle, but apply enough pressure so that the towel makes contact with the interior parts of the groove. Use a totally fresh microfiber cloth to dry the entire record when finished., If you are not interested in cleaning your records by hand, then you can invest in a machine to do some of the work for you. There are machines that require special fluids, ones that brush both sides of a disk at once, and ones that combine vacuuming and brushing. Do some research online to find a machine that suits your particular needs.Be aware that some machines can be rather costly with price tags upwards of $500. To save money, look for a machine that uses brushes to clean, instead of vacuums.