 Every player in Gears starts out with the same weapons, putting you on an even playing field with everyone else around. These weapons, unlike the weapons you begin with in most shooters, are powerful and should be enough to contest almost any battle:



Lancer: Your standard assault rifle, it is used for mid-range fights and support fire.

Gnasher: The most commonly used weapon in the game, your shotgun is for up close and personal fights.

Pistol: Surprisingly powerful and accurate at mid and longer distances, the pistol is great to finish enemies while reloading or supporting far off teammates. It can get a head shot instant kill if it hits the enemies skull when they are at low health.

Smoke Grenades: In Gears 2, 3, and 4 this temporarily stuns enemies while providing a smoke screen. In later versions it only produces the smoke screen.
 Hands down, the most important weapon in Gears of War is the Gnasher shotgun. In tight quarters, the player with the best shotgun skills will always get the kill, and the extreme power of the gun in close-range means good players only need 1-2 shots to get the job done. Some tips for the shotgun include:


In very close combat, where you are rolling and moving right next to the enemy, don't worry about aiming with the left trigger. Once they hit the center of your screen, fire.
When in cover, use the left trigger to aim and then shoot simultaneously. You're a sitting duck in aiming mode, but your accuracy is much better. Aim as best you can before hitting Left trigger, then pull the left and right triggers simultaneously, shooting and returning to cover quickly.Keep moving between shots. You'll have a half-second after a shot while you re-cock the weapon. Use it to roll or wall bounce away, setting up the next shot., The Lancer is very situation. At a medium distance, it is deadly against an enemy in the open, slowing them down and dealing enough damage to down them after 2-3 seconds of constant fire. However, if your enemy has cover, or you're in close quarters, you'll likely fail to connect enough shots. Use the Lancer when you've got some space:


Pin down enemies from afar. While your Lancer may not kill someone in cover, it can be enough to keep them from poking their head out. Use this to protect objectives, teammates, or power weapons.
If you see a teammate in a shotgun battle, use your Lancer to assist. It will slow down the enemy and may deal enough damage to make a half-hit shotgun blast effective.
 The Longshot is one of the hardest weapons to use, but one of the most effective. This sniper rifle only has one shot before needing to reload, so you need to make it count. Luckily, one shot to the head will kill any player immediately, and only three shots to the body are needed to take someone down.


When using the Longshot, set up in cover in an area where you have high visibility. High places are often best since you can look down on the whole map.
Use the longshot on distracted enemies -- those fighting teammates, in cover, or picking up other weapons, to shoot on the moment they freeze to help someone or pick up a weapon., The Torque Bow is a crossbow that shoots grenades. You have to hold down the right trigger to pull the string back, then you release to shoot. If you hit a player with a tense bow the grenade arrow will stick to them, then blow up for an instant kill. But you can also shoot the ground or bounce the shot off of walls to deal massive grenade damage to multiple enemies.


You have a laser sight that tells you where the shot will go depending on how hard you're pulling back the bow. Shooting before you reach full tension can help you drop a grenade at a group's feet instead of trying to "stick" someone.
If you hold the bow back long enough it will eventually shoot, so don't try and save a shot for the right time -- you'll waste precious ammo.
 The grenade launcher can down any nearby enemies if it hits someone's feet, dealing a wide swath of massive damage. If you shoot someone directly with it they will die in one hit, but there is such limited ammo this can be risky. A shot to the feet is the most sure-fire way to get any nearby enemies down.


Boomshots have slow, arcing bullets, so be sure to lead your opponents slightly.
 This godly weapon takes some time to warm up but is deadly when it does. If the opponents are outside, a laser will come down on the spot you're aiming and instantly kill anything it touches. Once you've warmed it up, you can drag this laser around, instantly killing whole groups or enemies.


Make sure there are no roofs or nearby buildings protecting your target. They will hear a small noise alerting them that you're targeting them as you warm up the Hammer and escape it's wrath.
Aim at walls and the floor, not at the player. You need to hold the trigger down on a non-moving target to activate the weapon.
Stay back and use cover and height to accurately aim. The Hammer is great to clear out key spots (like bases or the flag) as well as protect other weapons.