 Over time, your dye will fade and loose its vibrancy, but a fixative will help the dye to last longer. The kind of fixative you use will vary depending on the dye you are using, but by soaking your fabric in a fixative solution before dyeing, the color of your dyed shirt will stay brighter longer., Chemical dyes, even commercial ones that can be purchased at a craft store, will usually be most effective if you first soak your fabric in a solution made from soda ash and warm water. Take a large plastic bucket and:


Combine 8 oz (250 ml) of soda ash fixer with 1 gallon (4 L) of warm water. Stir until it is evenly mixed.
Wear a dust mask and rubber or plastic gloves when working with this solution. Soda ash can irritate your lungs and skin., If you plan on using a natural dye made with some type of berry, the generally recommended fixative is one made from salt and cold water. You can make this solution easily by combining in a large bucket:


½ cup (125 ml) table salt with 8 cups (2 L) cold water. Stir until dissolved., If you plan to use a natural dye made from plant material other than berries, a solution made from water and vinegar will likely work better than one made from salt. To create your vinegar fixative solution, mix in a large bucket:


1 cup (250 ml) white distilled vinegar with 4 cups (1 L) cold water. Stir well to distribute the solution evenly., Immerse the bundle of tied-up fabric in the fixative solution long enough to soak thoroughly. When using soda ash, soak the fabric for 5 to 15 minutes. When using salt or vinegar, heat the liquid to a simmer and let the garment sit in the simmering liquid for 1 hour., You will need to wait for your fabric to cool before handling it if it has been soaking in a simmering solution. After the fabric has finished soaking/cooling, remove it from the fixative and wring it out so that it feels damp.


If using vinegar or salt, rinse the material before squeezing out the excess moisture.
A pair of tongs can be used to remove the fabric from the simmering solution so you can rinse the fabric immediately with cool water. This will save you time spent waiting for it to cool. Then, wring out the fabric until it is damp.