 Start by clipping off both feet as close as possible to the body as possible, using wire cutters or a sharp knife. It usually works best to use something with a scissor-action, so you can lop them off quickly and cleanly.


Some people choose to toss the feet, but you can hang on to them and use them for making stocks and broths if you want to be especially resourceful.
 With your clippers, clip the joint where the wing meets the body, as close as possible. Then, use a sharp knife to run along and separate the rest of the skin connecting the wing to the body. Then, do the same thing to the other wing.


Alternatively, you can also clip the wings at the middle joint, just after the long feathers end, if you want to retain the top-most connective tissue where the wing meets the body. There's not much meat there, but there is some. If you do this, clip the joint, then run your knife back down along the wing toward the bird's "armpit."
If you want to skin your bird in the field, but need to leave the wings on for ID purposes, read the section called "Breasting Out Ducks Quickly." You can skin the duck, but leave the wings on very easily.
 On a sturdy, flat surface, lay the duck down on its back and feel for the breastbone. The easiest way to start peeling the skin away is to start with your fingers, just where the bone pokes up.


You don't have to pluck the feathers before you do this, but some hunters prefer removing some of the chest feathers to get out of the way before you start skinning. That's fine, but you'll only need to remove a few before you can get a finger on the skin, making it easier to do all at once.
 It's likely you'll have to dig in there, and you'll probably pull some feathers free before you get the hang of it. That's fine, just try to get a finger on the skin itself and start to open it up. Pull the skin in opposite directions, like you were removing it's jacket.


Alternatively, some like to hold the duck so the back is facing your chest, and use the tips of the fingers to tear into the skin and peel it back, like you were opening your shirt. This is usually a better method when you're out in the field, since you won't be able to lay the bird down on the ground, probably.
 Since you've removed the wings and the feet, you can pull the skin all the way off the bird, except around the neck. Once you've opened up the skin on the chest, keep peeling it back, over the "shoulders" where the wings met, and off the bottom around the tail. The tail feathers should stay stuck to the bird.


You shouldn't have to use a knife, though the skin is a bit stickier than rabbit skin on most ducks. Try to use as smooth a pull as possible.

