 Some states have online locator tools which you can use to search for a missing life insurance policy. California, Texas, and Ohio all collect your information and then contact the life insurance companies. You provide information either through an online Lookup Tool or submit a paper application.


For example, the California State Controller’s Office has an online Life Insurance Settlement Property Search tool. You can use it to find policies that list you as a beneficiary. The online search tool only lists beneficiaries who are or were in California.The search tools will ask you for the last name, first name, middle initial and city of the property holder. The search results will provide a name, address, ID number of the claim and type.Ohio has a form you can download and print off. The form asks for your contact information and the policy holder’s. The form must be notarized before being mailed to the Department of Insurance.If the state finds the policy, it should contact you and tell you where it is. Some policies will still be in the possession of the insurance company. Others may have been turned over to the state already. , Websites such as missingmoney.com and unclaimed.org allow users to find their state’s unclaimed property website. If your relative died more than a few years ago, it is possible the benefits from a life insurance policy have been turned over to the state. Both websites are affiliated with the National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators (NAUPA).Missingmoney.com allows you to search for unclaimed assets with a simple search tool. It asks for your first and last name and your state. It will search the state’s unclaimed property database for any property linked to your name.
To look for a life insurance policy for a deceased loved one, put his or her first and last name into the database.
Unclaimed.org allows you to click on your state to find your state's unclaimed property website. Some states may require you to register before you can conduct any searches on their websites.Claiming property from the state is free, but you will have to provide records supporting your claim. These requirements will vary from state to state but generally include proof of your identify and the policy holder’s death certificate.
 Some of the largest insurers in the United States have free Life Insurance Locator Tools for you to use at their websites. MetLife, New York Life, and Lincoln National all have tools.


To begin, make sure you have the following information for your loved one: name, date of birth, date of death, and last known address.
You will then enter this information into the search engine. You will also be prompted to enter your contact information, so that the insurance company can get back to you after its search.
 There are several companies that will search for a lost life insurance policy. Each of them charges different rates. The three most popular private company locators are MIB, L.L.I.F.E., and Policy Inspector.


For $75, MIB will search the records of anyone who has applied for insurance. It has kept records for around seven years. You can click on the “Policy Locator Service” link on their website.
The MIB response rate is around 30%. Also, there is no free option; you have to pay the $75.
L.L.I.F.E. charges $108.50 and contacts around 400 companies.
Policy Inspector contacts over 500 life insurance companies and charges a $99 one-time fee.

