 You may worry that a flared leg at the bottom of your pants adds more weight and emphasis to the bottom of your leg, and in a sense, that assessment is accurate. By draping more material over that part of your leg, though, you can actually balance out the size of your foot with the size of your leg. The excess trouser material tricks the eye into expecting “more” at the bottom of your leg, so your larger foot ends up looking proportional.


Similarly, you should avoid jeans and trousers with tapered legs. Tapered legs cling to you and train the eye to look for less at the bottom of your leg instead of more. As a result, the size of each foot gets emphasized.;
, This means skipping the cropped pants, capris, and mini skirts. When the fabric of your pants or skirts stops just above the calf, the lower leg and foot get emphasized. This emphasis generally makes your calves and feet look stockier and bigger.


Try wearing shorts and skirts that rise just above the knee. This lengthens the overall appearance of your leg. You might be tempted to think that lengthening the look of your leg also lengthens the look of your foot, but by making the leg itself appear longer, you can actually make your foot look more proportional to the rest of the leg.
Alternatively, wear floor-length skirts to mask as much of your foot altogether. This is a valid option, especially if the skirt flares out and covers your ankles, since the excess material dwarfs the size of your foot by comparison. Avoid skirts that cling to your lower leg and those that stop just above the ankle, though, since these options will only emphasize your feet more.
 A large, chunky belt can compete with your feet in regards to size. A skinny belt will cause the eye to notice the mass at the bottom of your legs, but a wide belt will add a comparable amount of mass to the top of the leg. As a result, the eye sees the overall leg, from waist to foot, in a more balanced and proportional light.


In general, skinny belts make your legs look longer while wide belts make your legs look shorter by “cutting” your torso in half visually.While you do not necessarily want to make your legs look stubby, the extra foot length usually means that you can afford to remove some of the visual length of your leg without making them look too much shorter.
 Pencil skirts and other snug-fitting styles do nothing to help balance out your legs and feet. As a result, large feet are easier to spot, especially if accompanied by thick calves.


There's no need to skip the skirt altogether, though. Try on an A-line skirt or circle skirt. These styles flare out at the knee, and the resulting effect makes the overall appearance of your legs and feet look more balanced and proportional.
 A good way to keep the attention off your feet is to draw the attention as far away as possible. Wear shirts in lighter, brighter colors and patterns. Opt for eye-catching "upper" accessories, like scarves, necklaces, and earrings, to draw the eye toward the top of your body.


On the flip side, wear darker colors on the bottom and skip any prints or patterns there. Accessories that draw the eye downward, like anklets, bracelets, and rings, should be avoided.

