 Find out what days your teachers offer after-school help with homework online. If that information isn’t available, send them an email or call them directly to request a meeting. Make a list of questions you want to ask them about your homework after working through missed assignments on your own. Make sure you’re clear on expectations your teacher has for you in making up missed work. Ask them for any tips, such as note-taking or time management , that they have that’ll help you complete the missed homework and learn the material faster.
 Check out encyclopedias, journals and other educational materials to help you understand your homework. Make use of their online database to search for bibliographical guides or indexes, or to simply fact-check answers to your homework. Talk to librarians about checking out or borrowing school supplies, such as a calculator or laptop, if they are required to help you complete your homework.
 Ask your teachers about upcoming study hall sessions, or organize your own after-school homework club with classmates. Make note of any problems you’ve had while completing your missed homework, and share them with the group. This will help you not only work through what you missed, but also be prepared for future homework assignments. Work through as much of the missed homework as you can on your own before comparing answers with your fellow classmates. This will be extremely beneficial for other students who have also missed class and need to catch up on missed homework. , Get a referral from your teacher, family or friends for tutors that offer help in your homework subject. Dedicate a reasonable amount of time to meet with the tutor to cover your homework. Ask your tutor to double check your homework, and advise you on mistakes you may be making. Be sure to speak up about any struggles you’re having, such as finding time to study and focus. Join in a group tutoring session, if possible. Small group tutoring offers personalized prep and homework review. Meeting in a group can also help cut the costs associated with private tutors.

