 This would help you decide upon how many beds that you would need. This is the first thing to consider and must be right the first time. This will help you to narrow your choices.;
, Why? There is more storage space and there is less hassle of assembling and reassembling dining and kitchen areas; you have the area dedicated to these purposes. For example, if two people are traveling in a four berth motor home, you can have your sleeping quarters and dining area permanently made up and you won't have to break it down when needed. Plus, you get extra storage area. This is especially important the longer you rent the vehicle.
 Possibilities include toilet, heating, shower, kitchen, storage, batteries or power and gas heating. Check to see if these facilities require outside power sources or if they are self contained within the vehicle. E.g, some vehicles require additional power to operate additional appliances, or you may want to save your generator/battery by using an outside power source.
 Understand that fresh water and waste water tanks can mean frequent refilling and emptying of cassettes and tanks. Waste should generally should be emptied 2 to 3 days or this can cause some unwanted odors to linger in your motor home.
 Consider the width restrictions on the area you would be visiting to make sure that it would not be too wide on the roads you will be driving on. Consider the flexibility and the maneuverability and dimensions, especially with high tops.
 Prior research of parks and roads is essential, especially when traveling with a larger motor home.
 You might decide to rent an older vehicle rather than a brand new one. Prices are also determined by the amenities you choose. One warning, you do get what you pay for, what may seem to be a bargain at first could turn into a nightmare when you rent the vehicle. If going for a budge vehicle, ensure that the vehicle is well maintain and the company offers 24 hour roadside assistance., You pay for spontaneity. Check what the off season rates are and book then - these will vary per country. Booking prior to holidays (e.g school holidays, public holidays like the 4th of July) can save you money., Each company has unique policies that vary for various circumstances. Questions to ask when reviewing the terms: What happens if I get into an accident? What happens if the vehicle breaks down? What happens if return the vehicle earlier or later? What happens if my vehicle gets broken into?