 It also protects your skin from cellular damage to a degree.One reason it protects your skin is by being a powerful antioxidant, which helps slow down the damage of free radicals. Free radicals are responsible for aging, as well as one of the leading causes of cancer.

To incorporate vitamin E into your diet, eat foods like nuts and seeds, nut and seed oils, broccoli, spinach, and kiwi.;
, As a correlation, it also helps your skin blemishes heal faster. In addition, it helps with clear, radiant skin.Like vitamin E, it's a powerful antioxidant.
Citrus fruit, kiwi, mangoes, cantaloupe, leafy greens, broccoli, and peppers are just a few foods high in vitamin C., You've probably heard the myth that fat is bad for you. It's true that certain kinds of fat aren't very good for you. However, certain fats, like omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids are not only good for you, they are essential to your overall health and your skin health.These fatty acids may help protect against aging.
It's particularly important to get omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids from your diet, as your body can't make them from other components like it can with other essential nutrients.
Eat foods like nut oils, fish, leafy greens, and flaxseed to incorporate more omega-3 fatty acids into your diet.Omega-6 fatty acids are primarily found in oils, such as sunflower, corn, soy, sesame, and safflower., Without enough of this vitamin, you can develop skin problems. In fact, many skin creams use this vitamin in topical form, but eating it can have benefits, too.Vitamin A is primarily found in liver, dairy foods, and eggs. Also, your body can produce vitamin A from beta carotene, found in leafy greens, carrots, peaches, and pretty much any yellow-orange fruit or vegetable.
 Getting a wide variety of fruit and vegetables is essential for good health, including skin health. You should be getting at least one to two servings of fruit and three to five servings of vegetables every day.Fruits and vegetables are high in many vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that support skin health.
A 1/2 cup of fruit, 1 cup of vegetables, or 2 cups of (raw) leafy greens equals a serving.
 Although whole grains don't have as many antioxidants or vitamins as fruits and vegetables, they are an important source of fiber. In addition, eating whole grains instead of refined grains may reduce inflammation on your skin.100% whole grains are higher in fiber than refined grains due to the minimal processing they go through. However, while refined grains don't have as much fiber, they are often fortified with vitamins that whole grains are not.
Fiber helps slow the release of glucose or sugar into your blood stream, which helps stabilize your blood sugar levels. Stabilized blood sugar levels may prevent excess oil production and the formation of acne.
Measure out a 1/2 cup or about 1 ounce of whole grains for a serving. Whole grains include foods such as brown rice, quinoa, whole grain bread, whole wheat pasta, bulgur, or millet., Protein is also essential to skin health, as it helps maintain the structure of your skin.For the healthiest diet, pick lean sources of protein, particularly ones rich in omega-3 fatty acids.

A serving of protein is usually three to four ounces or the size of a deck of cards. Lean protein sources include poultry, fish, low-fat dairy, and eggs.You should also include protein from legumes like beans, nuts, and seeds as these foods have a variety of nutrients that help protect and nourish your skin.
 Sugary foods like soda, fruit juices, and desserts, as well as processed foods like frozen dinners and fast food, may contribute to acne and blemishes. Consider avoiding these foods for healthier skin., Just like any other type of doctor, it's be a good idea to check in with a dermatologist. They can evaluate the condition of your skin and give you advice on how to improve it.


You should especially see a dermatologist if you have skin dryness, acne, age sports or you want to improve your skin in any other way.
Discuss the general health of your skin and talk about the ways you're looking to improve it.
Talk about your diet with the dermatologist. Certain foods you're eating could be leading to some of your skin issues.
 Ask any dermatologist or another health professional about skin health, and they'll most likely start by suggesting you wear sunscreen. Sunscreen protects your skin from the sun's harmful rays, which can cause your skin to age faster.Repeated exposure to the sun's rays can increase your risk for wrinkles, age spots, and skin cancer.
Apply a sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30. Reapply at least every 2 hours.
Stay out of the sun during the hottest part of the day, between 10 am and 2 pm, when the sun's rays are the most harmful.
 Smoking is another common cause of skin problems and premature aging. If you currently smoke, consider quitting to help protect and nourish your skin.Smoking narrows the tiny blood vessels in your face, which reduces the overall blood flow to your skin. This process contributes to the formation of wrinkles on your face, especially around your mouth.
Smoking also destroys the collagen in your skin. Collagen supports the elasticity and suppleness of your skin.
Try going cold turkey or talk to your doctor about medications that may help. You could also join a program to help you quit smoking.
 You can't control every stressful event in your life. However, managing your overall stress level may also help improve your skin. Studies have shown that increased stressed may trigger acne breakouts and other skin issues.If you have stress going on in your life, try to find time to relax and de-stress as much as possible.
To de-stress, try talking to a friend, taking a hot bath, reading a good book, listening to your favorite music, going for a walk, meditating, or going to bed early.
If you're having difficulty managing your overall stress levels, especially if your stress is significantly affecting your skin, consider talking to your doctor or a psychologist about managing your stress more effectively.

