 Take ownership of your problems instead of blaming someone else for every bad thing that happens to you. When you learn to take responsibility for the circumstances in your life, you have a greater chance of taking action to resolve negative situations.Plus, if you give yourself credit for the good things that do happen, you start to believe that opportunities are possible. Eventually, you start to seek them out.


Start taking personal responsibility for your life. Empower yourself by believing that, whether negative or positive, you are responsible for your choices and behavior. And, with this acceptance, you can start taking the necessary steps to shape your life to fit your dreams.
 A person who is engulfed in the victim mentality may hold on to wrongdoing or betrayals much longer than others. Unfortunately, staying stuck in anger, resentment, or pain only brings a cloud of doom over your own life. As the old saying from Buddha goes, “Holding on to anger is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die.”Forgiveness is a requirement in order to overcome your victim mentality and start making positive changes in your life.


Keep in mind that forgiveness does not mean that you are condoning or even forgetting past wrongs that were done to you. Instead view it as a new lease on life. When you forgive, you release yourself from the pain and choose to move forward.
When forgiving, try the following strategies.Think about the upsetting event or betrayal. Try to gain acceptance that it happened to you, and possibly changed you. Consider all the ways you have grown since the event. What did the situation teach you about yourself?
Next, think about the person(s) involved. Remember that he or she is human and, therefore, flawed. Try to look at things from the other person’s perspective. What need was he or she trying fulfill when they hurt you?
Now, let it go. Take a deep, cleansing breath, releasing the pain and hurt and breathing in hope and forgiveness. You can also perform a ritual to help you forgive. Maybe you can write your thoughts down in a letter and rip it to shreds or light it on fire. You don’t have to involve the other person at all if you don’t want. This practice is for you.
 Having a grateful spirit is the antidote to a victim mentality. With this kind of thinking, a person is generally focused on what’s wrong. Gratitude forces you to focus on what’s right.


Spend a few minutes each day writing in a gratitude journal. You can write about some people, places or things that you are thankful for. Or, you can brainstorm situations that could have been worse than what they were. Just spend some time looking on the bright side of your life. Over time, you will start to feel more positive., One downside to being stuck in the victim role is that a person is less likely to take chances that can lead to future success. A part of feeling regret about the past comes from being too safe in your choices and decisions. While you cannot change the circumstances of the past, you can make strides to be more brave and courageous in the future.


Get out of the victim rut by overcoming your tendency to play it safe. Think to yourself: “What would I do if I weren’t afraid?” “Will I regret not taking a chance in this area of my life?” “Is my fear causing me to over-estimate the risk and under-estimate my own abilities?Depending on how you answer these questions, sit down and put a plan together of SMART goals and steps you can take to make wise and informed risks.
 Taking both criticism and rejection personally has kept you in a victim mentality for far too long. In order to move beyond this impaired frame of thinking, you must boldly throw yourself in the path of negative feedback. Avoiding criticism and rejection is quite similar to avoiding risk; you play it safe and fail to challenge yourself because you fear the consequences.


It’s important to keep in mind that neither criticism nor rejection are about you. Another person’s perceptions of you is about them. You have the freedom to consider any feedback you get and whether or not it can serve your future. If it does, find a way to apply it. If it doesn’t, shake it off and keep going.
 Self-efficacy is the sense that you can influence your situation and that you have the ability to accomplish the goals you set. If you do not feel like you can do these things, then it might be beneficial for you to work on your self-efficacy. Some things that might help you include:Focusing on small goals and achievements. Setting big goals and only acknowledging major achievements may reduce your sense of self-efficacy. Instead, focus on setting small manageable goals and celebrate even small success. For example, you might set a goal to exercise for 30 minutes on four days of the week. After each workout, give yourself a pat on the back to celebrate the success.

Thinking back to times when you were successful. Reflecting on times when you succeeded at something can also help to increase your self-efficacy. For example, you might reflect on a time when you scored the winning point for your team, or when you got a high score on an exam.

Looking up to someone who is self-efficacious. Finding a positive role model can also be a good way to build self-efficacy. Try to find someone who has accomplished the things that they wanted to, such as earning a degree, being successful in a career, or losing weight. Allow yourself to admire that person and even model your own behaviors on theirs.

