 Overfeeding or underfeeding at an event is a surefire way to make your horse uncomfortable, and therefore less show-ready. Follow their regular diet plan, adjusting feeding around events if necessary. Your horse will be happier and easier to work with after having eaten.
 Don’t bathe your horse, but brush them down really well to make their coat gleam. Spend the most time using the curry comb, and make sure to address all parts of their body. Spend extra time on white areas and apply more baby powder, corn starch, or French chalk if necessary.
 English and western riders often sand the horses hooves to make them smooth, then apply hoof polish. Black hoof polish can be applied on naturally black hooves, while clear polish should be applied to hooves any color other than black. This should all be done on a clean hard surface.


Put down rubber or heavy foam mats on the ground in your grooming area, to allow the hoof black to dry. Once the hoof black is completely dry, dirt may be wiped off with a dry towel.
If you don’t want to polish your horses hooves, rub in some lanolin oil to add extra shine.
Appaloosas are not permitted to use hoof polish of ANY color, other than clear, and even that is frowned upon. Check with your breed registry for specifications and regulations.
 Shows and events are intended to be enjoyable; if you’re nervous you will not only enjoy the event less, but your horse will mirror your emotions and you likely won’t show as well. Make sure you've gotten enough sleep the night before, and enough to eat and drink before the competition. Do some deep breathing exercises and visualization to relax; listen to music or repeat a mantra if that helps you. Be sure to help your horse relax as well, going for a walk or lunge with them if necessary.Don't worry about the other competitors. Act as if you were riding alone in your home arena. It will calm your nerves, and encourage you to pay attention to your own riding. Of course, be alert, and avoid running into the other riders in the ring.

