 There is a CSEA office in each county, where you can get assistance establishing paternity. You should work with the CSEA office in the mother's county of residence.You can find the CSEA office in your county by checking the office directory on the CSEA website or by calling 1-800-686-1556.
If you're already receiving public benefits in Ohio, your information may already be in the system.
When you enter the office, tell the receptionist that you wish to begin child support services, and they will direct you what to do next.
 If the alleged father is unwilling to sign an acknowledgement until there is proof that he is the father of the child, the CSEA will conduct genetic testing to determine whether the man tested is the genetic father.The CSEA uses genetic testing to determine the child's parentage. The child must be tested, along with any man you have reason to believe is the child's father.
There is no charge for genetic testing initially. After paternity is established, the CSEA may bill the father for the cost of the testing.
If a potential father lives out of state, let the CSEA know and they will take care of the necessary notifications and paperwork to have genetic testing completed.
 Typically the CSEA collects the necessary genetic material – either by taking a blood sample or swabbing the cheek – at the CSEA office and submit them to an accredited lab for testing.Testing can be performed even on newborns using the cheek-swab method.
If the potential father lives out of state, the CSEA will collect a sample from the child, and coordinate with labs in the father's state to get his testing completed.
 Once testing is complete, the CSEA will provide you with a copy of the results an issue an order of either establishment or non-establishment of paternity, depending on the outcome of the tests.If the man tested is not the father of the child, you may need to work with the CSEA to have someone else tested.
After testing, a man who is shown to be the child's genetic father typically will have the opportunity to sign a voluntary acknowledgement of paternity and begin the child support process through CSEA.
If the father is unwilling to cooperate with the administrative process, the CSEA may file a lawsuit to obtain court-ordered child support and a legal custody determination.
 If genetic testing proves that the man tested is the genetic father of the child, and you need to change the child's birth certificate as a result, the CSEA will provide you with the paperwork to accomplish that.If you want to change the child's name, let the caseworker at CSEA know. They will complete an Administrative Order to Modify the Birth Record form and submit it to the Central Paternity Registry.
Once the man is included on the child's birth certificate and any name change is made, you can request a new copy of the child's modified birth certificate.
The caseworker will explain to you how to do this and when the new birth certificate will be ready.

