 Bring these ingredients to a boil in a large pan over medium heat. Once they reach a boil, bring down the heat to low. Keeping the temperature up too high will result in the barley burning and the water evaporating too quickly.


If you don't have 4 people to serve, this recipe is easily cut in half. However, don't necessarily modify the toppings too much – if you like it sweet, you may need just as much sugar!

, Barley is a tough nut to crack (figuratively, of course. Literally barley is a grain with just a nutty flavor). Because of it's tougher consistency, it takes longer than oats or rice to make tender. Stir every 10 minutes or so, checking on how it's doing. Every pot will differ slightly in the time needed to cook.


Keep the lid on as much as possible. When 10 minutes is up, take it off and give it a few stirs with a wooden spoon. When the water is mostly gone, the barley is done.
 Even if you're looking for a runnier porridge, drain the cooked barley. The water that's left probably won't taste as good and rich as a cup of milk will.


This is easiest to do with a plastic or metal colander. If you're in a bind, hold the lid up the edge of the pan and tip it over into the sink to dispel the water.
 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon of brown sugar, ½ teaspoon cinnamon will turn your plain barley into a regular breakfast feast. Modify the sweetness as you see fit, of course.


The milk is necessary (the fatter the milk, the creamier the taste), but you can experiment with the brown sugar and cinnamon and explore other things like honey, fruit juice, or yogurt, too.
 This is generally how long it takes until the milk has almost been entirely absorbed. What's more, the barley will take on some of the sweet, cinnamon-y flavor.


When it has a thick, glutinous, porridge-like consistency, it's done! You can add more milk if you'd like it a little thinner.
 Right now you just have basic barley porridge. To spice things up, top each dish with walnuts, a drizzle of heavy cream, and fruit, if desired. There’s no getting tired of that!


If you're the curious type, try yogurt, peanut butter, cocoa, honey, or any other addition that you think would make the porridge a breakfast of champions.

