 If this is a temporary problem (anger or feelings), please consider other options. Running away is extremely dangerous and should only be used as a very last resort. If you are being physically or sexually abused, please call the authorities or a trusted adult. These people can find a good foster home for you to live and charges will be pressed against whoever is abusing you. Sit down and think about it. - Are you sure you want to run away? Weigh up the pros and cons of doing so. Never run away if you didn't get your way with your parent(s). And if you do leave, be careful not to get caught. You'll most likely be retained in jail if you're young. In most states it is considered a crime, and think about it before you stay at a friend's or boyfriend's house. They could be arrested for harboring a runaway.;
, Options include a homeless shelter, a friend's house or a cheap apartment - somewhere you feel safe. Remember, if you're on your own you will need to find a real job, but if you are very young, it is not legal to hire you; you may have to lie about your age. You would need a social security card (but you can be traced by its use through income tax and such), and you may have difficulty to be hired without your parent's permission because of your age. Young, broke, without ID, and alone is not going to work.


Going the legal route may get you into a good foster home, but maybe it will not work out that well. But, you are much more likely to be safe. You need to be realistic.
 Some people will make inquiries about your background. They will want to know where you're from, why you're there and such. You will need answers. You may wish to give yourself a fake identity. A name and a quick backstory will do in the case of socializing, but be careful not to go over the top. Make it sound convincing and true. In some cases you will need an elaborate and well planned identity, so be prepared. Stick with one identity, instead of making up several. You may wish to fake a foreign accent, but only do it if it is not too conspicuous, and you know where it comes from, so people don't ask as many questions.
 This will give you an idea of what questions you may be asked when applying for a job, and you can prepare a good answer for then, including:


Why do you want to work here? (Why does the work or opportunity appeal to you?)
What are your plans for the future? (Don't over brag. Don't be overqualified, or they may, often, assume "you're too good for the job".)
What do you like about this work, shop or company? (Give a sincere reason for your compliment - or it will, probably, sound false or shallow.)

, Of course, if you have been truly abused and are planning to never come back, then their assuming this can come in handy. It all depends on your situation.
, This are: right after your parents go to sleep, early in the morning as if you went to school, or after school (but only if your parents have a job that keeps them occupied after school). Travelling alone at night can be dangerous, so going in the morning is safer.


10 - 120 seconds: Be sure! Get going as fast as you can, and get on a bike, or get to a bus or subway station. You should not drive because you will likely be too young. Also your folks will eventually discover that their car is missing, and driving can slow things down. It is also unsafe. (Look as calm and composed as possible, and avoid becoming a target. Be dressed like you are going to school or your grandmother's house, not like you are going to a party, and don't wear expensive jewellery.) Get as far away from home as possible, to reduce the temptation to go back. Most importantly, get a grip.
2 - 180 minutes: Fear of the real world is what will nab you now. Walk to a place you know well and enjoy visiting, such as a park, store or library. Sometimes people skip this step, so if you do, try to get as far away from your house as possible. Pace yourself, you've got a long journey ahead of you.
3 - 72 hours: Now you're on your own (unless you're with someone else, which is not recommended), go to somewhere your family won't think to look for you. Try to make it to another town or state. Make sure you don't have friends or relatives who live there. Do not go to relatives unless they are supportive of you leaving. Otherwise they will just call your parents to come get you.
3 - 365 days: Again, try to get to a different state or town. You will need to get a job to pay for an apartment.

A college town is a good choice, there may be several cheap rooms around, and people expect young adults (who may look very young) to be looking for a job and for places to stay, so do some searching. If you want to save time and search online, go to an internet cafe. Look like a conservative student, not like you are going to a party.
 If you're running away with a friend, make sure you're both on the same page about what you want out of this, where you're planning to go next and what your limits are.,,, Your parents or police can most likely track you on that, Example: If you buy something with a credit/debit card, most likely your parents or police will track where you used it, and who knows, you may not be too far from there, and that will most likely mess you up and get you caught.
 Exposure is deadly in cold weather. If it is very cold, you may wish to stay in a homeless shelter instead of outdoors. Shelters are safer and warmer, although you must be prepared to answer questions on arrival.
 Bring a small or "travel" sewing kit that is easy to carry around.
, You can use the change to wash your clothes at a laundromat.
 If it feels gross, wear two pairs and keep it between them. This way if you happen to get mugged they take the change in your bag and think that's all. Bring a small handbag with a few coins in, so muggers can take it instead. They might steal your shoes, also - so don't keep it in obvious places such as shoes, socks, back pockets or anywhere visible. Don't keep money in your bra, in case someone peeks down your shirt and sees it there, or knows that women hide money there. Bring lots of paper money, because coins can rattle and make you more attractive to muggers. You will likely need at least $1000.
 Don't take too much food; take a few days' supply of food that you don't need to cook (canned, dried, frozen etc) It is more important to bring money. If you run out of food, go to a Costco or somewhere with lots of free handouts. Say you're waiting for a friend, and don't linger.
, If someone says, "I saw you with some yesterday," say you've spent it all, even if you haven't.
 You will regret it. Never take unbooked minicabs, use drugs or resort to prostitution.
 Wear simple, inexpensive and non-conspicuous clothes you have never worn before. Don't wear lots of jewellery -- that will make you a target. If you wear glasses, choose a different frame for them. Walk in a different way than you usually do: people can often be recognized by their movements. For example, if you usually dawdle, walk quickly, or vice versa.
 Being young, always stay near somewhere public, like a library, or a big store, in case someone tries to kidnap you. A general rule of thumb: if someone tells you they'll give you a room for the night, say no. Don't sleep in a forest or a park, you could get yourself killed or get mugged. Sleep in a dark doorway, near somewhere that stays open all night and is lit up. You don't want to get raped/mugged/killed while you're sleeping peacefully.


College campuses are generally safe places, often with buildings that open for 24 hours and will provide a shelter, but look the part with a spiral notebook and a thin college text (realize that they do have campus patrol officers who will see you and be suspicious, if you seem to be camping or sleeping outdoors. That is not allowed, so you need a good place to do it safely). Janitors will turn you in if you are sleeping/making a place in areas where they have to clean. If you ever need help, go to a friend, then run away, so she/he won't call your parents or the police.
 Think of what you would do if your kid ran away.