 If you desire smaller monthly payments on your mortgage, consider lengthening the term of your mortgage. Expect to pay more money (primarily in interest payments) over the course of your mortgage. Know, too, that you'll make payments for a longer period of time. This isn't always the most prudent move, but for many people, it's the difference between holding onto their home and giving it up.


Say your existing mortgage is for $200,000 on a 30-year fixed at 6%. After three years, you get the option to refinance at 32 years and 6%. You'll be paying $134 less per month, but the total cost of the mortgage will rise to $111,791 over the life of the loan.
 People who shorten the terms their loans spend less time paying off their mortgage. The tradeoff is that their monthly payments increase. At the same time, because they're trading in a longer mortgage for a shorter one, they spend less on interest payments in the long run.


Say your existing mortgage is for $200,000 on a 30-year fixed at 6%. After three years, you get the option to refinance at 15 years and 5%. You'll be paying $319 more per month, but you'll ultimately be saving a whopping $109,211 over the life of the loan. If you can manage the extra $319 per month, it's definitely worth refinancing.
 Refinancing your mortgage is a serious financial undertaking. Whether you want to lengthen or shorten the term of your mortgage, it's a good idea to investigate why, taking both your short- and long-term needs into consideration:


For example, if you're lengthening the term in order to pay $100 less monthly, but you'll pay $100,000 more over the life of the loan, you're literally mortgaging your future in order to bankroll the present. See if you can't rummage up the extra $100 a month in order to save you a fortune over the long term.
Similarly, what if you're moving from a 30-year fixed to a 15-year fixed because you want to save money in the long run? If you can't afford the $300 per month, and this uptick puts you into debt, you may want to hold off refinancing until you can actually afford the change.

