 You might just want to erase it when you're done.


Doodle those emotions you've been bottling up for the past few days. Just don't doodle on class books, as your teachers may tell you off for it.





;
,


If you're lucky, it might somehow become a bestseller. Or you could dream about this being a possibility.
 For example, write lyrics about your dull day in school suddenly turning out exciting. Include lots of crazy happenings, such as a dragon entering the front yard and trying to blow down the school.


Write a rap about your boring lesson.






Write an episode of a dramatic medical or police drama and turn it into a joke.
 The teacher may make you throw it out if you do it, so don't get caught!

, There are many things you could draw in class. Here are some suggestions:

Draw your annoying little brother being savaged by a crocodile. Or, maybe draw the end of the world.






Create a really cool cartoon. It can just be a picture or like a comic strip. Draw whatever takes your fancy.






Draw a self portrait.
Draw and design a new ice cream or cupcake.






Draw number people.


Create a really cheesy joke that will keep you entertained.






Think of funny things.
 (Dandelion juice anyone?), Imagine yourself starring in a TV show or movie, meeting your favorite celebrity, heroically saving someone, or whatever tickles your fancy. Be a Walter Mitty (look it up if you don't know who that is yet).
 Since you have to stare at the teacher, try transforming the teacher into something else:

Imagine your teacher in different costumes. What would they look like as a bunny? A witch? The President of the USA?






Imagine your teacher doing the Gangnam Style dance. It will be sure to crack you up every time!






Imitate your teacher inside your head.
 As you probably know, a regular song lasts at least 3 minutes, so this activity may keep you occupied for a nice amount of time, it will even make you learn the lyrics to your favorite songs !

,, Some teachers don't appreciate it if they notice it though.
 Twirl it, drop it, anything.
,, This could be a bucket list or a shopping list. Whatever you want, just list it.
 You could then add them to this Wikihow tutorial (just check you're not repeating something already here).
,,, Add things to it that you'd never have a real hope of getting.
 Make it for a vampire, yeti or ogre going to the store.,,, You could even plan your funeral. Write a will.,,,,, Can't talk to your best friend? Pass a note! Just make sure it doesn't include any personal stuff.
 When they look at you, act all innocent and like you didn't do anything.
 Match people together whom you think would make great or terrible couples.
, Sure, it's not fun, but it will pass the time and you won't end up failing the class.
 If you are caught, though, it might be taken away.
 If you like reading, read the class textbook or something related to it.
 Might as well make your time there productive.

