 It's very possible that you have an old bandana lying around the house, but if not, visit your local craft or fabric store and purchase a bandana. You can get them in almost every color, and they should be all the same size.;
, Lay out the material on a table or on the floor and make a square with the material that is 22 inches by 22 inches.Most bandanas come shaped as a square and usually have measurements close to 22 inches by 22 inches. However, if your bandana is larger than this, simply fold down each side until it measures 22 inches.
You can use a sewing machine or needle and thread to sew each side of the bandana if it is too large. This will keep the sides in place and make it easier to construct a blindfold. You can also glue down the sides with tacky glue, hot glue, or simply fold them over and readjust them anytime they start to become unfolded.
 After you have achieved your right size square, fold the bandana over so the corner of one side reaches the corner of the other side. This should make a triangle shape.









If you have folded your bandana and it resembles a rectangle unfold it and refold it to look like a triangle. You are basically taking the 90 degree angle, or tip, of one side and folding it directly over so it meets the 90 degree angle, or tip, of the other side.
 With the tip of the triangle pointed down, fold the corner two to three inches up, so that the tip now points towards the top of the triangle.
 Just like the previous step, you will fold the bandana again two to three inches towards the top of the triangle. When you have done this action, it will now look somewhat like a long, narrow rectangle. Continue to fold the bandana like this, making folds that are about two to three inches, until you have reached the top of the bandana. The bandana should then look a very long, flat, upside down trapezoid.
 Once you have folded the bandana, pick it up by both ends, wrap it around your head over your eyes, and tie it in the back with a double knot. Then, check to make sure you can't see anything through the bandana, below it, or above it.









If you find that you are able to see through the bandana, you might need a darker bandana or one that is thicker so it won't be so transparent.
If the bandana is covering your eyes but you are able to see the ground, then you might have made the bandana too narrow. Unfold it back to the triangle and begin folding it again up towards the top of the triangle, but make bigger folds -- closer to three inches.

