 As the adult, you should warn or stop a child that is doing something inappropriate or unsafe. Children naturally look to adults to set boundaries and feel as though adults care about them when they do set boundaries.


Set boundaries in terms of their behavior and actions, as well as for yourself.
Remember that part of being a child is testing those boundaries.
 Children of all ages like being treated respectfully. Avoid talking to the child in a patronizing manner, ignoring them, etc.Talk to them with respect and show them respect through your actions to foster a good bond with them.


Knock on the door of older children before entering their room. You don’t have to wait too long to enter, but do give them respect of knocking before you open the door.
Discipline them with compassion and with consideration for their dignity.
Ask for their input on things so that they will know you respect their opinion.
 This is one of the best ways to develop a bond with children. Encouraging them shows them that you are interested in them and care about them, and it also builds their self-esteem.Don’t just tell them encouraging words, but encourage them with your actions as well.


Be specific when giving them praise. For example, “You did a really good job with the expressions on the faces in this picture”.
Attend their events, programs, etc. to let them know that you support them.
Make sure you encourage them when things are difficult for them, as well. Remind them that they can do it.
 A true, lasting bond will take some time to build, don’t expect it to happen overnight. In fact, rushing or forcing the bond will more than likely make the child nervous and uncomfortable with you. Give the bond time to form naturally., While you do have to set boundaries, be willing to change plans, try a new way, or make a special exception when appropriate. Flexibility is actually a necessity when interacting with children. For example, you may have planned a day for the two of at the museum, but the child may have too much energy for that and a day at the park might be a better idea.

