 It will stick with you. As a nammer, you'll be regarded as a downtown person and seen as people who party too much, get wasted, and provocative. Remember, not all nammers are like this, but you have to realize the negative connotation of being a gangster.;
, Facebook is the most popular social networking site in Vancouver, so it's bet that you use it. You can keep up to date with all your friends and connections. Be sure to have a lot of photo albums with your friends and club nights.
 (for girls).


Nammer girls have a wide variety of shoes. Always have a pair of Ed Hardy converse, and wear lots of flats, and high heels for special occasions. Uggs are also popular.
Wear skinny jeans that fit your size and figure. Sweatpants with your school logo are usually worn during lazy days. Most popular brand for pants are True Religion, Ed Hardy, Rock and Republic, Guess, and Armani Exchange.
An Adidas track sweater is a nammer staple. Make sure you have one in your wardrobe. Northface is also a must for jackets.
For regular shirts, shop at Bebe, TNA, and Aritzia.
Be sure to have large sunglasses for when you go out in the sun.
Be sure to dye your hair. Some nammers decide to keep their hair black, but many decide to dye it a lighter brown or blond. Platinum blond highlights all of your head are a nammer staple. Be sure to keep your hair long, but very layered and tease it.
Wear a lot of makeup. You always have to look perfect, so always have foundation on everyday and nude lips. The main part of your routine is your eye makeup, so put on lots of thick eyeliner with a wing and smoke it out with eyeshadow. False eyelashes are usually a must. Some like to shave off their eyebrows to draw in thin lines for eyebrows.
Be sure to wear sneakers, always. Or during the summer Nike or Puma sandals. Popular brands are Lacoste, Puma, Adidas, and Nike, especially.
Wear kappa, Boss and Adidas track pants, or jeans from True Religion, Rock and Republic, Levi's, and Guess.
Crooks and Castles,G-Star, Dussault, Dom Rebel, Hugo Boss, PUMA, Armani Exchange, Hollister, J. Lindeberg sweater,and northface jacket.
Always have a mini bag or purse like Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Diesel,and G-Star.
Have a lot of black or white beaters/tank tops.
Dye parts of your hair blond, especially your bangs. Always spike them up, but some nammers decide to shave their hair, or shave their sides to get the "faux-hawk" look.
, As a nammer you should have a lot of confidence and a circle of friends to back you up. Always take care of your turf and don't let any outsiders in, and if they try to start shit, get your nammer boy friends to smash them up. Be sure to walk like one too. Walking around with that "don't mess with me I have back up" aura is effective.
, Nammers go out a lot and are often seen doing the 'nammer squat.' You can find them cruising around, visiting friends, partying, and usually, clubbing. Many of them get fake IDs to go into 19+ clubs, but nammers always go to all age or high-school only ones as well.
 Nammers do this all the time.
