 If you are taking your dog outdoors a lot, you should give them a medication to help with fleas, ticks, and heartworms. They can take medications for fleas, ticks, and heartworms, or you can give them topical treatments for fleas and ticks.If you are going into areas with Lyme disease, the dog can get vaccinations for it. They also need to be up to date on their rabies shots.
 During hot months, you may want to give your dog a shallow pool to lay in. The pool should not be deep enough for a dog to drown. Think about using only a few inches of water, like a kiddie pool.Make sure to give the dog fresh water in the pool every day. Check it to make sure it doesn’t get too hot.
 Try not to leave your dogs outdoors for too long unsupervised. This is especially important for smaller dogs. Being outside leaves your dog vulnerable to dangers, such as animal predators and cruel people.


If you are going to be gone for more than a few hours, and especially overnight, you should consider getting a dog sitter or boarding your dog.
 During warm months, you should not take your dog outside to engage in any strenuous activity, like walking, running, or heavy play, during the hottest part of the day. This is generally in the late afternoon.Keep your dog off of hot pavement and concrete. This can burn their paws.
Instead, take your dog out for their daily walks in the morning or evening, when it’s cooler.
 When you take your dog outdoors in public places, you should keep them on a leash. This helps protect your dog from running off. No matter if you are at a public park, walking around your neighborhood, or hiking, there are dangers for your dog if they run away.When you are taking your dog for walks or hikes, make sure they are physically able to do the duration of the walks or hikes. If the dog is older, overweight, or has health problems, they may not be able to do the walk or hike.
If you are letting your dog run around your back yard, you do not have to keep them on a leash.
 You should never take your dog somewhere with you where you will have to leave them in the car. Even in cold weather, the car can heat up to dangerous levels and lead to heat stroke.Only take your dog places with you if you are able to take them with you everywhere you stop.

