 Classes are a great way to learn the grammar and nuances of a language. Find a class with a qualified instructor who can teach you both the spoken aspects of the language and Finnish grammar.


The Finnish Consulate in Washington, D.C. offers a list of Finnish courses available in the US on its website.Some universities in the UK, such as University College London or University of Westminster, offer Finnish courses.If you are in Finland already, you can take a Finnish as a second language course at the University of Helsinki, University of Turku, University of Eastern Finland, and other major universities.If you do not have a course in your area, you can take an online course. These may be either a self-directed course or guided courses with instructors. The City of Helsinki offers a list of these courses through its Infopankki website., An effective method of learning a language is to listen, understand and repeat. You can look online or in your local area for a Finnish tutor. Your tutor should be a native or fluent speaker of Finnish. Contact local universities, language schools, and exchange programs to see if they can recommend you a tutor.


If you do not have any Finnish speakers in your area, you can find an online tutor. They will instruct you over a video chat program, such as Skype or Google Hangouts., If you want to practice speaking but you do not know any Finnish speakers, you can find a penpal who will speak to you over skype. This language partner may not be a formal tutor or instructor, but they can help you practice speaking. You will also get valuable experience hearing the language spoken naturally. You can find speaking partners on a penpal or language exchange website.
 If you live in an area with Finnish heritage or many Finnish immigrants, you might find a local Finnish cultural group or community center that will host events. These events are good places to meet other Finnish learners as well as fluent speakers.


Places in the Finnish diaspora are more likely to hold these types of events. This includes places such as Sweden, Estonia, Norway, Canada, the US, and Russia.
In the US, Finnish cultural groups can be found primarily in Michigan, Minnesota, California, Washington, and Wisconsin., Immersion is one of the most effective ways to learn a language.The best way to immerse yourself in Finnish is to visit Finland. Whether you go for a week or for a month, use Finnish as much as possible during your time there. If people try to speak to you in English, let them know that you are learning their language and want as much practice as possible.

