 Remember that you should only treat a yeast infection yourself if you are fully confident in your diagnosis. But do keep in mind that many women who've had yeast infections before still make mistakes in diagnosing themselves. If you have even the slightest bit of doubt, see your doctor.
 Your doctor might prescribe you a single-dose tablet of the antifungal medication fluconazole (Diflucan), which is taken by mouth.Relief can be expected within the first 12-24 hours.


This is the fastest and most effective cure for a yeast infection. If you are experiencing severe symptoms, see your doctor immediately to determine if this is the right treatment option for you.
 This is the most common form of treatment. Topical treatments are available both over-the-counter and with a prescription. These include anti-fungal creams, ointments, and suppositories that are applied and/or inserted into the vaginal area. Over-the-counter creams and ointments can be found at most pharmacies, drug stores, and supermarkets. If you have trouble locating a treatment, ask a pharmacist who can help direct you.The medication in these treatments comes from a class of drugs called the azoles, including clotrimazole (Mycelex), butoconazole (Gynezol or Femstat), miconazole nitrate (Monistat), and tioconazole (Vagistat-1). These treatments can be purchased with different time frames for use (e.g., a one-time application, a one-to-three day application, etc). You should consult with your doctor or the pharmacist before deciding which option is best for you.Be sure to carefully read all of the instructions that come with your medication. The instructions will provide guidance on how to apply the cream and/or insert the suppository into your vagina. It's important that you follow the instructions. If you are unsure of what to do, consult your physician or the pharmacist for guidance.
 Do not stop using these treatments early once you no longer experience any symptoms. Use them for as long as directed according to the instructions.If you use an over-the-counter treatment and don't experience relief with 2-3 days, make an appointment with your physician to discuss an alternative treatment.
Be careful with condoms if you use anti-fungal creams or suppositories. The oil in some of the medications can weaken the latex in condoms., While mild yeast infections should go away within a few days, more severe infections could take longer to effectively treat. Your doctor may prescribe a medication for you to take that lasts up to two weeks.


If you keep having repeat infections, this is also something you should discuss with your doctor. It may be a sign of a hormonal imbalance or a need to make some dietary changes.
To keep your yeast levels in check, your doctor may prescribe a medication (such as Diflucan or Fluconazole) that you take once or twice a week for up to six months. Other doctors might prescribe clotrimazole as a vaginal suppository to be used once a week instead of an oral pill.