 Sitting too close to the teacher or the front of the class can increase your chances of getting caught. It's better to sit towards the back of the class to minimize your chances of being noticed. It can also help to sit near other people, allowing you to blend in better.


The closer you are to your teacher, the harder it will be to hide your homework.
Think about where your teacher usually walks during class and try to sit away from them.;
, When you come into class and sit down, you will want to get both the current class material out and the homework that you need to finish. Having both of these out will help you work on your homework, while making it look like you are taking notes. Try keeping your homework hidden in a notebook or textbook.
 It can be a good idea to take a few notes for the class you are in, before moving onto your homework. Adding these notes can make it look like you are paying attention and doing the class work, even though you're working on your homework. You might also try occasionally taking a few notes during class to keep this impression strong.


Have your regular class book and material out on top of your desk.
Try to make it look like your focus is the current class material.
 Once you've taken a few notes, you can begin to work on your homework. Get your homework out and place it on your desk in a way that allows you to easily hide it again. Work on your homework for a few minutes before switching back to taking a few more notes for your current class.


Keep an eye out for your teacher. You may need to hide your homework quickly.
Don't get too involved with your homework. Remember, you are trying to look like you are just taking a few notes.
 You may need to hide your homework at any moment. You might try casually shuffling papers, pretending to get a new page of notes started. Maybe you can subtly slip your homework away, putting it under your current classwork. Whatever method you choose, practice and be ready for hiding your homework quickly and casually.
 Although you need to focus on getting your homework done, focusing too intently can be a giveaway. If you are not paying enough attention to your class, your teacher may notice this and investigate. Take occasional breaks to avoid drawing too much attention to yourself and getting caught.


Put your homework away and pay attention to the teacher for a few minutes.
Try asking questions and answering questions during class.
Every few minutes, look away from your homework.
Keep taking the occasional note for your current class.

