 Rifles, sometimes called "long guns," are most commonly used for hunting purposes and sport shooting, and make excellent guns for beginners. Rifles are the most accurate style of gun, due to the "rifling" spiral of the barrel, which is long enough to result in very accurate shots. Modern rifles are accurate and effective for very long distances, depending on the style of rifle and the caliber of the ammunition used. Whatever your reasoning for wanting a gun, a rifle is a smart purchase.
 The caliber of a rifle refers to the size of the diameter of the barrel, and the corresponding ammunition used in the gun. While there will be a variety of different ammunition styles within a given caliber, the caliber itself will tell you much about the shooting power of the gun. Most rifles owned by are either .22 or .30 caliber.


.22 is the most common caliber of rifle sold for beginners. It's a relatively small caliber, with low recoil and high accuracy, but still powerful enough to use for hunting small game. If you want to hunt deer or larger game, a larger caliber (.30) is more appropriate for the gun to be humane and effective.
 The style of rifles varies mostly in regard to how the rifle is loaded and how ammunition is advanced into the chamber to be fired. Partly aesthetic and partly practical, the choice is ultimately up to you. There's no "correct" choice.


Bolt-action rifles require you to retract a side-mounted bolt to eject each spent cartridge, and then advance a new cartridge into the chamber by racking it back forward.
Semi-automatic rifles use the force of each shot to expel the spent shell and advance a fresh shell into the chamber without the need of doing anything manually. Each time you pull the trigger, the gun should fire until the magazine is empty.
Hybrid models, repeating rifles, lever action rifles, and many other varieties are also available, if slightly less common than the standard bolt-action and semi-auto. Shop around and try out more obscure guns to suit your purposes.
 A rifle is only as good as your ability to aim it accurately. Depending on why you want the rifle, you might find it appropriate to invest in an additional telescopic rifle scopes which you can mount on top of your rifle and drastically improve the accuracy of the gun.

