 Salt blocks were originally designed for cattle, who have rough tongues that make it easy to get salt by licking a hardened salt block. Horses have softer tongues and may have a hard time getting the salt they need from a salt block, especially if they are older or have bad teeth. Keep this in mind when you are deciding between a loose salt mix that you scatter in your horse’s feed or his stall and a salt block you hang in his stall.Some horses can also overindulge in salt if they have access to a salt block. As a horse owner, you have less control over how much salt your horse consumes when you give him a salt block. However, a salt block requires less maintenance and often horses will regulate their own salt intake when they have access to a salt block., Use mineralized salt if your horse’s feed does not contain any minerals or if you are not giving him a vitamin/mineral supplement. If you do use feed or a concentrate with minerals or a vitamin/mineral supplement, you can use plain, white salt.To make your own salt block, you will need:14 lbs of table salt, iodized salt, or mineralized salt.
3.3 lbs bone meal.
1.3 lbs lime.
3.5 lbs clay.
Water.
A large bowl or tub.
A large wooden spoon or stick.
Old pots and pans.
Avoid adding a sweetener, like molasses, to your salt blocks. Horses can consume too much of the molasses salt block at once due to the sweet taste and this can lead to health issues.
 Add enough water so the texture becomes soft and easier to mix together. Use the large wooden spoon or stick to mix the ingredients until they are well blended.You should continue to add water so it is easy to stir and blend the ingredients but do not add too much water as you do not want the mixture to become watery. The mixture will have the right consistency when you can easily stir and blend the mixture with the wooden spoon or stick.
 Once you feel the mixture has been thoroughly mixed, drain as much water as possible from the mixture by molding the mix, squeezing water out, and draining it. Do this until you cannot get any more water out of the mixture., Most salt blocks for horses come in five pound blocks so try to mold the mixture into blocks that are around four to five pounds.


Place the blocks in old pots or pans so they can harden. Leave the blocks in a cool, shaded area to allow them to dry and harden. This will take about two weeks.
 You can hang the salt block using rope or simply put it on the ground in a spot that is easy to access in your horse’s stall. Check to make sure your horse is ingesting enough of the salt block, especially if you have multiple horses in one area. One horse should consume a five-pound salt block within two months if he is getting enough salt in his diet.Keep in mind hanging the salt block will ensure it stays cleaner for longer, and more appetizing, than if it is lying on the ground in the dirt and the hay.
 It’s important that you give your horse lots of fresh, clean water so his body can process the salt in his diet. Having access to fresh, clean water, as well as a daily salt intake, will ensure your horse flushes out any excess sodium and chloride from his system.
 Over time, your horse’s salt block may get dirty due to exposure to the elements and exposure to dirt and hay in his stall. Keeping the salt block clean will make it more enticing to your horse and encourage him to use the block. Clean the block as needed by hosing it down with water in a metal or plastic tub.

