 Use some of your kids’ favorite toys and objects and hide them around the house. Send the kids to find them, and promise a treat for the one who finds the most, or finds them the fastest!

Try making up a list of clues for the kids to help them find their treasures. You can even have a little extra fun by making the clues into rhymes.
The treasures could be things other than toys. Create paper coupons for things like “One Free Hug” or “One Chocolate Bar.” Let them keep the coupons to cash in whenever they want!

, There are few things more fun than making a blanket fort, no matter how old you are. Rainy days are a great time to move the furniture, use books and blankets to build a fort, and cuddle up inside with your family.


The kitchen table is a great piece of furniture to build a fort around. Drape a blanket or sheet over the table and chairs to widen the fort, then put pillows and blankets inside to lie down on.Make sure not to rig anything in such a way that it might easily fall over onto someone. Avoid stacking furniture. Use lightweight objects and avoid tugging on the fort walls to keep them from falling.
 Get out a box of crayons, markers, or colored pencils and have the kids draw some pictures. Use dry pasta and glue to create fun noodle sculptures and pictures. Find some old magazines and help them cut out pictures they like to make collages.


You can even use dry pasta, glue, and string to make little “ornaments” to hang around the house. Have your kids glue pasta into fun shapes, loop a string through and tie it, and hang the creation!, Use a box of packaged cookie mix, or find a recipe to make cookies. Simple sugar cookies work best for decorating. Make a batch and let them cool before allowing the kids to decorate them.


Use whatever decorations you have on hand for decorating the cookies. Use food dye to color the icing, and use everything from gummies to sprinkles for decorating the cookies.If you make your own cookie dough, use a rolling pin to roll it out and let your kids use cookie cutters (or even their own fingers!) to make shapes in the dough. Just make sure to supervise any cutting.
 If you have kids, you likely have at least a few board games lying around the house. Pick the kids’ favorite games and take turns playing each one. Make simple, classic games like Jenga more fun by adding in your own rules, like whoever knocks the stack over has to do a silly dance.


Well-known and safe sources like Nick, PBS, and Disney all offer online games for kids, as well. You can play these games with your young children to make sure they’re using the internet safely.

