 If you have plenty of time on your hands in the morning, you can save yourself a significant amount of effort throughout the day by making the entire day's juice in one go. You can then keep it in the fridge until you're ready to drink it. Alternatively, you can just prepare the fruit and veg you intend to use in each juice and store it in ziploc bags in the fridge until you're ready to juice!Experiment with different fruit and veg combinations to get tasty and unusual combinations. Really put some thought into what flavors will work well together - that way drinking your juice will be a pleasure rather than a chore.
When doing a juice fast, you should try to keep the ratio of fruit juice to vegetable juice at 20:80. Fruit juices can contain a lot of sugars which are harder for your body to process, so perhaps limit the fruit juices to the morning and stick to vegetable juices for lunch and dinner., A juice fast isn't supposed to leave you starving - your body will need the vitamins and nutrients from the juice to keep you going and do the important work of cleansing your body. For this reason, there is no limit on how much juice you should drink throughout the day. Whenever you feel hungry or thirsty, drink a juice. You should be drinking at least four servings of juice a day.


If you are doing the juice fast to lose weight, you should not try to limit your juice intake either. Your body is being deprived of enough calories as it is, and limiting your juice intake will only send your body into survival mode and cause it to retain any extra weight. So stick to a minimum of 4 glasses a day., Staying hydrated is extremely important when on a juice cleanse, as the water will help to flush toxins from your system, along with helping you to rehydrate after eliminations. Drinking water will also help to keep sensations of hunger at bay. You should aim to drink at least 16 oz of water with each juice, either by diluting the juice with 50% water, or by drinking them one after the other. You should also drink additional water between juices.


Drinking herbal tea is another great way to drink more water - just try to stick with green, decaffeinated versions.
 A little light exercise each day of the fast will allow you to take your mind off any hunger symptoms and will help to stimulate digestive movement. A short walk outdoors or some simple yoga movements will do you good, but refrain from anything more strenuous, as it may leave you feeling weak.
 Many people will experience bowel movements naturally, but you can help the process along by performing an enema once a day, preferably in the morning. This will help your body to clear out any built up toxins in the colon. Drinking a glass of warm water with some freshly squeezed lemon juice and a little honey (for sweetness) first thing in the morning has also been proven to stimulate bowel movements.
 Follow the same schedule for the following two days, drinking as much juice and water as you please. You may need to do another grocery run if you are running low on fresh produce. You should also continue to experiment with different recipes to keep your juice intake varied and interesting.
 No matter how enthusiastic you feel at the beginning of your cleanse, you are sure to be faced with temptations and tests of your willpower over the course of the three days. You will become more sensitive to smells and solid food may seem to be calling to you to be eaten. Stay strong and remember why you decided to do the cleanse in the first place - you are ridding your body of toxins that have built up over the course of many years. You will feel much better afterwards - both physically and mentally - and enjoy the satisfaction at having successfully completed your first juice fast.


Some people enjoy the fasting process and claim to experience a surge, rather than a drain, of energy. Hopefully you will be one of these lucky people!
Try to take your mind off the fast by engaging in relaxing and restorative activities such as meditation, reading, stretching and craft projects. Without having to plan your day around mealtimes, you will have a lot more time on your hands.

