 The CFPB has information on federal law regulating financial institutions, and allows you to file a complaint if you have a problem with the way your bank handled your situation.


In addition to helping you resolve your specific complaint, the CFPB also compiles a database of complaint information for public consumption. The complaint information included in the database does not include any of your personal information.Complaint information also is shared with federal and state law enforcement agencies., As you begin your complaint, you must first let the CFPB know the banking or financial service to which your complaint relates.11.


If your complaint relates to your debit card or checking account, you typically would choose "bank account or service." You may wish to choose a different option if a credit card was also involved., The CFPB allows you to attach documents to your complaint, so if you have records of any correspondence with your bank, you may wish to include copies.


Include any information that would help the CFPB understand the problem you're having so they are better able to assist you., Include contact information for yourself and your bank and a detailed description of what happened.


The CFPB will be forwarding your complaint to your bank, so there must be enough information for your bank to identify you and work with the CFPB to resolve your problems., Before you submit, you should review the information you included and make sure it's complete and accurate, then print a copy of your complaint for your records.


You also can submit a complaint to the CFPB by calling 855-411-CFPB.After you submit your complaint, you'll receive a confirmation email from the CFPB with log-in information so you can track your complaint's status., After you submit your complaint, the CFPB will forward it to your bank, which has 15 days to respond both to you and to the CFPB regarding the issue.


Banks are generally expected to resolve a complaint within 60 days.The CFPB will send you an email notification when there's a change in your complaint's status or any new information is added. This way you don't have to keep logging in and checking., When the bank responds to your complaint, the CFPB gives you the opportunity to provide feedback regarding how the bureau handled the issue.


Depending on your problem, your bank may communicate with you directly to resolve the situation, or may communicate through the CFPB.The CFPB may determine that another agency is better able to assist you with your issue. If that's the case, the CFPB will update you on the status of your complaint and forward the information to that agency.