 The stock and barrel of your rubber band rifle should be made of a material soft enough that you can cut a groove into it. Wood is likely the cheapest and most readily available option, though bamboo and similar materials can also make an effective stock.

Your stock should be about two feet (60 cm) in length.
You can find suitable wood for your stock from a sturdy tree branch, a hardware store, or a lumber yard.
Spare handles for tools, frequently sold at hardware stores, are an excellent option to consider.;
, In addition to your stock and barrel, you'll need a release along with something to attach your rubber band release to your gun. All in all, you'll need:

Clothespin (for release)
Pencil
Glue (wood glue, superglue, etc.)
Knife
Rubber band

, A high powered rubber band rifle can be made by attaching your clothespin farther back on the stock. Normal rifles should have the clothespin attached ⅔ of the way from the front toward the back of your stock. To attach your clothespin:


Mark your stock with a pencil or knife at the location you plan on attaching your clothespin.
Use a glue, like wood glue, superglue, or hot glue, to attach your clothespin to your stock.
Allow sufficient time for your glue to fully dry.
Note: the farther back you put your clothespin, the more pressure your rubber band will exert on the pin. If you place your pin too far back, your clothespin might not be strong enough to hold your rubber band in place.
 This will be where you load your rubber band.
 Take a rubber band and put one end of it into the notched part of your stock at the tip of the barrel. Then pull your rubber band back, stretching it all the way to the clothespin. Open your clothespin and:


Hold your rubber band so that it is behind the teeth of your clothespin.
Close your clothespin to trap the rubber band on the inside of the clothespin.
 Using your finger, push and pull lightly on your armed rubber band to make sure the notch you have cut is deep enough. Then, inspect your clothespin to ensure it is sturdy enough to withstand the tension of your rubber band.


If the band slips free easily, you may want to use your cutting tool to cut your notch a little deeper.
If your clothespin does not seem sturdy enough, you may want to apply some more glue or an additional fastener, like duct tape.
 Aim your rifle by looking down stock, using the clothespin and end of the barrel to sight your target. When, looking down the barrel of your rubber band rifle, you see your target right above both your clothespin and the tip of your barrel, down on the clothespin to release the rubber band.


At maximum tension, the rubber band should fire about 15 to 20 yards (13.7 to 18.3 m).

