 The largest pumpkins balloon out from the vine. Vines generally have two to three pumpkins. Once your pumpkins have reached the size of a softball, select the one on a vine that looks the most promising. You will have to cut out the others as they will steal nutrients from the prize pumpkin., Pumpkin vines grow roots at every leaf. Tearing out the roots nearest to the pumpkin will allow the pumpkin a bit of wiggle room. If the vine is held down by the roots near the pumpkin, the pumpkin might accidentally tear itself away from the vine as it grows massive. This would effectively end any more growth.


Train vines away from the pumpkin. While growing, the pumpkin could accidentally crush the vines near it.






Make sure to weed the area completely as your pumpkin vine grows. Once it reaches twenty feet and has covered the garden with leaves, you shouldn't have to weed anymore.
 Only do this when the primary vine has reached 20 feet (6.1 m) in length. Pinching off the ends and side shoots will guarantee that the vine’s nutrients will go to your pumpkin.


To increase the chance of a prize-winning pumpkin, shape the vine into a triangle. Treat the base of the vine as the bottom of the pyramid. You can cut the secondary side shoots shorter and shorter as they grow farther away from the base. For example, the shoots growing closest to the base might be twelve feet long; the next set of shoots might be ten feet long, then eight feet and so on., You can either drape a sheet over it or build a small structure to hold a tarp up over the pumpkin. That said, try not shade too many of the leaves. These need sunlight to grow the pumpkin., Only do this if it is a dry season. Pumpkins do most of their growing at night. Water in the early evening so that the leaves and soil are not wet overnight. Try to avoid getting water on the leaves because wet leaves are more susceptible to disease., If you notice insects or other pests in your garden, research what they are, and take appropriate measures to control them. Growing flowers and herbs near your pumpkin patch can attract predator insects that naturally keep pests down.

Common pumpkin pests include squash bugs, striped and spotted cucumber beetles, aphids, vine borers, wireworms, and six spotted leafhoppers., Your pumpkins will be ready to harvest when they are a solid, deep color (and they are gigantic!) The rind should be hard. The vines will usually be dying back at this time.

