 Some young people can remain on their parents' health insurance plans until the age of 26 (depending upon who is the provider of your parents' insurance), and some young people receive health insurance coverage options at discounted prices through their college or university.


To determine if you have health insurance, ask a parent, check with your school, or check your former insurer's website to see if your past coverage is still valid. The key thing is to find out whether or not you currently have coverage and, if not, to look into getting some to help with the costs of your medical visits and medications.
If you already have a connection with a healthcare provider, such as a family doctor, you can ask him or her about common insurance plans that his or her patients have, as well as which health insurance he or she recommends for you.
It is wise to consult the doctors you will be seeing about health insurance (if you do not have any), to ensure that the coverage you purchase will be most effective for you (and will cover the doctors you choose to see).
Coverage in the United States can be purchased through marketplace from November 1st of the year prior to it taking effect (for example, November 1, 2015, to purchase insurance for the year of 2016) all the way through to January 31 of the year the insurance applies to (in this same example, January 31, 2016, to purchase insurance for the year of 2016). If you miss this three month registration period, you will need to wait until the following year to purchase health insurance.You may also have to pay a penalty fee for not being insured.
For families and people with low income, the Medicaid Program in the United States may be an option.Other countries may offer universal healthcare coverage to everyone.;
, This often happens when young adults go away to college, or move for other major life transitions. It can be hard to find a doctor in a new town, particularly if there is a shortage of doctors in that area who are accepting new patients. Here are some strategies to help you in your search to find a new doctor:


Find a family doctor first. A family doctor is normally your gateway into the healthcare system and, if you need specialist care, your family doctor can provide the necessary referrals to set you up with specialists.
Ask family or friends in the area who have a family doctor if they can ask for a referral. Oftentimes family doctors will take members of the same families that they already treat, even if they are not accepting "new patients" from the general population, so it is worth looking into.
Look online to find a resource that lists available family physicians in your area. Often the local physician licensing board will have such a list available, to help with people's search for a family doctor in their area.
Use walk-in clinics until you are able to get routine care from a family physician. While you spend time and energy looking for a family doctor, it is key not to put your healthcare on hold. Go to a walk-in clinic in the meantime, until you are able to find a doctor who can consistently care for you, as using a walk-in clinic is better than neglecting your routine healthcare checkups altogether.
Check your insurance provider’s website. Most insurance companies have a list of the providers in their network on their websites. You can search using your zip code and other criteria to find a doctor near you.
 Every one to five years is sufficient for young adults. Of course, you should see your doctor more frequently if you need prescription refills, have ongoing medical conditions, are due for screening tests such as a Pap test, or have worrisome symptoms. Some guidelines for different types of screening include:


Blood pressure checks once every three to five years for healthy adults between 18 and 39 years old. Patients who are overweight, African American, or have significant family history should have their blood pressure checked once every year.Lipid / Cholesterol levels once between the ages of 17 to 21, then more often if the levels are abnormal, or once every one to two years if the levels are normal starting at age 35 for men and 45 for women.
Weight and BMI (body mass index) at every visit to monitor for obesity. If you are obese, then you will need to be screened for diabetes with a hemaglobin A1C test at least one time and then again every three to five years.
Pap smear for women aged 21 to 29 years old once every three years. Women aged 30 to 65 years only need to have a Pap and an HPV test once every five years, but once every three years is also okay.HIV test at least one time in your lifetime. However, you may need to get tested more often if you engage in certain behaviors that increase your risk, such as having unprotect sex with multiple partners, sharing needles, having sex for money, or having sex with someone who is HIV positive., Once you have found a physician in your area who is willing to take on your care, the next step is to call to make an appointment. For routine checkups, the appointment will generally be scheduled in the realm of weeks to months following your call (depending upon how busy the physician is). Of course, for more urgent or concerning issues, your doctor will prioritize your visit and see you sooner.


At the time you call to make your appointment, it is wise to ask about the insurance coverage you have and the amount of copay you may need to provide to pay for your portion of the visit.
Knowing this information ahead of time prevents you from inadvertently receiving a bill that you did not expect at the end of the appointment.
 If you are seeing your regular family doctor, he or she may already be familiar with your personal medical history. However, if you are seeing a new doctor, it is helpful to have this information on hand to readily share with him or her.


If you have a fairly extensive or complicated past medical history, then arrange to have your previous medical records sent directly to your new doctor’s office before your appointment. For example, if you have been hospitalized many times, have had complex surgeries, or have a chronic condition that you have been treated for over many years, then you should arrange to have you medical records sent to your new doctor.
It is also key to have with you a list of all the medications that you are currently taking, including dosages and the reason you are on each medication.
Medication management is one of the key jobs of a family doctor, so having this information available upfront can make this task much easier.
Note any medications that you are running low on, so that you can ask your doctor for prescription refills if needed. This is something you do not want to forget to do at your routine checkup.
 Be prepared to discuss things such as your sexual choices, your diet, your exercise, and use of any illegal substances.


It is important to answer these questions honestly, so that your doctor can accurately assess your risk for certain health concerns that may be associated with your lifestyle choices.
Note that doctors are trained to provide a safe and non-judgmental space so that you feel comfortable sharing personal information in an honest and open way.
 If you see the same doctor regularly, he or she will likely already have notes on your family history. However, if any of your family members have had recent health concerns, including diagnoses such as heart disease, diabetes, stroke, or cancer, it is important to bring this up at your routine checkup and to let your doctor know.


You may be more susceptible to diseases that others in your family have had, and this may influence the way that your doctor approaches your routine health checkup. This is why it is key information to share with your doctor.
You may also be eligible for additional testing (such as genetic testing for cancer, if this runs in your family), which is another reason to openly share your family health history with your doctor.
 Also take note of any developments (new things to take note of) in any chronic health conditions you may be suffering from.


Do not be afraid to share concerns with your doctor, even if you think they are "trivial."
It is your doctor's job to address them, and anything that is causing you concern is worth exploring with your doctor. (At the very least, if it does not turn out to be something serious, it can at least bring you peace of mind to talk about it.)
Also use your appointment to ask any questions you may have about your health, your medical diagnoses, and/or your treatment plans.
 Tell your doctor about any new concerns you would like to address right off the bat, so that he or she can account for that.


Your doctor can then let you know whether there is time to cover all of your concerns in one appointment, or whether a second appointment will be needed.
It is best to cover each issue thoroughly, rather than to try to cram them all into one appointment.
 Things to ask your doctor about include receiving your routine Pap test if you are a woman, obtaining STI (sexually transmitted infection) screening if you have had any new sexual partners, getting a blood pressure check, and receiving the yearly influenza vaccine (and/or any other vaccines that you may be eligible for).


Depending upon your specific health history, you may also be due for routine blood tests and/or other tests that relate to specific illnesses.
 However, your doctor will likely do a generalized screening physical exam, including examining your head and neck, listening to your heart and lungs, feeling your abdomen, and checking all of your vital signs, just to be sure that no abnormalities are detected.


If you do have ongoing health concerns, your doctor will likely spend additional time examining the affected area of your body.
He or she may also order further investigative tests of that area, such as possible imaging tests (like an x-ray, a CT scan, or an ultrasound).
 After you have discussed any health concerns with your doctor, received any routine screenings, blood tests, and/or vaccinations, and had a physical exam, your doctor will end the appointment by summarizing his or her thoughts about your health. Your doctor will also go over any changes to your treatment plan and/or your medications moving forwards.


He or she will also discuss any additional investigative tests that may need to be performed.
Your doctor will let you know when to return for your next appointment. Any specialist appointments or referrals (if needed) can be completed at this time.
 Routine checkups are meant for those who do not otherwise have a reason to be concerned about their health; if you have cause for concern, it is important not to wait to book an appointment.


This way, if you do have a medical condition, it can be addressed and treated as early as possible, which usually leads to the best outcome.
Also, if it turns out not a serious medical issue, seeing your doctor can at least provide you with peace of mind.
 If you have severely concerning symptoms, such as severe pain, unrelenting nausea and vomiting, or are otherwise feeling very unwell, do not wait to book an appointment with your family doctor. Rather, proceed to the Emergency Room immediately to receive prompt medical care.
 However, your doctor will specify the time intervals at which he or she would like to see you.


Reasons for more frequent appointments include monitoring for any progression of symptoms, obtaining repeat blood tests or other tests, and getting prescription refills, among other things.

