 To do this, press X on Xbox, Y on Wii U, or square on Playstation.A window should pop up with a line of recipe icons, your inventory in the bottom right, and a crafting grid in the bottom left.


If you are in Creative mode, this will take you to your inventory instead. In Creative mode, you can select any item you want and move it to your inventory without having to craft it.
If you have Classic Crafting enabled, this screen only shows you an inventory and crafting grid. Classic Crafting uses the PC edition's crafting system. You can disable this in your settings if you prefer the simpler console system.
 The console edition separates recipes into several groups, such as Structures, Tools & Weapons, and Food. To move between these groups, press the right and left bumpers (R1 and L1 on PlayStation)., Use the analog stick or d-pad to move left and right between selected recipes in the same group. (You might only see one recipe early in the game, before you have more ingredients.)


A recipe will only show up if you have the ingredients for it. If you don't see anything, chop down a tree for some wood and check again.
Some related recipes are grouped into one column. If you see a vertical line of recipes appear when you select a recipe, press up or down to cycle through them., When a recipe is selected, the grid in the lower left shows you which items the recipe requires. If you want to turn those items into the item you selected, press the crafting button. That's A on Xbox and Wii U, or X on PlayStation.The item will appear in your inventory.


If you don't have enough of an ingredient, that box of the grid has a red background., Under the Structures tab, make planks out of wood, then make a crafting table out of four planks. The crafting table gives you access to many more recipes.
 Move the crafting table to your hotbar. Select it, then put it on a nearby, flat, solid block by pressing LT on Xbox, L2 on PlayStation, or ZL on Wii U., Position yourself so the "+" crosshairs are directly over the crafting table. Open the crafting menu again. You should now see a 3 x 3 grid in the lower left, instead of the basic 2 x 2 grid. Many more recipes are available when using the crafting table, although you may need to collect more items before you can see this.
 Here's the Minecraft 101 approach for crafting items in a new Survival Mode game, after you make the crafting table:


Turn planks into sticks.
In the Tools & Weapons screen, turn planks and sticks into a wooden pickaxe. Select the wooden pickaxe in your hotbar, and use it to break stone apart into cobblestone.
Combine cobblestone and sticks to make a stone pickaxe (for mining stone and ore), axe (for trees), and sword (for fighting).
Once you find iron ore, craft a furnace (under Structures). Use it to smelt the ore into iron ingots. You can use these to make better tools, weapons, armor, and more.

