 Wreaths are a winter- and Christmas-decoration staple, and will look good on almost any front door. Tie a red ribbon or bow around your wreath to create an appealing visual contrast. You can purchase winter wreaths at any craft store, and during the holidays, local hardware stores should stock wreaths as well.The wreath should come with materials to hang it over your door, such as an over-the-door clip.;
, Wreaths are traditionally hung high on the door. Feel free to depart from this tradition, however; if you have a front-door window or peephole that you do not want the wreath to block, feel free to hang the wreath low on the front door. Aim to center the wreath so its middle is at the same height as your doorknob.


You can also tie a strip of Christmas-themed ribbon around the wreath and use that to hang the wreath.
 This technique will lend a more modern, nontraditional look to your door decorations. Multiple wreaths will grab the eye of visitors and passers-by, and create a larger, more arresting door decoration.You can use strips of winter- or Christmas-colored ribbon to attach the wreaths together. Experiment with different lengths of ribbon; you may find the wreaths more visually appealing of they’re more spaced out, or hanging closer together.
 Adding ornaments or other small miscellany to an undecorated wreath will save the wreath from looking plain or underwhelming on your front door. It’s common to put colored or silver Christmas ball ornaments in the wreath to give it a metallic sparkle. For a more rustic look, consider theming your wreath with (unlit) candles, a few sprigs of winter flowers (real or fake), and pinecones.To ensure that the Christmas ball ornaments don’t fall out of your wreath, you may need to attach them to the wreath using a hot glue gun.
 Winter and Christmas wreaths don’t have to be made only from greenery. Craft and hobby stores will sell wreath forms (a large, donut-shaped piece of Styrofoam), which you can use to make a wreath of any material you choose. Pin feathers to the wreath for a more natural look, or attach ball ornaments and silver tinsel for a flashy, metallic wreath.If you’re creating a wreath with materials are not stiff and pointed enough to be stuck directly into the wreath form, you may need to purchase pins to attach materials with.
All of these materials will be available at a craft-supply store such as Hobby Lobby or Michaels.
 Poinsettias are beautiful red flowers and are commonly associated with both winter months and the Christmas holiday. Incorporate the flowers into your winter wreath in order to add a burst of color that doesn’t come from Christmas-specific ornaments or decorations. Poinsettias are available at any plant nursery during the winter; clip off two or three flowers and weave the stems into your front-door wreath.


If you have pets, be aware that poinsettias are mildly poisonous to both dogs and cats. If your animal ingests the leaves of the flower, call your veterinarian immediately, especially if you notice symptoms including vomiting, drooling, and diarrhea.