 Add 4 cups (500 g) of all-purpose flour and 2 teaspoons (11 g) of salt to a large mixing bowl. Whisk the two together until they are well blended. Next, use your hands to create a small well in the center of the flour mixture.Make the well in the flour mixture fairly deep because it has to hold a 5 eggs;
, Add 5 eggs and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of extra virgin olive oil to a separate medium bowl. Whisk the eggs and oil together until they are completely beaten together.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 After you’ve beaten the eggs and oil together, add the mixture to the well that you created in the flour mixture. Use clean hands to mix the ingredients together until a soft dough forms.When you’re finished mixing the ingredients, the dough should hold together without being sticky. It’s ready when it’s no longer sticking to your hands.
If the dough is too dry, mix in up to 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of water to help it stick together. However, add the water one tablespoon (15 ml) at a time to ensure that you don’t add too much.
 Once you’ve mixed the dough together, cover the bowl with a towel or piece of plastic wrap. Let it rest for at least 15 minutes before you move on to rolling it out.If you like, you can prepare the dough the day before and refrigerate it overnight before you roll it out.
 Place ½ ounce (14 g) dried porcini mushrooms in a small bowl, and add just enough boiling water to cover them. Allow the mushrooms to soak for approximately 15 minutes or until they are soft.If you prefer, you can substitute dried chanterelle mushrooms for the porcini.
 When the porcini mushrooms are finished soaking, drain the water from the them. Squeeze the mushrooms to remove any remaining moisture, and discard the liquid.If you’re concerned about there still being some grit on the mushrooms even after soaking, you can rinse them after you drain them. However, be sure to squeeze them after rinsing to get rid any remaining moisture.
 Once the porcini mushrooms are drained and squeezed dry, use a sharp knife to finely chop them. Place them in a bowl, and set aside for the moment., Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil to a medium skillet. Place the pan on the stove, and allow it to heat over medium-high heat for 3 to 5 minutes.You can tell that the oil is hot enough when it begins to shimmer.
 Once the oil is hot, add 4 ounces (110 g) of finely chopped fresh mushrooms to the skillet. Allow the mushrooms to cook for about 5 minutes, or until all of the liquid has evaporated.You can use your favorite type of fresh mushrooms for the filling, but baby portobello and white button are good options.
 When the fresh mushrooms have cooked for about 5 minutes, add the porcini mushrooms, 1 tablespoon (4 g) of minced, fresh Italian parsley, and a minced clove of garlic. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined, and allow the mixture to cook for another minute.If you prefer a strong garlic flavor, you can mix in additional cloves.
You can add or substitute other herbs that you like in the filling. Thyme and basil are good options.
 After you’ve cooked the mushroom mixture for another minute, remove the pan from the heat. Add ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt and ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of ground black pepper, and stir well to ensure that the mixture is evenly seasoned.You can adjust the amount of salt and pepper to taste.
 Transfer the mushroom mixture to a medium bowl, and add 1 egg yolk that’s lightly beaten, ½ cup (123 g) of ricotta cheese, and ¼ cup (25 g) of pecorino-romano cheese. Mix well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully blended.It’s a good idea to taste the filling when you’re finished mixing it to taste the seasonings. Add more salt and pepper if necessary.
 When all of the filling ingredients are mixed, cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Store the filling in the refrigerator until you are ready to assemble the ravioli., When you’re ready to assemble the raviolis, remove the dough from its bowl. Place it on a lightly floured surface, and use a rolling pin to roll it out until it is about 1 to 2 mm thick.You want to roll the dough out as thin as you can without it breaking.
If you have a pasta roller, you can use it to roll out the dough. Start with the roller on the #1 setting and then roll it through on the next 3 to 4 settings until the dough is very thin.
 When the dough is rolled out, place it on a flat surface. Use a knife to cut the dough into even rectangles in the size that you prefer.You can also use a ravioli cutter to cut the dough. However, you’ll need to place the filling on dough first, evenly spacing it out. Next, lay a second piece of dough over the first and press down to mold the two together. Use the cutter to cut out each ravioli around the filling.
 After you’ve cut the dough into rectangles, spoon about a tablespoon (16 g) of the filling onto one side of the rectangle. Fold the other side of the rectangle over the filling and press the ravioli closed with your fingers.The amount of filling you use will depend on the size of the raviolis. You don’t want to add too much so that it seeps out the sides when you close it.
To give hand-formed raviolis a more decorative look, you can crimp the edges with a fork.
 After you’ve filled the first raviolis, repeat the process with all of the dough. Place the filled raviolis on a large platter or cookie sheet until you’re ready to cook them.If you don’t plan to cook the ravioli right away, cover them with plastic wrap and store them in the refrigerator.
You can also transfer the ravioli to plastic zipper bags and freeze them if you don’t plan to cook them right away. They should keep in the freezer for up to a month.
 Fill a large stockpot approximately ⅔’s full with water. Place the pot on the stove over high heat, and allow the pot to come to a boil, which should take 7 to 10 minutes.Add a pinch or two of salt to the water to season it before you bring it to a boil.
 Once the water comes to a boil, place the ravioli in the pot. Stir well to ensure that it doesn’t stick the pot, and allow the pasta to cook for 7 to 8 minutes, or until it is tender but still has some bite to it.If you are cooking the ravioli from frozen, you will likely need to boil them for 10 to 14 minutes.
 When the ravioli are finished cooking, remove them from the pot with a slotted spoon or drain them in them in a colander. Place them in a large serving bowl, add your favorite pasta sauce, and toss gently to ensure that they’re all coated before serving.A basic marinara sauce works well for mushroom ravioli, but you can also use a mushroom cream sauce, a sage butter sauce, or vodka sauce.

