 Make sure that all family members feel like part of the discussion, unless they are too young to participate. Foster an understanding that house rules are important for everyone.Pick a time to set house rules about sleep schedules when all household members are present. Consider talking around family dinner time.
Consider writing down your house rules, including the sleep schedule rules. Sometimes having the information visible and in writing can help to foster solid understanding.
 It's common for siblings to get up at different times in the morning as they often have different sleep habits. It's helpful to teach them what to do when they wake up to not disturb the other sibling. For example, if your older child likes to get up early and play, have them play in a certain area of the house that is away from the sleeping baby. Allow certain types of play that are quieter in the mornings or at night.


You may want to create a special area in your living room/basement or another part of the home where an older child can go after waking up.
If a child wants to stay up late or get up early, consider activities such as reading, watching the TV on mute or low volume, playing a computer game with the noise turned off, or doing an activity in the backyard.
Older children can learn how to respect others more with these guidelines. Help to foster at an early age the importance of compromise in a home.
 If a child likes to get up and play, teach them how to entertain themselves rather than immediately waking you up before you're ready. Consider rules about when and what time it's okay to wake you up.


For example, if you don’t want to be disrupted before 7am on a Saturday, make this clear beforehand. If you have already created house rules for sleep schedules, then make sure to integrate this into the rules.
While there may be exceptions to the rules about when it’s okay to wake you up, avoid caving into their needs. Redirect their energy on Saturday mornings to other activities they can do on their own if possible.
 Maybe you have an erratic sleep schedule of your own, and are awake most of the night. If you're inconsistent in your sleeping, your children may wonder why it's okay for you to be up and not them.


Prioritize sleep for both your kids as well as for yourself. Make sure that you practice what you preach, and have a regular routine for sleep too.
Consider a nighttime routine like your child’s. Take hot bath or shower in the evening before bed. Read a book or do something soothing, rather than checking email or doing work before bed.
 Sleeping is a healthy way to feel refreshed and rejuvenated. Give them the wisdom to love sleep rather than fight it.For example, better sleep can help to improve grades and sharpen attention. If they are planning to have a big day tomorrow, make sure they understand that ample sleep is a top priority.
Sleep can also improve your athletic performance. When you have a good night’s sleep, you’ll have more stamina and less daytime fatigue.
 House rules and sleeping patterns will change over time. Be flexible about how make your household adapt with your kids rather than against them.Remember that what may work for one child may not work for another. Follow your instincts about what's working and what's not.
Be willing to compromise. Your kids may test your rules. Sometimes this will help you to see what you're willing to compromise on, and what you're not.
Focus on being an advocate for both of your children's sleep. Be willing to step in and remake the rules so that there is fairness and equity as much as possible.

