 There’s a reason everyone is golden and glowing in the summer; the sun! The sun has a natural bleaching effect on hair in addition to tanning your skin. Wait for a sunny day, and then leave your hair down for the sun to work its magic on. Just remember to wear sunscreen so you don’t get burnt in the process.;
, Because time in the sun and swimming outdoors often go hand in hand, it’s hard to differentiate the hair bleaching done by each process. However, sun is not the only process at work; the salt and chlorine in the ocean and pools works to lift the color of your hair (the former naturally). Go for a dive into a nearby bay, and your strands will be lighter in no time.
 The recent trend of ‘no-poo’ or washing your hair without shampoo has led people to the discovery that vinegar works to lighten hair. When you hop in the shower, rinse through your hair with apple cider vinegar. Doing this on a regular basis will slowly lighten your hair over time.
 Similar to vinegar, baking soda is a ‘no-poo’ alternative to chemical-filled shampoos that also lightens hair color. When you go to shower, sprinkle your hair with baking soda and give it a good rub-down. The paste that develops should bleach your hair naturally.
 Want honey-hued hair? Use the real stuff to make a mask. Mix honey with a bit of distilled water and stick it to your hair. Allow it to soak for 30 minutes or more. When mixed with the distilled water the honey undergoes a chemical process that helps to lighten your hair super fast. For a double bonus, head out in the sun while your hair is soaking., Get your hands on a bottle of vitamin C tablets, but use it for your hair rather than your consumption. Crush up 5-10 (depending on the length and thickness of your hair) and add the powder to your shampoo. Washing with this concoction will give your hair a dose of bleaching nutrients.
 Although not the most natural of dying techniques, hydrogen peroxide is a way for you to lighten your hair at home without using several products. Rinse your hair with hydrogen peroxide, leaving it to set for about 10-15 minutes before a second rinse with water. Test this method on a small section of hair first to make sure you’re happy with the color it will change to.
 Useful on many beauty quests, black tea is full of tannic acid which can bring out highlights in your hair over time. Brew a few cups of very strong black tea (using several tablespoons/teabags) and pour it through your hair. Let it soak for up to 30 minutes before rinsing out with warm water., Not only does olive oil nourish your hair by moisturizing it, it also brings out your natural highlights. Slather on some olive oil and let it set in your hair for a minimum of 30 minutes. Rinse it out when you’re tired of oily hair, and you should notice a general brightening of your strands.

