 To help find mental peace, practice finding gratitude. This is where you look for and remember the things you are thankful for and the blessings you see in your life.When you take a moment outside of your immediate situation and allow yourself to take a look at all that you have to be grateful for, you can provide yourself with a sense of calm and mental peace and foster a feeling of connection to those around you.


It also helps bring about your spiritual wellness and helps you connect to something larger than yourself.You can do short daily gratitude practices, such as making a mental list five things for which you are grateful. You can also keep the list in written form on your phone, computer, or piece of paper if you want to use it as a visual reminder. What you’re thankful for can be small or simple things in your day, such as a sunny day or a rejuvenating rainstorm.
Research has found a link between gratitude practices and feelings of higher self-esteem, increased expressions of empathy, and a lower tendency towards depression and aggression., A common form of worrying that makes people get lost in the past or causes them to be irritated is called rumination. Ruminating is when your mind gets stuck in a loop of worries, replaying the same thoughts and concerns over and over again in your mind.This pattern can be very stressful and leave you feeling exhausted and take you further away from a peaceful state of mind.


When you find yourself doing this, counteract the the habit by following this script, "I am ruminating, and ruminating won't do me any good and it will just make me upset. Let me see if I can keep myself busy/focus on something positive/do something relaxing." And then follow through by finding getting busy with an activity, finding something to focus on, or relaxing.
 In order to find mental peace, you have to find time to relax. This is necessary to create and maintain balance in your life. Relaxation time is when you relieve stress and take your mind off of worries about schedules, obligations, or concerns. Find out what makes you feel most relaxed — what helps you unwind is personal and may differ from how your friends or family relax.


Relaxation techniques take many forms. For some, exercise such as running or yoga is relaxing. Exercise also helps with overall physical health and increases the endorphins, or feel good hormones, which lift your mood and increase your energy.Some people also like to meditate, go on social outings with friends, read a good book, or take a bubble bath. Playing sports or spending time with friends has been linked to overall feelings of happiness and life satisfaction.Find which activities truly help you unwind, and do these activities at least once a week to help you find mental peace.
 One thing that you may not know affects your inner peace of mind is the influence of others. Think about the people in your life and try to recognize the influence they have over your mental state. Everyone goes through hard times and complains about things, but if there is someone in your life that does this as a normal pattern, he or she may be draining your energy or negatively influencing your mood.If you have people in your life who are like this, you may need to be careful about the amount of time you spend with them. If you can't avoid these people (they may be family members or coworkers), make a conscious effort to be positive. Say to yourself, "I'm going to stay positive and make this a great day despite the people around me."Try to spend more time with people who lift you up and add to your sense of mental peace. If not, you are at risk of falling into this pattern yourself, which can also make it difficult to gain or maintain mental peace.