 Leave the beanie a little loose on top and in the back. Push your bangs beneath the hat, especially if they are a little greasy or flat., If you plan on being out in the cold for an extended period this will help keep you warm and stylish. The beanie will be mostly pulled down and snug as a result, and it should cover your forehead, ears, and neck. This style can work especially well if you let your bangs loose in the front of the beanie.
 For a fun little twist on the everyday, wear the hat over your forehead. The excess material of the hat can either stand up (this style is more fashionable on men than women), or you can give it a slight fold in the back. This style, called the "Peter Pan," causes the beanie to sit a little higher on your head and keeps it off your neck. The hat will only cover part of your ears as a result, though. This style works well with both hidden bangs and revealed bangs.This can create a more dramatic effect by choosing a beanie the contrasts your hair color. For dark hair a light colored beanie, and a dark beanie for lighter hair.
 If you want a look that seems a little more stylish than usual, wear your hat in a looser style further up on your head and leave your bangs out. Sweep them off the the side a bit for a playful twist.


If you have short enough bangs, you can let them hang straight down over your eyebrows. The beanie will flatten your bangs out, though, so this style tends not to work if you have longer bangs that would come down over your eyes. It also works best if you have long hair rather than short or medium hair.
 The easiest thing to do to your hair when wearing your beanie is to simply leave it down. Leaving your hair down prevents any strange bulges from appearing underneath the fabric of your hat, and it also provides you with extra warmth on your neck and ears for the chilly autumn or winter winds.
 You can either braid your hair or leave it straight, but if you do decide to wear your hair back, make sure that the ponytail sits low on your head or to the side to keep it from creating an uncomfortable bulge beneath your hat.
 This will allow the beanie to cover some or all of your hair without it looking misshaped or lumpy. Beyond choosing the right beanie many beanie styles work as well with curly hair as they do with straight hair.It is quite stylish to pull your curly hair back so the beanie pulls down over your forehead. Then let your curls release playfully from the back of the beanie.
You can also pull the beanie behind the scalp line to create an attractive tangle of curls with your bangs.
If you are trying to contain the curls try a head wrap to hold your hair close to your head with a beanie pulled down over the top of the wrap. Neither the wrap nor your hair would be visible.
 Guys fashion tends toward a more subdued style. Sequins, bead work, and decorative stitching can be a bit too difficult for men to comfortably pull off. Knit patterns can work, but the color palate should relate inversely to the complexity of the pattern. The more intricate the pattern is the more subdued the colors should be.Choose neon colors if you are hunting or otherwise participating in winter activities that require you to be very visible. If your hanging around in a coffee shop, or going on a date leave the neon colored beanie at home. Neon colors are generally appropriate for practical rather than fashionable purposes.
 Depending on the hairstyle you wear certain approaches to head wear will be preferable. If your hair tends to be done up in the front let it peak out from the beanie. If you put a lot of time into your hair make sure you have some visible. Remember though the beanie might unsettle your hair if you normally wear it with out product, so it is perfectly acceptable to cover the entire top of your head with the beanie.
 Wearing the beanie with out rolling the edges is a trendy way to wear a beanie. Generally, when wearing a beanie this way you will pull it down to cover part or all of your forehead.
 This is a traditional style for wearing a beanie. Roll the brim once, making a cuff of two to three inches. This is a normal presentation for heavier knit beanies, but will also work with lighter beanies that fit loosely. This style reduces the overall size of the beanie, and typically allows some hair to be viable underneath the hat.
 This style thickens the cuff, and reveals more of your hair. You typically would wear the hat farther back on your head allowing your hair to be prominently displayed.
 Men tend to have an easier time pulling this style off, and it can be quite dramatic. The bulk of the fabric will simply be standing on end off you head. this is a fun and very young look, so if you are aiming at serious or respectable then this look might be a step too far.
 If your hair is especially curly or has a lot of body, a beanie with extra material in the cap will allow you to tuck your hair in without leaving it flat and lifeless.
 So as with any fashion advice the rules can easily be broken. Just be careful to keep your intentions in mind. If you are dressing for a job interview or a date being traditional is generally a virtue. (That, of course, depends on the date.)

, Black, white, grey, brown, or tan works best, and neutral colors are more versatile overall. If you do want a color, opt for a classic color, like red or blue, and choose a gem tone or a bold color without gravitating toward neon shades.
 Avoid styles with pompoms, beadwork, or zippers. A simple knit beanie looks classic and stylish, but styles with decorations or embellishments tend to look a little less sophisticated. If you do opt for embellishments, look for a subtle embellishment like decorative brown buttons.
 Beanies with elastic in them tend to tighten around your forehead. Aside from being uncomfortable and leaving a red line across your skin, a tight-fitting beanie tends to look a little less fashionable., For very casual events, like an outdoor football game, poofs or other adornments can be fun additions to your look. What matters most is that you feel comfortable and happy with your look.

