 Start with memorizing the New Testament, then repeat these steps with the books of the Old Testament. You can follow these steps with any Bible that you want to use. This article describes how to memorize the books of the Protestant Bible, but it can easily apply to any other Bible, as well. Get out a Bible and look at the Table of Contents in the front of the book. You can also go online to see a list of the books of the Bible.
Read them a few times aloud at a normal volume to become familiar with the pronunciation of the different books.
If you have trouble with pronunciation, you can have your pastor or someone who is familiar with the Bible tell you how to pronounce the names in the Bible. You can also go online and look up the pronunciation for the books of the Bible.;
, You can set the books of the Bible to a tune like Jingle Bells or Yankee Doodle. Choose a simple song with a strong pattern that you are very familiar with.


Find a YouTube videos of people singing the books of the Bible to a song you know. , When you are singing the easiest way to memorize is to group the books, and then match the groups with the phrasing of the song. For example, chunk the books as follows, and sing it to Jingle Bells:


Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, and Romans - Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way
First and Second Corinthians, Galatians, and Ephesians - Oh what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh
Phillipians, Colossians, First and Second Thessalonians - Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way
First and Second Timothy, Titus and Philemon- Oh what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh
Hebrews, James, First and Second Peter, First and Second Third John- Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way
Jude and Revelations the books of the New Testament. - Oh what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh

, Practice singing the song, again and again, until it sticks. Sing the books of the Bible so many times that singing them becomes second nature. Practice by writing the books on a piece of paper or on a whiteboard.
Erase the books or fold the paper when you think you have a group memorized.
Keep practicing until you have all of the books completely memorized.
 When someone asks you to go to a book of the Bible, think about which group contains the book. This will only take you a few seconds to do in your mind. Start flipping to the section of the Bible you think it is in while you process the book order in your head.


For example, for Romans you would remember the group order goes Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, Acts and Romans. You know this chunk is at the very beginning of the New Testament. The New Testament starts around two-thirds of the way through the Bible. So you would flip to two-thirds through, and look for any of those grouped books. Once you find one, keep flipping more slowly until you get to Romans.
If you are having difficulty finding a group of books, think about the next group. For example, if you are looking for Colossians and you can't find Philippians, Colossians, First and Second Thessalonians, look for First and Second Timothy, Titus and Philemon. Once you find the later chunk, you can then flip back to find Colossians.

