 The recovery process can take awhile. This does not mean you are weak, sick, or having problems. Surgery for Crohn’s disease is a serious invasive surgery in which parts of your internal organs are removed, moved around, or rearranged together. This means your body will need time to heal.


Don’t try to do too much too soon. This can lead to complications or problems at the surgery area.
Be prepared for the fact that you will need to take it easy for a month or two after the surgery.
 Depending on which kind of surgery for Crohn’s disease you had, you may have certain activities restricted. The severity of the surgery and the number of invasive procedures used also determines what you can do after your surgery.Usually, the first few weeks after the surgery, you will not be allowed to do any type of strenuous activity. This includes heavy lifting and driving. After a few weeks, depending on your surgery and how well you are recovering, your doctor may allow you to start driving, walking, or doing other activities.
Most people cannot return to work for at least a month after the surgery. For some, they won’t be able to return for longer than that.
 When you first leave the hospital after your surgery, you will probably be tired and fatigued easily; however, the surgery should help reduce your Crohn’s symptoms, so you may start to feel better. Each day, with the approval of your doctor, you should start trying to do a little more than the day before.Your strength will slowly return to you as your body heals and you recover.
Go slow with trying to do things each day to make sure you don’t overdo it. Find the balance for yourself by paying attention to the way your body feels.
How long it takes to get back to normal activities depends on the type of surgery you had, your age, and your overall health.
 Recovering after surgery isn’t just about letting your body heal. You also need to take care of your mental state. Being out of work or school, unable to do what you did before, and having to take it easy may make you feel bad emotionally or lead to a more serious condition, like depression. Find ways to keep yourself busy so you don’t dwell on what you can’t do right now.


Try doing things you say you never have time for, like reading a book or catching up on movies and television shows.
Start a new hobby, like crochet or knitting, or do arts and crafts.
Play games with friends and family, or play video or computer games.
Spend time outside. Sit on your porch or deck. Put a chair in the yard and soak up some vitamin D in the sunshine. If you are able, take short walks.
 Most people can resume having sex following Crohn's surgery, though it may take a few months (or longer) before you are healthy enough to do so. For some men who have had operations on their rectums, impotence may be an issue. This often resolves on its own but, if not, medications and other aids may be considered. Speak with your doctor about these options.Pregnancy following surgery for Crohn's should not be an issue, though, depending on the surgery, you may need to have a Cesarean section.
 Because of the changes to your body due to your surgery, you may be feeling a lot of different emotions. You may be angry, sad, depressed, or scared. You may wonder how you are going to adjust to your new lifestyle, if you will be be “normal,” or even how you will look. It is okay to feel these emotions as your work through your recovery. Don’t try to repress them, but allow yourself to feel them so you can move past them.Talk to your IBD or stoma nurses if you are struggling to cope with things after the surgery.
If you find that your emotions are beginning to affect your everyday life, if you are unable to move past negative emotions, or feel depressed without being able to move on, you should look into seeing a therapist or psychologist. There are mental health professionals who help people dealing with medical issues.
 Recovering from Crohn’s surgery and learning how to adjust to your new life can be difficult. You may not feel like any of your friends or family understand what you are going through. You can join a support group to help you adjust to life after surgery.Support groups connect you with others who have Crohn’s disease and who have undergone similar surgeries. You can ask questions and get advice in a supportive, safe environment.
You can talk to your doctor or IBD nurse about finding a Crohn’s disease support group, or you can find online support communities, like Ostomates.

