 This is a natural method for removing hair dye from your skin during a dye job. Mix two teaspoons of baking soda with two tablespoons of lemon juice. Apply to area of skin where hair dye has stained it and scrub gently.Rinse off and repeat if necessary.
 Gently rub the affected area with the wash cloth to remove the stain. This method is best for individuals with sensitive skin., Simply dampen a cotton ball with vinegar and gently rub it on the stained area to lift the stain.
 A gel toothpaste will not work. Put the toothpaste on an old toothbrush and scrub the area stained with hair dye with the toothbrush to remove the stain., This method will create a paste that you can massage into your skin. Mix equal parts baking soda and dish soap to form the paste. Massage the paste into your skin where it is stained from hair dye. Rinse thoroughly to remove the stain and repeat if necessary., Hairspray could work well in removing hair dye stains from your skin.Spray the hairspray on the stained area of skin and rub it gently. Then, wash the area with soap.
 You can find these in the beauty aisles of most stores; simply follow the directions on the kit to remove the stains., Once the product is on the wash cloth, gently rub the area stained by hair dye to remove it. Rinse when done., Dampen a cotton ball with hydrogen peroxide and rub on the affected area, being careful not to touch your hair, because the peroxide will fade the color., Use caution when using nail polish remover in particular, because it is very harsh on the skin, and do not use it on your face.Wet a cotton ball with nail polish remover or rubbing alcohol, whichever you choose. Gently rub the cotton ball on the area of your skin where the hair dye is located to remove the dye.Be sure to moisturize the area well afterward.
 If nothing else has worked to remove the stain from your skin, then only use this as a last-ditch effort. Squirt a small amount of WD-40 onto a cotton ball. Gently dab at the section of skin stained by hair dye with the cotton ball. Rinse the area of skin well and wash it thoroughly with soap when done.