 When doing this, always select friends who share similar views and interests as you. People who are similar in personality to you or who enjoy playing the same games as you will usually enjoy your company more and will be more likely to remain on your friends list longer. Don't just add someone because they can play a game well; these friendships must be maintained more than others and will depend on whether you can play well also. Certainly, these friendships can be useful if you need to beat a level or win a match, but ultimately, they don't last long and can end in someone feeling used if you've nothing more in common.;
, Above all, people want to have someone on their friends list that is fun to play with, mature, helpful and knows generally what they're doing when they play a game. Leave a lasting impression on someone with your kindness or fun attitude and they will be more inclined to keep you as their friend for longer. If someone insults them, stick up for them and you'll gain their trust.


If you feel angry or frustrated while playing, take some time out to regain your composure. Far better to disappear briefly than to let out invective that you can't retract.
 Most players will remove players they haven't played with in a while, so make sure you join their games or sessions whenever you can. It doesn't have to be for long, but just enough to let them know you're there, engaged with them and useful.


Form a group of friends and play together regularly. This will make players less likely to remove you since they will be unwilling to break up the circle of friends and if they do, you will probably see them again when playing with your other friends later.
 It is annoying and will cause mass confusion and anger ultimately resulting in you getting removed.
 Nothing makes people want to remove you from their friends list faster than if you spam them with lots of messages regarding free Microsoft points or your latest YouTube posting. A friendly note now and again promising to play with them soon should be enough to keep their interest.


Refrain from being needy or dependent on your friends. Some gamers will not like it if you constantly message them, send chat or game invites and/or whine about not being able to play with them.






Be mature and respect the fact that your friend may not want to play with you all the time. They have other friends as well.






Having a reasonably large friends list will stop you from wanting more friends, although spreading equal time between them can be time consuming.
 Remove some of your friends with whom you don't play as often or whom do not click with as much, so that you can spend more time working on your genuine friendships with friends you like more. If you do remove a friend, leave them a note explaining why and that you enjoyed their friendship while it lasted. No need to be nasty or insensitive. Don't ever remove your friends without telling them or they might attempt to get you banned. Also never, ever add random people you do not know.

