 Whether you are measuring parallelism with a simple ruler or with a precise technical instrument, the procedure is essentially the same. Align the datum of the tested object onto the surface plate of the measuring equipment.For example, a standard gage comparator will have a flat base. This will serve as the surface plate. Set your object on this base to begin the measurement.
 Determining parallelism means finding that two opposing sides of an object, which are supposed to be parallel, are consistently far apart at all positions. To test this, you need to measure the distance between the two surfaces at multiple positions. If the distance is within the specified tolerance, then the sides are deemed to be parallel.For low precision, low-tech measurements, you can use a simple ruler. Measure the distance from the datum to the opposite surface of the object at multiple points and compare these measurements.
 A child building a bird house may be satisfied if the two walls of the bird house are parallel to within a fairly wide tolerance level. However, for machining precise equipment, medical tools or computer components, for example, you are likely to require must more precise measurements and much smaller tolerance levels. Special equipment exists for measuring parallelism for such objects.


For more high quality testing, precise instruments exist that can measure to within a millionth of an inch. Some of these operate with a dial indicator arm that you pass over the tested surface. As you pass the dial indicator arm over the surface of the object, it will register any variations.
At the highest level of precision, optical interference technology can measure parallelism extremely precisely. A special kind of glass lens is placed on the flat surface whose parallelism is to be tested. A laser light with known frequency is then passed through the lens. If the surface is precisely parallel, the laser passes through with a predictable wavelength pattern. If the surface is not parallel, the wavelength pattern is disrupted., Refer to your initial decisions about tolerance and precision and the specifications for the size of the part in question. Review the results of your measurements and determine whether the measurements fall within the tolerance range.For example, if a particular part is supposed to be 3 cm. thick, with a parallelism tolerance of 0.02 cm., you need to review the measurements that you collected. Acceptable measurements will fall between 2.98 and 3.02 cm. If you find measurements outside this range, you need to conclude that the surfaces are not parallel.