 Cluster A personality disorders are defined by behavior that may appear strange or eccentric to other people. Someone with a disorder from this group may have unusual ideas or suffer from distorted thinking. Poor social skills and social isolation are common in people with these disorders. Paranoid, schizoid, and schizotypal personality disorders are included in Cluster A.Make sure that you do not label your partner, even if your suspect that they might have this disorder. Personality disorders are a spectrum of symptoms and it is possible to have some symptoms, but not have the disorder. If your partner finds that the symptoms are interfering with their life, then they should see a mental health professional for a diagnosis.;
, If your partner believes other people are out to get them or are plotting against them, even when there is no evidence this is the case, they might have paranoid personality disorder. This disorder is characterized by mistrust, being quick to take offense, and being secretive.Someone with paranoid personality disorder may read too much into other people’s actions or believe that others are sending them hints and messages through innocuous behaviors.
If your partner frequently accuses you of being unfaithful, it could be another indicator of paranoid personality disorder, or it could just be regular jealousy. Diagnostic criteria can blend in with other behaviors, so not all behaviors can be considered as part of a disorder.
 If your partner appears emotionally flat and uninterested in spending time with other people, they may have schizoid personality disorder. Someone with schizoid personality disorder may seem to have few friends, interests, or goals in life.Consider your partner’s desire for intimacy and sex. Many people with schizoid personality disorder have little or no sex drive. They may also avoid emotional intimacy.
Don’t confuse schizoid personality disorder with schizotypal personality disorder or schizophrenia. Their names and a few of their symptoms are similar, but people with schizoid personality disorder do not experience delusions or psychosis.
 Someone with odd ideas, poor social skills, and paranoid tendencies may have schizotypal personality disorder. If your partner has this disorder, they might come off as eccentric in their interactions with others. They may also have trouble displaying appropriate emotions and be unreasonably afraid of other people.For example, if your partner believes they are telepathic or attempts to pick out coded messages on TV, this could indicate they have schizotypal personality disorder.
Schizotypal personality disorder is not the same thing as schizophrenia. The two conditions share similar symptoms, but schizophrenia is more severe.

