 Use your own website to connect with potential tenants. Since you own the website, you can control the content. Write text that highlights the benefits of your property. Include testimonials from other happy tenants. Describe the property in detail and include information about amenities, both on the property and in the surrounding neighborhood., Including photos with your text makes your site more appealing to a broader audience. People like to see pictures before looking at a property in person. If they like your pictures, they will likely make an appointment to view the property.Take indoor and outdoor photos that advertise the benefits of the property.
Provide accurate information. Don’t include pictures of property features that are no longer available.
 If you have a lot of units available, this could create the perception of a problem with your property. If only a few units are available, renters will get scared off, thinking they could never get into one of your properties. Also, it’s easy to fall behind in updating this information, which could lead to misunderstandings., Choose your words carefully. Avoid trying to describe your ideal tenant. This could be misconstrued as being discriminatory. For example, if your property is near a school, mention the proximity to the school. But don’t say, “perfect for young families,” as this makes it look like you’re excluding certain groups of people.Realtors are required to display the fair housing logo from the Office of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) when they advertise a property, so include it when you advertise your property to show your commitment to fair housing.
You can download the logo by going to www.hud.gov, clicking on "Program Offices," "Fair Housing/Equal Opportunity," "Library," then "Equal Housing Opportunity Logo".
You can be charged hefty fines if you're found guilty of violating the Fair Housing Act, but the rules differ on what's allowed when you're renting to a roommate or renting an entire home. For example, if you're renting to a roommate, it's acceptable to advertise for a particular gender; however, you can't do that if you're renting the entire home.
You are allowed to limit who you'll rent to based on criteria such as income, credit history, rental history, employment, and the number of people who will be occupying the property. You must provide the criteria in advance, and, if someone is rejected, provide them with an adverse action letter explaining why. You can also suggest a way for them to gain approval, such as adding a cosigner or paying an extra deposit if they have bad credit.

