 Don't just buy your rabbit's food at the pet store closest to you. If you want to save some money, you should compare prices at various stores in your city and from online suppliers. If you can easily get food at a cheaper price, then it is worth the effort to shop around.


When shopping online, remember to take shipping charges into consideration when comparing prices. The list price may be lower than at your local store, but shipping costs may increase the overall cost.;
, There are mailing lists and email lists that will send you coupons for rabbit food and supplies. If you have a food that you always feed to your rabbit, consider getting on the mailing list of that company. They may send you coupons or offers for discounts.Depending on where you buy your rabbit food, sometimes coupons can be doubled or increased with a combination of manufacture and store coupons. Research your stores coupon policies and use them to your financial benefit.
 This is a particularly good idea if you have multiple rabbits that eat a lot. While buying in bulk does require room for food storage, and it can result in stale or spoiled food if it is not eaten fast enough, in the right situation it can save you a lot of money.Even if you only have one rabbit, buying a larger bag of pellets is always cheaper than buying a really small one. Buy the biggest bag you can, being sure that you will use all the food before it expires or gets stale. This will take some figuring out, estimating how much food your rabbit eats and how long food lasts.
 It may seem like common sense to save money by buying your rabbit cheap food. However, cheaper food is often low quality food, meaning that it will not give your rabbit proper nutrition. Cheap food often contains fillers and ingredients that are not good for your rabbit, so you are basically paying for junk food.


Avoid giving your rabbit food that does not give it proper nutrition because it will cost you more in the long run in veterinary bills and medication. Consider high-quality food an investment in your rabbit's future health. Not to mention that your goal should always be to keep your rabbit healthy and well fed.