 Contact your local recycling program to find out about Styrofoam recycling programs or drop off sites in your community. Because Styrofoam needs to be recycled at specialized facilities, you need to find a drop-off location rather than setting it out with your regular recyclables.


You can also get in touch with the Alliance of Foam Packaging Recyclers or independent organizations like Earth911 to search for Styrofoam recycling programs in your area. You can find the drop-off station nearest to you by searching the AFPR website.
AFPR also allows you to mail back Styrofoam if you live in an area without a reliable drop-off site. While this can be somewhat challenging if you've accrued a considerable amount of the stuff, it's an option for packing materials or loose-fill "peanuts.";
, Common throughout the American South, the Publix chain of grocery stores will often have drop-off options for Styrofoam, making it a reliable option in many areas. In other regions, check out whether or not grocery stores, recycling centers, and other commercial zones have Styrofoam drop-offs set up for regional recycling.
 If recycling EPS is frustratingly complicated in your area, consider starting your own program in conjunction with business owners and consumers to bring change to your community. Working with a recycling company like AFPR for pick-up service is best, especially if you work for a business that receives massive amounts of EPS, or if you can collect a large volume of EPS, to make it easier to coordinate. Requesting a new pick-up spot is a lot easier if you can guarantee a large quantity.


Most companies require storage containers to remain outdoors in a bin where EPS is kept clean, dry and unexposed to the elements. Check with AFPR to see whether stacking, bagging, or bundling loose Styrofoam will be appropriate for pick-up, then organize a regular pick-up on behalf of your company.
EPS compactors are also available for use in some commercial spaces, to condense and make more portable a supply of EPS for pick-up. This can seriously cut down on the fuss of a large quantity of Styrofoam products in the meantime before it can be collected., Tape, labels, and other kinds of film can ruin the recycling process, making it important that EPS is free of other types of contaminants before it's picked up to be recycled. Take some time to clear off all other packing materials before recycling it, otherwise it'll just end up in the landfill.

