


Search for a free graphics performance testing website using a search engine.
Perform a benchmark test. The results of this test show GPU, or graphics processing unit, performance.
Do a stability test. This test will raise your GPU's temperature considerably to see how it performs under such conditions. This temperature change mimics the state of the video card when in heavy use.;
,


Choose "Start" > "All Programs" > "Accessories" > "System Tools" > "System Restore." Select "Create restore point" and hit "Next."
Describe the restore point in the box provided and choose "Create." A restore point allows you to go back and restore your computer to a state before you began making changes. It is basically a large "undo" button.



Figure out what kind of chipset you have and visit the manufacturer's website to search for driver updates. Download and run the file to update the chipset. An updated chipset can stabilize a video card as well as other motherboard components.



Remove your old driver by going to "Add/Remove Programs" and selecting the driver.
Install your new driver by following the installation setup provided to you from the download. A new driver should fix any bugs from your previous driver.



Test the stability of the AGP port, which connects your video card to the motherboard, by modifying the speed multiplier and fast writes. Lower the multiplier to 4X instead of 8X and see if there is a change to your video card's performance. Disable fast writes as well.



Reduce overheating the video card by directing a fan at your computer. Play a game with high graphics with the fan keeping the computer case and inner components cool to test your video card for overheating.



Open your computer and disconnect the video card from the motherboard.
Study the video card for dust or out of place parts. Remove dust with canned air.
Replace the video card and reboot your computer.



Run MemTest86 to rule out your computer's memory as an issue affecting your video card. If you are able to do this without problem, the RAM is probably not faulty.



Purchase a high-quality power supply product. Video cards can be damaged if the power supply allows too few or too many volts to the machine. If the power supply is not the issue, then simply return the product.

