 Find a photo that you want to use on your computer. Crop it down to 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) on each side using an image editing program. Flip or reverse the image in the program. This way, when you go to transfer the photo, it won't come out mirrored.

You will be transferring the image using wax paper. This will give you a rustic, translucent result. You will see some of the original wood color and texture.
 Place a piece of wax paper over a piece of regular 8½ by 11-inch (21.59 by 27.94-centimeter) printer paper. Fold the top edge of the wax paper over the top edge of the printer paper by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Tape the folded edge of the wax paper down. Do not tape the other side.The wax paper should be roughly the same size as the printer paper: 8½ by 11 inches (21.59 by 27.94 centimeters).
It does not matter which side of the wax paper is facing up. Both sides are waxed., Make sure that you feed the paper so that the image gets printed directly onto the wax paper. The printer paper is there to help feed the wax paper into the printer. You will not be doing any actual printing on the regular paper.Avoid touching the image. The ink will still be wet. It will smear if you touch it.
 You can buy one that's already pre-cut from an arts and crafts store. You can also buy a wooden beam at a hardware store and cut it yourself, or ask the store to do it for you.

Make sure that the wood is smooth and light-colored. This will ensure that your image comes out nice and clear., Pat the wood with a dry towel to absorb any excess water.This will help the ink transfer better and give you a darker, brighter image. Some people find that this causes the images to blur a little, however.If this bothers you, you can omit this step.


Not dampening the block will result in a faint, faded image.
You can also use a damp sponge instead., Be careful not to move the image once you set it down. If you do, the ink will smear. Let the printer paper flop over onto the table, so that the backside of the wax paper is visible., Be sure to rub the entire image across the entire block, from edge-to-edge. When you are done rubbing, peel the wax paper away. You should have a printed image on your block., When you are done, you can print off more photos, and transfer them to the other block faces in a similar manner. You can cover all six sides of the block, or leave some blank., Wait for the wood and ink to dry completely. Next, spray the image using an acrylic sealer. Apply several light coats, allowing each coat to dry. Do not spray too heavily or hold the can too close to the block, as this may cause the ink to run.If you covered all six sides of the block, let the other sides dry first before sealing the last one.

