 The symptoms for inhalation of HF can be complication because the symptoms for mild and severe inhalation will overlap. The symptoms for mild exposure may be include irritation of the mucous membranes in the nose and throat, coughing, burns on the passageways, and narrowing of airways, which will cause difficulty breathing.


Symptoms for severe exposure include all of the above as well as an immediate narrowing of the airways, along with pulmonary edema, which is a build-up of fluid in the lungs. Lung collapse can also occur., You will likely not be able to check yourself for inhalation of HF because of the symptoms. However, if you come upon someone who has or might have inhaled HF, check the affected person’s vital signs.


Check for a pulse and respiratory breathing on him and make sure his airway is open so that he can breathe.
Continue to monitor the individual for any observable symptoms and do your best to alleviate those symptoms as professional medical attention is obtained.
If the person looks as though they are having a hard time breathing, administer oxygen if available.
Artificial respiration such as CPR is necessary and should be administered by trained professionals if breathing has stopped. , Inhalation exposure is rapidly lethal, which means you need to seek medical attention as soon as possible. Inhalation of HF can cause serious damage and treatment should be done in a medical setting because there is little to no effective treatment outside of a clinical setting.


While there is a lot of literature and research available about HF exposure to the skin, inhalation exposure has had relatively little research completed. The process of treating HF inhalation injury is highly complex, and more experimental research is still needed to learn proper care techniques., If inhalation HF is suspected, time is of the essence and medical attention must begin as soon as possible.Your doctor may do imaging scans and spirometry to assess any damage or decreased functioning of your respiratory system.


Spirometry aims to determine your ability to utilize your expected lung capacity and will involve blowing into a tube to measure your effective lung capacity. You will be tested on your ability to inhale, exhale, and the rate at which you can achieve these actions.
Just as with other HF exposure, your doctor will take a blood test to check your electrolyte balances, look for any arrhythmias or heart palpitations, and will review your Echocardiogram (ECG) to check for any abnormalities. Your doctor will also follow up within 24 hours of discharge by phone or in person, depending on your case.