 If you have extra sensitive skin, or any time your skin becomes irritated, wash it only once a day with a basic cleanser. Use gentle makeup remover wipes or micellar water to wipe off makeup and dirt for your second cleansing routine.Use cleanser in the morning or night, whichever works best for your schedule and skin.
Micellar water, used by French women for years, is enriched with micelles, molecules that literally eat up dirt and oil, and is extremely gentle.;
,"Fixing" sun-damaged skin with after-sun products containing antioxidants is not nearly as effective as applying antioxidants along with sunscreen.
Almost all moisturizers today contain some level of SPF protection. If your favorite brand only has SPF 15, though, you also need to apply a sunscreen with SPF 30 either before moisturizer or after makeup.Make your own moisturizer with a cucumber and honey. Cucumber juice is excellent for your skin. Mash a cucumber, mix with honey, and apply directly to skin.Remember this doesn't offer any sun protection, so you should apply an SPF lotion as well.
 A thick moisturizer will help replace antioxidants lost throughout the day while you sleep. Look for one made for your skin type, whether oily, dry or a combination of the two.You don’t have to spend big bucks to get a good face cream. Neutrogena and Cetaphil work just as well as pricier designer brands.Avoid anti-aging night creams and other products that claim to defy aging. They are usually too harsh for fair, sensitive skin and are unnecessary if you take care of your skin in the first place., All fair skin is not equal, and a product that works great for your friend or sister may react differently with your skin.If products for regular skin are causing redness or irritation, switch to using only sensitive skin formulas. Trying out new products one at a time ensures you will know the cause of any irritation that occurs.


If any products you use cause redness, blotchiness, or puffing, discontinue immediately.
Many retailers will allow you to return or exchange products even if they are open, so you don't waste money trying to find a great one for your skin. Check store policies before purchasing anything pricey.
Look online for product reviews before you buy. Do an online search by product name and check out makeup and skincare blogs, and/or fashion magazine websites.
 Sensitive skin can't take harsh treatments at all, and fair skin is more likely to become sensitive if you use these products often. Try using exfoliating products without granules or gritty additives — try face peels or exfoliating gels instead. These contain ingredients that draw dirt and oil out of your skin without having to scrub.Make your own exfoliating mask with strawberries or papaya mixed with yogurt, water or oil. Fruits contain antioxidants that eat up dirt and dead cells. Don't leave this mixture on your face for longer than 10 minutes, though.You can also mix organic sugar with honey, or use oatmeal instead of sugar for a gentler mask. Rub on face gently in small circles and rinse off with warm water.Always avoid products with very rough ingredients like nut shells or seed pods. These sharp fragments are too harsh for any skin type.

