 Sometimes, actions speak louder than words. Rather than try to sway someone with a passionate speech or a persuasive tone, you can show your audience why your request is worth their time. Use visual examples, such as a short scene demonstrating your idea or request with live actors, or graphics and slides that illustrate how your request will benefit the company. By using visual aids, you can better communicate your request to your audience and ensure they can clearly visualize the benefits of your request.Try to choose a visual support that best fits your request and your audience. If you are trying to sell someone a new App for Smartphones, for example, you may use an interactive visual that can be accessed through your audience’s Smartphones. If you are trying to convince your boss to give you a raise, you may present a slideshow of your most successful projects, as well as video testimonials from clients on your excellent project management skills.
 One of the most persuasive actions you can lean on is evidence and data complied by experts in the field that shows why your request is a good idea. To support your request, hire a third party, such as a team of experts, to create a report that shows how and why your idea or request will be useful to your audience. Often, people are swayed by data and evidence that is unbiased, as it is hard to argue or disagree with plain facts.If you are requesting a raise from your boss, for example, you may hire a data management company to compile data on competitive salaries at other companies in your field. You can then use this data to contrast your current salary and argue in favor of raising your salary so it best suits the current pay in the field. If you are trying to get a client to agree to a change in a project, you may use a slideshow or interactive graphics that illustrate the benefits of the change in terms of cost savings and better time management.
 If you have demonstrated that you can make good decisions or judgement calls in the past, you may want to rely on your track record as leverage. This could help to sway someone into giving in to your request, especially if they have first hand experience of how well your ideas have worked in the past. Mention a recent time your actions have lead to a success or a win for both of you. Bring up video recordings or messages that show how you requests have benefited your audience in the past.If you are trying to get a friend to go out with you on a Friday night, you may show them messages from last Friday when you went out that demonstrate how much fun they had with you. If you are trying to get your boss to give you a raise, you may have your co-workers provide testimonials about situations in the past where you excelled at your job and made major gains for the company.

