 In order to have a den that is pleasing to the eye, you should purchase matching furniture that have similar styles. Animal Jam organizes their furniture sets in the store according to different themes, such as modern day, sea, and winter. By focusing on a certain theme, you will be able to purchase the right pieces of furniture without wasting gems (Animal Jam's currency). Note that you also have the option of transforming your den into different places, such as a restaurant or Winter Wonderland.;
, Before purchasing furniture, you should decide where each piece will go. This will help you save gems and stick to a budget, as well as give you an idea of how many pieces you need to buy. Following your theme, sketch out a rough idea of what your den will look like. Be sure to leave enough space so that it doesn't appear cluttered. For a pleasing effect, have wide, open areas unblocked by furniture. Sometimes, less is more.


Symmetry is recommended, as it appears neat and refreshing.
 Once you have decided on a theme, you can begin purchasing your furniture from the store. As you flip through the list of items, find ones that have colors that complement or match one another. Rather than purchasing furniture all in the same shade, find different pieces that have matching colors. For example, black and white would be a wonderful match.


Note that nonmembers do not have the option of changing their furniture color. In order to unlock this feature, you must purchase a membership with money.
If you have trouble matching furniture, look up pictures of different color schemes to use as references.
 Once you have purchased your furniture, follow the layout that you planned earlier. Be sure that you place your pieces in appropriate areas to ensure that they stand out. Avoid overlapping furniture, as it appears cluttered and tasteless. If you find that you are having trouble fitting your items, place some in your storage for later. Once a week, you can rearrange your den and set out unused pieces.
 Find an appropriate track that matches the theme and color scheme of your den. To leave the best impression on your visitors, be sure that it blends perfectly with the theme and allows it to stand out. For example, if you are going for a wild theme, play exotic music.

