 Your crush won’t be the one providing your happiness, so it’s time to find something else that will. Spend time with people who put a smile on your face. Watch a funny tv show. Do an activity that you enjoy. Spend time with an animal that makes you happy. Make deliberate choices to put yourself in a happy environment rather than wallowing over what you can’t have.


When your crush doesn’t like you, it’s easy to feel powerless and like a victim of their rejection. But ultimately, your happiness and your emotions are your responsibility and not anyone else’s. If you have placed your potential happiness in the hands of your crush, it’s time to take it back and be responsible for yourself. Take ownership of your feelings and make the choice to find happiness for yourself.Change your thoughts about what happened. Instead of seeing this as a terrible tragedy, look at it as an opportunity for growth and exploration. One person didn’t like you back, but lots of other people will. Now that you know there isn’t a future with this person, you can find the right people.
 Even if it’s hard, make sure to respect your crush even when you find out they don’t like you. If you run into them, you can still say hello. There's no need to badmouth them or respond defensively. You don't need to be best friends, but you can still help them if they need it sometime. It’s ok that they don’t feel the same way. There are lots of people that you don’t feel that way about. Sometimes it just doesn’t work out, and that’s to be expected. It doesn’t mean your crush is a bad person and it doesn’t mean you are. Two great people just didn’t happen to feel the same way.


Control what you can. You can’t control your crush’s feelings, but you can control your response to them. You are far from a passive observer in this. You have full control over how you will respond and how you will move forward. Choose to think good thoughts, to adjust your expectations, and to respond in healthy ways.Don’t let your crush’s rejection change you. Your crush doesn’t need to have that kind of power over you. If you feel hurt, that’s ok, but that doesn’t need to make you an angry, bitter person. Keep making good decisions for yourself and make sure that you like who you are regardless of who else does. After all, you’re the one who has to live with you!

, Negative feelings can be scary and intimidating. It might help you to name them. Instead of just sitting there feeling like it’s the end of the world, try to put it into words. You could write it down, tell someone that you trust, spend some time thinking about it, or talk to a counselor if you are feeling overwhelmed.


Maybe you feel sad, disappointed, and alone. If that’s the case, you can help yourself to feel differently. You could do a fun activity that makes you feel happy, fulfilled, and connected to someone, such as playing a fun game with a group of close friends. You have the power to influence your emotions.
When your crush doesn’t like you, this is a form of loss. No, it’s not the same as losing a loved one, but you are still missing someone who mattered to you. It’s okay to acknowledge that and to feel sad about that and to admit that you are hurt by this. It’s only natural to feel this way. Spend a bit of time feeling these negative emotions so that you can process them and move past them. You don’t need to pretend to be perfectly fine when you’re not. No one feels great all the time!, When someone isn’t able to give you what you need, it’s time to move on. It isn’t healthy to keeping longing for someone who isn’t interested. You will only set yourself up for heartbreak. To get past this, you need to say goodbye to the high hopes you had for you and your crush. Admit to yourself that it didn’t work out this time and don’t let your crush occupy your heart and mind anymore. This probably means keeping your distance for a while. It is hard to let go of someone if you are constantly with them.You might want to consider not following them on social media anymore or taking a break from social media. It is difficult to get over someone if you are constantly being informed of every detail in their life.
 To help yourself feel better, distract your mind so that you aren't thinking about your crush's rejection. You could play games, read books, draw, play an instrument, or watch TV. Anything that takes your mind off your crush will help put you at ease while you move forward.
 Even in a negative and sad situation, there are always positives that you can find. If you train yourself to look for these instead of dwelling on the negatives, you will be much happier and able to handle any of life’s storms. When your crush doesn’t like you, it means you won’t have a future with that person, but it also opens you up to other opportunities and experiences. A lot of good can come from a difficult situation.For example, you now have more time to pursue other interests. You have more time to spend with friends. You have a chance to look around and see what other people you might be interested in instead of being so focused on one person. You can take time to invest in yourself. You don’t need to worry about the struggles and difficulties inevitably present in any romantic relationship. You can learn about yourself from this experience.

