 If you are experiencing or witnessing any type of abuse in your home, let someone know. You do not have to suffer in silence. Let a neighbor, teacher, school counselor, or another adult family member know what is happening in your home. There are people who want to help you.Your abuser may have threatened you or told you not to tell; do not listen to them.
If the first person you tell does not believe you, find another adult and tell them.
The adult you tell may call the police or call Child Protective Services.;
, Running away from home is a big decision. You want to get out of an abusive situation, but you are not sure how you can make it on your own. Also, living on the streets can be very dangerous. Ask yourself some questions before you run away:Do you have somewhere to stay?
How will you continue to go to school and get an education?
Who will you depend on if you leave home?
What will you do about food, money, and transportation?
Have you reached out to anyone about your situation at home?
Is there anything you can do to make things better at home?
Have you considered other options to make your home a safer place?

, If you decide that you want to run away, you need to make a plan to ensure that you stay safe and have the things that you need. You may have to stay at home a little longer until you get your affairs in order.Make a list of the things you will need to survive. Your list may include:


Food
Shelter
Transportation
Clothing
Money

, Having money will allow you to have food, transportation, and pay for shelter if you need to. Begin to save as much money as you can. If you have a job, begin saving the money you make in a safe place. If you do not have a job, find a way to make some extra money.


Good ways to make quick money include doing odd jobs around your neighborhood, babysitting, taking care of other people's pets, running your own business (e.g. sell candy, give manicures, sell any extra items) and house-sitting for friends and neighbors. If you get lunch money everyday, try to eat light or skip lunch and save the money instead.
If you are 18, you can open a bank account on your own to keep your money. If you are still a minor, you will not be able to open an account without your parent or legal guardian., A safe place to stay is the number one thing you need. Find a supportive family member, friend, or youth shelter in your area. It is best to know where you are going before you leave the house. If you do not know of anywhere to stay, call some of the numbers below:In the United States call Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-422-4453 or the National Runaway Safeline at 1-800-786-2929.
In the UK call 0800 1111 (NSPCC Childline)
In Australia call 1800 688 009 (CAPS)
In New Zealand call 0800-543-754 (Kidsline)
Child Helpline International also maintains a list of numbers if you live in any other country.If you need to get out of the house immediately and do not know anywhere to go, go to a library, police station, fire station, or any public place that stays open 24/7.
 Pack a bag with all of your essentials. Only take the things that you need because you do not want to have carry something that is too heavy. Take items such as clothes, medications, food, some form of ID, phone, and your social security card.


If you take a mobile phone, be careful. Your parent will be able to track you through your phone. If you can afford to, get a cheap phone that your parents don't know about.
Keep a list of contacts with you at all times such as police, emergency personnel, or anyone else who can help you in an emergency.
 Staying in an abusive home is bad, but you may also face some serious problems after you run away from home if you are not prepared. It is important that you think about what your life will really be like after you run away and have a good plan in place so that you can stay safe. If you run away:You are more likely to develop anxiety, depression, poor health, low self-esteem, poor nutrition, and have suicidal thoughts. Try to stay in touch with supportive friends, adults, or family members who can keep your spirits up.
You will have more difficulty attending school and completing your education. You will need to have a proof of residence and your immunization records to stay in school.
You may struggle to support yourself financially and get a job. Save some money or get a job so you do not have to do illegal or unsafe things (e.g. sell drugs or use your body).
If you have a safe place to sleep, save money before you leave, and a way to stay in school, you should be able to avoid most of these.

