 Fish is a great source of omega-3 fatty acids, selenium, vitamins A and D, phosphorous, magnesium, and iodine (if saltwater), many of which are important for brain health. Fish oil is the richest source of fat vital to brain development in unborn babies and infants, and it helps maintain the brain throughout life.Eat about 14 ounces of fish a week or three servings that are about the size of your fist. Fish oil is available in food supplements. You can find it fortified with DHA, as well. It is also sold as Omega 3 Oil in its own separate supplements. This is especially important for continued brain and cardiovascular health;
, Dark, leafy greens such as kale and spinach are essential for a healthy mind and body. These contain high levels of vitamin E and folate.Vitamin E likely helps protect your brain's neurons,while the relationship between folate and brain health isn't as clear. It's likely that it helps keep down levels of homocysteine in the brain, as this amino acid may lead to nerve cell death if the levels are too high.You can also try avocado for a good source of vitamin E, as well as sunflower seeds., Blueberries have been shown to help with short term memory loss in some studies, so eat them a few times a week.Other berries have brain-boosting benefits, too, such as strawberries and acai berries., Tomatoes, which can contain high levels of lycopene, help protect against free radical cell damage, which in turn, may help protect against dementia., Nuts contain alpha linolenic acid (ALA), and they have anti-inflammatory properties. These qualities help increase blood flow, which makes your brain happy with more oxygen.They are also high in vitamin E., Ginger, along with other foods such as berries, soy products, and teas, help protect your glial cells. These cells likely remove toxins from the brain, protecting you from diseases such as Alzheimer's.Try ginger tea, or add ginger to a stir fry for extra spice.
 The theanine(an amino acid) in green tea may help to improve memory and attention span.Drink one to three cups of green tea daily., Whole grains are a part of an overall healthy diet that will improve your general health. The healthier your body is, the healthier your brain is. They can also help lower your risk for high blood pressure, which keeps your brain healthier.If you're over age 9, you should be getting at least 3 to 5 servings of whole grains per day, up to 6 or 7 servings as an adult. To get your servings in, try oatmeal, whole wheat bread, quinoa, brown rice, or whole wheat pasta., Eating small meals throughout the day, as opposed to one large meal, can help with brain health. It keeps your blood sugar level throughout the day, providing the energy your brain needs. Try four to six meals instead of three to five.