 Otherwise stated, don’t e-hover. It’s no surprise that people are constantly distracted by their phone, and this is partly because of how much people use their phones for work. A good way to reduce those distractions is by not contributing to them yourself.If an email or text isn’t immediately necessary, don’t send it. Instead, compile a list of things you want to point out or remind your employees of, and send these out all together in a weekly email.
Meanwhile, enforce the rules about technological distractions. Make sure everyone knows the consequences of texting when they’re not supposed to, and be consistent about punishing those who break the rules.
 Along with emails that can wait, there are many other common business practices that may actually be unnecessary. In fact, your employees are likely to point them out. When they do, don’t default to the mindset that “this is simply how things are done,” actually think about your employee’s comments when they point out something that isn’t productive.For instance, is there anything you ask your employees to do that you wouldn’t do yourself? Is there anything you didn’t find useful when you had their position? Chances are, you can eliminate something your employees are currently wasting time on, and everyone will be happy about it.
 Helping your employees with simple, everyday tasks can improve productivity in a multitude of ways. Most obviously, if someone is hit with a bunch of menial tasks suddenly, they can use a quick bit of assistance. Plus, sitting down with someone to bang out a job together gives you the opportunity to work face-to-face with your employee and increase camaraderie.Say something like, “Dwight, I saw you received way more orders than usual today. Can I help by printing the packing slips and labeling some boxes for you?”

, The emotional well-being of your employees is extremely important to their ability to focus and work productively. In fact, scientists are finding more and more evidence of the links between productivity and well-being. If you notice one of your employees seems to be down, reach out to them.While recurring emotional issues are a whole different issue, occasional emotional doldrums are totally normal.
If someone is dealing with something, reach out to them. See if there’s anything you can do to help. Not only will this mean a lot to them, it will also help them get through whatever they’re struggling with and return to their usual levels of productivity.

