 Don’t go into a discussion with the goal of changing someone’s mind or proving how bad their ideas are. Trying to change someone’s beliefs is often at best futile and at worst annoying or upsetting. If you’re tempted to talk about politics with someone, check your intentions. If you want to prove something or tell them how dumb you think they are, you might want to sit this one out.Engaging in respectful discussions means bringing some openness and willingness to listen to the discussion.
For example, if you want to talk about how your position on the war is superior or why people should share your views, hold back.;
, Don’t go into a discussion expecting to change someone else’s mind, however, be open to expanding your own perspectives and ideas. While you can’t change anyone else, you can be open to hearing different viewpoints and understanding why people feel or think a certain way. Use the interaction to learn something about the person or yourself. Instead of shutting someone down for their differing beliefs, be curious about them and challenge yourself.Be willing to challenge your own assumptions and beliefs.
For example, if someone else likes another candidate, be open to hearing about them and why this person supports them.
 When you assume that you are right or correct, you limit your ability to learn new information. Don’t assume you already know everything. Recognize that people bring their own experiences and understanding to topics and you can learn from them.Learn from other’s differences and allow yourself to be proven wrong on occasion.
Especially if you’re strongly against a candidate or party, be open to hearing from people with those different views and be open to learning from them.
 If you disagree with someone, don’t be quick to shut them down or explain why you think you are ‘right.’ instead, try to gain some understanding of them or their comment. Ask questions about things you don’t understand or disagree with. Check your understanding by asking questions.Don’t ask questions to badger the person such as, “Why would you believe that?” or, “So you’re telling me you actually follow that person?!”
Focus on questions such as, “Can you explain that one more time?” and, “Would you tell me more about that?”
You can also say, “We disagree on that. Can you tell me what fuels your beliefs on that issue?”

, It’s easy to get defensive or accusatory when talking politics. Keep the focus on understanding the person and making your voice heard. Stay away from judgments or blame. If you don’t agree with something, keep the focus on you.For example, instead of saying, “You believe that abortion is wrong? What kind of person are you?” say, “That differs from my own opinion, which is that I believe women can make their own choices.”
Instead of saying, “Your beliefs are frustrating,” say, “I’m getting a bit frustrated discussing this.”

, Even if you vehemently disagree with someone, treat them with respect. Avoid calling them names or undercutting their beliefs. Don’t interrupt them while they’re speaking. Take turns speaking and try not to raise your voice.Whatever a person’s political stance, they almost always believe they are the ‘good guy’ and want their beliefs or candidate to make a positive change. Remember this when speaking.
 Having a civil conversation means taking turns speaking and also listening to the other person. While the other person is speaking, put your attention into understanding them and what they’re saying. Don’t try to formulate your response or think about how you can undermine what they’re saying. Truly listen with the intention of understanding.Don’t respond to distractions or interruptions. If your phone goes off, consider silencing it. This shows that you’re giving your full attention.
Make a genuine effort to hear the person out and understand their point of view.
 Part of listening to someone and engaging in constructive conversations by checking in on your understanding. Restate or summarize what you heard the person saying to clarify. For example, say, “I hear you saying that the candidate is not qualified” or, “Let me make sure I’m clear…”Reflect important points by saying, “It seems like childcare is an important issue for you” or, “I can tell you feel strongly about the war.”
These kind of statements help the other person feel heard. They can also respond by saying, “No, I meant…”

, If you wonder why you and another person see things differently, ask them about it. Instead of judging them for their views, get to know them and figure out what has shaped them to hold that particular belief. Put yourself in their shoes and ask yourself some questions.When you understand someone’s point of view, you can learn about their motivations and why they might think a particular way.
 As much as you can, avoid black-and-white thinking. Just because someone likes a candidate doesn’t mean they support every action or stance of that politician. If someone belongs to a certain party you don’t agree with, that doesn’t mean they are an idiot or uninformed.If you feel judgmental toward someone, ask why questions for clarifications. For example, say, “I disagree with you on that and I’d like to know why you hold that position so that I can understand better.”

, If you know the person you are talking to tends to be argumentative or likes to fight or stir trouble, be careful with your words. You might have an especially argumentative or opinionated uncle or a colleague at work who has intensely different views than you. Keep this in mind before or during your discussion.


You may be willing to have debates with your friends but not with your manager at work, professor at school, or your sweet yet racist grandparent.
 Read the person’s nonverbal cues as a way to guide the discussion. If the person looks uncomfortable or agitated, shift gears. If they look upset or angry, the conversation may not be headed in the best direction. Bring it back in or change the subject to something else.While you may enjoy talking about politics, this person may want to keep things light or casual. If they look uncomfortable, drop the topic.
 If you’re somewhere inescapable like an airplane or dinner table, think about what you want to say and how you want to say it. You don’t want to sit next to someone on a long airplane ride and be upset with them due to their political beliefs. Use common sense when bringing up political conversations.If you start a conversation and someone is acting disinterested or not fully interacting, don’t push the conversation. If you’re unsure, drop the conversation and give them the opportunity to start it up again.
 If you can tell things are getting heated or that the discussion could end up hurting your relationship, drop the topic and move on. Say something like, “It’s clear we won’t see eye to eye on this, and I want to stay friends with you.” Then, change the subject or move onto another activity. Some things are not worth risking long-term disagreements or resentments.

