 You can either check the phone book, use a search engine with keywords like "string instruments shop near me," or ask fellow musicians or your teacher for advice, but try to find some local music shops that you can visit easily. If you live in a very rural area or a small town where there are few or no shops like this at all, it may seem tempting to get online to do your shopping, but ideally you will want to see and test any instrument you want to purchase first.


Make sure that the shop you go to has a good selection of cellos in various price ranges, both for students and professionals, present to try out.;
, Take your time and visit multiple stores if you can. There's nothing wrong with going to several locations to price compare and make sure there's not some great, undiscovered cello just around the corner. Particularly for such a large investment, you don't want to rush into a decision.


Find out what kinds of policies they have--can you rent-to-own? If you change your mind, do they have a trade-in policy in place? Do they allow you to finance or make payment plans? If so, find out additional details about these policies.
 Although you might feel like this is a decision you can make on your own, take your teacher or another trusted expert with you to the store; you will want them to examine the cellos with you, to listen to you play them, and to try them as well, so that you can be sure to pick a good cello. There may be things you will miss that they won't.
 Although most students are not aware of the practice, it is traditional within the industry that stores often give teachers a commission based on sales.This matters to you because the commission will almost assuredly be based on the amount of money the instrument costs. It could affect the advice that your teacher might give you for selecting a store or a particular brand.


Although there is nothing inherently unethical or illegal about this practice, you still deserve to know exactly what your money is paying for. Especially if you are hurting for money, talk with your teacher to find out if they do usually request a commission fee, and if so, if they'd be willing to waive it.
Before you go to the store, call ahead to find out if they participate in a commission fee program.
You can request that the store provide you with a written statement that no money or instruments changed hands for a commission so that you can be sure everything was done ethically., Only after you have thoroughly examined the cellos physically, but before you test anything out and start getting too attached to an instrument, it's time to find out the prices. At the low end of a good cello, you can expect to pay $2000 and closer to $5000 on the higher end for a beginner or student's instrument.


Instruments on the lower end of the cost range will usually be shop-made instruments: there's less attention to detail and some or much of the work will have been done by machines on an assembly line.
Some parts, like the tops and the backs which contribute considerably to the sound, will still be hand-made.
Instruments on the lower end of the scale are usually considered to be good for newer players as the sound is engineered to "pop out.", Especially when you're talking about an instrument that costs thousands of dollars, every bit of money you can save counts. If the store does not participate in commissioner's fees and your teacher does not expect one either, you might ask if they can arrange for a 10% discount with the store., Once you have made up your mind, you will need to buy some additional items for your cello, because most of them do not come with a bow, strings, rosin, or extra tuning pegs. You will also have to replace these items from time to time as they will wear down from regular use. You may also have to purchase a hard case to protect your cello from potential damage if one is not included.Most cellists find it unnecessary to stockpile extra supplies; having one or two extra strings handy inside your case is usually plenty.
If this is your first cello, you may also need to pick up a tuning fork or an electric tuner.
Beginning students may also need a music stand, especially if they intend to learn to read music.

