 Taking your current age and gender into account, you should figure out how much calcium you need to consume per day. When you plan your meals, you should consider this recommended daily value. In general, the recommended daily value of calcium is 1,000 mg. This is the number that is used when companies list the percentage of recommended daily value for calcium is included in their products. This information should be included on the nutrition facts label of the product.However, the amount of calcium you consume should also be considered in relation to your age and gender:If you are 1-3 years of age, you should consume 700 mg per day.
If you are between 4 – 8 years of age, you should consume 1,000 mg per day.
If you are between 9 – 18 years of age, you should consume 1,300 mg per day.
If you are between 19 – 50 years of age, you should consume 1,000 mg per day.
If you are over between 50 years of age, you should consume 1,200 mg per day.;
, Chop up your fruits and vegetables. Discard the excess seeds and skin in the compost or, if you don’t have one, put it in the garbage. Add the kale, orange, coconut water, pitted nectarine, chia seeds and half a cup of ice cubes to your blender. Blend for a minute or until the drink looks completely smooth and blended. Serve the smoothie, which contains approximately 35% of your daily calcium requirements and works great for breakfast.It contains one cup of raw kale, which contains 9% of your daily calcium requirements.It also has chia seeds, which accounts for 10% of your calcium requirements, and one orange, which accounts for another 5%It has a nectarine containing approximately 9mg of calcium and 11 ounces of coconut water, which add up to another 11% of daily calcium requirements., Chop all of your fruits and vegetables. Add the spinach, banana, cacao nibs, ice, Persian cucumber, almond butter and water to your blender. Mix and serve this funky monkey smoothie, which contains approximately 17% of your daily calcium requirements.The almond butter will give you 8% of your daily calcium requirements.The cup of spinach will give you about 4% of your daily calcium requirements.The cucumber will give you about 3% of your calcium requirements.The banana will give you about 1% of your calcium requirements.The cacao nibs will give you another 1% of your calcium requirements., Scrub and then chop up your beet. Peel and chop your cucumber and your lemon. Clean and then chop up the collard greens. Add a scrubbed and chopped beet, a handful of collard greens, one tablespoon of chia seeds, a Persian cucumber, half a lemon and a cup of coconut water to a blend. Mix and serve this delicious beets and greens smoothie, which contains approximately 22.5% of your daily calcium requirements.The cup of collard greens will give you 5% of your daily calcium requirements.The beet should give you at least 1% of your daily calcium requirements.The chia seeds account for 10% of your calcium requirements.The cucumber will give you about 3% of your calcium requirements.The half lemon will give you another 3.5% of your calcium requirements.