 Popular brands include Glade and Febreeze; these are available at any grocery, home supply, and drug stores. These odor eliminators come in spray bottles that you spray over your furniture until damp and then let air dry.


Using fabric odor eliminators will give your fabric a nice, fresh scent. However, they generally mask rather than treat and fully remove bad scents and stains. Consider this only as a temporary solution.
 There are several different options that require ingredients you probably already have in your home. Remember to do a test patch with any solution before applying it to the whole stained area - you don't want your furniture to get discolored in any way, which is always a potential risk when applying any solution to it.


Use baking soda and peroxide solution. Mix together 16 ounces of hydrogen peroxide, 1 teaspoon of dishwashing liquid and 1 tablespoon of baking soda. Apply onto urine stain until soaked. Leave on until completely dry. If a white residue appears, vacuum or brush off.
Make a 50-50 water and vinegar solution.Combine equal parts warm water and distilled white vinegar. Soak a clean cloth or rag with the solution, and then rub the stain in a circular motion. You should do this at least twice. Then, allow the spot to dry. You can use a hair dryer or fan to help it dry a little quicker. If the odor is still there, you could risk spraying the spot with straight vinegar. At this point, the persistence of the smell suggests that the urine has worked its way into the fabric's fibers, so spray enough vinegar to do the same.Try rubbing alcohol. Dampen the stain and then blot with a dry rag., Baking soda is a natural odor-fighter. Pour a large amount of baking soda - don't be skimpy here! - over the affected area until it is completely saturated. Use a scrub brush to push the baking soda into the fabric's fibers in a circular motion.Once the baking soda has been sufficiently worked into the fabric, vacuum up the baking soda. This will aid the soda’s natural odor-fighting properties get into fibers and also remove the excess powder.You may want to do this twice if the urine smell lingers or is especially strong., Look for enzymatic cleaners in particular. Enzymatic cleaners break down the urine stain and the odor-causing molecules. They contain bacteria-producing agents that facilitate the growth of bacteria that in turn breaks down the urine.The best-known brands are marketed for pet urine, but can also be used for human urine. These include Simple Solution, Nature's Miracle, Urine Off, and Complete Pet Stain and Odor Remover from 8in1.Follow any and all instructions on the product.
This method is the least labor intensive, but on the other hand does require purchasing a commercial product., This should be your last resort if the odor persists after you've tried all of the above options. Call the company of your choice and first tell them about your particular situation and see if they think they can take care of it. Ask for their different options; you may also want to check out some reviews of the company.


Keep in mind that hiring an upholstery cleaning company can be quite expensive. It can cost almost as much to clean your furniture as to get new stuff.