 Measure 1 to 2 tablespoons (5 to 10 g) of coffee beans into the mortar. Cover the top of the mortar with one hand to stop the beans from jumping out. With your other hand, swirl the pestle around to mash the beans. After five seconds, pull out the pestle and bring it down in a vertical motion to hammer the beans.Repeat the swirling and hammering until you achieve the desired consistency.
Only grind small quantities of beans at a time in the pestle and mortar. This will ensure the most consistent grind.
A pestle and mortar will produce anything from a coarse to an super fine grind.
 Place the beans on a large wooden cutting board. Take a large butcher knife and lay the blade flat against the beans. Lay your open palm against the flat top of the blade and apply pressure to crack the beans. Once the beans have cracked, carefully slide the knife toward you. Continue applying pressure to grind the beans finer.Using this method, you'll be able to achieve a medium or medium-fine grind.
 Measure your coffee beans and transfer them to a thick plastic freezer bag. Seal the bag and place it on a flat surface. Shake the beans around so they're in a single layer. With gentle force, bring the rolling pin down onto the beans like a hammer to crack them. Once cracked, apply pressure and roll the rolling pin back and forth until you get the right grind.You can also place the beans between sheets of parchment paper if you don’t have a freezer bag at your disposal.
Using the rolling pin will result in a medium fine to fine grind.
 Place the beans between two pieces of parchment paper, or into a sealed freezer bag. Lay the bag on a towel on a flat surface and spread the beans out so they're in an even layer. Use moderate and consistent strokes to bring the hammer down on the beans to crush them. Keep hammering until you have a coarse to medium consistency.


You can grind beans like this using a hammer, meat tenderizer, or mallet., A hand mincer is a manual grinder that can be used to mince meat, make pasta, or grind just about anything, including coffee. Measure the beans and pour them into the grinder. Turn the crank arm with your hand in a clockwise direction to process the beans. To achieve a finer grind, collect the ground beans and run them through the grinder again.