 Ask who teaches color guard at your school. Talk to him or her about how to join the team or what’s involved in the sport.


Ask questions of the director, like what is involved in the audition process, or what the team’s practice schedule is like.
It’s also a good idea to watch color guard practices and performances to see what it’s like, or talk to other people already on the team about their experiences.
Someone leading a color guard may also be called a caption head, or be involved with “auxiliary,” which can refer to all visual elements of a marching band, including color guard as well as dance teams, baton twirlers, etc., Look out for posters or announcements regarding auditions for the color guard. Pay attention to the time, date, and what’s required.


Auditions may require you to show off different skills, depending on whether they have a flag line, rifle line, saber line, etc. Ask what you’ll be expected to display, or if you can audition for a certain type of equipment.
Make sure you know if you’re required to bring any of your own equipment or other items so you can come prepared.
Auditions may very often involve an instructor teaching you a new skill that you may not know. Be prepared to listen closely and ask questions so you can pick up the skill. The instructor and any other judges won’t be looking for perfection, just that you are able to take instruction well.
 Keep up with the new skills you learn from the team or on your own so that you can improve from season to season. You can practice on your own, or get a group together, even when the season isn’t in session.


If you don’t make the cut in an audition, continue to practice basic skills on your own. Seek out instruction videos on the internet, or ask a friend or instructor to give you some tips in their spare time.
Keep practicing your skills throughout the winter to stay sharp for when color guard practice starts up for the next season unless your school has a winter guard to join to keep practicing and performing.
 Ask the instructor that leads color guard about winter guard. Check for any information your school distributes about joining this off-season team.


Join winter guard as a way to continue to improve your skills throughout the season, as well as get the chance to perform in competitions dedicated to the sport.
Winter guard may be done with pre-recorded music, or with a live indoor percussion group, instead of a full marching band at outdoor events.