 Any time you do not need to access your snake, keep its cage or tank closed and locked. The room that you keep the cage in should also be sealed.Be certain there are no places where the snake could get into the walls or building structure. Be sure there are no openings large enough for the snake to escape the room, should it get out of it's cage.
Keep the room free of clutter to make the snake easier to find, should it get out of its tank.
Make sure there is a light right by the door of the room so you never have to cross the room in darkness. Keep your handling tools by the door as well.
Keep all other pets out of the area at all times., Different snakes have different requirements regarding heat and humidity. Depending on the breed of your snake, you may need to purchase heat lamps, space heaters, or humidifiers to make sure your snake is healthy and comfortable.

Gaboon vipers, for example, must be kept at temperatures ranging from the mid 70s to the high 80s, Fahrenheit. Their enclosures should be sprayed regularly to create proper humidity.Some snakes, like the Banded Rock Rattlesnake, require an annual hibernation period, during which the temperature in the room must be lowered into the 50s and lighting must be reduced.Make sure you are equipped to care for the needs of your snake by creating a healthy environment.
 Like any animal that lives in a cage, a venomous snake will need its home cleaned periodically. This is most easily achieved by moving it temporarily to a separate tank or cage so you can clean without disturbing or provoking it.Depending on the type of snake, a thorough cleaning is usually needed at least three or four times a year, but keep an eye on cage conditions and make this determination for yourself.
 All venomous snakes are carnivores. Most should be fed live food, such as mice, rats, insects, or amphibians, depending on the variety of snake.Research the specific species you have purchased to determine how much to feed it and how often.


Never feed a snake by hand. Lower the food in using tongs.Some snakes are fed as seldom as every two weeks.Make sure your snake has access to water at all times. The water should be changed regularly (i.e. every two or three days)., Different varieties of snakes are susceptible to different diseases. When you research your snake, make sure to pay attention to which diseases are common and how you can detect them.


Reduced appetite and slower than normal movements are often a sign your snake is ill.