 Some more advanced rowing machines may have a damper lever – look next to the flywheel. If the setting is too high, your muscles will exhaust too quickly and you won't get in an efficient workout.At the same time, you don't want the setting to be too low or you won't have a good workout. Aim for a middle-of-the-road setting where you can feel some resistance as you row, but aren't struggling with each stroke.
If you're new to indoor rowing, this may take a little trial and error before you find the best setting for you.
Keep in mind that as you get more practice rowing, you may want to set the damper to a higher level to increase the resistance.;
, The foot straps on a rowing machine should be secure across the ball of your foot. If your feet aren't in the straps properly, this will mean your legs aren't in the right position. If your legs are in the wrong position, you could end up with an awkward and inefficient stroke.If the strap isn't in the correct place, you may need to adjust the foot rests up or down a few pegs so the strap goes across the balls of your feet.
It may take some trial and error to get the foot rests and foot straps right, especially if you don't have much experience on a rowing machine. Complete a few slow strokes to make sure it feels okay and you're able to take a full stroke.
 Squeezing the handles tightly can cause you to crunch your wrists. Use an overhand grip, and wrap your fingers lightly around the handles while keeping your wrists straight and flat.Throughout your stroke, your wrists should be straight and flat, not curled. Extend your arms in front of you to start each stroke, then pull back from your elbows and upper arms.
 Maintaining good posture on the rowing machine is essential for engaging all muscle groups and avoiding injury. Keep your back straight even as you pull forward into your stroke.Engage your core to help improve your posture, especially if you're accustomed to hunching over a computer all day at work.
You'll also want to avoid the impulse to hunch your shoulders or slouch over your legs when you're pulled forward.
Make sure your back is aligned and your shoulders are flat and relaxed, not pulling up or forward. Push forward through your feet, extending your legs and keeping your shoulders relaxed. When you start the next stroke, pull your arms forward in front of you, keeping your shoulders in the same place.
 While you may be tempted to do all the movements involved in rowing at once, it really is a three-step process. To perfect your form, you should do each movement in the correct sequence.When you try to do all the movements in a stroke at once, you can put unnecessary strain on your upper body, which can lead to injury.
When you first start rowing, focus on pushing with your legs first, without moving your arms.
Get a good rhythm with your legs, then pull your arms back at the elbow. Your body should be leaned back slightly, with your wrists at your sides about where the bottom of a sports bra would be or where the bar would be when you bench press.
Get your arms engaged, keeping your back neutral and engaging the core to get all muscle groups working together.
Isolating movements not only can help you perfect your stroke, it also makes an effective warm-up. Do "pick drills" where you just use your legs for 15 to 20 strokes, then just use your arms for 15 to 20 strokes to warm up your muscles before getting into a more intense rowing workout., Rowing is meant to be a low-impact form of exercise, but that won't be the case if you're pushing your legs out too quickly, jerking around awkwardly, or banging your rear end into your heels with every stroke.Focus more energy into the start of each stroke, when your legs are pushing. The back half of the stroke should be more relaxed. Control your movements rather than trying to complete your stroke as quickly as possible.
Your upper body and lower body should be moving together smoothly. Engage your core to keep your upper and lower body working together. If you push too hard or go too fast with your legs, you'll have to jerk your upper body forward to keep up, which can lead to injury and drastically decreases the efficiency of your stroke.
 Using intervals is one of the quickest ways to build muscle while also burning significant numbers of calories. You decrease your total workout time by working out at maximum intensity in short bursts.For example, you might row a specified distance in one minute – start with 200 meters, then work your way up to further distances once it gets easier for you.
After you complete that distance, rest for one minute with slower rowing or an interval of another exercise or stretching.
Then do another one-minute interval of rowing, followed by a minute of rest. Keep up this rotation for 20 minutes, and you're done.
 Your rowing machine doesn't just have to be for rowing. You also can use the machine to increase the intensity and difficulty of body-weight exercises to build strength in multiple muscle groups. You can alternate these exercises in intervals with rowing.To do corkscrew crunches, sit on the rower seat and straighten your legs in front of you. Strap in your right foot, allowing your left foot to hover over the strap. Place your hands behind your head with your elbows out to the start and lean back about 45 degrees. Then raise and rotate your torso as you raise your left knee, bringing your right elbow to meet your left knee. Release to the starting position and repeat. Do 10 repetitions in a set, then switch sides.
Another exercise you can do using the rowing machine is a plank pike. Face away from the rowing machine in plank position with your palms flat on the floor behind the machine and your feet on the seat. Lift your hips and pull your feet toward your hands, then lower. Do two to three sets of 10 repetitions.
You also might try elevated climbers. Push the seat up to the front of the machine, then get in plank position perpendicular to the machine with your feet on the rail. Slowly pull your right knee to your chest, then return to the starting position. Switch and do your left knee to complete the repetition, then do an entire set of 10 repetitions.
 Going at maximum speed and intensity for 30 seconds to a minute, followed by briefer rest periods, will quickly fatigue your muscles and can help you get a better total-body workout in a shorter overall period of time.You may have heard of high-intensity interval training (HIIT). You can use the same principles for your rowing machine workout. This may be especially valuable if you have limited time each day to exercise.
Before you start high-intensity intervals, make sure you've perfected your form. Going at sprint speeds with poor form can overstrain muscles and lead to injury.
Warm up your body with easy rowing for 5 to 10 minutes before you begin sprint intervals. Sprint for 30 seconds at your maximum effort, then rest for 30 seconds. Complete 5 to 10 repetitions of this rotation.
 If you're doing brief one- or two-minute intervals, focus on the distance you're rowing. If you start by rowing 200 meters in one minute, pay attention to how your body feels. Increase the distance as that distance becomes easier to complete in the allotted time.While you don't want to completely wipe yourself out, particularly if you're doing several intervals, you should generally aim to increase the distance by 25 to 50 meters every couple of weeks.
Avoid setting your distance higher than you can accomplish with good form. Remember that strong form is the key to an efficient total-body rowing workout.
 There are several options available for indoor rowing machines. Some of them can get pretty pricey, but you don't necessarily have to invest a lot of money to get a good machine, especially if you're just starting out.If you're on a budget, look for hydraulic rowing machines, which get their tension from compressed air. However, keep in mind that these machines don't allow you to pull in a straight line, so you'll be unable to synchronize your upper and lower body. While they are economical machines, your workout may not be as efficient as with other machines.
Flywheel machines feel most similar to outdoor rowing, and allow you to perform a more natural rowing stroke. These machines are more expensive than hydraulic machines, and are most frequently found in gyms and fitness centers.
You also may want to look at magnetic resistance rowers, which make virtually no sound. This can be a benefit if you're working out at home and need to be able to hear what's going on around you.
 If you want to buy an indoor rowing machine to use at home and you don't have a dedicated fitness room, space may be your primary concern when choosing the rower you want to buy.Hydraulic machines typically take up the least amount of floor space, and you may be able to find a model that folds up for easier storage.
 If you have limited experience on a rowing machine, the best way to decide which machine is right for you is to try them all out. There may be one that just feels more comfortable to you, even if it's not the most popular brand or type of rower.While budgetary or space constraints may figure prominently into your overall decision, if you can't find a rowing machine that meets those requirements while also allowing you to complete repeated strokes comfortably, it may be better for you to wait rather than spending money on an exercise machine that doesn't fully meet your needs.
If the rowing machine you like the best happens to be out of your price range, it might be more economical to join a gym or health club that has those particular rowers. You typically can call different gyms and find out what kind of rowers they use.
 Since most gyms have several rowing machines, a gym membership may fit into your budget better than buying your own machine would. In addition, you'll probably get to use a better quality machine that you won't have to upgrade once your fitness level increases.Having trainers or others around with experience can help you tweak your form and get the most out of the rowing machines.
You also might consider joining a rowing class that meets once or twice a week. Many of these classes operate on intervals, giving you more intense training that you can carry over into your workout sessions at other times during the week.

