 Mineshafter is a free alternative to the pay-for-service Minecraft online feature.To download the Mineshafter launcher and Java, which is necessary to run Mineshafter, visit the Mineshafter downloads page at http://mineshafter.info. Download both Mineshafter and Java if necessary.


Mineshafter cannot connect to official Minecraft servers, only open servers. Additionally, on servers running version 1.8 or higher, your skin will not be applied.;
, As with most software developed by a third party, you will have to initiate and approve the installation of your new software. Run the launcher for Mineshafter and Java by opening your download history in your browser. Click, "Show in Folder" or "Access File Location" to open the folder containing the software. Double click to launch the program and follow the prompts to install.


Your browser options dropdown menu can be accessed in most browsers by clicking a button usually located in the top left or top right corner of your browser.
 There are many websites you can visit to find different varieties of skins for your Minecraft character. An internet search of "Minecraft skins" should give you a list of websites that you can evaluate yourself in terms of acceptability. Otherwise, you can use a skin editor to make your own.


Two popular sites among users are the Skindex at www.minecraftskins.com and Novaskin at minecraft.novaskin.me. Select the skin you desire and download it to your computer.
 A free online service utilized by many Mineshafters is called TinyPic and can be accessed at tinypic.com. This site will convert your file into the format necessary to apply your skin. Click "Choose File," and from the file directory select the skin you have downloaded. Click "Upload Now."


If this prompts captcha text, you will have to type a message written in irregular font to discern yourself as a human user.
 There will be several boxes, each with a line of code that represents your converted file. Of the options, the one that ends in .png is the one you will need for your skin.
 This is required whether you buy the official version of Minecraft or you use the free Mineshafter service. You will need a Minecraft account for your Mineshafter character. Creating the account is free, and can be completed from the Minecraft home page by clicking the "Register" button., Return to the the Mineshafter homepage at http://mineshafter.info, and select the login button. This will prompt a dialog box asking you to input your email address to login. Do so to continue to your settings page, where you will upload your skin.
 Once you have logged in to Mineshafter, click on the settings tab from the options at the top of your browser window. Now you can input your account information and your skin .png file(s).
 Under the heading "Pick a username," type the name you plan to use in game exactly as you intend it to be and click "Save." Now you can paste your skin .png file, or even a cloak .png file if you have one.


Be sure to click "Save" after completing the appropriate boxes.
 You can access Mineshafter by double clicking the shortcut on your desktop. If there is no shortcut after you have downloaded and installed the launcher, access your Start menu and select "All Apps" or "All Programs." Mineshafter should be among the list. Click the program to launch the application.
 Be sure that your username exactly matches the one you already saved to the Mineshafter website, as it is case sensitive. The changes you have made on the Mineshafter site will be applied to your in-game character.


Keep in mind the two character models, Steve and Alex, have different properties. The Alex character model has arms one pixel thinner than the Steve model, but additional layers. As most skins fit the Steve model, this may be the best first choice when starting the game.

