 It might have been a long time since you last spoke to your ex. A lot of things may have changed for them, and you. Consider starting small, possibly via social media. Write your ex a direct message or email and mention the positive things that have happened to you since you last spoke. Try not to over do it; keep it small, simple and friendly. Give your ex the opportunity to be friendly back., If your ex answered back and seems interested in talking further, suggest meeting up somewhere you both enjoyed and has positive memories. Provide more than one idea and ask them what they’d prefer.If your ex is unavailable to meet in person, or maybe doesn’t live nearby, arrange to chat on the phone. Ask them what days and times they are available and give them a call. Planning it in advance avoids the possibility of not connecting due to busy schedules.For example, was there a specific coffee shop or restaurant you hung out at a lot with your ex that only has positive memories? Or maybe a park or bakery that has no history with you and your ex? Pick a location like this for a first meeting so that nothing about the location hinders your relationship moving forward.
If you and your ex tend to have a conflictual relationship but need to meet and talk, for example about your children, a public place can help encourage both of you to stay in control of your emotions.
Skype is an excellent way to stay in touch via long distances (or even short distances for that matter) that is inexpensive and easy. As long as both parties have a computer or tablet plus an internet connection, you’ll be able to use Skype. The nice thing about Skype is that you do not have to use the camera if you don’t want to.
 If you want to continue being friends with your ex, a thoughtful gesture can encourage them to think positively of you. Exactly what kind and thoughtful thing you do will be up to you, but it should be based on your personality and what you feel comfortable doing. Don’t go overboard and make your ex uncomfortable, but think of something that they would appreciate and enjoy. One option is to show that you remember something specific thing about them (e.g., a love for a certain chocolate bar only available in one store, a passion for a specific type of tea, etc.) which can show your ex you haven’t forgotten the good times.For example, maybe your ex really liked a specific craft beer only found in a few locations, or maybe they collect something like figurines or snow globes. Something inexpensive, simple, yet thoughtful like this would be a nice gesture to show you still remember many great things about your ex.
 You’ve initiated this contact for a reason. You’ve decided you want to form some type of relationship with your ex. Make sure you understand exactly what it is you want, and make that clear to your ex. If you’re only looking to be friends, make sure that is understood. If you’re looking to get back together, say so. If you do not want to contact your ex except when you have to discuss matters such as your children, let your ex know that too. Chances are your ex is wondering what you want, and may catch you off guard by asking. Be prepared with an answer.The best way to be clear about your own intentions is to have a goal. Determine exactly what it is that you want from your ex, and stick to that. If you want to get back together, be clear about that right up front. If you simply want to be friends, make sure your ex understands that right away. And if your ex asks you to settle for less than what you want, seriously consider walking away.
 Remember that there was a reason you broke up. Your ex may have experienced emotions from your break up that you never knew about or understood. You have to prepare yourself that your ex may react negatively to whatever you’re suggesting, even if you have nothing but good intentions. Don’t turn the rejection into a scene, and don’t do or say something you might regret later. Before you meet or talk to your ex, think about all the possible ways they may react -- both good and bad. Think about the reasons why your ex might have each of those reactions. Prepare your response to these possible reactions (in general) so you’re not taken by surprise when and if they actually happen.

