 If you do not have access to the Internet or simply prefer not to conduct this business online, you may make the change by telephone. This service is available Monday through Friday (except state holidays), from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.In Phoenix, call (602) 255-0072.
In Tucson, call (520) 629-9808.
Anywhere else in Arizona, call (800) 251-5866.
For hearing or speech impaired TDD service, in Phoenix, call (602) 712-3222.
For hearing or speech impaired TDD service anywhere else in Arizona, call (800) 324-5425.
 The first person to receive your call is designated a “Level One” operator. You need to tell the Level One operator that you are calling to change the address on your driver’s license or identification card. You will then be connected to someone who can help you with that specific transaction.Expect to wait on hold. If you call early in the morning, your wait time will likely be less than later in the day.
If you are calling late in the day, you risk not being able to complete your transaction. Calls that are placed on hold before 4:30 p.m. are guaranteed to be served by the end of the day.
 The next person to help you is a Level Two operator. This person has access to your computer records with the Department of Transportation. You will be asked to provide information to identify yourself as well as the information that you wish to change.You should have your driver’s license or identification card with you when you call.
You may also be asked for information about your car. If possible, have with you the license plate number and your car’s Vehicle Identification Number.
 You are not required to obtain a new card with your new address, but you may. If you wish to get a new card with the address printed on it, there is a fee of $12. If you wish to get a new card, you will need to give the operator your credit card information at this time.


Your new card, if you elect to receive one, should arrive in the mail at your new address within about seven business days.

