 Everyone — including guys — likes to hear that they've got good taste. Telling someone that the things they like are cool, fashionable, or intelligent is a subtle way of saying that they have these qualities. For this reason, it's almost always better to compliment the guy's choice rather than directly saying "You have good taste." Research shows that men are most likely to compliment a person's possessions.This indicates men may be most receptive to compliments that pertain to their possessions. Below are just a few topics you may want to use for compliments, along with examples:


Movies: "You have great taste in films. From now on, we're having movie night at your house!"
Music: "Hey, awesome shirt, man! That band rules."
Art: "That poster on your wall? Classic! Where do you find this stuff?"
Literature: "Hey, you have this book!? That's one of my favorites! Much respect."
Philosophy: "Wow, I never thought about things that way. You have some really great ideas."

, Guys love getting compliments about their skills, especially if the compliment is about something they've taught themselves or something they know how to do that few other people do. For a guy, the praise he gets for a skill he's learned is an added reward for putting in the time and effort necessary to master it.


Research suggests that when both men and women give compliments to men, they favor compliments of skill.For example, if your guy friend is working hard to teach himself guitar but struggling, you might want to make him feel good by complimenting him after one of his impromptu performances: "Wow! I've never heard "Wonderwall" played like that before. I like how rough and heartfelt you made it sound."

, Guys get scared just as easily as anyone else, but they're often reluctant to show it for fear of looking weak. This is no reason to avoid giving them a compliment for their bravery when they have to do something difficult — if they were afraid, they'll appreciate you having their back, and if they weren't afraid, they'll still appreciate that you thought what they did showed strong character.


Courage is a quality that is considered becoming of men. Studies show that complimenting these culturally scripted gender performances are essential to male friendship.For instance, if a guy recently had to deliver an important speech and you know that he usually has a difficult time with public speaking, you may want to offer a compliment like, "Congratulations on your big speech! I heard your Remember the Titans analogy really killed."

, By telling him you think he makes good choices, you're saying that you respect him.Everyone likes hearing that they made a smart decision; no one likes hearing that they made a dumb one. Complimenting a guy on a decision they recently made is a roundabout way of complimenting his instincts and intelligence. It can also help calm the nerves of someone who's still a little unsure that the path he chose was the right one.


For example, if a guy recently decided to accept a scholarship to pursue his passion of studying Polynesian art history, you might compliment him (and simultaneously reassure him) by focusing on the intelligence of his choice: "Wow. You're really taking the opportunity to chase your dream. Don't worry — I know it'll pan out for you."
Research on students shows that confidence impacts decisions of gendered persistence in academics., Complimenting a guy's sense of humor is an excellent way to boost his ego — best of all, it works whether you're seriously "into" him or you just view him as a friend. On its own, laughing at a guy's jokes is a harmless gesture of appreciation with no romantic implications. On the other hand, laughing while subtly making physical contact or moving close to him can signal your interest, making this a very versatile form of compliment.


Usually, the best way to compliment a guy's sense of humor is simply to laugh (with honest, genuine laughter) at what he says! If you'd like to, you can add your own small verbal compliments in between laughs, but this isn't necessary. You might try focusing on the way the humor makes you feel, like this: "Ha! Man, I really needed that laugh. Your Dane Cook impression always gets me."
Research suggests that complimenting a man's sense of humor does not generally cause a female partner to perceive the compliment as a relationship threat., Giving someone a compliment on his smarts is a great way to show that you appreciate him for more than just his surface qualities. As an added bonus, complimenting a guy for being smart can also be a small boost for yourself, depending on how you phrase your compliment — after all, it takes a smart person to recognize intelligence in another.


For example, if your guy friend is helping you with homework, you could simply say, "Wow, you're so smart," but there are more imaginative ways to say this that won't make you look like you're throwing up your hands and submitting to his superior intelligence. A better choice might be something like, "Wow, you really understand this material. I guess geometry isn't for squares after all!"
In some places, intelligence is more highly valued in men than physical attractiveness. It can be an indicator of social status and earning potential.