 It’s completely normal for the appearance of your vaginal discharge to vary slightly over the course of your menstrual cycle. Changes in the appearance of discharge occur because your vagina is responsible for a number of different functions. This includes cleaning itself, staying moist, and fighting off potential infections., Clear, sticky discharge is common and completely normal. It indicates that you’re currently in the ovulation stage of your menstrual cycle. This means that you have a higher chance of getting pregnant during this period., Check for this just before and after your period. Thick, creamy, and white-colored discharge is also completely normal. When it dries on the lining of your underwear, it can appear slightly yellowish in color., Normal monthly hormonal fluctuations during your menstrual cycle can trigger clear and watery discharge. You might experience a large amount after exercising. Don’t worry if you see this in your underwear., This is a result of your uterus shedding old blood and tissue. Although the color may look worrying, it should return to a normal white or clear color after a few days., Normal vaginal discharge should have little to no smell. However, you shouldn’t worry if you have a slight odor, especially after you’ve been sweating. If you haven’t been having periods long, get used to your normal odor before you hit the panic button., Check the diameter of the stain on your underwear. If it’s about the width of a quarter, 2-pence, or 2 € coin, it’s normal. The actual amount will vary depending on the stage of your menstrual cycle and the level of hormones your body is releasing. Expect this to happen everyday.Don’t panic if you notice more discharge during or after sexual arousal. This is your body’s way of preparing itself for penetration. It’s perfectly normal., That’s right. Women can ejaculate, too! When stimulated properly, your vagina can release a small amount of milky white discharge during orgasm. This is perfectly normal and usually indicates a very pleasurable experience.

Your vagina or urethra might also “squirt” a clear, watery fluid during orgasm. This is also perfectly normal, and all women can experience it. This kind of discharge is chemically similar to urine, but it’s not the same thing., The color, texture, and amount of your discharge will change over the course of your life. Any fluctuation in your hormone levels can trigger these changes. This includes puberty, pregnancy, childbirth, your sexual peak, menopause, and fluctuations caused by hormonal contraception., Look for foul odor, odd color, unusual thickness, or sudden changes in the quantity of your discharge. These are signs that you could have an infection. However, only a qualified doctor or nurse practitioner can give you a proper diagnosis and treatment plan., Cloudy, yellow discharge looks like nasal mucous from a cold. It may indicate that you have gonorrhea, especially if you experience burning during urination.If you’re not sexually active, it could be bacterial vaginosis (BV), especially if it’s accompanied by itching, burning, or a foul odor., If you’re not currently menstruating or taking hormonal contraception, bloody or brown discharge is usually abnormal. If you have brown discharge accompanied by pelvic pain, you could have endometriosis or a damaged reproductive organ. A number of other issues like menopause and (in rare cases) cervical cancer can also cause brown discharge.Brown spotting may also be an early sign of pregnancy due to the implantation of a fertilized egg in the uterus. If you’ve had unprotected sex recently and think you might be pregnant, buy a home pregnancy test or see a doctor.
If you experience pain with brown discharge, you might have an ectopic pregnancy, in which a fertilized egg grows in the fallopian tube. This is a potentially deadly situation that must be treated as soon as possible., This is a symptom of a sexually transmitted infection called trichomoniasis. It’s usually accompanied by a foul smell and pain during urination.Symptoms are most prevalent after your period., Thick, cheese-like discharge indicates a vaginal yeast infection. It usually comes with vaginal itching, swelling, and pain during sexual intercourse. You can develop a yeast infection whether you’re sexually active or abstinent., Grey discharge may indicate BV. The other main symptom is a fishy odor, especially after sex or during your period. Although BV can be sexually transmitted, any disruption in the normal bacteria of your vagina can trigger it., Do this especially if you’re unsure whether your vaginal discharge is normal or abnormal. Discomfort with abnormal discharge may indicate a vaginal infection. Call your doctor if you experience:


Pain or burning while urinating
Vaginal itching or swelling
Sores or rashes in your vaginal area
Pain during sexual intercourse
Pelvic pain not related to your period or premenstrual syndrome (PMS), Request a pelvic exam. This is especially important if the discharge is accompanied by other symptoms, which may indicate a serious infection that requires medical treatment.


The doctor will ask you a series of questions related to your symptoms. They’ll then conduct a pelvic exam, where they’ll examine your vagina and check for swelling, redness, irritation and the nature of the discharge. The doctor may also collect a sample of the discharge for testing., Follow the daily dosage. Set a reminder on your phone if you need to take your medication throughout the day. If your doctor tells you to take your meds for two weeks, take them for two weeks. Don’t think you’re cured if your discharge returns to normal or the odor goes away before the two weeks is up., Wash daily with unscented soap and water. To be extra safe, wash your perineum (the skin between your vagina and anus), as well. This will prevent harmful bacteria from traveling to your vagina. Avoid using any scented soaps or bubble baths. These can disrupt the delicate pH balance of the vagina., Your body has its own system for staying clean. This includes naturally occurring, healthy bacteria. Douching can kill these bacteria. It can also throw off your normal vaginal pH. Douching can increase the pH and cause harmful bacteria to grow., These products are sold as sprays and powders. They can cause BV by disrupting the natural balance between “good” and “bad” bacteria.This imbalance can also cause yeast infections.You should also avoid scented tampons and sanitary napkins. Choose unscented, chemical-free menstrual supplies.
 Do this after urinating and especially after defecating. Your vagina is coated with delicate mucous membranes. Bacteria from your anus can easily cause an infection if it’s introduced into your vagina., Cotton is a natural material that allows air to circulate. It also prevents moisture build-up, which is a major trigger for yeast infections. Avoid thongs and synthetic materials with cotton crotches. Don’t wear your underwear to bed., They prevent airflow and cause moisture to accumulate. Choose clothing that gives you some room between the fabric and your vulva., Bathing suits are often tight and made of synthetic materials. Throw in the added moisture from the water you were swimming in, and you have the perfect recipe for an infection. When you know you’re finished swimming for the day, ditch the bathing suit immediately and hit the shower., Use only latex condoms. They form an effective barrier against infections. Avoid lambskin condoms, which are porous enough to let some harmful microorganisms through. Hormonal contraception, diaphragms, and foam prevent pregnancy, but they don’t prevent diseases.