 Some popular ones include My Math Forumand S.O.S Math., Math forums will have boards on a variety of math topics, but most should have a section devoted to algebra. You can view posts without joining a board to get a sense of whether the community is helpful and productive.


Look for active boards with a high membership. The best boards will have new posts and replies every day. If a board does not seem to be very active, you will likely not receive much help with your questions.
 Registration is usually free. You cannot post on a message board until you register for an account.
 Most forums will have a message board for new users where you can introduce yourself to the community and learn about any rules about participating in the community.If not, spend some time reading through the forums so you can get a feel for the general rules and etiquette other members follow.
 LaTeX is a system for formatting text that allows you to incorporate math symbols into your documents or posts.Using LaTeX code in your post will allow you to format your algebra problems in a reader-friendly way.
 The best way to learn algebra is to first try problems on your own. In a forum it is helpful to post the problem, explain the steps you took to solve it, and what your answer was. This way community members can help you see where you went wrong in the process.
 Make sure you post your question in the appropriate subforum, and that you give your post a clear title. Ensure you have used correct grammar, and that you have typed any math equations correctly.
 Part of keeping a forum community helpful and productive is to show courtesy and appreciation to other members. When others help you answer your question, thank them. Also feel free to politely point out when others have not answered your question, so that they may reply more thoroughly or other community members may chip in to the discussion.
 Another way to keep a community successful is to return the favor. Once you have received help with your math problem, browse the boards to see if you can offer help to another user.

