 Keeping your browser up to date ensures the latest security fixes are active while you browse the web. Many modern browsers will update themselves in the background as they become available.


Chrome users can go to “Menu > Settings > About” to update. Chrome will also flag suspicious files when they are downloaded with a prompt if you want to keep it. If you are ever unsure, choose “Discard”.
Firefox users can go to “☰ > ? > About Firefox” to update.
Safari users can update by opening the App Store and clicking the "Update" tab.
Microsoft will now update Internet Explorer/Edge automatically. Those using an OS older than Windows 10 can go to “Control Panel > Windows Update” to download the latest updates for Windows and Internet Explorer.;
, Updating your OS ensures that you have the latest security fixes for your device. Although this is not a foolproof solution to risky downloads, it will help secure your computer against potentially malicious files.


Android users can go to “Settings > About > System Updates” to check for the latest software available for the device. Keep in mind that availability of system updates can vary depending on the mobile carrier and age of the device.
iOS users can go to “Settings > General > Software Update” to check for the latest software. Older devices may not be compatible with the latest OS updates.
Mac OS users can open the “App Store” and select the “Updates” tab. On older versions, or if the App Store is unavailable, you can also go to “Apple Menu > Software Update”.
Windows 10 downloads and installs updates automatically (this feature can’t be disabled). Users of older versions can go to “Control Panel > Windows Update”.
 Torrent sites are a tempting resource for videos, but can often contain malicious files. Furthermore, you can never really be sure if the file you are downloading is what it says it is until you open it.


If you choose to use file-sharing programs, make sure you have a virus scanner installed to check your files before you open them.
 There are many choices for video downloader programs. Look for well rated and highly downloaded applications. Open source software is often a safe bet.


Most programs that are open source will mention it on their product page.
If you use a browser that supports extensions, such as Chrome, use the “store” to search for free downloader extensions. These will often have a collection of ratings of quality and popularity and their installation is limited to your browser environment.
 The most reputable sources for videos, such as the iTunes store, Play Store, or Amazon will cost money. If you want to download from free sites, use well-recognized names like YouTube or Vimeo.



Downloading videos from YouTube is a relatively safe bet, since it is unlikely to be carrying malware and you can view any video before you download it. You should use greater caution when acquiring a downloader program. Make sure the source of the download is reliable, and that the software itself is reputable.
Some sites that sell TV/Movies also sometimes have free offerings. For example Google Play has a number of episodes (and sometimes full movies) offered for free. You will need a Google account to watch, and they can be downloaded to a mobile device with the Google Movies] App.
Browsers like Firefox and Chrome will block sites that are known to carry malware. You will see a full-page notification when this happens.
If you are on the fence about a site’s reliability, do a little preliminary research on Google.

