 Whether you're going to have a sit-down meal or a buffet with little snacks and a snack table, you have tons of options as to what to make. The Harry Potter world is full of fun and interesting foods that you can both purchase or create. You can try buying Ferrero Rochers and tape some wings to the gold foil, while taking of the stickers, for snitches.


There are several Harry Potter brand snacks on the market today. Some include: Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans, Chocolate Frogs, Wizard Cards, Cockroach Clusters, Jelly Slugs, Blood Pops, and Acid Pops. You can place these candies into a wooden bowl for everyone to share or put them in individual take-home bags can make for a fun treat.
It may also be fun to make your own food from the Harry Potter world. For example, you could make Harry’s 11th birthday cake from Hagrid.For drinks, make the classic party punch with lime green sherbet and Sprite. You can also place an orange colored juice into goblet-style containers for a "goblet of pumpkin juice" effect.
 Butterbeer is served at The Three Broomsticks and The Hog’s Head in Hogsmeade. You can make it easily at home by following a simple recipe.If you want to make butterbeer that’s closest to the one served at the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, you can combine brown sugar, water butter, salt, cider vinegar, heavy cream, rum abstract, and cream soda. You’ll boil the ingredients together and top off with cream soda.
Butterbeer is served in steins, so you’ll want to have fun glasses to serve it in. You can buy official steins with “Butterbeer” on them, but you can also just use your own frosted steins.
For adult parties, you can spike the butterbeer. Including vanilla vodka or butterscotch schnapps can maintain the butterbeer flavor while making it alcoholic., For dessert, you could create or buy pastries and place them on a cart or side table to re-create the feel of snacks on the Hogwarts Express train. Any British inspired entrée or decadent dessert would create the feel of a Hogwarts feast.Harry Potter desserts come in all shapes and sizes. You can make a Gryffindor Fruit Trifle, as well as a Hermione’s chocolate toads.
Using a cart to bring out the desserts can be a fun way to replicate the Hogwarts Express train. If you want to make more traditional pastries and desserts, this can be a way to theme them to fit your party.

