 Often algebra will receive more assignments from the district math consultants (they're not strictly supervisors, but advisers of sorts) as some kind of academic math coordinators, or services persons.



Realize that the district produced scope and sequence usually does not go straight through the book and has extra assignments, that may not need.
,, Introduce the topic, demonstrate, use student centered guided practice in classroom work sessions; perhaps using groups may work for you.
 Review and reteach a little bit each day, which can be woven into the introduction of each days topic; perhaps, you use a strategy somewhat like the following:


"As we saw yesterday this is _____ and recently this was ____ like ____". and then:
"Today we are extending those ideas into _____". "For example: _______..."
"We'll do some guided practice; now here is that assignment: ____."
"You will get into groups for this ____." (sometimes for appropriately complex kinds of work, such as to: produce a pattern, a sketch, a chart, list of x,y data a co-ordinates, a description, an expression, or an equation, a relation, or a function, etc.).
 While the text is an important tool and reference, you'll want to "unlock the topic" and teach the students through your own knowledge of the subject, using the book for some materials, lessons and as a guide, source of many problems and exercises for assignments.
 Use some special real world activity for each unit which may gather data, sometimes surveying or doing some kinds of experiments.
,,, Say that:


"It helps you have options/choices in life, including college. You have to take one or two math courses for almost any degree in college."
"It is needed in the military to pass tests for technical work."

"You never know whether you will end up in some kind of technical work where math is needed."


"You will need math to help your children and grandchildren with their school lessons."
"Math describes the real world with stunning accuracy using repeatable methods. In the words of Galileo, 'Mathematics is the language with which God has written the universe.'"
"Math is fundamentally the study of patterns, many of which are beautiful in themselves. Sometimes, math is useful much as art is useful.
 Some small extra credit homework system may help.
 Math needs to not only be abstract, but practical. Engage students in learning by providing manipulative activities that get students moving about, or manipulating math objects.


Use a classroom “algebra-football field” to have the students walk through to explain the movements on a number line and for graphing of positive and negative integers (zero at what would usually be the 50 yard line) or make quadrants, with (0,0) at the origin, etc.
Get someone to demo a graph, by shaping the arms, or tilting their arms to show slope. At the front of the room, so that some do not see it backward.
 Make students accountable by testing as needed and as required by the school district and by the state. Also, occasionally use some short quizzes.
, or the "I got it!" Also, praise positive actions saying, "This is so cool! It's great. Hey, everybody is on task, being productive, practicing!


Keep being enthusiastic and showing joy about the students and math: "Yeah, you got it" "All right!" "Yeah!"
Be on! Be kind, and cleverly clap and say "Wow!" about the class getting it. Let students see, hear and believe that math is especially cool, exciting and fun -- to you (don't ever act like you're a substitute teacher, going through the motions. Do "not" say that you are "bored, hating school, or dull").

Represent, sale and promote school and the subject.
 Tell them that you will decide questions about rules, but that you try to be consistent and fair.;
, Restrict hall passes to urgent use, not for going to lockers and such.


Teach management processes as they come up, such as: how group-work is conducted, papers are to show work, papers are to be headed and turned in, and so on -- all these are procedures, not rules.
,


Use a visual check at a glance that proves that the calculators are all there. Just keeping them in an ordinary box is not effective.

One system is a hanging set of shallow pockets so that the screen shows above the pocket (this can be ordered on the internet) where the calculator covers are removed and put away, or someone may swipe calculators and leave only the covers, and it is not obvious at a glance.
Another system is a box with 30 to 40 numbered slots.
 Involve the students in math. That also means no free time and no free class periods in general.


You can have an in class math project (perhaps in groups) with gathering data and posters for exhibit, for something "fun" and engaging.

