 If the obituary listed the funeral home but not the place of burial, try contacting the funeral home. Many funeral homes keep their own records, and the staff may be able to tell you where the person is buried.In fact, if you know the city of death but not much more, you can try calling funeral homes in the area.
Start with the better-known ones and work your way down.
 Again, family members can be a vital source of information. They may be able to tell you outright where the person was buried, as well as show you where the grave is. If you're not a family member yourself, this step may be one of the best ways to find the grave, especially if you can explain why you're searching for it, such as for research purposes., You can use social media to visually represent what you need to find. For instance, post a picture of the person, along with the information you have about him or her. Note that you would like to find that person's grave, and that you are asking for any relevant information. Ask that people share the post with their friends.


Make sure to make it a public post so that it can be shared outside of your page. This process can help you fill in blanks, and it is sometimes known as crowdsourcing information., These websites are designed to help you find out about your personal history. They can help you locate a person's grave, and they may even have pictures uploaded of the grave site, as many people are devoted to documenting cemeteries. Find a Grave, Ancestral Findings, and Cemetery Search are all resources you can try.,, Some states have websites dedicated to finding graves in the state, though they are often private-run, not government-funded. These websites may have more extensive information than national websites. You'll still need information, such as the date of death, the date of birth, and the person's name, to search these websites.New information is being added all the time, so if you don't find what you're looking for, try back in a few months. Many volunteers go out and take pictures of graves to add information to databases., If you can't find information, one way to locate people is to look at family plots. You may stumble on the grave you're looking for just by looking in the same area where family members are buried., Many veterans choose to be buried in a national cemetery. The VA keeps track of where those veterans are buried. You can search for a person in a particular cemetery or in all the national cemeteries. You'll need the person's full name, the birth date, and the death date for best results., Once you've located the cemetery where the person is buried, you can search for it online. Many cemeteries have maps of the graves online, making it easier to locate the person you're looking for. Some cities also maintain maps of their cemeteries, so you may be able to locate the grave through the city.If the cemetery doesn't have a web presence other than a phone number, try calling them and asking about the location of the gravestone.


Also, even if you don't call to find the location, call the cemetery before visiting in person to confirm that the person's grave is located on cemetery grounds. Ask for the grounds keeper or administrator's office, which is usually open Monday through Friday during business hours only.
Ask for a map to the person's grave site when you arrive. Cemeteries keep detailed records of who is buried in which plots.

