 If you want to be true to the name "boyfriend jeans," then you want to wear a pair of jeans that look like they could have been borrowed from your boyfriend -- which means they probably weren't his newest, shiniest-looking pair. Whether they're frayed, faded, or have a few tears, the jeans should look a bit worn, even if you just bought them an hour ago.Don't go overboard with this. Your jeans can look slightly worn without appearing messy, really old, or just generally looking like they need to be donated or thrown out ASAP.;
, Though the boyfriend jeans are meant to look a bit big and like they could have belonged to a man, they shouldn't actually be made to fit a man's body. If you buy a pair of men's pants, they'll be too baggy, too big around the waist, and they won't have the same flattering cut around the front and back.


Make sure to resist the temptation to actually wear a pair of men's pants and to invest in -- or borrow -- a pair of women's boyfriend jeans instead.
 Though boyfriend jeans are usually low-waisted, you can also buy a mid-to-high waisted version of these jeans. The kind of cut that is best for you depends on your body type. If you carry extra weight around your middle, then you should stick to mid- or high- waisted jeans to avoid getting a "muffin top" look. But if your figure is relatively straight and you're on the thin side, then low-waisted jeans can help give your body the appearance of more curves and definition.Though the pants are made to look a bit big and worn, that does not mean that they shouldn't fit you correctly. The right pair of boyfriend jeans should fit you around the waist, whether it's low-cut, mid-cut, or high-cut.
The jeans should be loose around your legs, but not so baggy that your figure is lost in them.
 You can find boyfriend jeans in a variety of washes, from very light blue to very dark denim. Most often, a darker wash is dressier and a bit more formal than a lighter wash. Darker jeans are better for more formal events, and may suit older women a bit better as well.


Darker jeans also call less attention to themselves and bring more attention to your upper body.
But if you want to have fun with a light pair of jeans, more power to you.
 You won't be able to spot a high-quality pair of boyfriend jeans just by their price tag. Unfortunately, a lot of trendy or more expensive brands can slap a high price tag on a pair of trendy jeans of inferior quality. So how do you spot a good pair of boyfriend jeans? Try these methods:


Check out the strength of the stitching. The stitching on a good pair of jeans is done with sturdy and thick thread.
Check out the texture of the fabric. High-quality denim is heavy and strong. Though you may love a pair of jeans with light fabric, chances are, the jeans are not made of high-quality material.
 Some boyfriend jeans can be bought cuffed, or you can cuff your own jeans. You can cuff a pair of long jeans so they are the length of normal jeans, or you can cuff a pair of normal jeans so that they fall 3/4 down your calf, exposing your ankle and the area above it. The cuffed jeans make for a fun and exciting look.
 Boyfriend jeans are popularly worn with a belt. Though they should fit you around the waist, a belt can help secure the jeans and can also help tie your look together. Though there's no one wrong or right type of belt to wear with the jeans, here are some things to keep in mind:


Your belt should match your shoes. It doesn't have to be the same exact color of the shows, but it shouldn't clash with them, either. If you have brown shoes, for example, your belt should be in the spectrum of brown, not black.
A brown belt is a go-to with this type of jeans. Opt for a thinner belt for a dressier look or wear a thicker belt for a more fun look.
If your belly will be exposed, wearing a belt will draw more attention to your midriff.

