 Quickly grab a clean cloth, towel, or piece of gauze, and apply it gently to the wounded region. Hold it there until the bleeding begins to slow, a small scrape or wound takes 25 to 30 seconds to clot, while a larger wound will take longer. During this process, if the towel or gauze becomes soaked with blood, place another absorptive layer on top of it. Do not remove the first layer of saturated gauze, as this will rip off the forming scab and re-open the wound. To remove the first layer of gauze or cloth attached to a wound, pour sterile water on the gauze as it lays on the wound so you will not cause it to start bleeding again.Always wash your hands before providing first aid, especially when dealing with an open wound. If you have nitrile medical gloves available, put these on before beginning the first aid.;
, You’ll need to hold a towel or gauze in place for a few minutes to fully stop the bleeding. In the case of a minor scratch or scrape, bleeding will normally stop not long after the cut is sustained., Once the bleeding has stopped, you will need to clean out any residual dirt or debris from the small wound. Using a pair of tweezers, gently extract any small stones or pieces of soil that may be stuck in the exposed flesh.It’s okay to leave specks of dirt in the wound at this point, as they’ll be rinsed out when you pour water on the wound.
 Now that the wound is free of dirt and debris, your next priority is to clean the wounded area. If you’re near a house or building, you can use the water from a faucet or hose. If not, rinse the wound with clean water from a water bottle. Running water over the area for 5-10 minutes will remove any lingering dirt or bacteria.Never apply any antibiotic until the wound is cleaned out.
If you have them, use soap and water to better clean the wound.
 This cream will kill any bacteria that may have gotten in the wound, and help the wound to scab and heal more quickly. The cream will also seal the wound, making it airtight. Common brands of antibiotic creams include Neosporin, Polysporin, A & D ointment or Bacitracin.Do not put rubbing alcohol, hydrogen peroxide or iodine on an open wound. These antiseptics are very caustic and will burn the wound, causing pain, delaying healing and increasing scarring.

