 Questions about your previous job are more about you than about your former employer. The interviewer is trying to gauge your skills and professionalism, not the virtues or vices of your previous boss. The goal of any answer about a previous job should be to make yourself look good, not your previous position look bad.


Answer questions about previous jobs by discussing your accomplishments in those positions. Consider key phrases from the description of the job for which your interviewing, such as "strong supervisory skills," and consider how you can frame your experience in your previous job to emphasize that you have what it takes for the new position.
Whenever possible, go beyond buzzwords and give examples from your previous job. Pivot from a generality, such as "self motivated," by saying, "I know you've probably heard that before, so let me give you an example." Then have a brief two-to-four sentence anecdote from a previous job prepared that demonstrates your self motivation.;
, It's not a good idea to be negative in a job interview about anything, and that's especially true when it comes to discussing your former employer. An interviewee badmouthing his or her former employer raises a red flag in most Human Resource departments.You should cast even the worst previous employment experience in a positive light.


Negativity raises questions about you, not your previous job. If you say bad things about your old boss, the interviewer will wonder: 1) what the other side of the story is, 2) whether you will be a "whiner" or a "complainer" in your new job if they hire you, and 3) if you will speak ill of them if you eventually leave their employ. Ultimately, speaking ill of your previous employer just makes you look unprofessional.
No mater how much you disliked your old job, find something positive to say about it. Think of the office environment, training seminars, break room, flexible hours or anything else that appealed to you. Make the positive aspects of your old job the focus of your answer.
 The one time that it's okay to say something less-than-positive about your previous position is in comparing your fit for your previous job with your fit for the one for which you're interviewing.


If, for instance, you were promised an exciting, challenging position at your last job and instead found yourself in a boring, repetitive desk job, you may want to mention this to the interviewer. Make sure that your description of your old job draws out the distinctions between that position and the one for which you're interviewing.
More generally, it's okay to tell an interviewer your old job was a bad fit because you wanted more of a challenge, wanted more or different responsibilities, or wanted more opportunities for advancement. The key is to pick the phrase that best describes the job for which you're interviewing.
Finish your comment with a phrase like “I’m excited about this opportunity because…” that will allow you to further outline the opportunities in the new position that were lacking in your past position and why you're excited for the new challenge., Brevity is often the best way to avoid negative or unprofessional answers. Answer the questions you are asked, but be careful not to volunteer too much information. This tip should be applied to all aspects of your interview, but especially to any references to your previous employer.The shortest answer is usually the best answer.Leave emotion out of your answers. No matter how personable the interviewer may seem, a job interview is a business interaction, and your words should reflect that fact.