 Getting lots of water helps keep your mucus thin and prevents sinus congestion. Try to drink a large glass of water just before bed. Place a water bottle or cup of water by your bedside so you can drink more if you wake up with more sinus trouble in the night., The steam produced by the shower will relieve the pressure and congestion in your sinuses. Once the mucus has been loosened and thinned, you can blow your nose more easily. This should keep you comfortable, at least temporarily. Head to bed as soon as possible after taking a hot shower., A nasal irrigation is similar to commercial saline sprays, but it uses a larger amount of saline and more effectively rinses mucus from the nose.It is easy and affordable to make your own nasal saline solution at home to relieve sinus pressure. Just mix ½ teaspoon of non-iodized salt, ½ teaspoon of baking soda, and two cups (473 milliliters) of lukewarm water.Fill a bulb syringe or neti pot with some of the solution.
Lean over your bathtub or sink and tilt your head. Place the tip of the bulb syringe in the upper nostril.
Squeeze the bulb of the bulb syringe or pour the solution from the Neti pot. The solution will run out of your lower nostril.
Repeat on the other side. Wash the bulb syringe and place it in a clean location. Do this several times a day — especially in the morning and evening — to relieve sinus troubles.
 If you smoke, quit smoking in order to reduce the irritation and inflammation of your sinuses. If your friends or family smoke, insist that they do not smoke around you or avoid spending time with them (especially in your house), as secondhand smoke can be just as detrimental to your sinus health as smoking a cigarette yourself can be.To quit smoking, choose a quit date between two and four weeks into the future.
Gradually reduce the amount you smoke between now and the quit date.
For instance, if you choose to quit in 15 days, immediately reduce your cigarette consumption by 25%. After five days, reduce it by half. After another five days, cut your cigarette consumption down to 25% of what it was before you decided to quit. Then on your final day, stop smoking altogether.
Use nicotine patches and gum to help you stay away from cigarettes if necessary.
Talk to your doctor about other strategies to help you quit smoking.

