 In order for this process to work—especially for it to work in one week--someone must be home with your dog all day and night. Closely supervising your dog is the most efficient and effective way to housetrain it. Try to take some time off work, and/or work together with another household member to tag-team supervision.A dog 3-6 months old will respond best to this method of week long conditioning.
An older dog may need more than 7 days to embrace the new schedule and adjust to housetraining.;
, Once again, you are going to need to watch your dog closely during this process. Anytime you are not playing with or feeding your dog, consider tethering it close to you. Your dog’s freedom at home is an honor that has to be earned by it reliably controlling its potty behaviors.In general, a 4-6 foot long leash will work for this purpose.


Attach a leash to your belt.
Attach a leash to something nearby, where you can see your dog the whole time.
 If you must walk away (or if tethering is not an option for you), consider confining your dog to a kitchen or bathroom. To reiterate, you must closely supervise your dog all day long in order for this process to work.



Crate training is another option.
Choose a crate that is large enough for your dog to turn around while inside, and lie down in.
Avoid leaving your dog alone and confined for long periods of time. Three hours should be the absolute max.
 You are watching your dog for two reasons: to prevent accidents in the house, and to learn to recognize your dog’s “bathroom signs.” You must recognize when it needs to go outside and take it promptly. You may also begin to notice a pattern for when it needs to go.Use your notebook to keep track of your dog's patterns and signs. Look for behaviors like:


Whining
Sniffing the ground
Scratching or pawing the ground
Walking around in a circle

, Anytime you see your dog exhibiting "potty" signs, stop what you're doing and take the dog out. Bring it to the same location each time and allow some time for it to go.


When it successfully goes potty in the correct spot, provide a treat, praise, and affection.
Take note of what time of day and/or what was happening (e.g., did the dog just eat) when it needed to go out.

