 There are different attitudes people have toward their spiritual life. Determining what your personal relationship toward a spiritual life is can help you determine the best way to cultivate that spiritual life. For example, research shows that there are two types of attitudes towards religious commitment.: intrinsic and extrinsic. There is also a third dimension of religiosity called the “quest dimension”. Depending on which attitude or dimension that you have, you will approach your spiritual life in different ways. Intrinsic commitment: Having an intrinsic religious or spiritual attitude means that you believe in the religion or the spiritual world as absolute truth. You hold your belief in your religious or spiritual beliefs above all other beliefs.

Extrinsic commitment: Having an extrinsic attitude means you see your religious or spiritual beliefs as a means for you to live a fuller life, but do not regard religion above other beliefs you have. For example, you may use prayer as a means to gain relief from a stressful experience. For some people, having an extrinsic commitment to religion helps then fulfill social responsibilities or advancement.Quest:The quest dimension describes a kind of person who does not need to believe in a reality where God or any spiritual figure must exist. Instead, you believe that the complexity of religion or spiritual matters is important to grapple with, but you also work to cultivate doubt and skepticism alongside your faith. In other words, you expect your faith to change and grow with you.;
, To decide what spirituality or God means to you, you should write about your feelings and thoughts to help clarify where you want spirituality or God to go in your life.


The past is a very important part of you and should be used to decide what spirituality or God means to you now. Memory can be a rich source of knowledge that guides your decision making. Write about important experiences that involved spiritual enlightenment or God’s presence. For example, write about a time you felt profound peace when there was turmoil in your life.
Write about important relationships that taught you about spiritual growth or God, or write about relationships that hurt your spiritual life or relationship to God. For example, a relationship with a parent or guardian might have helped you grow closer to God.
 What do you believe about the spiritual or God now? What has changed in your beliefs or values? Write about these experiences, relationships or ideas that have shaped your most current relationship to your spiritual life or God.


For example, a recent change in a relationship like a divorce, having kids, or starting a new bond could have helped move you towards the idea of seeking a more spiritual life.
Write down the big questions you have about your relationship to God or the spiritual.
 Setting goals, even with your spiritual life, will help you to create the spiritual life that you desire.These goals can be spiritual goals such as finding time to talk to God, pray, or read religious texts. They can also be goals that help others with their spiritual needs, like giving to charities, volunteering, or praying for someone.

