 Begin your mindful movement meditation by standing straight, legs shoulder-width apart. Close your eyes. Then, start to focus on the sensations of your body. Pay attention to your breath and to the way your body feels as it stands there.Identify places in your body that feel tense, painful, or uncomfortable.
 Focusing on your breathing, move your arms up and down. As you breathe in, lift your arms, and as you exhale, lower your arms. Repeat this 10 times.After moving your arms up and down 10 times, add an additional move. After you raise your arm, stretch them out wide with the exhale. With your next inhale, bring them back together. Exhale and lower them. Repeat this 10 times.
Focus on the physicality of each movement as you do it. Think about how it feels.
 Next, relax your body and breathe slowly. Lift your arm so that you can hold your elbow with the hand of your other arm. Slowly and smoothly, rotate your wrist in a circle as you breathe evenly. Do this for 30 seconds.Then, rotate your wrist the opposite way for 30 seconds.Lower both arms to your side. Focus your awareness on your arms. How do they feel? Does the arm you just moved around feel different? Does it feel more alive?
Repeat the same rotations with the other wrist. Then relax your arms. Shake your arms and focus on the sensations in both your arms.
 Stand relaxed while breathing even. Rotate your shoulders forwards 10 times. Focus on the feeling as you do this, including any pain, tension, or relief. Continue to control your breathing. Then, rotate your shoulders backwards 10 times, focusing on any feelings you feel.Next, slowly rotate your head from side to side. Tilt your ear towards your shoulder, then slowly and gently roll your head down and around in front of you. When you get to the other ear, change directions and roll it forward again, back towards the other ear. Do this 10 times.
 Stand relaxed, breathing evenly. Inhale and stretch both arms out wide, palms out. Exhale and slowly wrap your arms around your body like you are giving yourself a hug. Inhale and extend your arms out wide again. Repeat this for a minute.You should feel the back stretching as you hug yourself, and feel the chest opening as you move your arms back wide.

