 Accept that you may not be able to tell with absolute certainty that a given choice is the "right" choice. Embrace the fact that the direction you choose may not be perfect. Remember that nothing is permanent. Time is the only constant direction, as the life of a human goes. You can always adjust your course as you go: but you cannot know which adjustments you'll need to make until you get started.The important thing is that you are engaging with your life. Don't just sit back and watch time go by. Live passionately, even if you are never absolutely certain.
 There is no telling whether anything will "work out," and you cannot predict exactly where any given choice will take you. You may fail, and you may succeed. You may find that you completely redefine what it means to fail and to succeed. Take a chance on yourself and follow a spark of passion. This is the only life you've got., You don't need to quit your job, drop out of school, or book a one-way plane ticket to a faraway place in order to find your direction. Granted: these grand leaps can be wonderful, catalyzing forces that lead to understanding yourself and discovering your deepest passions. First, however, look for ways to test out your ideas in the margins of your everyday life.


Volunteer. If you think you might be interested in working within a particular field, consider taking volunteer opportunities that allow you to get a better sense of what it's like to work in that field. Volunteer at an animal shelter, or at a nonprofit, or as a research assistant, or at a museum.
Look for internships. An internship can be a great way to explore a given company or field without fully committing to that direction. Internships may be paid or unpaid.
Learn something new. Make productive use of your free time by learning a skill that strikes your interest. Perhaps your direction in life lies in music, or dance, or programming, or painting. Don't worry too much about why you're learning something – just follow the spark of passion.
 Challenge yourself to try something new each week: something that scares you and takes you out of your comfort zone. Make learning a conscious practice. Do not wait for life to come to you!

