 Quercetin is an antioxidant that can prevent and relieve seasonal allergies by blocking cells from releasing histamine. It may also have anti-inflammatory properties. Quercetin is found in a variety of sources, including citrus fruits, onions, apples, dark berries and cherries, red wine, and tea. Dietary supplements containing the nutrient are also available.It's important to consult your doctor before making any changes to your diet. This applies whether you're eating more foods with quercetin or any other nutrient, or adding herbs or vitamin supplements to your diet.
 While you’re looking for allergy relief in the kitchen, consider cooking your dinner a bit spicier than you normally would. Hot and spicy foods not only add more flavor, but can thin out mucus secretions and clear out your nasal passages. Experts recommend spices like cayenne pepper, hot ginger, fenugreek, and garlic., Certain food can actually make pollen and ragweed allergies worse. Examples include melon, banana, cucumber, sunflower seeds, chamomile, and Echinacea. While you’re making your diet more allergy-friendly, look for even the slightest food intolerances which may cause hives or nausea. Eliminating foods that you’re mildly sensitive to will ease the burden on your immune system., Butterbur is an herb that may work to relieve nasal allergy symptoms. One recent study showed that taking one butterbur extract tablet four times daily was as effective as popular antihistamine drugs.The raw, unprocessed plant contains chemicals that can harm the liver called pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs). If you do pick up a butterbur product, make sure it’s labeled “PA-free.”

, A Neti pot or saline rinse can rinse away bacteria, thin mucus, and help reduce postnasal drip. Clearing the mucus from your nose may help relieve your allergy symptoms. You can purchase a sterile saline rinse at most drugstores, or make your own.To make your own saline mix, Mix 1/2 teaspoon salt with a pinch of baking soda in 8-ounces (237-mL) of warm distilled or sterilized water. Never use water that has not been sterilized.
To use, lean over a sink, tilting your head to the side, and flush your upper nostril. Then turn your head to the other side and flush the other nostril.
 If you are experiencing congestion or postnasal drip, increase your water intake to help thin out the mucus.Make sure you are drinking, at minimum, the daily recommended amount of fluids — 9 cups (2.2 liters) for women and 13 cups (3 liters) for men.