 There are some people at your school that you may pick on and make fun of as much as they pick on you and make fun of you. You might compete against each other, but you aren’t afraid of them. These people can be called frenemies (a mix of the words "friend" and "enemy"). You may want to change your thinking and your relationship to this person, turning your rivals into friends. Once you know what’s causing the conflict, you can try to resolve it and work on becoming friends.Tell the person you want to have a mature talk about the problems between you. Talk in private so other people don’t influence the conversation.
For instance, you could say, “Denise, I want to talk to you after class about the rivalry between us without being mean to each other.”
Talk about the problems between you and what you can do to solve them.
You might say, “Why do you think we don't get along? I think it’s because we act so much alike. What can we do to get along or at least stop being mean to each other?”

, Sometimes the reason that you don't get along with someone is because you did something to them that upset them. It doesn’t matter who started it, you can be the better person by apologizing. In these cases, the best way to resolve this conflict is to say that you are sorry for what you did.


Ask the person if you can talk alone. Try saying, “Eddie, can the two of us talk after school?”
Be sincere and specific when you apologize. Don’t just say “Sorry,” actually say what you are apologizing for.
For example, “I want to apologize for the rumor I started. It was really immature of me. I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings and I’m really sorry.”

, In some cases, no matter what you do, you can’t become friends with a person. That's okay — you don't have to be friends with everyone. You can deal with this person by not giving them any attention at all.Ignoring them is more mature than arguing and being mean. Also, it's very easy to mess up a comeback. They want to get a reaction from you, so don't grant them your attention.


During class, ignore whatever they say or do. Focus on your classwork or your friends. Don’t even give them a glance.
Before and after school and between classes, keep your attention on getting where you are going or whatever you are doing.
For example, if you see the person coming down the hall, just keep walking without even looking at them.
Or, for instance, if you are in the lunchroom, keep talking to your friends, eating your lunch or whatever else you were doing.

