 Is it a dark red, or more of a light orange color? The level of your current color will determine what you will need to dye your hair. Go to the beauty supply store and find a swatch that matches your current color.If you’re having trouble determining your color, you can ask an employee at the beauty supply store to help you.;
, Try to pick a color that matches up with the base of your current hair color. The base means the coolness or warmness of your hair color. With red hair, you are likely to have a red, red-orange, orange, or gold base. It is better to not choose a dramatically lighter color if you’re coloring your hair on your own, but you can pick whatever color you desire.A higher level number means a lighter color.
 The developer helps the color activate. You will need to pick the developer according to how much lighter than your current hair color you want to go. For a color that is the same as your current base, you will need a 10-volume peroxide developer. For a color that is one or two levels lighter, use a 20-volume developer. Pick a 30-volume for three levels lighter, and a 40-volume developer for four levels lighter.Keep in mind that your hair is more susceptible to damage when you choose high level developers.
 Squeeze the dye into a mixing bowl. Then, pour the developer in with the dye. The amount of developer depends on the instructions of the product you’re using and the size of the bottle you bought. Use the applicator brush to mix the developer and hair dye together., You will not be dyeing all of your hair, so you need to separate the part you are dyeing from the part you don’t want to dye. Put the top half part of your hair in a high bun. Depending on the length of your hair, you should not put it up in a ponytail. The bottom part of the ponytail could get mixed in with the dye.Take time to section off your hair evenly. Make sure that you don’t have too much or too little hair left for the bottom part.
 Use the applicator brush to begin applying the color to the bottom portion of your hair. Make sure you coat all of the hair thoroughly. You can leave the dye on as is, or you can choose to cover your hair in aluminum foil to speed up the process. The amount of time you leave on the dye depends on the product—usually you will wait twenty or thirty minutes.Check your hair after ten minutes to see how it’s turning out. You can wash out the dye earlier if your hair takes to the color quickly.
 Once the dye has processed, rinse out the color. If you have foil in your hair, remove it. If you don’t have any foil, you can rinse out your color directly. Rinse out the color until the water runs clear. Make sure no more color is left in your hair when you’re done rinsing it.