 If he has another girlfriend, he may stop spending as much time in the bedroom with you, but it could also make him want to have more sex. Here are some things to look:


If you're having a really long dry spell. If he never wants to have sex anymore, he may be getting it somewhere else.
If he suddenly has a voracious sexual appetite. If he wants to have sex all the time all of a sudden, it may be because his sex drive has gone up from sleeping with another lady.
If he tries a ton of new moves in bed. He could be picking these up from another girl.
 Your boyfriend may have some serious guilt because he's cheating on you, and this will actually make him much nicer to you. If you find that suddenly he's helping out around the house a lot more or doing a ton of favors for you, he may be doing it to compensate.


If he cleans your apartment, fixes your car, or buys your groceries and has never done those things before, there may be a reason for it.
If he's always asking if there's any way he can help.
If he's suddenly Mr. Romance and brings you candy and flowers, especially after a long period where he was distant.
 If your boyfriend never cared about the state of his car or apartment but now he's taking hours to clean it, he may be doing it to clean up for another lady or to hide evidence of her.


If his car used to be messy and is now spotless, he may be keeping it fresh for another lady.
If his apartment is much cleaner than it used to be, and if he always says he needs some time to clean up, he may be cleaning it to get rid of evidence of his other girl. If you really want to find out if he's cheating on you, come over when he says he is "cleaning his apartment" and see what he's really up to.
If he uses air freshener in his car or home. He may be using it to hide the smell of his lead lady.
 Whether he seems to always be in a good mood, or is just moody all the time instead of his usual even-keeled self, then something is up. Pay attention to his mood to see if something is up:


If he's sometimes in a ridiculously good mood, like he's walking on sunshine, for no apparent reason. If he's grinning ear to ear and looking off into the distance like he's remembering a fond memory with another girl, then chances are his good mood has nothing to do with you.
If he's suddenly in a terrible mood. If everything seems fine and he's suddenly furious or very upset, especially after a phone call or text message, then another girl may have had something to do with it.
 Shady behavior is pretty easy to spot, and if he's doing at least a few shady things, then it can only add up to him sneaking around to spend time with another girl. Here are some signs:


If he's spending a lot of time texting and on the phone. If he stops texting or ends his phone call as soon as you leave the room.
If he's suddenly spending a lot of time online. This could be a sign that he's chatting it up with another girl. If he slams his computer shut when you walk into a room, that is a bad sign.
If he disappears for hours, and is just incommunicado for a day, a night, or even a weekend. If he can't take the time to answer your call or just send you a quick message, then he may be with another girl.
If he shuts his phone off for hours on end. Why else would he do that?

