 Before you can wash your clothes using dish soap, you'll need to buy the dish soap itself. You won't need to worry about the brand or type of dish soap when shopping, as most any dish detergent will work just fine. Head out to the store and find a soap that has a scent that you enjoy to get started.Make sure the dish detergent is bleach free.
You can buy any scent of dish detergent that you would like.
You can also try adding your own scents with things like lavender oil.;
, You will need to gather up some dirty laundry to wash, just as you would normally when doing the laundry. Select whichever clothes you want to wash and put them into the washing machine. Keep some of the following standard tips in mind to help keep your clothes looking great:Don't mix light and dark clothes.
Heavy clothes, like jeans or towels, should be separated from lighter clothes.
Do not wash brightly colored clothes with white laundry.
 While the dish detergent won't have an effect on the temperature settings, you will still need to select them correctly. Higher temperatures may clean your clothes better than cooler temperatures. However, high temperatures can damage clothes easily. Here are some basic tips to help you keep your clothes safe during the wash:Delicates and permanent press clothes should go on cold wash and cold rinse.
Durable colors can go in on a warm wash and cold or warm rinse.
Durable white clothes can be set to hot wash and cold rinse.
 Choosing a cycle for your laundry will help your clothes stay clean and prevent them from unnecessary wear and tear from the wash. Longer cycles are great for heavily soiled items, but they can also wear out delicate clothing. Shorter cycles are good for lightly soiled or delicate items. Here are some basic tips to help you pick the right wash cycle:Quick washes are great for clothes that aren't very dirty or items that you want to wear again soon.
Pre-wash can add an extra soak to help break up dirt.
Permanent press settings will help maintain presses in any clothing items that have them.
Heavy duty will be a long cycle that will aggressively clean heavily soiled items. This setting is not recommended for delicate clothing.
Delicate setting is used for fragile items that are easily damaged in the wash.
Extra rinse will add another rinse cycle at the end of the wash, ensuring the clothes are clean.
 Don't add the same amount of dish detergent as you would when using laundry detergent. If you add too much dish detergent, it will foam up and spill out of the machine. Always add the correct amount of dish detergent when using it for laundry to prevent a big mess.Add 1 teaspoon for small loads.
Add 2 teaspoons for medium loads.
Add 3 teaspoons for large loads.
 After the dish detergent is added, let the washing machine do its thing., After the washing machine has finished its washing cycle, it's time to dry the clothes. Drying your clothes can be done just as you would normally do when taking them out of a laundry detergent wash. Enjoy your fresh, clean clothes and the money you've saved by using dish detergent to do the laundry.