 This tool is available for free from the developer’s website. Resource Hacker allows you to modify EXE files, including the icon. Once you’ve downloaded Resource Hacker, you can install it using the default settings.


If downloaded from the developer, Resource Hacker will not install any adware or malware.
There are other resource editing programs available that perform similar functions, such as the open-source XN Resource Editor, or the freeware program Resource Editor.
 EXE files are typically located in the folder that the program was installed to.
 This will allow you to quickly revert changes in the event that changing the icon results in the program not functioning correctly. Right-click on the file and select Copy. Paste the copy into the same folder and add “backup” to the name.
 Select “Open using Resource Hacker” from the list. This will start the Resource Hacker program for that EXE file. If you are using a different resource editing program, the process may vary, and you may need to open the resource editing process first and then navigate to the EXE file that you want to edit.
 This will open a new dialog box. In the left frame, you will see a list of all the icons contained by the EXE file. Some will only have one, while others may have dozens. The first one on the list is typically the icon that is shown in your file explorer.
 Click the “Open file with new icon…” button. This will open the file browser, which you can use to find the file that contains the icon that you want to replace the original with. You can use ICO, EXE, DLL, or RES files.


Once you open the file, you will need to select the new icon from the list in the left frame. Depending on the file you chose, there may be multiple options.
 The old icon will be replaced with the new one you selected.
 Your EXE file will be updated with your new icon. If you are unhappy with the change or the program stops functioning, delete the changed EXE file and restore your backed up copy to its original name.