 At times, you may fear that no amount of effort on your part will ever allow you to understand your partner. The best strategy may be becoming an expert on yourself. This can serve as a foundation for learning new skills, having compassion for yourself, and even learning to laugh at how different you and your partner may approach problems and issues.;
, Remember, your mind works differently than your partner’s. Rather than relying upon logic or assumptions, use your best source of information: your partner. For instance, instead of assuming that your partner is ready to end the relationship over a fight, ask for clarification. Pick a casual, low-stress time: doing dishes together, driving in the car, setting the table. (Having something to do will also make eye contact less of an issue to your partner.)


"How do you feel about ____?"
"Could you tell me more about that?"
"So you're feeling pretty frustrated with your mom." (People usually agree and then elaborate when given this sort of statement.)

, Though they may be expressed differently, your feelings and perceptions are valid, and are worth just as much as your partner’s feelings and thoughts. This can be a difficult perspective to maintain, especially if your partner is articulate and quick. Remember, working out a problem should be a collaborative project, not a verbal jousting competition. Here are ways you can assert yourself:


"The sound of banging pots and pans is really painful to me. Maybe next time when you unload the dishwasher, you could give me some warning, so I could move my laptop to another room?"
"I don't think I can handle that."
"I don't want to discuss this now. Let's talk about it later."
If you have a difficult time verbalizing your thoughts, especially in stressful situations, then you may want to write a letter to your partner, and give it to them. This allows you to adequately express your feelings.
 This takes thought. Do you want to strengthen the relationship, and be together more often? Decide for yourself if you do. If you decide to work to strengthen your connections, you may benefit from learning to monitor your “togetherness tolerance” – Aspies often are helped by frequent breaks, shorter visits, etc. Your level of need in connecting with others may differ vastly from that of your partner. This is fine, and may serve as a great balance for your relationship.
 Communicating with neurotypicals is difficult, and there is no shame whatsoever in asking for advice. Build a close circle of people whose judgment you trust, and ask them for input when you don't know what to do.


Ask a trusted person for advice: a parent, a friend, a sibling, etc.
Talk to a therapist or communication coach.
Read books about communication. The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People may be a good start.
Talk to your partner about how you're feeling.
 Autistic people often provide wonderful advantages to their relationships, such as “grounding,” logic, a refusal to become violent or aggressive, a heightened desire to do the right or moral thing, a refusal to participate in the emotional “games” so many adults struggle with in relationships, and an intense sensitivity (buried or not). As always, self-acceptance is the best position to take as you navigate the wonderful – and sometimes terrifying – frontiers of intimacy.

