 Don’t watch TV, and reduce your time on the computer. Organize an entire day out with friends or family. Plan activities with friends instead of meals. There are a number of fun activities you can do over the weekend that will encourage your weight loss:


Mini-golf
Hiking
Dancing at a club
Walking at the mall
Swimming at the beach or pool

, Keep this up for the whole week, increasing to 30 minutes when possible. This habit will add extra exercise to your routine while helping you burn the calories you just ate.


You should also try to walk or bike during instead of driving for short distances. Plan ahead for your walking trips so that you can still reach your destination in time.
 Pay for three one-hour cardio classes. Committing financially beforehand will encourage you to go even if you are tired. You want to find a class that will boost your heart rate and challenge your body. Some options include:


Zumba
Oula
Boot camp
Barre method
Step aerobics
Interval training

, Do one fitness class or 45 minutes of cardio right after you wake up. Morning exercise can help you stay on track for the rest of the day. Morning exercisers also sleep better and lose more weight.Good exercises to do in the morning include:


Running
Pilates
Swimming

, Include two or three sessions during the week in addition to your cardio. Strength training can boost your metabolism.Furthermore, the more muscle you have, the more calories you will burn while exercising.If you have never done weight training before, start on the machines. Read the directions or ask a trainer. You should choose a specific group of muscles to train, such as arms, legs, or abs. Do three sets of 12 repetitions on each machine.If you are doing free-weights, bring an exercise buddy as a spotter.
 Stress can also encourage your body to produce hormones that signal your body to store fat, such as cortisol and adrenaline.Try a 60 to 90-minute flow yoga class. You can also watch a video online if you want to do it at home. Yoga promotes relaxation, and it increases awareness of your body, which helps you lose weight.