 You'll need a good quality, long sock. It needs to be long, to accommodate the dog's body. The longer, the better as it will provide all the pieces you need.

If the sock proves to be too short, you will need to use scrap materials for the ears, tail and legs. It's not a problem if you'd rather use different materials anyway.;
, Cut off the toe end., This will leave you with two pieces to form the dog's ears. Put to one side., Just a little over halfway down the length of the sock (the part that doesn't form the toe end), cut the sock. This will remove the end and forms the dog's body piece.

When determining how long to make the dog's body, bear in mind that the cut-off section must be sufficient to form the dog's legs and tail pieces (see next). This is why a long sock is essential.


Cut a piece straight across that measures about 2 inches (5cm). This forms the tail piece. Cut into a tapered piece with a wide base and a thin tip, just as a dog's tail looks.
Cut the remaining piece into four equally sized squares. These will form the leg pieces.
 This closes off the front end of the dog, its head., Fill with your filling of choice, such as craft supply fill or homemade fill made from scraps, pantyhose, etc., As you stitch, follow the taper of the tail so that it is larger one end and has a small tip at the other end. Leave a small section open for stuffing. Stuff it with filling, then stitch together.

When stuffing the tail, use a needle to help push the filling right up into the tip. The filling will help the tail to stand upright when attached to the dog.
 Sew the square pieces together, making them as rounded as you can for the legs. Leave a small portion and fill with stuffing then sew together.

As you stuff the legs, pull them into roughly the same shape each and use the filling to round out the leg shape.
 Place the tail at the end of the dog (what was the open leg end). Have the wide end against the dog's body and the thin tip facing up into the air, forming a convex arc (like a bowl). Stitch in place.

Be sure that the stitches are firm. Pull on the tail to test its resilience and add more stitches if needed.
 Place the four legs evenly around the base of the dog's body and stitch in place., Or, you could use a combination of both. Either is fine., You could either embroider eyes in place, just simple black circles or a large white circle with a small black circle for the pupil. Or, stitch buttons or googly eyes in place., This is easy to either embroider on or to glue on a red felt smile cut from felt fabric., Either embroider a black or brown nose tip or sew on a craft nose or a button., If wished, make a ribbon loop around the dog's neck, using wide ribbon for a collar. You could even attach a small metallic disc for a dog tag. Or just tie the ribbon in a bow, to beautify the creation., The sock dog is now ready for play or display.