 A simple fund raising letter to family and friends can bring in enough money to get started. First, a candidate need to compile a list of potential donors. This can be done by compiling names from the Rolodex, Christmas card list, church or service club directory, employees at the place of employment and any other list that might be available. In addition, be sure to include all of the professionals that you deal with such as dentists, insurance agents, doctors and lawyers (and don't forget your former teachers or students). I once helped a policeman who was running for mayor. He regularly patrolled the local grocery stores at night and was very popular. He attained the grocery store employee lists and did pretty well garnering their financial support.;
, Many candidates are self-conscious about asking those closest to them to contribute. Keep in mind, however, that these people will be offended if you don't include them and if your closest friends won't contribute, then how can you expect complete strangers to give.
 After a list is compiled, a fund raising piece needs to be developed. This should consist of 1) a well-written fundraising letter, 2) a hand-addressed outside envelope, 3) a return envelope tucked inside the first envelope and 4) a reply piece for givers to provide you vital information, (like how much money they intend to send).
 Why are you running? How much money do you need in total? How much money do you need specifically from the person reading the letter? What is the money needed for? What is your deadline for paying your bills? What benefit is there for your reader in seeing that you are elected (better schools, lower taxes, etc.}? By answering these questions In a cohesive and compelling letter, you will get beyond the reasons your reader may think of not to contribute.
 If you have a laser printer and a simple mail merge program, then you can create a personal salutation and even have personal references throughout your letter. In fact, you should assess which of your letter recipients are in the high donor category and which are in the low donor category. Always ask the high donors for a specific amount at the hundreds or thousands level. You may choose to send your grandmother in Oklahoma a letter asking for $50 or $25, but it never hurts to ask for too much and get a little less. Remember that the suggested amount will generally define the level of giving.
 By this, I mean that the letter should have short paragraphs, with underlining of important passages and spaces between paragraphs. In addition, forget the conventional wisdom and don't be afraid to send a two, three or even four-page letter.
, One concept used in the spring or early summer is to draw an analogy between planting a seed and giving a candidate "seed money. " To drive home the point and make it more memorable, you will want to include a small packet of seeds in the envelope. Not only will the seeds make your letter more noticeable to your reader, but all the time the flowers are sprouting and growing, this person will be thinking of your campaign and may likely give a second or third time.
 Be sure your outside envelope is hand addressed and has an actual stamp and not an ink indicia. Even bulk mail should have a "stick-on" stamp and not simply a postal permit number printed on the envelope. The first mail that people throw away is the letter that has a label and lacks a real stamp. Also, you should consider using a colored envelope so that your letter stands out from the fifteen white envelopes stuffed in the mailbox.
 Never forget the third element of your letter, the return envelope. The convenience it provides will increase your response rate. The return address on this envelope should be that of the individual asking for the money. If that's you, then the return envelope will go back to your house, but if it's the local banker asking for money on your behalf, then make sure the envelope is addressed back to the banker.
 Your local post office can explain the costs and restrictions involved with this. The theory is that even though it may cost a little more, if it convinces just one or two people to send a check that might not otherwise have a cut, then it will recover the cost. In the alternative, you may just want to pre-stamp the return envelopes for your close at friends and associates that you expect to give. The reply piece is the fourth element of your direct mail package. It should contain all the right disclaimers required by your elate law. In addition, you will want to use it to suggest a certain contribution amount and provide space for vital information like the contributor's name and address. This will help your record keeping and allow one last mental suggestion to your reader before they make their decision to give.

