 Do you only want to use some space from your children's room or do you have the flexibility of creating a brand new room?


If you have a separate room at your disposal, you have the ability to shape a small playground with a lot of possibilities, by developing the three dimensions of the space. Exploit the height of walls by leaving the main room free for games and recreation. Make steps (stairs) with big cushions that lead to a platform made of timber or plastic and to a wooden footbridge that leads to a slide.






One good solution for the creation of this type of playroom could be using the garage, a space in which we usually stack unnecessary objects, condemning it to disuse from over packing; instead, this space could be developed and changed into an internal play area with vast possibilities.






If you have part of a room available, you can create a mini playroom, separate and different in aspect from the rest of the room. It's important to place objects in a specific way, so that the entire room can be “separated” into three spaces for basic activities: sleeping, studying and, naturally, game-playing. If you have a bunk-bed, you can have more space for games. Book shelves for books and a desk can transform a corner suitable for reading. In this way, the larger part of the room is left to the enjoyment of your child, who can lay down, roll around, move comfortably, stretch out, and play games.;
, This is easy, as the only thing you need to do is to let yourself be advised by your children! Ask them what they would like to have as a theme, in order to create a pleasing environment for them. Cartoonsor their favourite comic heroes are some typical ideas which children tend to always like. If they haven't got a specific idea in mind, then choose either a feminine, masculine, or neutral color rather than resorting to any fancy colours or patterns.
 Let your goal be dividing toys in half, thirds, or fourths, depending on the overall pile. Then keep one of those smaller collections out at a time, store the rest away and rotate them out as a whole collection. You can make a big deal out of the rotation days; maybe the first of every month, or whatever. All the toys will seem new again. The key is to get as much out of the way as possible, while leaving a good variety out that the kids will really use and appreciate.
 Avoid the temptation lots of children have to climb by choosing non-see-through containers. You can micro-sort smaller items into zipper bags and put the bags in the rough totes.

Keep the collections separated; maybe colour code them. All the same coloured boxes can be taken out at the same time.






For the toys that are in circulation, many can be sorted into dishpans. They fit in perfectly, because they are simple in design, and go with everything. They can be decorated and clearly labelled. They don't have holes in them like baskets do and are cheap as well as being easy to keep clean. They are easy for kids to handle, portable, and can make any shelving system into a drawer system. You can store books in dishpans too, situating them so that the front of the books are showing to let kids choose a book by looking at the cover.
 If they don't pick up, then they can't play in that place tomorrow. If they pick them up every day, then it won't be such a chore. It may take a few tries for this to work but it is worth persevering.
 This provides a safe place to go and a place to put the child when they are tired or upset. Creating a bulletin board with colours and shapes will keep your children on a schedule. Numbers and letters are better used closer to school age, and shapes and colors are more age appropriate for the younger children.
 Posters of Disney or Loony Tunes heroes would be ideal for your children. Kids also love animals. Children also love creating art, so an arts and crafts area is essential! The arts and crafts area should include:


A painting easel, blackboard and whiteboards (using whiteboard markers is an excellent activity with children; markers should be washable, so that if it gets on their clothes, it washes out easily), a variety of art supplies, and child-sized tables and chairs.
 Try making school more fun by adding characteristics that reflect school. In this way, they will even find school more interesting.







Dress up area: All children love a wardrobe with a variety of outfits, either bought ones or homemade, but most importantly have a mirror, so that the children can look at themselves, change appearance, or even create their own games.
 These are decorative, multi-colored, useful – since they can function as spaces of storage. What’s most important, however, is that they can be shaped in different ways. The children can set up the cubes making lodges, chairs, seats and whatever they can invent. Thus, they have the opportunity to develop their imagination and participate in the configuration of their personal space.

