 If you are no longer happy in a relationship and have decided to end it, focus on sending these messages. For instance, “This just isn’t working out for me anymore.” Include specific reasons if you have some, but keep everything you say focused on the fact that you have decided to end the relationship.In particular, avoid saying things like “I may feel differently someday.”
In general, avoid language about temporary breaks, as this may unfairly lead your partner to continue hoping for a relationship that you’re intentionally moving away from.
If you only want to take a break, be clear about this, and understand that your partner may not be available in the future. Be sure to tell them if you feel differently at any point.
If the conversation happens in person and you feel physically unsafe at any time, leave. If a partner hits you, end all contact with them immediately and report the abuse to the authorities if you are able to do so.
 When you’re the one breaking up with someone, keep the focus of your statements on you. Say things like, “I’ve decided to focus my time and energy on a different part of my life.” In short, make sure your statements indicate that you’re taking personal responsibility for the decision you’re making.I statements are worthwhile even if you’re breaking up with someone because of something that has more to do with them. For instance, say, “I won’t allow myself to be treated like this anymore.”
Avoid statements such as, “You’re just not in tune with my needs” or “You seem to be going down your own path.” Sentences that again with the word “you” risk sounding accusatory. Since they place blame on your partner, they are likely to lead to reactionary feelings of defensiveness, and may lead to an argument.
 If the conversation isn’t going anywhere, you may need to end it. You should respect your partner by hearing them out. However, if they start to speak in circles or become too emotional or agitated to have a productive conversation, it's likely time to excuse yourself.


Your partner may have a hard time hearing what you’re saying. They may continue asking why you’re ending the relationship, for instance. If this occurs, repeat the reasons you’ve stated and make sure you’re clear that the decision has already been made.For instance, "We've lost touch, and I don't feel the connection to you I once did. I've decided I need to be single right now."

, Your partner may become upset. They are entirely within their rights in having an emotional response to your decision. Silence, disbelief, and anger are common emotions in a break up conversation. However, threats or abuse of any sort are not acceptable. If your partner begins calling you names or otherwise attacking you, end the conversation immediately.