 Whether or not you realize it, your child listens to and watches what you do. One of the most effective ways to help your child cope with allergies is to set a good example with your actions and behavior. This can help your child manage their own allergy management and better cope with having allergies.Take time to reinforce your messages through daily activities. For example, “Gabriel, I just got a notification on my phone that I need to take my allergy medication. Did you check your phone for one, too? I’ll get your meds from upstairs when I get mine and then it’s out of the way for both of us.” You can also say, “I’m going to check this curry sauce for peanuts,” or, “Can you check my bag to make sure I packed the EpiPen?”
Remember to remain confident when describing your child’s allergies in front of them. This shows your child that they can manage their allergies. Instead of, “Alex could die from peanuts,” say, “Alex is so great at asking people if dishes contain nuts and making a decision if it’s ok for him to eat new foods.”, Many children with allergies have rules they need to follow about behaviors such as eating or petting animals. Following these rules in your home can help your child continue this behavior when they are at school or another place. Some routines to follow so your child can continue them include:Reading labels
Checking ingredients
Asking questions about food or beverage ingredients
Taking allergy medication
Carrying an EpiPen at all times

, Most children enjoy spending time with friends. As a result, your child won’t always be in your presence for you to see symptoms of an oncoming allergy attack. Teaching your child to recognize the symptoms of an allergy can help them better cope and handle any potential attacks.Let your child know what typical responses to an allergen are. These may include sneezing, wheezing, vomiting, itchy eyes, and dizziness.
Tell your child what symptoms they have with their allergies. You should also let your child know that other symptoms may appear. For example, “When you go out today, Sara, pay attention when you eat the pizza. It’s gluten-free, but may come in contact with flour. If you get a stomachache or want to go to the bathroom, it may be your allergies. You might even feel a little dizzy. It’s ok to just stop eating and talk to Tegan’s mom about it. She’ll have a little something else for you if your allergy bothers you.”

, Preparation is an important part of helping your child handle and cope with allergies. Teach your child to deal with a possible allergy attack by having a plan that you consistently review. This can help your child remain calm and minimize the risk of a serious problem.Work out a plan together with your child. This helps them also feel in control of what’s happening. For example, “Max, let’s work on your plan for an allergy attack together. If you start wheezing from the grass, do you want to let Mr. Bisbee know you’re feeling sick?”; or, “Sam, which friends would you like to tell about your Epipen in case you’re stung by a bee and can’t inject yourself? Your friends can stay with you and make sure you get the injection if you can’t do it yourself. One of them can also let an adult know to call an ambulance.”
Assure your child that they can carry out the plan even if you’re not there. This will give them the confidence to successfully cope with any situation that may come their way. For example, “Allie, you’ve got your EpiPen and are ready to have a great time at the amusement park today. Remember, if you get stung, you’ve got everything you need with you. Alex, Adam, and Mrs. Simpson will also be there with you. You can always call me, too.”

, Kids love to spend time with friends both at and outside of your home. There may be a school dance, birthday party, or something else your child wants to attend. Instead of not allowing your child to go, which may embarrass them, plan a strategy together. This not only shows your child positive management of allergies, but may prevent feelings of being left out.Consider calling the host parent or organization to see if your child can bring along safe treats or an EpiPen.
Let your child know what you’ve worked out. Kids enjoying feeling like they have control over situation, so involve them in whatever solution you’ve worked out. For example, “Hey Julia, I talked to Mrs. Peterson and she’s excited that you can come to the party. She told me that there’s gluten-free pizza she ordered for you for the party and is she’s also making a gluten-free cake for everyone to eat. Why don’t we pick out some pretty flowers for her as a thank you?”; or, “Mr. Christopher told me that you can absolutely go on the field trip, Max. Just give him your EpiPen and let him know if there’s anything at the park you need to avoid. He’ll let you and a friend or two stay back.”