 Some basics that should set off your suspicions include:


Bad spelling and/or poor grammar in an email claiming to represent a company, royalty, a prize agency, whatever.
Unsolicited commercial or personal request email. Do you even know of this company or person? If the name seems unfamiliar and you don't recall ever signing up to the company or sharing details with this individual, be suspicious upon receipt of such an email.
Asking for money. Always start from the grounds that a request for money is to be treated with suspicion until proven otherwise. Perhaps your daughter is vacationing in the land of Grail and it's not unknown for her to ask for more funds to fly home. But if you suddenly get an email from her claiming she has lost everything and needs thousands of dollars to bribe local officials, be wary; mass emails claiming such distress are not uncommon, using hacked email accounts.
The email is full of promises to reward you. Promises of this type are rather personal; you should be very wary of such emails.
The email is from somewhere you don't live, like Nigeria or Singapore and you either know nobody there or it's not the email of anyone you do know there. Put up your red flag.
 The reason emails warning of silly urban legends spread so quickly is because people receive them from their trusted friends, and never imagine these smart, clever people could be fooled. Before forwarding any email, take a second to search one of the databases listed below.


Bear in mind that a friend's or colleague's email can be hacked and that the sender isn't your friend or colleague but the hacker who wants something for nothing.
In turn, don't forward such emails yourself. Scams, threats, chain letter emails, etc., are illegal in many countries and not only is it bad netiquette to forward such rubbish, it could also put you on the wrong side of the law.
 If someone tells you that they're a friend in trouble, offer to pay their costs direct. For example, if the "friend" tells you he has been mugged and has had his wallet stolen and needs funds to pay for the hotel, offer to ring the hotel direct and sort it out on their behalf. If the reply is "no, no, please make a wire transfer", be very suspicious that this isn't your friend but a fraudster on the other end.


Be wary of any email request asking for wire transfers of money! If you are going to wire money anywhere in the world, deal with people face-to-face in reputable companies, such as when sending money from an auction house to another one, or sending money to a family friend who has already confirmed the details with you in person or over the phone. If you want to send money to a charity in this way, talk to someone in the charity's head office (either in person or using a Yellow Pages phone link) and sort it out officially; you may even like to involve a financial or legal representative to ensure it is legitimate.
 Select 'Reply all' if appropriate, or suggest that the sender send an email to this effect. Remember to include a link to the site debunking the email!

