 When a child suffers from rheumatoid arthritis, their joints become stiff and painful, making it difficult for them to move around, play and perform everyday tasks. Performing specific types of exercises can help the child to regain mobility by increasing their flexibility, muscle strength and overall fitness.


The best exercises for treating JRA will vary depending on the age of the child and the severity of the condition, but they will usually involve a combination of stretching/flexibility exercises, strength exercises and aerobics.
For best results, the exercise plan should be combined with doctor prescribed medications and a healthy diet.;
, Once JRA has been diagnosed, your child will be referred to a physical therapist who will assess your child's condition and come up with an exercise plan that best fits their needs.


Physical therapists have an in-depth understanding of how the muscles, joint and bones all work together. They will observe your child during the first couple of sessions to make sure the child understands the exercises and knows how to do them properly. In time, the child will continue to perform the exercises at home, under parental supervision.
You child may also be required to see an occupational therapist. Physical therapy helps to keep the joints moving and the body operating as it should, whereas occupational therapy helps patients to perform specific everyday tasks, such as writing or brushing your teeth., Before any exercises are performed, it's a good idea to warm up the child's joints using heat. This helps to relax the muscles and relieve joint stiffness.


Try pressing a hot pad or warm compress against the child's joints, or allow them to have a hot shower in the mornings. Warm paraffin can be helpful for the hands and feet. Performing some light aerobic exercise, like riding a bike, can also help to warm up the body before more intense exercises and stretches.
 Exercise programs for children with JRA are designed to increase joint mobility and reduce inflammation, but if the child is pushed too far or the exercises are too tough, it can actually make the condition worse, triggering further inflammation and swelling.


Therefore, it is very important that the child starts slowly and builds their way up to tougher exercises. The exercises outlined in the sections below should test the joints, but they should not cause any real pain. The child should stop and take a break if they experience any pain.
Over time, the child may build up to exercises like swimming and biking. As their condition improves they can do these activities more frequently and for longer periods of time.
 Walking is an excellent way of exercising the painful leg joints caused by juvenile arthritis, as it helps to strengthen the muscles and the bones.


Make sure the child is wearing good quality, flat sport shoes that provide adequate support. Encourage the child walk for 15 to 30 minutes per day, starting at a slow pace and working their way up.Walking underwater (in a pool) is also a great exercise. The water provides more resistance, making the exercise harder but more effective. It is particularly effective for strengthening the muscles in the knees.
 These leg raise exercises help to strengthen the quadriceps (the muscles at the front of the thighs). Strong quadriceps support the knee joints and make them more stable.Encourage the child to lie flat on their back with their legs extended. They should lift one leg a couple of inches off the floor, keeping their abdomen sucked in and their lower back pressed against the floor.
They should hold the leg up for a count of five, then slowly lower it back to the floor. Repeat 5 to 10 times, then repeat with the other leg.
 This exercise helps to strengthen and stretch the hamstrings muscles (located on the back of the thigh). These muscle are attached to the knee joints, helping to support the.


Encourage the child to lie on the floor with both legs bent. Ask them to lift one leg slowly, bringing the knee back towards the chest. The child should link both hands behind their thigh and attempt to straighten the leg.
The straight leg should be pulled back towards the head until the child feels a stretch. This position is held for 30-60 seconds, then the knee is bent slowly and the leg lowered back to the floor. Repeat with the opposite leg., This exercise helps to strengthen the back muscles, the glutes and the muscles on the front of the thighs. Strengthening these muscles supports the hip and knee joints.


Encourage the child to stand up straight with their feet one shoulder width apart. They can hold onto the back of a chair for support, if they like.
Get the child to bend their knees and push their butt out, until they are half-way into a sitting position. They should keep their chest up and avoid leaning forwards.
The child should hold this position for 5 seconds before returning slowly to the starting position. This exercise should be repeated ten times.
 This exercise strengthens the muscles in the front and back of the thighs, along with the glutes. This provides support for the hip and knee joints.


Encourage the child to stand up straight, between two chairs (which they can hold onto for support). Ask them to lift one leg approximately 12 inches (30.5 cm) off the ground and hold it there.
Keeping the back straight, the child should bend the standing leg, lowering their body as if they were about to sit in a chair. Remind them not to cross the lifted leg in front of the standing leg.
Hold the dipped position for 5 seconds, before returning to the starting position. The child should repeat the exercise 10 times, then repeat with the other leg.
 This exercise helps to stretch and strengthen the joints in the shoulders, while also increasing flexibility. To begin, encourage the child to lie on their back on the floor, with their arms beside their body.


Get them to slowly lift one arm straight into the air above the shoulder, keeping the elbow straight.
Ask them to slowly lower the arm back to the floor, then repeat the exercise three times before switching to the other arm.
 This exercise helps to stretch and strengthen the muscles in the neck, increasing neck mobility.


Ask the child to sit in a chair with their back straight, then slowly move their head to the right, until they are looking over their right shoulder (or as far as they can go).
Repeat the same movement to the left. Repeat the exercise 5 to 10 times on each side.
 This exercise helps to stretch and strengthen the neck, chest and shoulders, all in a single exercise. To begin, encourage the child to lie on the floor on their stomach, with their arms down by their side.


Ask them to slowly raise their head and shoulders off the floor, as far as they can go. Hold this position for a count of the three, then relax and return to the starting position.
Repeat this exercise ten times, inhaling on the way up and exhaling on the way down.
 To do this exercise, hold your hand out in front of you and bend the thumb towards the palm. Try to stretch for the bottom of the pinky finger with the thumb. If you can't quite reach the pinky finger, just stretch your thumb as far as it will go.


Hold this position for two seconds, then return the thumb to its original position.
The exercise should be done ten times, then repeated using the other hand.
 Hold your palm out in front of you, then bend all four fingers down towards the palm and curl them inwards so they form the letter "O".


Hold the fingers in this position for several seconds before straightening them. Repeat this exercise 10 times with each hand.
This exercise is an excellent one for when the hands are feeling particularly stiff.
 Open your hand and rest it, pinky side down, on the table. Your thumb should be pointing directly upwards.


Bend your fingers inwards (towards the palm) until your hand forms an upside-down "L" shape.
Repeat this exercise ten times with each hand.
 Place one hand on the table with the palm facing down. One by one, lift each finger off the table and hold it up for two seconds before lowering it back to the table.


Start with the thumb and work your way towards the pinky. The exercise should be performed in a very slow and deliberate manner.
Repeat the exercise 5 to 10 times with each hand.
 JRA is an autoimmune disease in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues in the joints, causing them to become swollen, stiff and inflamed. Certain children are genetically predisposed to developing JRA, and the disease can be triggered by environmental factors, like bacteria and viruses. There are several different forms of JRA, as follows:


Systemic JRA: This accounts for 10 to 20% of JRA cases. It is characterized by an intermittent fever, which can last from 3 days to 2 weeks,. Systematic JRA may also be accompanied by symptoms such as an enlarged liver, spleen or lymph nodes, pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane surrounding the heart) or pleuritis (inflammation of the membrane surrounding the lungs) or a pink, non-itchy rash.
Oligoarthritis: This accounts for about 50% of JRA cases. This type of JRA mainly affects large joints, and usually hits between one and four joints within the first six months.
Polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis: This accounts for approximately 30% of JRA cases. It mostly affects smaller joints, such as the hands, and usually hits five or more joints within the first six months.
Psoriatic arthritis: This is when the arthritis is accompanied by an autoimmune skin disease called psoriasis, which presents as a moderate to severe skin rash.
 All types of JRA share the same basic symptoms, including pain, inflammation, swelling, warmth and tenderness at the affected joints, accompanied by varying degrees of stiffness. This stiffness is usually worse in the mornings and later in the evenings. Stiffness in the knee joints may cause the child to limp while walking.


Some JRA sufferers may experience asymmetric growth at the affected joints, where the bones of the affected joints grow faster or slower than normal.
Oligoarthritis commonly results in eye inflammation, due to abnormal blood proteins that cause swelling.
Systematic JRA may lead to intermittent fever and skin rashes, along with swollen lymph nodes.
 JRA is diagnosed using a variety of methods, including physical examination, blood tests and x-rays. The doctor will also conduct a full medical history to find out if there are any risk factors that would make the child more prone to JRA.


Once symptoms have been present for more than six weeks, the doctor will conduct a physical exam to look for inflammation or deformity around the joints. The doctor will also check the lymph nodes in the neck and armpits to look for swelling.
The doctor will take a blood sample and use it to conduct a number of tests. He or she will look for ANAs (anti-nuclear antibodies) which are proteins that attack the healthy cells. The doctor will also look for the rheumatoid factor (RF) which can be used to differentiate between different kinds of JRA.
X-rays are used to identify any early abnormalities in the soft tissues surrounding the affected joint, or any bone deformities or over-growth. X-rays can also help to rule out other conditions that could affect the joints, such as bone fractures or cancer.
 Aside from exercise JRA will also be treated using medications, which help to bring down swelling and relieve pain. This can give the child increased mobility in the joints and help them to live a normal life. Massaging the joints and applying heat can also help to relieve pain and swelling.


Your child's doctor will normally prescribe non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which are ideal for controlling JRA as they block the release of chemicals that cause swelling and relive any pain.
Two popularly prescribed NSAIDs are Ibuprofen and Voltaren. They are available in many forms, from tablets, liquids and suppositories to effervescent sachets, injections and topical creams. Your doctor will prescribe the appropriate dosage for your child.
Aside from NSAIDs, your child may also need to take anti-rheumatic drugs (such as Methotrexate), which delay the progression of JRA. In serious cases, corticosteroids may be used to bring down severe joint inflammation.
 Children who suffer from JRA are prone to both weight gain and weight loss. Both of these issues can be addressed by providing the child with a healthy, balanced diet that nourishes their body and helps to keep their energy levels up.


Children with JRA sometimes lose weight due to inflammation of the jaw (which makes it difficult from them to eat) or a loss of appetite due to psychological issues. If this is the case, you should encourage your child to eat more frequently throughout the day, using a number of small snacks that are healthy but high in calories, such as a chunk of full-fat cheese or a slice of wholewheat bream with peanut butter. If they suffer from an inflamed jaw, you can also make them more protein-rich soups and smoothies, which are easier for them to eat.
Children with JRA sometimes gain weight due to certain medications or loss of mobility (which prevents them from burning off calories). In this situation, you should try to remove any harmful fats in your child's diet and replace them with good, healthy fats, such as omega -3s which have anti-inflammatory properties.OMega-3s are found in nuts, seeds and oil fish. Also try to cut as much sugary or processed food from your child's diet as possible, and encourage them to eat more fruit, veg and whole grains.

