 There are a variety of different types of bean soups that you can make for your soup mix. Beans that you could use include pink beans, black beans, baby lima beans, lentils, black-eyed peas, red kidney beans, pinto beans, and great northern beans. Make sure to use dried beans so that your mix can stay fresh.You can use anywhere from three to five different types of beans to create your soup mix.


Southwestern bean soup uses dried black beans, kidney beans, and great northern beans.Beans are perfect for soup mix gifts because they do not need to be refrigerated.;
, Layer the beans you've selected on the bottom of a mason jar, placing the most colorful beans on the very bottom of the jar. If you are using three variations of beans, use a 1/2 cup (113 grams) of each type of bean. If you are using four or more different types of beans, use 1/3 of a cup (75 grams) of each type of bean.Use one quart (.95 liter) mason jars when creating your gift.
Shake the jar lightly to settle the beans as you layer them.
From the outside of the jar, the beans should make colorful layers.
 A flavored bouillon cube and bay leaf will add flavor to the broth of the soup. A vegetable or beef bouillon cube will taste best with this recipe. In addition to this, you can also add other ingredients like salt, pepper, dried basil, or chili powder, depending on how you usually make your bean soup.


When adding spices to your soup, add anywhere from 1/2 of a teaspoon (1.3 grams) to a full teaspoon (2.6 grams) of your dried spices.
To make a basic bean soup, you could add 1/2 teaspoon (1.3 grams) of salt and a pinch of black pepper to your jar.
To spice up your soup, add one teaspoon of ground cumin (2.6 grams) and 1/2 teaspoon (1.3 grams) of dried chili flakes to your jar.
 It's important that the gift recipient knows how to cook the soup once they receive it. Fold up a piece of paper that contains directions on how to cook your bean soup. To cook most bean soups, bring a pot with at least 6 cups (1.41 liters) of water to a boil and add the ingredients in the bean soup. Once the ingredients are added, set the heat to low and let the beans cook for at least two hours.

To liven up your broth, add 14 ounces (1.41 liters) of canned tomatoes to your soup.

