 Before departure, make sure you have received all proper medical vaccinations to stay healthy onboard the ship and at ports-of-call. There are many infectious diseases and illnesses that can spread while onboard the ship or in foreign ports.Make sure you are up-to-date on all required or recommended vaccines in your home country. In addition, contact the cruise line and health organizations such as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for vaccination recommendations for the specific countries you will visit on your cruise.
You might also want to consult the U.S. State Department’s travel advisory webpage. Its alerts regarding illnesses and health concerns in particular nations (along with concerns like terrorism) can help you plan your vaccination and healthcare strategies — or perhaps cause you to alter your cruise plans altogether.;
, Many of the same things that make a cruise vacation so appealing — the exotic locales, the new foods, the late nights, the unpredictability — can also exacerbate conditions like diabetes, cardiovascular disease, or various chronic illnesses. Make sure you are well-prepared with the medications, supplies, and information you need to manage any pre-existing condition(s) during the cruise.For instance, if you have a history of heart disease, make sure you bring all your medications and also consider bringing along a copy of your most recent EKG. This can be used for comparison if you suffer symptoms and an EKG is done on the ship., Large cruise ships have health clinics available to passengers, but the hours may be limited, the lines long, and the cost exorbitant. You can save time, money, and aggravation by caring for minor scrapes and sickness in your cabin with a basic first-aid kit, which you can either purchase or assemble yourself before embarking.Include standard first aid items like bandages, gauze, sterilizing pads, etc., as well as medications for motion sickness, diarrhea, general pain, and so on. However, even if you are treating symptoms on your own, report signs of a gastrointestinal illness (or other communicable sickness) to the ship’s crew.
 A pricey cruise can quickly become extraordinarily expensive if you need a medical helicopter evacuation due to a serious injury or illness. Without insurance, the bills can easily be in the tens of thousands of dollars. Contact your health insurer and get clear answers on the type and amount of coverage you have (or don’t) when traveling abroad on a cruise.You may be able to purchase additional coverage from your health insurer, or you can look into buying separate travel insurance. Make sure that at very least you are covered for major expenses like medical evacuations.
 Most people have to fly to the departure port, and many end up dealing with jet lag for the first day or two of the cruise. If you have to fly in for your cruise, try to shake off your jet lag beforehand so you don’t have to waste valuable cruise time feeling groggy, sleepy, and cranky.If possible, fly into the port city one or two days early. Rest, relax, and get over your jet lag before embarking on the ship, so you can maximize your time and enjoyment on board.
 No one wants to have to reschedule or cancel a much-anticipated cruise due to an untimely bout of flu-like symptoms, but you owe it to yourself and everyone else to be honest if you aren’t feeling well. Display the same honesty if you fall ill after getting on the ship, so the crew can take proper measures to prevent any possible outbreaks.Being sick doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll have to miss the cruise. Visibly ill passengers may not be allowed to board, or they may be quarantined in their cabins for the first day or two of the cruise.
 This is the number one way to keep healthy during a cruise. Wash thoroughly and frequently for the best results. It's best to scrub your hands before and after eating, using the bathroom, touching your face, interacting with other passengers, touching common surfaces, coming onboard from a shore excursion, and every so often regardless of what you’re doing.Using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer is an acceptable alternative to washing your hands when the proper facilities are not available. Choose sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol for the best results, and use them only when a place to wash your hands is not accessible.
 You don’t need to walk around with rubber gloves on your hands, but you also don’t need to touch every handrail you come across. Common cruise ship illnesses like norovirus can last for days on surfaces like doorknobs, slot-machine levers, and elevator buttons, so don’t touch common surfaces unnecessarily and clean your hands quickly after touching them.Wave instead of shaking hands. Use clean silverware instead of common food serving utensils at the buffet. Push buttons or levers with your elbow or knuckle. Never touch your face before you have a chance to clean your hands first. Basically, take typical good hygiene practices to the next level.
 Consuming food that is undercooked, cooked in unsanitary conditions, or served cool or warm instead of cold or hot can cause food poisoning and a host of gastrointestinal illnesses. When eating in the ship’s dining room, and especially when eating on land at one of your stops, be very particular about what you eat.Your cruise line should prioritize food safety, but don’t take chances by eating food that’s been sitting at the buffet for a long time. When dining on shore, especially in less developed nations (and when eating street food anywhere), eat only food that is cooked and served hot (ideally in your presence), choose only sealed drinks with no ice, and only eat fruit that you can clean and peel yourself.
 No one wants to be the cruise ship “snitch,” but with how quickly a stomach virus can spread through an enclosed vessel, it is definitely a “see something, say something” situation. Discretely inform a crew member if you see a fellow passenger who looks ill. You will be doing everyone else on the ship a favor.Quickly identifying, treating, and possibly isolating a sick passenger may mean the difference between a few scattered illnesses and a ship-wide outbreak of norovirus-induced diarrhea, vomiting, etc.
 If you know you tend to get seasick, suspect you may become so, or are just concerned about it, talk to your doctor before leaving on your cruise. Some medications, such as certain antidepressants, painkillers, and birth control pills, can exacerbate seasickness, so discuss all medications you take with your doctor as well.There are several medications that can effectively deal with seasickness, as well as common remedies ranging from ginger chews (which do seem to help) to wristbands (which don’t).
Consider booking a mid-ship cabin on a lower level; you will experience less swaying of the ship there. Stand more often, keep your eyes open, and get fresh air to help combat seasickness as well., Cruise ships are famous for having grandiose buffets and meal service (that you’ve already paid for), so take little steps to help prevent overindulgence. At buffets for instance, use smaller side or salad plates for your main courses, take small amounts of multiple foods at a time and eat only what you really like, and eat a later dinner to help limit the temptation of the “midnight buffet.”Dehydration can be a problem on many cruises, what with the frequent combination of hot weather, elevated alcohol consumption, and concerns about water quality. Drink water frequently throughout the day, either from sources on the ship (so long as you trust them) or from bottles., Especially since many cruises travel to tropical locales, you should take precautions against illnesses transmitted by mosquitoes or other insects. Consult the CDC or similar health organization for current warnings and recommendations. Bring and use insect repellent, and cover bare skin when possible. Report rashes or unusual markings caused by insect bites, or symptoms of illness to the medical staff onboard.Covering exposed skin can also help reduce your likelihood of sunburn. Choose a wide-brimmed hat and regularly apply a full-spectrum sunscreen with UVA and UVB protection.

