 A salon employee or online advice can help you find the characteristics of your hair. This will help you choose the right treatments and products. Here's the basic breakdown:


Wavy hair (type 2), generally thin and easy to handle
Curly hair (type 3)
Coily hair (type 4), usually very fragile and hard to grow out;
, Washing hair too often strips it of natural oils. Try washing it once a week. Switch to once every two or three weeks if your hair starts to break easily.


Try to find a shampoo that doesn't leave your hair feeling too dry.
To reduce damage, wash hair in lukewarm water and rinse in cool water.
 The heat from blow drying can cause damage, leading your hair to break before it grows to the desired length. Instead, plait your hair, wrap it in a silk scarf, and let dry overnight. Alternatively, towel dry your hair by wrapping it in a towel and simply rubbing your head for a while.
 Restore these with conditioner suited for African hair. Periodically deep condition your hair as well.


You can use leave-in conditioner in between washes.
 Rub natural oil into the middle and ends of your hair to make it soft and supple. This will help prevent it breaking before it grows too long. Jamaican oil, castor oil, Moroccan oil, or lavender oil are all good options.


Covering your hair with a satin scarf can help your hair take in the oil.
 Water strengthens dry hair and may stimulate your hair roots. You can apply water, moisturizing conditioner, or a mixture of half olive oil or half coconut oil. For extra moisture, apply each one, in that order. The oil will help seal in the moisture.


If you use gel or mousse in your hairstyle, try hair jam instead. This will hold your hair, then eventually melt into oils to add shine and moisture.
 These can strengthen some types of hair, but may damage dry hair. Try brushing your hair: if your strands stretch significantly before breaking, you may need more protein.


Do not leave in protein conditioner longer than instructed on the label, or it may turn hard and brittle.
 About every other day or when your scalp feels dry, apply coconut grease to the tip of your pointer finger. Apply at the top of your part and sweep back until all the grease has been applied.


Stop if you notice dandruff, as oil can feed the fungus that causes it.
If you have a perm, grease only once a week, or apply hot oil instead.
 Once a month, use a neutralizing shampoo to clean all products out of your hair. If you use a lot of sprays, gels, and other styling products, use it every other week.

