 Check with well-known ticket resellers.The prices will be higher than face value, but not as expensive as VIP packages.For example, try checking the websites of resellers like TicketsNow,TicketLiquidator, and TicketNetwork.


A concert ticket search engine – for example, SeatGeek – allows you to search through multiple ticket sellers at once.
 Auction sites like eBay can have a great deal of tickets offered for sale. Ticket prices will generally be higher than face value, because the holder of tickets may sell at any price they wish. Also, the show is sold out, so most if not all of the tickets will be sold in auction format, where the price is determined by the highest bidder.


Reviewing the seller’s feedback first is a good way to gauge their trustworthiness. You should also familiarize yourself with the auction site’s terms and conditions about refunds, in case you don’t receive the ticket on time or it does not grant you access as it should., Search online classifieds in your local area, such as Craigslist. You can also look in the “For Sale” section of classifieds in your local newspaper. Individual or season ticket holders may be offering their tickets for sale.
 Try contacting the box office a few hours before the event. If they tell you the show is sold out, you can try again an hour before show time. Season ticket holders do sell seats back at the last minute., If all else fails and you aren’t able to get tickets to an event in your area, check the artist’s tour schedule for stops in other cities. There may be a nearby city on the agenda next that isn’t sold out. Alternately, you may want to make travel arrangements to see the performer in an even further locale if it is easier to acquire tickets for it and you don’t mind getting away for a couple of days.
 People who resell tickets on the street outside venues are referred to as ticket “scalpers.” As a last resort, you could try to buy tickets that way, if it’s allowed in your area. Check with the laws of your state first. Some states allow this practice, but in other states it is illegal.Even if buying tickets from a scalper is legal in your area, it is still a risky practice. Counterfeit tickets can appear very real, and there is no definite way of verifying them until you present them at the gate of the venue.

