 Pour the oil into a heavy, deep skillet and heat it on the stove over a medium-high setting. Place the chopped onion and minced garlic in the hot oil and cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until fragrant and lightly toasted.


You need to monitor garlic closely as you toast it in oil. If you overcook the garlic or do not stir it enough as it browns, it can burn quickly. Burnt garlic has a bitter taste and should be discarded. Moreover, if the garlic burns, you should dump the entire contents of the dish, quickly rinse it out, and start over again from the start.
 Add the cubed chicken to the skillet. Stir-fry in the oil and aromatics for 2 minutes, or until the chicken turns white on all sides.
 Place the sliced chicken liver in the skillet and cook, stirring occasionally, for another 3 minutes.


As you cook the chicken liver, you should notice the chicken meat begin to brown.
 In a separate bowl, combine the shrimp bouillon cube with the hot water. Stir gently until the bouillon is dissolved.


You may want to do this step simultaneously with the previously mentioned steps to avoid accidentally overcooking any of the ingredients already in the pan.
 Pour the diluted shrimp bouillon into the hot skillet. Mix gently to coat the rest of the contents, and bring the liquid to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium, cover the pan, and simmer for 5 minutes.
 Remove the lid and add the deveined shrimp, along with a sprinkle of salt and a sprinkle of ground black pepper. Stir in the oyster sauce, then let the entire thing simmer, uncovered, for another 2 minutes.


Shrimp cooks quickly, so you should add it toward the end of the cooking process instead of cooking it alongside the chicken at the start. Overcooked shrimp tends to have a rubbery texture.
 Place the cauliflower florets, cabbage wedges, carrots, snow peas, and bell peppers in the pan. Stir well to distribute the vegetables evenly, then cover the pot with its lid and allow the dish to simmer for another 5 minutes, or until the hardiest vegetables are tender-crisp.


You can cook the dish for a bit longer if you prefer your vegetables to be more tender, but watch the shrimp, chicken, and chicken liver carefully if you decide to do so. If these pieces of food appear fully cooked, remove them before you continue cooking the vegetables for additional time. Add them back into the pan along with the cornstarch mix.
 In a separate bowl, mix together the remaining 1/4 cup (60 ml) cool water with the cornstarch until a slurry forms. Pour this slurry into the liquid in your dish and mix well. Let the liquid reach a boil.


As the liquid boils, it should also thicken, thanks to the addition of the cornstarch. The thickening is crucial to the quality and taste of the dish.
 Once the liquid has thickened, the chop suey is ready to enjoy. Serve it with cooked rice or cooked noodles.

