 Try to have your last meal or snack at least two hours before bedtime. Though it may be tempting to snack late at night, doing so will disrupt your sleep as your body will be attempting to digest what you’ve consumed.If you are extremely hungry or don’t want to give up your late night grazing all together, choose light, healthy foods. For example, eating fresh fruit will satisfy you without taking too much energy to digest.;
, A hot drink can do wonders in relaxing your body and mind and preparing for a good night’s sleep. Try drinking warm milk or a cup of herbal tea.


Avoid alcohol and caffeine, both of which will disrupt your sleep cycle and also likely make you groggy in the morning.
Certain herbal teas, such as chamomile and valerian, have been shown to be great relaxants so if you struggle to unwind at night, try incorporating some of these into your nighttime ritual.
 Don’t do anything stressful (such as homework or work-related things) at least an hour or so before bedtime. Stress leads to impaired sleep.


If possible, get all of your chores done during the day. If you head to bed in a calm, relaxed state, you’re more likely to sleep better and wake up in the same calm mood. Being plagued by tasks you need to do or recurring problems is going to make it more difficult to wake up in a good mood.
Reading, crafts (such as drawing or knitting), or just chatting with your friends or family are all great ways to unwind in the evening. Watching TV or a movie can also be a good idea as long as it’s done relatively early in the evening.
 Try to cut down on the chores that may stress you out by doing them ahead of time. That way you won’t go to sleep and wake up dreading the tasks ahead of you as you’ll have already gotten them out of the way.


For example, get in the habit of picking out your work clothes and setting them out the night before.
If you usually throw a lunch together before heading to the office or school, try to prepare it the night before so you can just grab it on your way out. Such practices will allow you to clear parts of your morning for mood-boosting activities.
 How you end your day can often influence how you feel the next morning so do your best to clear your head of negative or stressful thoughts and go to sleep in a relaxed manner.If you find yourself going through all of the things you have to do the next day or dwelling on stressful events, try setting some positive intentions (such as “I will do something kind for someone tomorrow for no reason”) or make a mental list of what you are grateful for in life.
 Too many people are chronically sleep deprived and then wonder why they’re grumpy upon waking up. Adults should get about seven to nine hours of sleep every night so do your best to get enough shut-eye., You want to get a deep, good night’s rest so avoid screens such as your phone, computer, and television for an hour or two before heading to bed. The light that comes from these screens actually fools our bodies into thinking that it is still daylight, which can disrupt the natural winding down process and makes it difficult to get a deep sleep., If you typically sleep in late whenever you can, try getting in the habit of waking up earlier. Research suggests that waking up earlier is better for your mental health as those who wake up late in the day have higher incidences of various psychological conditions.Try waking up between 6-8:30 am, which is when the body is most responsive to sunlight.

If it is impossible or unrealistic to wake up at this time, do your best to wake up at the same time every day. Waking up at the same time every day trains your body to be more alert upon waking up, which will help you feel refreshed and happier.
 As tempting as it is to get just a few more minutes of sleep in, studies have shown that hitting snooze on your alarm can actually be extremely detrimental to your overall mood. Hitting snooze and going in and out of sleep confuses the body and makes it more difficult over time to wake up properly., Just as it’s important to turn off the screens and rest in a darkened room, it’s important to wake up to light. Our internal body clocks are influenced by these factors so when we are exposed to light, our bodies begin to naturally wake up.Keep the shades open in your room so that as the sun rises, your body will respond to the natural light.
If your room doesn’t have windows or much sunlight access, consider investing in a lamp that turns on at a set time.
Once you begin waking up in a well lit room at the same time every day, you may find that your body eventually develops that pattern and you’ll be able to skip the annoying alarm clock altogether.
 Upon waking up, try doing some stretches. You don’t even have to get out of bed for this, just stretch and flex your limbs in whatever ways feel good to you. Doing so will get the blood flowing throughout your body and also release endorphins.If you have time, you can even practice do some short yoga sequences each morning as that will certainly lift your spirits and help you feel physically and psychologically better.
 Music has the ability to powerfully influence the mood of the listener, so try incorporating it into your morning routine. Choose music that is cheery, upbeat, and easy on the ears for maximum mood boosting impact. An example of an uplifting song is "Happy" by Pharrell Williams! , We all know it but too many of us forget that breakfast is the most important meal of the day and helps keep you fueled and happy throughout.


Choose healthy, unprocessed foods that are easy to digest and give you lots of energy. Fresh fruit, protein (such as eggs or peanut butter), and whole grains (such as whole wheat toast or oatmeal) are all great options.
If you don’t have time to prepare breakfast every morning, just grab some fruit and nuts on your way out. These foods require no preparation yet have all the fuel and nutrients you need to start your day right.
 Studies have shown that positive thinking helps with stress management which comes with many health benefits, including generally being in a better mood.If you tend to focus on the negative in life, work to create a more positive outlook and you will be a happier person.


One helpful practice can be to make regular lists of good things that happen to you or things that you are grateful for. After a while, you will start to notice these aspects of life more and eventually thinking positively will become second nature to you.
 Regardless of when or how long you meditate for, regular meditation can help a great deal in improving your mood. Many people are intimidated by meditation, but carving out just five to ten minutes each day to sit and focus on your breath can have a powerful impact on your mood, not only helping you sleep better but also improving your everyday mood., Many people sleep poorly or wake up in a bad mood because there’s an underlying problem that they haven’t addressed. Resolving these issues in your life, whether they are work or family problems, will help you sleep better and wake up looking forward to the day, rather than dreading it. Resolving problems also helps reduce anxiety.
 Studies have shown that, regardless of how you feel, just the physical act of smiling releases dopamine and serotonin in the brain which makes you happier.So try even faking a smile until you do feel better.
 There are many benefits to exercise, including improved physical health and steady release of endorphins, but a study has also shown that people who exercise have better sleep quality, fall asleep more easily, and report being less tired during the day.You don’t have to exercise a great deal to see these benefits. In one study, participants exercised at least two and a half hours a week to get the benefits of better sleep.
There are many kinds of exercise that you can do to achieve this. Sports, dance, even brisk walking are all great options so find a physical activity that you genuinely enjoy doing and see how it influences your sleep and your mood upon waking up.
 Research has shown that keeping flowers in one’s house can decrease anxiety and depression and improve one’s mood.They don’t have to be fancy bouquets. Even just picking a bunch of wildflowers or a few daffodils from your garden can brighten up your living space and your mood.

