 In addition to freelancing resource sites, consider searching advertising sites such as Craigslist where individuals outside the field of publishing may be seeking writing assistance.


Ensure you understand your client's expectations before taking on a project -- and verify they understand that you are a writer and not a literary agent. You might be able to offer advice to your client, but you won't be formally "representing" their publishing needs.
Always sign a written agreement with your client before undertaking a ghostwriting project. At minimum, this contract should itemize the work you'll be doing, how much you'll be paid, when you'll be paid, your deadline, and who will retain copyright (usually this will be your client). It's a good idea to seek legal assistance in composing or evaluating a contract.
 Make you have an author's Web site and/or blog, and specify on your site that you are interested in ghostwriting. Mention your ghostwriting services in your email signature, and let editors, story sources, and colleagues know you're ghostwriting.Experience helps, but promote what you have. Seek ghostwriting opportunities in fields where you bring special skills. A background working in the computing field, for example, may make you an attractive ghostwriter for someone seeking a writer conversant with technological jargon.
 Ghostwriting generally means you will not receive personal credit for your work. You do, however, gain multiple advantages. First, ghostwriters are not responsible for publicizing their work -- simply fulfill the terms of your writing contract and you're done. Second, you will spend less time on research and preparation, as your client is generally responsible for providing background material, or at minimum pointing you in the right direction. In addition, you may enjoy the opportunity work as part of a team in what is often a very solitary profession.A typical ghostwriting contract is paid entirely in advance. If a publication is likely to generate substantial sales, however, you may consider accepting a smaller advance and a cut of the profits.
In cases where your name appears on a title as co-author or editor, you may determine that the prestige of the association merits accepting a lower fee, perhaps in combination with a percentage of the book's royalties.