 If your crawling baby strays too close to a hard, sharp piece of furniture, they might get a splinter or suffer a cut or other injury. Your crawling baby might jam their eye into a sharp corner and suffer a serious eye injury. Monitor your crawling baby as they crawl and keep them away from sharp corners and edges of furniture.Alternately, cover sharp, pointed edges of furniture with guards and padding (available at many home goods shops) or remove the sharp-cornered furniture altogether.
 If your crawling baby gets into medicine, they could overdose on the medicine and suffer serious harm. All medicine should be stored in locked cabinets that are out of your crawling baby’s reach.This includes vitamins and other supplements.


For instance, instead of placing your medicine in a ground-level cabinet or drawer beneath the sink where your baby can easily access them, place your medicine in a locked cabinet two or three meters above the ground that your crawling baby will not be able to access.
Most medicine – both prescriptions and over-the-counter medicines – have baby-proof packaging and caps that make them hard to access. Be sure to always replace the caps properly just in case your crawling baby does somehow crawl to these medications.
 Like medicine, cleaning supplies are very useful. But in the hands of a crawling baby, they can be dangerous and cause serious harm. Remove cleaning products from low-lying cabinets or shelves and place them in higher, out-of-reach places.Don't forget about dryer or dishwasher pods, as these have been associated with serious injuries to children.
 If you don’t have room to move your medicine and cleaning supplies to a higher elevation where they will be inaccessible to your crawling baby, install locks or safety latches on the low-lying cabinets instead. This is also a good idea for cabinets and drawers containing knives, firearms, matches, batteries, and other objects that your baby might choke on or use and get hurt., Don’t smoke around your crawling baby. Do not allow others to smoke around your crawling baby, either. If somebody wants to smoke near your baby, say, “I’m sorry, my baby cannot tolerate smoke in their small lungs. Please smoke outdoors.”Keep your baby far from people who smoke. Cigarette and cigar smoke clings to the clothes and your baby can inhale the smoke particles as secondhand smoke, which can be just as bad as regular smoke.
Have people remove their coats or change their clothing before being around the baby if they smoke outside.
 If the water is too hot, your crawling baby could be scalded.No crawling baby should be placed in bathwater greater than 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit). Use a thermometer to monitor the temperature of the tub water.If you’ve drawn a bath for your crawling baby that is in excess of the acceptable temperature, simply wait a few minutes for the water to cool to an acceptable level. Or, you can also add some cold water to the bath to cool it down quickly if it is too hot.
Never leave your crawling baby in the tub on their own. Crawling babies can drown easily in even two inches (5 cm) of water.
 It would be hard for your crawling baby to get electrocuted, but it is possible. To prevent such a misfortune from occurring, place an outlet cover over all your sockets. You can choose from sliding covers, swing-shut covers, or clear solid-piece covers., To protect your baby as they roam about and explore, make sure to put away any other potentially hazardous items.For example, you should keep all firearms locked in a safe and put alcohol up in a cabinet to keep it out of the reach of your baby. If something seems like it could pose a danger to your baby as they crawl around, put it up out of their reach.