 Green labeling opportunities can be found by visiting the green Business section of the Small Business Administration's (SBA's) website.While there are countless opportunities to certify your green products, Green Seal certification is one of the most respected and rigorous certifications you can achieve. Green Seal is a nonprofit organization that uses science-based programs to help consumers and companies create a more environmentally friendly world.Green Seal offers businesses like yours an opportunity to apply for certification, which if successful, gives you the opportunity to place the Green Seal on all of your certified products. When you place the Green Seal on your products, consumers know that you have complied with a rigorous set of criteria and have sustainable and environmentally friendly products., To start the Green Seal certification process, review the Green Seal Standard to ensure the products you offer can be certified. To help you, Green Seal gives you the ability to search various standards on their website. Once you navigate to the Green Seal Standards page, search for your product to see if it is covered.For example, if you have a cleaning product (e.g., a bathroom cleaner for household use), you could click on the Green Seal Standard for titled "GS-08 Cleaning Products for Household Use."


Once you click on the Standard, you will be given information about how to get certified. For example, with GS 08 products, you will only be able to get certified if your product has a certain level of reduced toxicity, biodegradability, and recyclable packaging., If your product meets the requirements of the applicable Green Seal Standard, you will complete a Preliminary Certification Request. Your request will include your product's name, the Green Seal Standard you are applying under, and your company's information.Once your preliminary application is completed, click the "Submit" button.
 Once Green Seal receives your preliminary application, they will review it to make sure your product is within the scope of their certification standards. If it is, Green Seal will send you a certification application and a confidentiality agreement. Once you receive the documents, you will fill them out completely and accurately. When you are finished, you will submit two copies of each document (i.e., the application and confidentiality agreement). In addition, you will need to pay the application fee.


Be aware that Green Seal will only accept original copies of all of your documents. Therefore, do not send them any scanned or faxed copies.
You can mail your completed application, confidentiality agreement, and payment to Green Seal, Inc., Attn: Application Processing, 1001 Connecticut Avenue, NW, Suite 827, Washington DC 20036-5525., After submitting your application you will be contacted by Green Seal. Green Seal will appoint you a project manager who will be responsible for evaluating your product to ensure compliance with the applicable Green Seal Standard. The evaluation process will require you to submit data about your product. This data, which might include ingredient lists, manufacturing processes, and distribution information, will help the Project Manager decide if your product is worthy of the Green Seal.


This evaluation process typically takes several months. However, it may take longer if additional testing is needed or if your ingredient list changes., Near the end of your evaluation, a Green Seal Auditor will physically visit your manufacturing facility. You will be responsible for paying any out-of-pocket costs including travel and accommodation for the Auditor. Once the audit is complete, the Auditor will provide you with a report. If you need to take any corrective actions, those action will be laid out in the report. If corrective actions are needed, you will have 120 days to implement them., If you meet the requirements for Green Seal certification, you will be awarded certification and you will be given a license to use the Green Seal Certification Mark on all pre-approved products. In addition to being able to use the seal, Green Seal will provide you with tools and resources to help you market and promote your product and accomplishment

.

If you fail to meet the certification requirements, you will be allowed to modify your product and submissions and try again., Green Seal will conduct periodic compliance checks to ensure your product continues to meet the standards necessary to remain certified. This monitoring is similar to the initial application process and will include data submission and on-site evaluations. Fees for monitoring are due every 12 months.