 You may choose round or square cakes, but it's important that the dimensions be exactly the same. Allow the cakes to cool completely.
 Since the cake will be unwieldy once it is layered and iced, it's best to use the same plate on which you plan to serve the cake.
 Hold the knife parallel to the brim of the cake and slice about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) off the top. Be careful to slice straight across, holding the knife level as you go.









Try to create a flat, even surface. This will serve as a base for the second layer.
Remove the rounded top of the cake and discard it, or save it to eat.
Don't attempt to cut off the top of the cake with a small knife, as this will result in an uneven surface.
 Spoon the filling of your choice onto the bottom layer of the cake. Use the spoon or a knife to spread it around until it covers the entire layer.









Raspberry, lemon curd, cream, or chocolate are popular cake fillings.
Try not to let the filling drip over the edges, since you don't want it to mix with the icing.
 The flat side of the second layer should be down, and the rounded side should be the top of the cake.









If you want the finished cake to have a flat surface instead of a domed one, repeat the process of slicing off the rounded top of the second layer with a serrated knife. Place the cut side down, so that the smooth, flat bottom of the second layer forms the top of the cake.
Use a paper towel to wipe away filling that squeezes out when you add the second layer.
 For a professional-looking cake, you'll be adding two layers of icing, starting with a "crumb coat" that serves as a base to catch all the crumbs, so the second layer looks clean and crumb-free. Use the recipe above or your own icing recipe to ice the cake with a butter knife.









The crumb coat needn't have flavor or color, unless you'd like it to. You can use plain white icing.
Be sure to ice the entire cake, including the sides. Take care not to get too much filling mixed in with the icing.
It's OK if the crumb coat doesn't look perfect - the point is simply to cover the entire cake and trap in the crumbs.
Allow the crumb coat to set for half an hour before continuing.
 Using the recipe above or your own icing recipe, ice the cake once more with a final pretty layer.









If desired, add flavor and color to the batch of icing you use for the final layer.
Decorate the cake with cut fruit, flowers, or other toppings, then allow it to set before eating.
