 Bros take fitness and health seriously. Proper fitness allows you to defend yourself, compete regularly, and show off your lean physique when you wear those muscle-shirts. Focus on strength training, cardio, and endurance training to lose pounds and get cut. Buy a couple tickets to the gun show, baby.



Develop a workout routine and stick to it a couple times a week. Your energy will improve, and you'll be the best possible version of yourself.
You don't have to be a buff guy to be a bro. If you're small or big, you can find similar bros and bro-down together. You might not be able to make friends at the gym like some other bros, but you can use your other bro traits to make up for it.
 It's easy, it's cool, and it's versatile. Athletic gear is the uniform on the field and the uniform off the field, for most bros. That means basketball shorts, jerseys, Nike shoes, and gym sandals. If it's comfortable and made for the locker room, then it's made for the streets. The athletic bro will usually be spotted in:


Training pants, with buttons up the side
Jerseys, team shirts, tank-tops with Greek letters
Backwards baseball cap

, Bros from more cosmopolitan origins will often have a slightly different vibe. Think less Dave Matthews Band concert parking lot and more Martha's Vineyard sailboat club. Different vibe, same bro-ness. This bro will typically be wearing:


White polo shirts
Ralph Lauren cargo shorts
Sperry shoes
Lacrosse gear
Ray Bans

, Gear-head, metal-listening, So-Cal bros have their own style and vibe altogether. You can see these sorts of bros at the Van's Warped Tour or at the skatepark. Typically, they'll be decked in the following attire:


Long Dickie's shorts
Skate shoes, like Van's or Airwalk
Flat-brim hats
Black socks, pulled all the way up

, City bros are different than country bros. If you've grown up listening to George Jones in the back of your dad's F-150, it's unlikely you'll be running around wearing all the Greek-letter gear. Get real. The cowbro can typically be seen wearing:


Wranglers, loose-fit
John Deere caps and shirts, tucked in
Cowboy boots

