 It is one thing to have a strong craving for a food or to prefer to eat a certain food. It is another thing altogether when food begins to control your life. You can reduce your food addiction by learning about eating disorders like anorexia.


Anorexia is characterized by food restriction and extreme efforts to lose weight.In this case, the food addiction might be in the form of limiting your food intake or only eating certain very low calorie foods.
Consider whether you will only eat foods that have no or very few (less than 10, for example) calories and only in small amounts. Other warning signs may include extreme self-loathing after eating, or attributing your value as a person to your ability to restrict food intake.
For example, if you only eat 10 white grapes for breakfast, gluten-free crackers for lunch, and a diet soda for dinner every day, you may be anorexic.
 When a person has a binge-eating disorder, they eat large amounts of food, often in a short amount of time. With a binge-eating disorder, you may be addicted to specific foods, types of food, or even the act of eating.One sign of binge eating is that you often push yourself to eat past the point of being uncomfortable — until you feel sick or all the food is gone.


People who binge eat often prefer to eat a specific food like cupcakes or potato chips when they are binging.
Many people that binge eat are addicted to a type of food. For instance, you may binge on salty foods or foods that are full of sugar.
People often assume that all binge-eaters are overweight, and this is not true.
Think about whether you eat in secret or try to hide your food or your eating from others.
Ask yourself if you feel guilty, embarrassed, or disgusted with yourself while and after you are eating.
 In bulimia, a person will binge eat and then, almost immediately, do something to purge it like vomit, take diet pills, or exercise excessively.Just as bulimics are addicted to food, they are also addicted to the process of purging the food from their body.


Do you regularly eat a certain "meal" like three family size bags of chips and a dozen snack cakes and then immediately take a laxative or diet pill?
Do you feel bad about what or how much you ate until you feel that it is out of your body?
People may assume anyone with an eating disorder must be very thin, but that is not true. You can be overweight or a "normal" weight and be bulimic.
 Coping with the mental, emotional, and physical effects of an eating disorder can be overwhelming. If you think that your food addiction is actually an eating disorder, then the best thing you can do is talk to your doctor or another health care professional.Eating disorders can seriously impact your health and may result in chronic problems or even death, if untreated. Some of these health issues are irreversible, so it is important to get help as soon as possible.
Treatment for eating disorders often includes therapy, medical are, support groups, and other forms of care.
Your doctor can help you reduce your food addiction, no matter what kind, in a healthy and safe way.
Support groups like Overeaters Anonymous and Food Addicts Anonymous can provide support and references to other help.

