 Be mindful of your body’s signals that your anxiety is increasing. Often, physical sensations are the main signal to us that things are not right and we need to stop, pay attention, and do something about it. Is your heart palpitating? Is your body shaking? Are you hot with the sweats or do you have the chills? If these sensations are present, try to come down by calming your mind and taking several very slow, long deep breaths.

Lay flat on your back with one hand on your abdomen and the other on your chest, feeling the movement of your body as you inhale and exhale.
Visualize yourself in a place that you find tranquil and relaxing (some place near water, sitting in a large open field, or on top of a mountain, for instance). While keeping your eyes closed, continue to take long breaths (for a minimum of ten counts) and keep the image until you are able to feel your heart and pulse slow to a normal rhythm.
This is how you’ll be able to actively self-regulate your inner state and push through tense moments to get your day started.;
, If anxiety hits you as soon as you wake up, develop a deep breathing practice. Deep breathing allows you to control your breath and kick on the body’s natural stress response. For morning anxiety, repeat a cycle of deep breathing for several minutes before you get out of bed. However, you can perform deep breathing anytime during the day when you feel stress or panic.The 4-7-8 approach to deep breathing is easy to remember. Take a deep inhale in the through the nose for 4 counts. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Then, exhale slowly through your mouth for 8 counts. Repeat as needed., Stress can cause you to hold tension in certain body parts, leading to aches and tightness. Progressive muscle relaxation is a calming exercise that helps you relieve the tension in your body’s muscles.


Lie comfortably in your bed with your legs and arms relaxed at your sides. Take a few cleansing breaths—in through your nose and out through your mouth. Starting with your toes, gently contract the muscles. Hold the tension for a few seconds. Then, release it. Notice how it feels now that the tension is gone. Now, move up to calves and knees. Tighten the muscles, hold, and then release. Continue until you have done all the muscles in your body., If your anxiety is carrying your thoughts away from the present moment into frightening situations that you expect to happen during the day ahead, bring yourself back with a grounding exercise. Grounding helps you relieve anxiety by directing your attention to the here and now.You can stay grounded with any sensation in your bedroom. Take deep breaths as you do the activity. Feel the way the sheets feel on your skin. Notice the tingle. Grip the covers in between your fingers. Hear the sound of the birds chirping outside your window. See the soft morning light. Remember, you are safe.
 Stretching is a great way to de-stress and loosen up tight muscles after a night of sleep.Performing a few yoga poses while on your bed can get your metabolism going and make you feel more awake, too.


Sit up in your bed and clasp your hand high above your head. Lean into the muscles on your left side. Hold for a few seconds. Then, lean to the right. Make invisible circles with your nose, allowing your neck to stretch. Do a spinal stretch by placing one hand on your knee and then turning gently to face the headboard. Repeat on the other side., Reflect on your thoughts and the situations and experiences that trigger your anxiety. Explore what you’re thinking and how each of those thoughts make you feel. Chances are, if your anxiety is up and you're dreading the day, your thoughts are probably negative, harsh, and self-critical.

If you had a friend who was experiencing these same thoughts, you’d probably show them empathy through compassion, encouragement, and kindness. Try showing yourself the same empathy. Reframe your thinking to more positive expressions.
Tell yourself to move forward. Say, “It will make me feel good to start the day and encounter new things,” or “I’ll face the day, try my best, and know I did something new.”
Keep adding positive self-expressions and write them down on a notepad or sticky note. You can even put them in a place where you’ll see them in the morning as a reminder to stay positive.
Another option is to record them on your smartphone or simply review them mentally each morning, throughout the day, or evening. Keep your tone of voice soft and supportive, patient and kind.
 One trick to helping you get out of bed when you feel anxious is to plan something exciting to start your day.Having something fulfilling to look forward to can take your mind off what’s stressing you out, and help you build enthusiasm about the day ahead.


If you enjoy running, plan a morning run. If music lifts your mood, set your clock radio to play your favorite tunes as you dress. Call and talk to a long-distance relative who always makes you laugh. Simply do whatever makes you feel happy to be alive as soon as you climb out of bed.
 If anxiety leaves you cowering beneath the sheets because you feel overwhelmed by your endless to-do list, try this strategy to get yourself up and going. Tell yourself that you will get up from bed, but you only have to do it for an hour.


Of course, the goal isn’t to lie back down. The goal is to consume a nutritious breakfast, exercise, perform your health or beauty routine, and go to work or school. However, if thinking about all you have to do seems like too much, telling yourself that you only have to operate for a short span of time can give you the push you need to get started.
More than likely, once you get some momentum going in your day, your anxiety will fade and you will feel happy that you climbed out of bed.
 Whether it’s a pot of hot coffee that starts brewing on a timer or the promise of a delicious whole-grain blueberry muffin, having a desire to eat tasty foods can help give your morning a lift. Eating a healthy breakfast within an hour of waking helps to regulate your blood sugar and ease anxiety.Try some yogurt with fruit, a smoothie with fruit and greens, a bowl of hearty oatmeal, or fruit and nuts. Be sure to make healthy choices that provide you with essential vitamins and nutrients for physical and mental health., After you open your eyes, it can help to start reciting a positive mantra that gives you the composure to get up and start your day. You can recite a phrase from memory or post something on your bathroom mirror to repeat mentally or verbally as you brush your teeth, wash your face, and tidy up for the day ahead. Repeat something like:”I feel calm and at peace with myself.”
Anxiety does not control me. I can control it.”
I am completely whole and safe.”
”I have gotten through anxiety before, and I can do it again.”

, If your anxiety is worsened by a sudden wake-up, try to find alternate ways of getting up on time. These harsh reminders could be making your mood worse, so finding substitutes can help you get out of bed with a more calm mind.


For instance, if you normally awaken to clashing bells, opt for a softer bird-song alarm or a soothing melody that gently wakes you up. Also, if others in your household are noisy in the morning, ask them "Can you please keep it down in the morning? The shouting tends to make me anxious."

, If you are constantly bothered with severe anxiety in the morning, it may be helpful to see a professional. A mental health therapist can help you identify the causes of your anxiety, learn coping strategies, and develop more realistic thought patterns in response to anxious feelings. Ask your doctor to refer you to a mental health therapist.Also, let your primary care doctor know about your morning anxiety. If the symptoms are debilitating and interfering with your functioning, you may require medications to cope.
 You might think staying up and binge watching a few episodes of your current TV show is helping to ease your anxiety, but the blue light associated with electronic devices is a detriment to sleep.


Cut off all electronics like TVs, laptops, or smartphones at least 30 minutes or an hour before bed. You’ll enjoy a better quality of sleep for your sacrifice. Plus, a good night’s rest will give you the peace of mind and energy you need to roll right out of bed in the morning., Your biological clock functions at its best when you are waking up and lying down each night around the same times. Choose a time that works for you and aim to stick to it. That way, you can train your body to feel sleepy and wake up at a consistent time each day., While that cup of coffee in the morning may give you the lift you need to jumpstart your day, it’s best to limit your caffeine consumption in the eight hours before bedtime. Drinking caffeine too close to bedtime can leave you feeling wired and jittery, resulting in a night of tossing and turning.Alcohol is also an enemy of a restful night. Although it may relax you at first, it tends to interfere with the quality of your sleep in the long run.
In addition to beverages, you’ll also want to stay away from heavy meals in the hours before bed as certain foods can cause undesirable effects like heartburn that keep you awake as well.
 A great deal of teens and adults with anxiety also have trouble sleeping. If your insomnia makes it hard for you to sleep at night, a winding down ritual can help. This routine involves making your bedroom as comfortable as possible and doing activities that promote relaxation.Use light-blocking curtains so that your room is dark. Lower the thermostat so that the temperature is comfortable. Reserve your bedroom for bedroom activities only—avoid watching TV or doing work in bed.
Light a candle and listen to soothing music as you prepare for bed. Take a relaxing bubble bath. Trade massages with your partner, if you have one. Or, read a book.

