 Crate training helps establish routine and boundaries for your Golden Retriever. You should put your dog into the crate when they sleep, when you have company, and when you are gone. This helps reduce accidents, along with other unwanted behaviors like chewing.Make sure you pick a crate big enough for your Golden Retriever. They should be able to comfortably stand and turn around. You will probably need a large crate, for dogs over 70 pounds. Choose one with ventilation on all sides, like a basic wire crate.
Golden Retrievers are very social and love being with their families. Place the crate in a common area in your home, not in a room no one uses. This helps your dog still feel like they’re part of the family.
Never treat the crate like a punishment. It should be your dog’s personal space where they feel comfortable. You should use it to help keep your dog confined when you can’t see them.;
, To help house train your Golden Retriever, you should set up a schedule for them. This helps them learn routine and figure out when they should go outside to use the bathroom. Try to walk them at the same time every day so they get into a routine.Set up a feeding schedule for your dog, too. This helps you estimate when they will need to go out.
When you first start training your Golden Retriever, take them out every hour or so, along with when you first get up and before you go to bed.
 Help your dog figure out where their elimination area is. Put them on a leash and walk them to the spot every time you take them out. Don’t let them play out there. Stay for about five minutes, and then return to the house even if they haven’t gone yet. Try again later. Your Golden Retriever will eventually figure it out., When your dog does their business in the elimination spot, give them a reward. This may be a treat or verbal praise. Provide the praise as soon as they finish, not when they are back inside the house., It’s important that you listen to your dog when they are trying to let you know they have to go out. Your dog may start sniffing around, walking around the house, dancing around, or standing by the door. If your dog starts stirring, take them out to be safe.