 Part of making new friends at the gym is knowing who you might want to be friends with. Being a regular can also help your potential friends get used to your presence at the gym, allowing them to feel a bit more familiar with you. Find a gym that you love and start regularly attending to help you start making new friends.Don't approach people that are brand new to the gym. Let them get familiar with the gym before you try to make friends.
Make sure your gym has regulars that you feel you could become friends with.;
, Taking classes at your gym can be a great way to help you meet new people and make new friends. Being in a class with other people can help you feel like you are already part of a team and can give you both something to connect over. Try signing up for some of your favorite fitness classes to help you meet new friends at the gym., Although you are trying to meet new people at the gym, you are also there to workout. You might not smell or look your best after a tough workout and approaching someone new at that moment isn't the best idea. Make sure you look presentable and smell good before trying to meet someone new.Talking with people before a workout or after a shower are the best times.
Wearing old gym clothes and being smelly can both make bad first impressions.
Speaking with someone after their workout might make them feel self-conscious about their appearance.
 You don't have to approach a stranger in the gym to find a new friend. You can try using social media or specialized websites to look for someone who wants to team up and workout. Try looking online to find someone who is also looking for a new friend at the gym.


You can try looking for friends on your gym's social media profile.
There are websites and apps that help you find local workout partners.
Try looking for a partner that is near your fitness level.
Finding someone with the same fitness goals or favorite workouts can be a good idea.
 Before you get too far into building a new relationship with someone at the gym, you'll want to decide which type of relationship you want to have. Knowing how well you want to get to know someone and deciding the nature of the relationship can both help you interact appropriately. Make sure you know the type of relationship you want to build before making a new friend at the gym.


Ask yourself if you want the relationship to stay at the gym or go outside of it.
Decide if you are looking for a work-out partner, friend or a new romance.
Always act in a way that is in-line with the type of relationship you want to build.
 Although it may be uncomfortable, there are many ways you can start a conversation with someone at the gym. Starting a conversation will be the first step in building a new friendship. Try opening up a conversation by using some of these examples: Try offering a compliment about something they are wearing.
Ask them where they found their workout gear.
Try asking about any classes or sports teams you could join.
 Asking for help can be a great way to start building a new friendship at the gym. Most people will be happy to help you out and show you how to do an exercise or operate a piece of workout gear. If they agree to help you and seem friendly, try opening up the conversation a bit to make a connection.You could try asking how to turn on a treadmill.
You might need help understanding how to use a weight machine.
You could ask if someone knows the proper form for lifting weights.
 Asking someone to partner up for a workout can be a great way to start building a new friendship. Although most workouts can be done alone, having a partner can help you get a better workout and make a new friend. Try asking someone you've met at the gym to partner up during a workout to help build up your friendship.Some weight based exercises require a partner to do safely.
Running with someone can be a great way to talk and get in a workout.
Working out with someone can provide extra motivation to push yourself harder.
 When you are approaching someone for the first time at the gym, timing is key. You won't want to interrupt their workout or approach someone who isn't interested in socializing. Make sure you won't be interpreting someone's time at the gym when you try to start a conversation.Don't talk to someone if they have ear buds in or headphones on.
Avoid approaching someone if they are lifting weights, running hard or are otherwise heavily working out.
Try to speak with people before or directly after their workouts.
 Offering to help someone improve their form without them asking won't be a good way to make friends. Although some people may appreciate the advice, others will be annoyed. Always avoid criticizing someone's form or technique unless you are already good friends with them.Even if you are trying to be genuinely helpful, most people won't appreciate being critiqued.
Telling someone how to do a workout without being asked will likely prevent you from starting a new friendship or romantic relationship.
 Although many people hit the gym to improve their physique, complimenting it can be a mistake. You might come across in an unfavorable way if you try to compliment how someone looks at the gym. Always keep you compliments neutral when trying to make a new friend at the gym.Genuinely complimenting someone's technique or ability can be a better way to start a conversation.
Both women and men may be made uncomfortable by compliments that are too forward. Avoid making such remarks if you are trying to build a new friendship or romance.
Offering compliments about someone's workout gear or workout plans can be safe.
 Showing off at the gym isn't a great idea when trying to make new friends. Many people aren't interested in your workouts and likely won't even notice them. Other people may notice that you're showing off and actually lose interest in being your friend. Always opt for good conversation over physical demonstrations when trying to make a new friend at the gym.Some men may try to impress women at the gym by lifting as heavy as they can, grunting, yelling or flexing. Most women won't even notice this behavior and may actually be annoyed by it.
Women who focus on looking good or showing off at the gym instead of working out, might not be taken very seriously by fellow gym goers.

