 The most important part of helping your friend feel better, is to spend time with her if she is open to it.One way you can initiate contact with your friend is by texting or calling her and saying, "I know this is hard and I want to be there for you. Can we spend some time together?" Depending on how your friend responds you can act accordingly. She may not feel up to it, so don't press the issue; say something like, "I completely understand. Please do let me know if you want me to come over in the future. Also, if you need anything else don't hesitate to ask."
Your friend may just want a shoulder to cry on, or someone to sit around in pajamas with. Be open to just sitting around and tolerating her being sad. Try not to cheer her up if she doesn't request it.
 Many grieving individuals report a need to talk about their grief and loss with others.If your friend wants to talk about her grief or the loss of her loved one, listen. Do not immediately change the subject in order to try to make yourself or her feel better. Let her express her emotions and thoughts about what happened and listen attentively.


Focus on your friend’s personal values and beliefs. For example, avoid saying generalized things like, “they are in a better place now” to people who are not religious or do not believe in an afterlife.
You can express your empathy by saying, “I know how hard this is for you.” You can even tell her about a time that you experienced a loss in order to empathize further and communicate your understanding of her feelings.
 Don’t expect your friend to bounce back immediately. Everyone grieves differently. Some people cry and can’t get out of bed for days, while others go back to work immediately. Fortunately, people can be very resilient in the face of loss and most individuals do recover.Be patient with your friend during the grief process.
 Give your friend space if she needs it or requests it. Some people may need more connection during this time, while others will need space.This is due to different attachment styles that people have based on their upbringing and family relationships; some people may be more avoidant of connection in times of stress, some may want more attention when they are sad, while others are more balanced in their needs (wanting both connection and space).


If your friend refuses to see you or doesn’t want to talk, don’t take it personally. She could just be too tired or depressed to want to interact with anyone, and this is completely normal.

