 If you are able to use exercise equipment in a gym or workout facility, an adductor machine is great for working your inner thighs. Adductor machines can add a bit of variety into your workout routine. Sit in the seat of the machine, and place your inner thighs on the outside paddings.Your legs will be starting in an open position. Adjust the machine settings to set your starting degree of opening, and add any weight. Tighten your abs and make sure your back is flush against the seat back as you flex your legs and thighs to bring your knees together in the center.Once you reach both legs to the center, slowly open your legs back up to the starting position.


Beginners should begin with small amounts of weight. As you gain muscle, you can add more weight.
Consider doing about 3 sets of 8–10.
 Cable machines are readily available at workout facilities or gyms. However, if you don’t have a gym membership, the same resistance results can be found using a fitness band to carry out the identical mechanics. If you’re using a cable machine, attach the cable around your innermost ankle (closest to the machine) and adjust the added weight settings. If you’re using a fitness band, wrap the band around something immobile (like the leg of a table) and then attach the band around your innermost leg (closest to the table leg).Put all of your weight on the foot furthest from the table or machine. Flex your foot up that the cable or band is attached to, and pull your leg across the midline of your body, past your weight bearing foot. Let the cable or band travel in front of your weight bearing foot.Then slowly bring your foot back into your starting position. Each time you come back to your starting position, is one rep. Do this on both legs to complete this exercise.


Keep the center of your body straight and your core muscles tightened as you pull your leg past your body’s midline.
Complete approximately 3 sets of 10 reps on both of your legs.
 Stand on one leg and fully extend your other leg to prop the side of your foot on top of the exercise ball.Keep your body facing forward as you find balance on the ball. With the foot that is on top of the ball, push and roll the ball away from your body. As you push, your other weight bearing leg will have to bend at the knee to accommodate the movement. Do this movement on both legs to complete the workout.


As you do this exercise, do not lead with a squat. Rather, have your other leg that is propped up on the ball lead the roll, and your squatting leg will follow.This will ensure that you are working your intended thigh muscles.
Do approximately 2 sets of 10–15 on both legs.
 Start in a plank position on a smooth floor surface. For this plank position, your hands will be on the ground rather than your elbows, and your feet will be starting together. Make sure your shoulders are over your hands. Place each of your feet underneath a gliding disc. Keep your upper body steady and slide your feet outward and apart from each other.Open up your legs as wide as you can. Hold your legs in their open position, then slide your legs back together by squeezing your thigh muscles.Complete 2 sets of 15 reps, making sure to rest in between the sets as you need.Alternatively, you could use dishrags, washcloths, or paper plates to serve as gliding discs.

