 Combine salt and water and use the mixture to remove the mineral buildup. The salt acts as a scouring powder and can cut through the stain. Apply the mixture to the area and use a clean cloth to rub the stain in a circular motion. Rinse the glass thoroughly when finished to remove all salt water residue., Vinegar is an acid, which helps to loosen mineral deposits, and white vinegar is clear/colorless enough to not cause any staining. It’s also a natural liquid cleaner that isn’t toxic and won't potentially burn your eyes or lungs like other chemical cleaners.


Mix some lemon juice into the vinegar to increase the effectiveness and add a fresh lemon scent. Lemon juice (another an acid) has the same effect on minerals as vinegar.Put your vinegar and lemon juice in a spray bottle and slightly warm them in the microwave, for 20-40 seconds depending on your microwave. Warmed cleaner can be more effective at lifting stains than cold or room temperature cleaner. Just be sure to remove the spray bottle top so that it doesn’t explode in the microwave.Spray the vinegar solution on the glass and let it stand for about 2-3 minutes before wiping it clean with a dry, lint-free cloth or a paper towel.
To remove hard water stains from drinking glasses and other small glass items, fill a basin with a 50/50 solution of vinegar and water, and allow the items to soak in the solution for several hours before rinsing thoroughly.
 A rinsing agent, such as Jet-Dry, will help remove hard water stains from your dishes. Fill up the designated area in your dishwasher with the rinsing agent, add your usual dishwashing detergent, and run the dishwasher for clear and clean glasses., You can try super-charging your regular all-purpose window/glass cleaner with some ammonia in order to cut through hard water stains., If the above home remedies haven’t solved your stains, it’s time to bring out the big guns and go for specialized cleaning products with strong chemical and acid agents.


These types of commercial products are made for household use and are sold by several different companies under different names.
For the most part, they will contain an acid, such as sulfamic acid, as the active descaling ingredient.
Wear long sleeves, rubber gloves, and eye protection when working with acidic cleaners, and follow package directions carefully.These cleaners are safe to use on hard surfaces such as tile and glass, but should not be used on natural marble, stone, terrazzo, aluminum, or colored grout. They might stain these porous non-glass surfaces., If these commercial products still don’t give you the desired results, you can get even tougher products from your local hardware store. Be careful though, and be sure to follow all of the manufacturer’s instructions since these will be very powerful products.