 If a player has enough money, allow him or her to buy a hotel immediately. The price of the hotel should be equal to five houses. Even if there are not enough houses left to buy, that will not matter with this alternate rule for players with a lot of money. All that matters is if the player has enough money for five houses.This option will benefit players with a lot of money, but hurt the players with little money.
 In a usual game, a player is only allowed to buy a certain amount of property based on what is left, and once it is gone, the other players do not have the option of buying real estate. Allowing an unlimited amount of houses and hotel gives players who struggled in the beginning a chance to catch up as the game progresses. You can choose to remember how many houses and/or hotels you own, or mark them with a small piece of paper., Alter the rule to allow players to have two hotels on a piece of property. When other players land on that property, they must pay the price of rent for two hotels. It is also an option to have one hotel and build up to another hotel buy having multiple houses on the property.For example, if a property has one hotel and three houses on Boardwalk, then the rent would be $3400.
 Two or more players can form a partnership when they have a monopoly between them. Each player can buy property (houses and hotels) for that property, as long as they follow the rules for building property. Once the partnership is formed, it can be left between dice rolls. If a partner leaves, the other partner is forced to sell his or her portion of the partnership.You can also make it an option for the remaining partner to buy the former partner’s portion of property.
 Allow players to build properties on certain locations, even if they do not own the entire set of properties. This can be an option, but make the cost of property double what it normally is. If the player decides to sell it back to the bank, the player only receives half of what the cost normally is.