 It takes less time to speak words than to type them. If you want to tell your mom about your day or discuss weekend plans with your best friend, a call is the better choice. Calls to loved ones aren’t scripted and sound more authentic than text messages.;
, Some people feel compelled to answer calls more quickly than text messages. Person-to-person calls more efficiently convey exactly what you need to resolve the matter. If you’re the type of person who makes it a point not to disturb people with petty issues, your call will alert your contact that you need a response now.If no one answers the phone, leave a quick voicemail message like, “Hey, Susie! It’s Claire. Call me back ASAP. I need to talk to you.”

, You’re already at a disadvantage that your contact can’t see your body language. To make matters worse, text messages also lack the intonations that can make it clear what you want to say. If words alone don’t accurately communicate your intended message, opt for a phone call.This is especially important if you’re in a serious romantic relationship. Brief texts are still okay, but your voice is much better at conveying how you feel about your special someone., While texting is becoming more accepted in some places of business, traditional phone calls remain the preferred means of communication in most companies. In fact, not picking up the phone in the workplace can harm your company’s revenue.Conversations held on a more professional level should be calls, especially if it’s within your employer’s culture to do so.
 Never assume that everyone’s phone can receive a text message. As people of diverse age groups and economic backgrounds buy cell phones, service plans are becoming more adaptable to their needs. Maybe your contact cannot afford or doesn’t want a text plan. However, all phones can receive voice messages. When in doubt, call.
 Not everyone’s hands are in peak condition. Arthritis causes the joints to swell, making it painful or impossible to perform specific movements.Carpal tunnel causes pain and numbness in the hand and wrist, especially during long periods of repetitive movements.If Grandma’s fingers look gnarled or if Uncle Joe rubs his wrist after typing, it’s probably best to call them.

