 Vouchers for spa sessions, massages, beauty treatments and other body focused health pampering are an ideal choice for women in their forties.


If you are looking for a more expensive option, consider a few days to a week in a local retreat, with full-on pampering!;
, If she's the love of your life, perhaps going somewhere together would make a great birthday present, especially for birthdays that you feel are particularly special, such as 40 and 45.


Go somewhere you know she'll love to spend time, and take into account activities that she loves doing, such as relaxing, walking, shopping, touring, visiting museums, etc.
 If she participates in sport or exercise, how about updating her gear, or buying new gear for a new sport activity?


Consider things like rackets, balls, pilates gear, scuba gear, etc.
Clothing ideas include exercise tops and pants, swimsuit, trainers, tank tops, sweatbands, etc.
 Give her a selection of music she hasn't had a chance to download or buy yet. Or consider extending her music knowledge with brand new selections.
 A lovely gift that can get her out of the house more frequently includes movie vouchers, seasonal tickets to the theater, or a concert season pass.
 If she loves reading, give her a special selection of books. Ideas include:


Buy a collection of books by a favorite author; look for a selection that is a collector's item.
Buy the latest bestsellers in the genre she loves.
Buy a book voucher to her favorite little family-run bookstore.
Buy a magazine subscription.
 There are lots of delicious treats that make perfect birthday gifts, including:


Dark chocolate, chocolate tasting selections, handmade truffles, etc.
Gourmet baked goods, such as cakes, cookies, tarts, French pastries, etc.
Gourmet cooking equipment is another great idea for a woman who loves to cook.
 In her forties, a woman is often experiences transitions, including grown-up children, menopause, career changes, downsizing, etc. All of these transitions can impact her current interests and activity choices and may leave ideal gaps in things that she needs to pursue her changed purpose. Look at the new things she is taking up, as well as the spiritual aspects of her personal growth.


Consider spiritual retreats as one possibility.
Self-help books are often popular, or a voucher to a store that specializes in self-help books and items.
Mystical, magical, or spiritual items can hold a draw for some women who are transitioning, as they unearth new strengths and interests.
 Gifts she has always enjoyed remain a safe bet, such as perfume, jewelry, and clothing.

