;
, Follow the missions marker guides until you reach a goblin standing in your way on the left side, near a huge opening that is malfunctioning.


Normally you would proceed past the two malfunctioning goblins but instead, go towards the edge that was in front of you.
Stop right before the edge.
 There is a hidden passage into the cliff side.


GibbyFam is about where the passage is; use his gamertag as a reference on where you need to jump.
 You'll enter what seems to be a clearing that has orange lighting; this is where the first memory is.
 Go immediately right to obtain the first of the three ghosts needed for the alternative ending. The red arrows are to help you show the same entrance from both sides, so you know to immediately turn right when passing through.


Follow the prompt to "collect memory."

, This is where the mission original takes you after collecting the first ghost memory.


The pathway is winding and requires plenty of jumping around but it is fairly linear.
 Once this fight is complete do not go where the mission markers lead you. Instead of going through the large orange gate on the right side of the screen, go to the left side of the large map area, towards the pillar with the red light.
,,,, As you go, carefully search for the holes in the cave walls until you reach this pillar.
 Go forward past the pillar face on its right side into a small hole in the wall, inside the hole to the left just before a huge opening is the second ghost to collect.
, You know you’re going the correct way if you find this large orange door.


There is a pathway down to the rest of the gorgon maze, where the original mission takes you.
, Stop once you have defeated the taken hydra boss.



Do not immediately go to the mission marker as that ends the mission, instead search the gorgon maze for these pillars.
 Turn towards the right. There is a little hole in the cave wall that leads to the Vault of Glass jumping puzzle. GibbyFam is standing right where the entrance is in the middle of the image. Head through this path and you will enter a new area called The Vault of Glass.
 You will see small ledges that lead to a new cave passage.
, There is a small platform very far down that you need to land on.


This is a better angle of the platform.
 Collect it., Follow this jumping puzzle, without dying or your whole team dying, towards a portal.


The portal is in the distance to the right of the hole in the wall.






There is a resting point halfway between the ghost and the portal.
 This appears once you enter this new area in the Vault of Glass.


Take your time and defeat him as there are plenty of additional enemies that can take you down.
 Open up the chest that appears upon defeating the boss a large door will open behind where the boss spawns.


You are rewarded with dead cult ghost which is required to start the NTE quest line. Opening the chest will also end the mission.
 She is the future war cult representative, in the tower hanger and she will give you the Not Forged In Light quest line.


Follow that quest line to get the No Time to Explain.

