 Always play with that in mind. Never play for your own glory, but for the whole team's sake. It's better to sacrifice some personal recognition and make sacrifices for the team.;
, It is an energy-saving strategy. If you run all the time everywhere on the field, you will be tired within the first 10 minutes. Remember that the ball will always move faster than you. So its better to move it around fast than move yourself with it. Save your energy for when you really need to run.
 This is a good one whether you are defending or creating game. Anticipate while the ball is moving towards you. The best thing to do is know what to do with the ball the moment it gets to you. Anticipation when you are defending is equally important. If you can foresee your opponent's next move, it will increase your chances of stopping his/her move. Velocity is crucial in this game.
 Don't let your opponent receive the ball so neatly. Make him/her receive the ball facing backwards. Put pressure on him/her and force him/her to make mistakes. Be careful, however, of committing a foul or injuring your opponent.
 Don't make your next move too obvious. Put the ball at the back of the last defending line while a teammate runs to receive your assistance. Change the rhythm of your run, quick at first and when your opponent is coming at you, step on the brakes. He/she will also stop, then increase the pace again, leaving them anchored. When dribbling with the ball, don't be predictable. If you just used a move on a defender, that defender will be more prepared when you do that move again, so mix it up a little bit.
 If there are too many people in the center, it will be difficult to create game in that area, so use wing-men on your team to exploit the sides. Penetrate those areas and then send the ball to the center for a teammate to finish the play. Hint- be careful not to knock the ball out of bounds of the field when you do this.
 Association is the best way to break tight defenses. Use your surrounding teammates to pass the ball to each other quickly, creating confusion in your opponent.
 Don't forget that the game hasn't finished until the referee says so. So don't lose yourself only because you are winning or because there is little time left. A goal in the last minute can make you lose a game or even a championship.
 If the coach sees the devotion you put in the game, your chances of being on the main team will increase. Don't ever give up, go up and down, help your teammates, defend and attack, let your attitude be an inspiration for your team.
 Having good orientation and a complete view of the game is difficult when you are in there on the field. Knowing where your teammates and your opponents are gives you a better perspective and helps you to better plan your next move.
 Giving them a "6th sense" to what is going on around them not only helps them, but keeps you focused and engaged in the game even when you're not directly involved in the play.
 Spend about an hour everyday just as solitary practice or with a friend or coach working on the things you need to improve on. (One thing to practice is keeping the ball low. Practice just tapping the ball in low, then getting gradually more powerfully.
 A mistake that most teams and most players have is all the players flocking near the ball. If an opponent has the ball, one person is enough. If a fellow teammate has the ball give them some space. But remember to have a player a bit behind whoever has or whoever is trying to steal the ball.
 This is the most important tip in this article, so pay attention. If you're not having fun while playing this game, then why are you still playing?

