 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out two muffin pans and place paper or foil liners in each hole. Set the pans aside while you make the batter., Open one 15.35-ounce (432 g) package of white cake mix. Pour the mix into a large mixing bowl. Follow the manufacturer's instructions and add the water, vegetable oil, and eggs according to the instructions., Follow the manufacturer's instructions to beat the cupcake batter until it's smooth. Open one 3-ounce (85 g) package of watermelon flavored gelatin. Remove 1 tablespoon of the dry gelatin and set it aside. Stir the rest of the gelatin into the vanilla cupcake batter.The batter should turn a pale pink color.
 Divide the cupcake batter among the lined muffin pans. You should fill 24 holes to make 24 cupcakes. Bake the cupcakes in the preheated oven for the time recommended on the package. Place the cupcakes on a wire rack to cool.Most cupcakes will take around 18 to 21 minutes to bake.
 Scoop 1 tub (16 ounce or 440 g) of ready-to-spread vanilla frosting into a medium-sized mixing bowl. Stir the reserved tablespoon of watermelon gelatin and 1 tablespoon of red food coloring into the frosting. Stir the frosting well, so the color and watermelon flavor are completely incorporated.If you'd rather have green watermelon frosting, just use green food coloring.
 Thaw 1 cup (75 g) of whipped topping. Once it's soft, use a whisk to blend it into the watermelon frosting. Avoid stirring the frosting too much or the whipped topping may lose some of its volume., Once the cupcakes are completely cool, spread some of the watermelon frosting onto each cupcake. If you prefer, you could use a pastry bag to pipe the frosting. Get out 1/2 cup (90 g) of semi-sweet chocolate chips and arrange several chips on top of each frosted cupcake, so they look like watermelon seeds.Store leftover frosted cupcakes in the refrigerator for a few days.
You can store unfrosted cupcakes in an airtight container for up to a week. Frost and decorate the cupcakes right before you're ready to serve them.

