 If you have to get up as early as 6:00 am on school days, then to get 7 hours of sleep you need to be in bed no later than 10:30 pm. Some say that you're supposed to get 8 hours of sleep, however some teenagers need more sleep than that. While teens want to stay up later, parents may not change your curfew if you can't wake up on-time or without complaining and dragging your feet in the morning. If you wake up easily in the mornings and get ready for the day without complaining 7 hours of sleep is still reasonable. So before you start asking for a later curfew, see whether you still feel well-rested when you get less sleep. Only start asking for a later curfew if you know you can handle it, and you know you will still be getting around 7 hours of sleep.;
, Show your parents that you're responsible enough to handle a later curfew. Chances are, if you've earned a bad reputation for responsibility with your family, they're not going to extend it. If that's you then you may need to work a little harder. That means clean your room, don't talk back, walk the dog, and so on. Getting good grades never hurts either. When your parents ask you to do something, do it without major complaining. Do your homework, do your chores, and most importantly, be responsible with your current curfew! If you don't keep what you have already, they won't be willing to extend it. Being early will really surprise them too!

, However, don't be annoying and don't be rude with it. Instead of asking them every 5 minutes, ask every other night or every once in a while. Also be polite with how you ask. Act mature, and don't whine or complain.
 Instead of saying, "The curfew I have is really stupid. I'm going to stay up later!", say something like, "I think my curfew is a little too early. Could you think about extending it a little?". If you tell them your going to stay up later, that just proves you're immature and tells your parents you're not ready for a later curfew. Plus, parents are much less likely to agree on something you demand of them. Think about it, if someone came up to you and said, "Gimme some of your money, I have to buy this!", would you give them some money? Probably not. But what if they said, "Can you loan me some money? I promise to pay you back later"?

, If they say no, tell them why you need a later curfew. Reasons could be: 1. I need more time to finish homework/study at night. 2. I'm so busy, I need more time to relax. 3. I think I'm old enough for a later curfew, etc. Also give them reasons why you think you should be able to have a later curfew, like: 1. I think I'm responsible enough. 2. I've been doing much better in school, so I think I an handle it, etc. Don't give them reasons like, "My friends all have later curfews," because this just seems like you're giving in to peer pressure.
 Tell them, "If you extend my curfew 1 hour, I'll be nice to my sister". You could do the dishes, do your homework earlier, babysit a younger sibling, or let them lower you're allowance a little. If they say yes, make sure you keep your part of the deal. Show them you're responsible and maybe they won't make you keep your part of the deal.
 If your parents aren't budging try setting a curfew that you are both somewhat happy with. If you want your curfew at 11:00, but your parents want your curfew at 10:00, then go 10:30 for now and show them you're responsible enough to handle it. If you're responsible and show your parents you could handle it eventually they may go ahead and extend it to 11:00.
 If your parents are being impossible and none of these steps are working, then you're going to have to give up at some point. If they say no and mean no, then don't throw a tantrum or give them the silent treatment. Be responsible and mature and show them they've made a mistake. Ask them again in about 2 weeks and see if they've changed their minds, but know when enough is enough.
 This may be one reason why they may not extend your curfew, because they may want you to be safe. They may not want anything bad to happen to you, and most bad things happen outside at night.
 This may also be one reason why your parents may say no, because they could get fined if you are out too late, so make sure the curfew you ask for is not later than the state curfew for your age.

