 Dark spots after shaving can be caused by hyperpigmentation or freshly shaved hair follicles peeking out from just under your skin. If your dark spots are due to subsurface hair, consider waxing or plucking the affected area to remove dark follicles.Dealing with hyperpigmentation takes a little more work, since it involves small spots of skin that change in color due to skin irritation or inflammation. Some common causes include acne, ingrown hairs, and bacterial infection.;
, Be sure to apply a broad-spectrum sunscreen before going outside, especially if the affected area will be exposed to the sun. Choose a sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 30 or higher. Unprotected exposure to sunlight will worsen your dark spots., Squeeze the juice of one lemon into a small container. Dip a cotton ball into the juice and use it to dab the affected area directly. Apply lemon juice to your dark spots twice daily to gently bleach them.Be sure to use fresh squeezed lemon juice instead of store-bought bottled juice.
 An over the counter vitamin C whitening cream will work much like fresh squeezed lemon juice. While using lemon juice is easier and less expensive, using a store-bought cream can help prevent drying or irritating your skin, which might occur if you just use lemon juice.Look for a cream at your local drug or convenience store marked “5 to 10% AA” or “5 to 10% vitamin C.”

, If you have an aloe vera plant, cut off a piece and scrape off the gel-like secretion from inside the leaves. If you don’t own one, purchase a 100% aloe vera gel from your local drug or convenience store. Apply the gel to the affected area, leave it on for 30 minutes, then wash it off with cool water.Apply to your dark spots twice daily.
 Look for a ready-made licorice root extract skin salve and apply it to your dark spots as directed.You can also prepare your own salve by bringing 2 tablespoons of dried licorice root and 6 cups (1.44 L) of water to a boil. Reduce heat, cover the pan, and simmer for 40 minutes. Apply to your skin using a cloth or cold compress.It’s best to check with your doctor before trying licorice root and other herbal extracts, especially if have existing health conditions, such as diabetes. You should avoid using licorice root if you’re pregnant or plan on getting pregnant.