 There are a handful of chores you should do each day if you want to maintain a clean and clutter-free domestic heaven. Thankfully, these chores are quick enough to squeeze in even if you work a job outside of the home or have a houseful of kids to attend to.


To reduce your stress as much as possible, plan on accomplishing each of these daily chores during a certain time of the day. Organizing your time may help you relieve some of the anxiety you feel about getting everything done.
Daily tasks you'll need to make time for include making the bed, sorting the mail, and sweeping or vacuuming the floor.Other daily tasks should be performed as you go along. These include putting things away (to prevent clutter from developing), cleaning up as you cook, and wiping up fresh spills.;
, Some chores only need to be done once or twice a week. Instead of rushing around to get these chores done all at once, plan on doing a little each day and set aside certain days for certain tasks. You'll likely feel more relaxed about getting things done, which means you'll do a better, more thorough job.


Clean the bathrooms once a week. Make sure that you wash all bath linens and scrub all toilets, tubs, and sinks. Empty the trash, clean the mirrors, dust the lights, and wipe up the floor.The bedrooms in your home also need a thorough weekly cleaning. Put away anything that has been sitting out on a desk or side table. Clean all sheets, pillowcases, and blankets. Empty the trash, dust all the surfaces, and vacuum the floor.
You may need to vacuum your living room, kitchen, and dining room every day or two, but other chores, like dusting, washing rugs/mats, and wiping mirrors, can be done once a week.
 Moreover, different types of cleaners may work better on different areas of your home. If there is some part of your usual cleaning routine that leaves a lot to be desired, figure out why your current cleaner is not doing the job right and research which options might be better.


Compare chemical and organic products. Nowadays, many people prefer cleaning products made from natural ingredients instead of chemical cleaners. Natural cleaners have their own pros and cons, just as chemical cleaners have, but it doesn't hurt to include a few organic products among those you plan on testing out.
Ask your friends for suggestions or do some research online about your different options. Test a few different products out on a trial basis.
Pay close attention to which products work best with different materials—wood, glass, ceramic, plastic, and so on.
 The modern domestic goddess needs to know a bit more about the handy side of home care than earlier counterparts did. You don't need to know how to maintain all the systems and utilities in your home, but learning how to take care of a few basic projects is a wise move.


At minimum, your home tool kit should contain a hammer and a few different screwdrivers. These tools will allow you to do simple tasks like hanging pictures and making small repairs to things like toys, cabinets, and drawers.
 Clutter is the natural enemy of any domestic goddess. If you want to maintain a living space that any mortal would be envious of, you need to keep things orderly and in their place. Brush up on space-saving techniques and similar skills to keep your belongings in check.


This is especially important if you're dealing with limited space.
Get rid of any unnecessary junk first, then organize everything that has a purpose in a way that makes sense based on your needs.
 Laundry is one chore that you will never be able to avoid if you want to be a domestic goddess. Your current laundry skills might be adequate, but you should still continue to watch out for aspects of your laundry routine that could stand to use improvement.


Consider assigning different laundry tasks to different days, as well. For instance, you can clean bathroom towels on Tuesday, bed sheets and pillowcases on Wednesday, and any other miscellaneous towels or blankets on Thursday. Clothing will need to be cleaned throughout the week, though.
Read the labels before you wash something and follow the laundering instructions provided.If you aren't sure whether or not an item will bleed color in the washing machine, test it by soaking a small spot and blotting that spot with a white cloth.
Wash colors and whites separately. Also separate heavily soiled items and wash those on their own.
Pretreat stains and presoak heavily soiled garments in a sink or bucket of water for 30 minutes before washing them.
Use the recommended amount of detergent and select the best washer cycle for each individual load.
Base water temperature and dryer settings on color and fabric type. Materials that can shrink should be washed in warm or cold water and air dried, for instance. Cold water is best for bright colors, while hot water works well for whites.
 Once you've mastered the basics, keep an eye out for various tips and tricks that can take your home skills from “great” to “amazing.” Some tricks work better than others, though, so you should test them out before bragging to your friends about your newfound knowledge.


For instance, cover dirty stroller wheels and wagon wheels with plastic shower caps before bringing the item inside.Wrap pipe cleaners around the neck of condiment bottles to catch drips and prevent crusty build-up.
Stuff holes in the wall and cabinets with steel wool to keep mice and other pests out.
 If you currently have some cooking and baking knowledge, then you're off to a good start already. If not, start small by making simple meals and following easy recipes. You can gradually build up your kitchen skills as you get more comfortable, but trying too much all at once is a good way to fail and get discouraged.


Look for books specifically aimed at beginners or search for easy recipes online. Instructions that provide step-by-step pictures are often the easiest to follow along.
 Look for free and cheap cooking classes in your area. Focus on developing skills that you're specifically interested in developing, and skip any class that will teach you something you already know or will teach you something you have no desire to learn.


Local craft stores often offer classes on baking and food decorating.
Small markets may have classes on cooking essentials.
Check out cooking schools in your area. Even if you don't want to spend time and money on a cooking program, some of these schools offer one-time cooking courses at a discounted price.
 Not every domestic goddess needs to love cooking, but learning to enjoy it can motivate you into improving your skills. Try to find something about cooking or baking that you can feel passionate—or at least interested—about. Build up your cooking skills in general, but involve your point of interest as much as possible while doing so.


Your passion might be something simple, like baking cookies or mastering stovetop cooking.
On the other hand, you might find your attention grabbed by something a little more unique, like gluten-free baking or canning.
 You might have a full set of cooking and baking skills when all is said and done, but that doesn't mean you will be able to show them all off each and every day. Know when to make a simple meal and when to whip up something more impressive. Learning how to use your cooking to improve and please those you're cooking for is another skill you will need to master.


For example, if you're cooking for picky kids, focus on choosing kid-friendly meals instead of trying to impress them with an elaborate meal they won't even eat.
When you're cooking for guests, find out about any food allergies or special diets ahead of time and plan your menu accordingly.
 Once you feel comfortable enough in the kitchen, start using the skills and knowledge you have gained to experiment with your own recipes and tasty creations. Some experiments might be a success while others will likely be a failure. The important thing is simply to keep working at it until your successes vastly outnumber your failures.
 Sewing is the queen of lost skills, so if you don't know even the most basic stitches, you really aren't alone. At minimum, though, you should know how to sew hems, repair small rips and tears, and attach buttons.


Learn a variety of basic stitches, including the straight stitch, the back stitch, the zigzag stitch, and the basting stitch.
Invest in a sewing machine. As your sewing skills improve, consider buying a sewing machine of your own. You will probably be glad that you did. Fixing garments and creating projects from scratch will both be much easier if you learn to machine sew as well as hand sew.
 Sewing is not the only lost skill worth learning, of course. There is a wide range of other crafts and domestic abilities you can explore. You do not need to master all of them, but picking one or two you'd like to become great at can improve your standing as a domestic goddess.


Potential areas of interest could include gardening, crocheting, or knitting.
You could also check out community craft websites, like Pinterest, to get more ideas.
 You can learn a lot by teaching yourself, but sometimes, the best way to learn a new skill or to advance an old one is to take an actual class on it. Look for cheap classes in your area or sign up for a class online.

