 Kissing a guy on the cheek is a great way to touch him flirtatiously without coming on too strong. This typically happens when you greet or say goodbye to a hug, and you both lean in to give a kiss on opposite cheeks. Just make sure that you know the guy well enough and that the occasion is appropriate -- you shouldn't try this move if you're saying hello in the halls or in a class, but you can try it if you're saying hello or goodbye at the end of a party or when you're out with your friends.


When you kiss the guy on the cheek, let your lips just graze the side of his cheek. Don't give him a wet, sloppy kiss.
Make sure that he's leaning in for the kiss or cheek-to-cheek move, too.
 Another way to be flirtatious is to lightly hit the guy when you're talking. You can gently hit him on his upper arm if you're both standing up, or hit him on the knee if you're both sitting down. This is a move that says, "Oh, stop it! But really, don't..." Make sure you do this lightly and don't hit him too hard, or he'll be put off.


When you're being playful like this, it's important that the guy is reciprocating. If you're playfully hitting him from time to time, he should return the gesture.
 This is another low-key but effective way to touch a guy flirtatiously. If you're sitting across from each other and he says something that makes you laugh or which was meant to elicit an "Ew!" or "Gross!" reaction, then you can playfully kick the top of his foot with your own. If you're feeling bold, you can playfully kick him under the table and then move your feet so that they're just touching his, daring him to move.
 Playing with a guy's hair is a great way to flirt with him. This is a pretty bold move, so you shouldn't over use it and find a good reason to do it. For example, if the guy just got a haircut, you can gently squeeze his hair to tease him. If his hair looks a little messy, you can playfully try to fix it, using it as an excuse to touch him. Just make sure he likes it -- it's a pretty intimate gesture, and not every guy likes to have his hair touched.
 If you and the guy are sitting across from each other, lean in until your knees are almost touching. Then, if he moves closer, or if you're just feeling bold, have the tops of your knees touch, or move your knees so that one is on the outside of his legs and one is between them, so you move closer together. Lean your body toward him to make this happen.
 If you really want to get flirty, wait for the time when the guy has an eyelash or even a bit of food on his cheek. Then, lean over and gently brush it off him, taking care to make light contact with his skin. Linger just enough to get flirty, and move closer to him so he feels you getting more intimate.


Guys usually like being touched on the cheek because it is soft and comfortable.
 Once you've gotten more intimate, you can reach your hand over to hold the guy's hand when you're standing up. You can hold hands while you're walking, or while you're sitting down and talking or watching a movie. If you're sitting across from each other, you can hold hands under the table or with your hands over the table. Give the guy's hand a gentle squeeze from time to time to keep the flirtatious mood going.


Though holding a guy's hand is a great way to flirt with him, you should avoid this move unless you're already "together" somewhat -- holding hands in public is a declaration that you're an item, and not all guys may like that.
Also, a lot of guys just don't like to have their hands held, period, whether you're alone or in public, so be cautious when you try this form of affection.
 If you want to be flirtatious with the guy, you can place one hand on his chest as you're talking and moving closer to him. This is especially effective if he's standing with his back to a wall or if you're in a small, enclosed space.

