 Don’t try to change your crush’s mind or prove to them how great you are. This might get on their nerves, and worse, it will make you feel a little pathetic. Save your energy for someone who likes you, and leave your crush alone.Remember that there are many reasons your crush might not be interested in you. Maybe they’ve liked someone else for a long time, or maybe they like you as a friend but don’t think you’d be a compatible couple. It doesn’t mean there’s anything wrong with you.
 If you are friends with your crush, it’s normal to feel a little awkward around them after getting rejected. Let them know that you need some time away from them to get over your feelings. If they are a good friend, they’ll understand and respect your wishes.


If you aren’t really friends with your crush, you don’t need to explain to them that you’re taking some time away from them. In fact, it’s probably better if you don’t.
 Resist the urge to stalk your crush online by unfriending or unfollowing them on the social media platforms you use. If you’re worried about caving in and re-following them later, block them.You can always re-add them in the future, once you’re over your feelings.
 Don’t try to get a glimpse of your crush in the hallway at school or in the break room at work, no matter how tempting the idea may be. Put as much distance as you can between yourself and them. If you have to see your crush every day, try to sit far away from them and avoid conversation.Be polite. It’s okay to say hello if you happen to see your crush, but don’t linger or try to start a conversation.
 If you and your crush have mutual friends, let them know that you’re trying to get over some feelings, and ask them not to talk about your crush around you for a while. Don’t ask what your crush is up to or whether they’re dating anybody, since this might re-ignite your old emotions.
 Music, movies, and books can all be helpful in getting over an unrequited flame, but stay away from entertainment that helps you wallow in your feelings. If certain media makes you think about your crush, cut it out for a while and replace it with something that isn’t so emotionally loaded.


Try indulging in escapism for a while. Look for novels and TV shows that transport you to worlds very different from your everyday life.

