 Locate the TeamViewer icon, and double-click it to run program. Two windows should pop up, one small and one big. The smaller window on the right should say “Computers & Contacts” at the top of the window. This will be the one used to log into your Teamviewer account. Use your email address and password to log in.;
, Once logged in, there should now be a list of available devices inside the same window. Under the heading “My Computers,” double-click on the desired system to begin your connection. A new window should open automatically and begin a connection attempt. You should see the desktop of the remote device as soon as the connection is stable. There should also be a small blue-and-white box in the lower right-hand corner of your screen.


Please note that you need to have Teamviewer installed on both systems in order to access and control the remote system.
 At the top of the window should be a series of options available to you in a grayish bar. You are looking for “File transfer,” and it should be on the right-hand side of this bar. Click to open a drop-down menu, and select the top “File transfer” option. This will open the File Transfer browser.


The File Transfer browser should now be open in the middle of your page. On the left-hand side of the window you are going to see all the files and folder located on your current device. On the right-hand side will be the files located on the remote device.
 As you scroll through each device, you are setting a download location for the files you are going to download, so if you are trying to transfer a file from the remote device to your current one, you should browse through and find the remote file using the right-hand side of the File Transfer browser.
 Now browse through and open a location using the left-hand side of the File Transfer browser. When you have located the file(s) you are looking for, simply drag and drop the file to the opposite side. There should be a file transfer animation box that opens. Wait for this to close, and you’re all done.


In order to place a file on the remote system, simply reverse the process of the selecting windows and drag-and-dropping to the correct window.

