 Nothing represents the warmth and comfort of home quite like a loaf of soft, fluffy bread. Throw a yeasty sourdough, rye or pumpernickel in the oven, using made-from-scratch dough and fresh ingredients. Bread can come in a ton of different varieties, so it makes a great edible gift year-round.You can bake bread in large batches overnight, which is useful if you’re preparing it for a lot of people.
Don’t forget about dessert varieties, such as cinnamon-raisin, banana nut or pull-apart monkey bread., Though cakes and similar confections are usually served up after the presents have been unwrapped, they also make great gifts in their right. Whether it’s a simple yet delicious red velvet cake, a pound cake, strawberry cheesecake, or a key lime, pumpkin or peach and praline pie, it’s amazing what a little flour, sugar and butter can create.Pull from your family’s traditional recipes, or try for something unique and daring to suit the person’s preferences.
Delicate or heavily-decorated cakes and pies will be difficult to present. These should be stored, packed and transported carefully., Show your love with artisan canned food items, just like grandma used to do. Things like homemade preserves, butters, pickles and cheese have really grown in popularity in recent years. These items are simple to make, tasty and infinitely customizable. Best of all, once they’re sealed they’ll stay fresh for months or even years, so you can prepare them well in advance without having to worry about them going bad.Canning is fairly straightforward, but does require some special equipment. Before you add making old-fashioned canned goods to your to-do list, make sure you have all the necessities: mason jars, canning tools, cookware and natural ingredients.These types of condiments are versatile, which means the recipient is free to use them however they like.
 If you really want to spoil someone, give them their own private stash of sugary treats. This could take the form of peppermint bark, yogurt pretzels, candy apples or a sweet and savory nut brittle. These foods tend to keep better than others, but chances are they won’t last long anyway.Candies and sweets are real crowd pleasers, especially around the holidays.
Hand out small bags of white-chocolate frosted Chex mix or caramel corn, or send them straight through the mail.
 One more intimate option is to invite someone to your home and cook their favorite dishes for them. Not only will they get to indulge in the foods they love, they’ll also relish the opportunity to spend time together talking, laughing and eating. Strengthening a personal connection is one of the most meaningful gifts you can give someone.Throw a dinner party to celebrate a special occasion or as a token of appreciation.

