 If your child has hives all over her body, give her an antihistamine. These drugs can block the histamine that causes allergic reactions and help relieve itching and skin inflammation.Follow the recommended dose for your child’s age and weight. If you’re unsure of dosing, check with your child’s doctor.Common antihistamines include cetirizine,chlorpheniramine,and diphenhydramine.These drugs often have sedative effects so make sure to watch your child for safety., Your child’s doctor may suggest taking histamine, or H-2, blockers to help relieve the hives. Your child may receive an injection or oral dosage of these medications.Examples of histamine blockers are cimetidine (Tagamet), ranitidine (Zantac), nizatidine (Axid), and famotidine (Pepcid).Side effects from these drugs may include digestive problems or headaches., Your doctor may prescribe either a stronger topical or oral corticosteroid such as prednisone if other treatments don’t ease your child’s hives. Make sure to follow your doctor’s directions on taking these medications as they can weaken your child’s immune system.Oral steroids are only used for a short time because they can have serious side effects when used long term., Several studies have demonstrated that injections of the asthma drug omalizumab may help relieve hives. This drug comes with the benefit that it has no side effects.This treatment costs more than other options and is generally not covered by insurance., Your doctor may prescribe your child a course of asthma medication with antihistamines. This treatment may help relieve your child’s hives.Your doctor may prescribe the asthma drugs montelukast (Singulair) or zafirlukast (Accolate) with an prescription or over the counter antihistamine.This treatment can cause behavior and mood changes., If your child’s hives are chronic and don’t respond to other treatments, your doctor may suggest drugs that affect the immune system. These drugs can help relieve acute and chronic hives.Cyclosporine limits the immune system’s response to hives and can help provide relief of your child’s hives. However, it comes with side effects that range from headaches to nausea and, in some cases, reduced kidney function.Tacrolimus also reduces the immune system’s reaction that causes hives. It comes with similar side effects to cyclosporine.Mycophenolate suppresses the immune system while improving the signs and symptoms of hives.