 This part of the program requires that you mark off a distance of 50 yards (45.7 m). This can be done with flags, cones, even household objects. Do the following three warm up jogs:Jog the 50 yards (45.7 m). Jog slowly and easily to allow your muscles to engage.
Jog sideways. Start with your knees bent and side step your way across the 50 yards. At 25 yards, turn around so that you are leading with the other leg. Keep your hip, knee, and ankles in a straight line while you do it.
Jog backwards. Land on your toes while you run backwards. Keep your knees slightly bent so that they will not lock. This will warm up your hip extensors and hamstrings.;
, Your lower legs need to be strong and flexible so that you can jump and turn safely during games. Stretching them will increase your flexibility and reduce soreness after the work out. If you have not done other warm up exercises, walk quickly for five to ten minutes to do so. Your muscles must be warm when you stretch or you risk injuring them. When you stretch always hold the position for approximately 30 seconds without bouncing. Keep breathing. You should feel the stretch but it shouldn’t be painful.Stand with one foot slighting in front of the other. Keep the heel of the back leg on the ground while you slowly reach down towards the ground. You should feel a stretch in the calf of the back leg. Repeat this twice for each leg holding it for 30 seconds each time.
 Your thighs are important for jumping, landing, and pivoting during basketball. You have several muscles in your thighs which you can stretch individually.Stretch your quadriceps. Hold onto the side of a building or tree while doing this. Bend your leg on the opposite side so that your heel is near your backside. Use your free hand to hold your ankle. Your knee should be pointing to the ground and should not go out to the side. Do this twice for each leg, holding it for 30 seconds.
Stretch your hamstrings. These muscles are on the back of your thigh. Sit on the ground with one leg bent so that the bottom of the foot is against the thigh of the outstretched leg. Reach for your toes. Do this twice for each leg holding it for 30 seconds.
Stretch your inner thighs. Sit on the ground with your legs wide apart in front of you. Lean into the middle. Then reach with one hand towards the toes on the same side. Bring your other arm over your head and continue to reach for your toes. Hold this for 20 seconds and repeat it three times on each side.
Stretch your hip flexors. These muscles are that front of your upper leg. Take a large step forward with one leg and drop down to the knee of the back leg. Keep your shoulders above your hips. Use your hands to gently pull your back ankle towards your buttocks. Do this twice for each leg, holding it for 30 seconds each time.
 If the muscles are strong, they will be better able to keep your knee joint stable during the quick changes of direction that are required in basketball. You can do the following:Walking lunges. While walking, lunge forward on one side. Lower your back knee towards the ground while keeping your front knee over the ankle. Your knee should not slip in front of your ankle. Keep the motion controlled and smooth as you walk. Do three sets of 10 replicates.
Russian Hamstring. Have a friend hold your feet while you kneel on the ground. Keep your back straight and do not bend at the hips as you lean towards the ground. You will use your leg muscles to support yourself. Do three sets of 10 replicates.
Single Toe raises. This will improve your balance and increase the strength in your calves. While standing on one leg, slowly lift yourself on to the ball of the foot which is on the ground. Do two sets of 30 repetitions on each side.
 This is important for having the strength, not only to jump, but to support yourself throughout the landing. These exercises are called plyometrics. For these exercises you will need to set up a cone or other object that is about 6 inches (15 cm) high. For children 12 or under use an object that is 2 inches (5.1 cm) high or a line on the ground.Do 20 lateral hops. Jump sideways over the cone. Land on the ball of your foot in a soft and controlled manner.
Do 20 hops forward and backwards over the cone. Your knees should remain bent and you should land on the balls of your foot.
Hop forwards and backwards over the cone on one foot. Do this 20 times for each foot. These may need to be omitted for younger children who may not have enough coordination to do it safely.
Jump straight up in the air, landing on the balls of your feet with your knees bent. Do this 20 times.
Do 20 scissors jumps. Lunge forward on one leg so that your knee is over your ankle. Push off with your front leg and jump into a lunge position with that leg behind and the other leg in front. Land on the balls of your feet with your knees bent. Keep your knee stable.
 These exercises will increase your speed and the ability of your muscles to stabilize your knee. They will also help increase your awareness of how your body moves in space. This will improve your coordination. For these exercises you will need to set up two lines of cones or markers which should be about 30 feet (9 m) apart. Use 4 or 5 cones on each side.Forward / backward running. You will run back and forth between the lines. Sprint to the first cone, run backwards to the second, sprint to the third…and continue until you reach the last cone. Do this three times.
Diagonal run. Run between the cones while pivoting on your outside leg. Keep your knees bent and make sure the knee stays over the ankle. Do this three times.
Bounding run. Run for 30 to 60 seconds doing the bounding run. During this exercise you bring your knees up towards your chest while keeping your hips level. Land on the balls of your feel with your knees bent.
 This will help reduce soreness and tight muscles. Aim for a cool down routine of about 10 minutes. You should include:Easy jogging.
Repeating the hamstring, calf, inner thigh, and quadriceps stretches.
Rehydrating with plenty of water.
 There are two types of equipment that may help you protect yourself from an ACL injury:


Good shoes. Good shoes are necessary for you to be able to maintain traction when taking off from jumps, landing, or pivoting. If your soles are worn out or they don’t cushion your joints enough, it may be time to get a new pair.
Extra knee support. Ask your trainer about whether he or she recommends that you wrap your knee or wear a brace for additional support.
 If you are too tired to be able to train with the proper technique, you may want to consider giving yourself a rest. Injuries are more likely to occur when you:


Are sleep deprived. Most adults require approximately 7 to 8 hours of sleep per night.Are hungry or dehydrated, causing you to lose coordination.
Are ill. If you are ill, you may want to take a break to give your body time to heal.

