 Coat the exposed flesh of the avocado with just enough acidic juice to cover the surface.


When you cut open an avocado, you cause its cellular walls to break apart, and a process known as oxidation will be triggered as a result. Oxidation is the process responsible for turning avocados and other fruits brown after being cut open.






An acidic agent will slow oxidation down. Other than lemon juice and lime juice, additional acidic agents include orange juice, vinegar, and tomato juice.
 If you do not have lemon or lime juice, or do not want to use it for whatever reason, coat the exposed flesh of the avocado with enough olive oil to lightly yet evenly cover the surface.


While the oil does nothing to directly slow down the oxidation of the fruit, the use of olive oil can create an even better airtight seal. With the flesh of the avocado exposed to even less oxygen, the oxidation process will naturally take a little longer than it would without the oil.
 Tightly wrap the cut avocado in plastic wrap to create an airtight seal.


Instead of using plastic wrap, you could also place the avocado in an airtight container, vacuum-sealed plastic bag, or resealable plastic bag. The important thing is simply to find a way to restrict or halt airflow to the fruit.






If using olive oil instead of acidic fruit juice, however, plastic wrap is your best bet since the combination of oil and cling wrap will create the strongest airtight seal.






In creating an airtight seal, you limit the amount of oxygen that the surface of the avocado flesh will be exposed to, thereby slowing down the oxidation process.
 Keep the avocado in a fruit drawer or in the back of your refrigerator.


Do not keep ripe avocados out at room temperature, especially if they have already been cut. The cold temperatures of the refrigerator can slow down the ripening process, thereby preventing the fruit from over-ripening too fast.
 A cut, ripe avocado stored in this manner will usually last a day or two before over-ripening.


If the avocado begins to feel mushy, or if pressing it causes a deep, permanent indentation, the fruit has become over-ripe and may no longer be good to eat.







