 You may have to go due to work or personal commitments, or you may choose to visit this the city, either, you can enjoy your trip. In contrast to its history, Nakhchivan is a small city with few places to visit. This means commonly, even four days can be enough for traveling there. Try to plan everything in no more than five days, so you won't get bored.


Know the distance between your location to the destination. Research how much time it will take to arrive in the city, and estimate how much time you need to arrive at hotel, get some rest and etc. This way, you'll know how much time will it take for you to visit all over the city.;
, There are several good hotels in Nakhchivan such as Duzdag hotel, the Tabriz hotel, and the Grand Hotel. Research the prices and the facilities, and then make a choice.


For example, some people prefer the Duzdag hotel because it's newly built. Some others prefer Tabriz hotel because it's located in the center of the city. Research all of them and compare them to your expectations. Book the hotel that suits you best.
 In Nakhchivan, English is not a commonly used language, even hotel staff hardly know English. If you speak another language than English, but not one used in Nakhchivan, install the translation software that will be the easiest for you to use.


Most of the tourists in Nakhchivan are Azeris from Iran, Baku and Turkey. That's why people there know several languages including Azerbaijani, Turkish and Farsi, but not English. This doesn't mean that utterly no one there knows English. There might be people who understand a little English, but can't speak it fluently.
To not come across with any problem, especially when paying for taxis and hotel services, make sure to translate everything.
 The most important spectacular of Nakhchivan is The Mausoleum of Momine Khatun which is an octagonal tower and to a large extent is the iconic symbol of the city. This Mausoleum is one of the most famous spectacles in Azerbaijan. The 26-meter tower is fully made of brick and is features by turquoise tiles with texts in Kufic. It was nominated for the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites in 1998.
 After The Mausoleum of Momine Khatun, the most important attraction of the city and perhaps, the most exciting one is The Aṣḥāb-e Kahf Cave. There, Noah's Ark has been shattered and The Seven Sleepers have slept.


The Seven Sleepers story is about seven youths who hid inside of a cave and slept for 309 years. When they woke up, they found out that the world has been changed a lot. Əshabi-kəhf ziyarətgahı in Nakhchivan is the place (the cave) which have been told they slept there. That's why the place is a sanctuary for Azeris and other believers (mostly Muslims).
The place is full of beautiful and pure fountains which is also holy for Azeris. There are several caves which can be accessed by staircases. It is located 18 km far away from the city, at the end of a narrow road which is separated from the main road. At the beginning of the main road, there's a great white monument with pink bases made of cement and the "Əshabi-kəhf ziyarətgahı" is written on it.
If you have children with you, be careful with the rough cliffs and rocks. Make sure you are all wearing appropriate footwear.
You can also bring rock climbing facilities, as there are several beautiful places for this sport.
There are several cafes at the beginning of the path. That way, you can have some tea or coffee to give you energy for the staircases.
Some locals wear scarves when going to the main cave. These are available for free in some wardrobes on the path, but it's not a must.
 It's located in Ehsan Khan's Palace. (Ehsan Khan was the King of Nakhchivan in the eighteenth century). The Palace has been rebuilt since then, and this museum is ideal to identify and recognize the four basic styles of Azerbaijani carpets. Additionally, different kinds of rugs, Soumaks and Palases are exhibited in the museum.
 Twin mosques of Hazrati Zahra, with the modern architecture, are designed in pale yellow brick. It has a big dome made of metal which is very similar to a boiler. Because the investors of this construction were Iranians, this mosque is also well-known as The Iranian Mosque.
 Join others there and make new friends. You might meet many other tourists from Baku, Iran and Turkey. Don't be afraid of communicating and making new friends. The tourists are all fun and open to meeting new fellow travellers from around the world. Share your experiences and let them share theirs with you. Try to learn from their experiences. Ask them about the most beautiful places of the city. If you stay in the same hotel with them, go to the club, pool, gym or whatever you like with them. You might like to play some billiards with a new friend.


Make sure you don't act awkward, creepy, or push the strangers to do something if they make it clear they are uncomfortable.
 There are several entertainments in the good hotels such as carting, clubs, different types of pools, gyms, wide sport fields, etc. Try every entertainment of your hotel at least once. Don't be afraid of trying new experiences.


Since there are many Iranian tourists, hotel clubs might mostly play Iranian and Azeri musics. It's not a big deal either way. Join them and have fun.
 Nakhchivan is full of crowded and good concerts, especially in the summer and beginning of spring (during the Nowrouz). The singers are usually the famous ones from Iran and Azerbaijan, such as Shohre, the Iranian singer. There are also DJs which can bring a lot of festivity and fun. Don't be disappointed if you don't understand the language; music can always bring fun. You'll probably dance to Azeri and Persian music past midnight.
 Ask the hotel reception staff about every price, including the taxi costs. Some taxi drivers might ask you to paying much more than the common prices. For example, it'll probably cost 30 AZN (Azerbaijani New Manat) from the Duzdag hotel to aṣḥāb-e kahf.

