 Thinking about your ex more than you have to will prolong the healing process. To help get your mind off of this person, remove reminders from your daily life. For example, get rid of pictures of this person — whether they're on your desk, your phone, or your computer. If your ex gave you any mementos or presents, consider throwing them away. If they are valuable and you'd like to keep them, box them up and put them somewhere out of the way for at least a few months.


You'll also want to remove your ex from your social media. Consider blocking your ex, or removing him or her from your friends list. Change your profile picture if your current one shows the two of you together. You can also take a break from social media altogether if you frequently see posts from this person's friends.
 Being single can be hard at first, but one bright side is that you now have more time to spend on yourself. Use your extra time to improve yourself any way you wish. Try picking up a new hobby or revisiting one you didn't have time for before. You can also try teaching yourself a new skill, learning a new language, or anything else that you consider constructive.


This sort of self-improvement has the added benefit of making you more attractive to potential partners when you do jump back into the dating pool.
 Exercise is one of the absolute best things you can do for yourself following a breakup. An ambitious new workout routine can help you look your best, boosting your self confidence and making you more attractive to others. In addition, exercise can have a positive effect on your mood — it's often one of the first things doctors prescribe for depression.See our exercise article for specific workout tips. With simple changes to your diet and physical routines, you can make a major transformation in as little as two months.
 Ironically, you shouldn't jump back into another serious relationship until you're confident that you don't need one to be happy. In other words, make sure that you're happy and secure on your own before you start a new relationship. You need to be able to love yourself before you can love someone else. Using a new relationship to fill the hole in your heart from an old one isn't fair to yourself or your new partner. It can easily be a recipe for future heartbreak.


While some couples manage to get back together after a breakup, be wary of starting a new relationship with your ex. This is especially true if it was your ex's behavior or infidelity that led to the collapse of your relationship in the first place. You should look for concrete proof that this person has made changes in his or her life before you even consider getting back together.

