 The audience will notice if you are trying too hard or lack confidence. Relax, and be yourself on stage. For actors, it’s particularly important to be relaxed in your body movements and speech so that your performance will be believable. , Make the crowd feel like they’re part of the show. People don’t come to music shows just to listen. They want to move, dance, and sing along. Create an energetic environment that allows the crowd to let loose and have fun. The best way to do this is – have fun yourself!


For actors, make eye contact with the crowd. Eye contact is the closest you can get to making physical contact with your audience. Don’t choose one or two audience members to look at. This might make them feel nervous or singled out. Instead, practice scanning the crowd in a way that appears natural to engage each audience member. Remember to show as much emotion as you can through the eyes to make the performance convincing. To start the show off on the right foot, applaud your audience as you first walk onto the stage. Though it may sound strange to clap towards the audience, they’ll start clapping back and the room will be immediately buzzing with energy. Try holding the mic out and asking the crowd to sing along.
 For actors, this means making eye contact and commanding the audience’s attention with your presence through body movement and speech. For musicians, get involved with what the crowd is doing. If the crowd is dancing, jump off stage and dance with them!


If you’re playing a show with a mosh pit, go for a stage dive. Mosh pits generate huge amounts of energy at concerts, and showing your audience you want to be part of the fun will get them even more excited about your show.
If the energy is right, invite a few people from the front row on stage, or lean over to shake and slap hands.
 Even if you’ve perfected your music and dancing, go the extra mile and put all the energy you can muster into the performance. If you have any dramatic tricks, give them a shot, and include the rest of your band in your dramatics.
 The audience will grow bored by a constant monotone and aggravated by perpetual sing song. Utilize every vocal register (low, high) and vary your pitch and volume. Let your voice convey richness and emotionality to keep your audience engaged. 