 Sometimes people who are vegan or lactose intolerant may crave cheese sauce. While nothing really replicates the cheesy goodness of the perfect cheese sauce, a vegan cheese-style sauce may help you kick the craving. The key to making good vegan cheese sauce is using starchy vegetables like zucchini and potatoes to give the sauce a creamy texture and keep it from separating.You will need access to a high powered blender, food processor, or Vitamix to create a creamy texture for this sauce.
Nutritional yeast can be found in health food stores in the form of flakes or powder. It has a strong, savory flavor that is nutty and tangy. The deactivated yeast is a popular vegan substitute for cheese in recipes.If you are allergic to soy sauce, you can substitute it for vegan worcestershire sauce, sold at most health food and speciality food stores. It will give the sauce a similar flavor, but you will need to add more salt to make up for the saltiness that soy sauce provides.
 Preheat your oven to 415 °F (213 °C) and line a sheet pan with parchment paper. Peel all the green skin off the zucchini with a vegetable peeler. Then, slice it into ¼ inch slices and place the slices on the sheet pan.Season the slices with a dash of salt and pepper. Bake the zucchini for 15 minutes until they appear tender and soft to the touch.
Peeling the zucchini will prevent the sauce from coming out a strange green-yellow color.
 Peel the potatoes and cut them into quarters. Place the potatoes on another sheet pan and into the oven with the zucchini for about 10 minutes, until they appear soft.You can also cook the potatoes fast in the microwave for about 5 minutes, covered, until they are very soft to the touch.
Do not boil the potatoes, as they will get water-logged and make your cheese sauce runny.
 Then, use a dry measuring cup to measure out 1 cup of mashed potatoes. It’s important to measure the mashed potatoes for accurate results and a solid vegan cheese sauce.Add the 1 cup of mashed potatoes to your high speed blender, food processor, or Vitamix.
 Then, add ¼ cup nutritional yeast, ½ teaspoon garlic powder, ½ teaspoon onion powder, ½ teaspoon fine sea salt, ¾ teaspoon smoked or regular paprika, 2 teaspoons low-sodium soy sauce or vegan worcestershire sauce, and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) fresh lemon juice to the blender.Pour in ¾ cup of water and add more if needed, stopping at 1 cup.
 You may need to stop and scrape the bottom and sides of the blender to make sure all the ingredients are combined. Do not add more than 1 cup of water until you’ve blended the sauce for several minutes on high.The sauce will seem very thick at first, but it will start to turn very smooth from all the water in the zucchini. Keep blending until the sauce gets thick and creamy.
If the sauce still seems too thick after several minutes of blending, add a very small amount of water to just blend it. If the sauce seems a bit too thin, you can add 1–2 tablespoons (14.8–29.6 ml) of mashed potatoes to thicken it up.
 You may want to add extra lemon juice, salt or other spices to bring out a stronger flavor in the sauce. If you are using the worcestershire sauce to substitute for soy sauce, you will likely need to add more salt., Sprinkle a dash of red pepper flakes, a few sliced jalapenos or a ¼ cup of chopped tomatoes to add freshness and tanginess to the sauce. This recipe makes 2 ½ cups of sauce.Drizzle the sauce over macaroni, a baked potato, or roasted vegetables for a delicious vegan meal.

