 The first and obvious thing to do is to sign up. But remember, this is a site where there are lots of people. Example: Say your name was Emma Ratchet, and you lived on 777 Princeton Lane. Your hobbies are doing soccer and collecting Hello Kitty items. A bad username would be emmaratchet777princetonlane, while a good username would be soccerkitty512.;
, You will be taken to the home page, where it will most likely say "You have 4 unread messages in Your Inbox." These are welcome messages from the Sanrio Town crew. Keep them, just in case you might need help.
 Every Sanrio Town member has a privilege to start a blog with the theme of their choice. If you are not sure about which theme you should pick, go to some other member's blogs. And remember - your blog is really up to you! You decide what to write and what to do on it. You can even upload pictures! And, your blog might even get chosen for Blog of the Week!

, The Dream Studio is a place where you can safely upload videos. It's like a Sanrio based YouTube. If you're not too crazy on the idea of uploading videos, watch videos and comment on them. Some may be bad and some may be great, so see the variety! And at your home page, be sure to check out the Editor's Pick. Those are bound to be good videos!

, If you are a chatty type, use the forums to meet people! There are tons of topics you can choose from - there's Friendship, Sanrio Collections, and so much more! It works just like a regular forum - go and check it out!

, The Games Room is great! Along with new games being added often, the games can be challenging, easy, puzzling or simply great fun! Try to search for your favorite Sanrio character - they might have a game all to themselves!

, That's right, once you sign up for Sanrio Town, you get your very own e-mail account! Tell all your friends. Plus, you get Kitty Points - something you can use when Hello Kitty Online is released! Not only is e-mailing your friends super fun, you can also choose a Sanrio Stamp to put on your e-mail! Now isn't that cool?

, The Sanrio Town E-Card centre isn't hard to miss. With various celebrations covered, you can send anything - from a birthday card to a Happy Thanksgiving Card! And be sure to try out all the characters. Send some to your friends, they will absolutely adore them!

, Sanrio Town has a fun, bubbly community - you can practically meet anyone there! Just send them an e-mail, drop them a message on the forums - basically, you'll be bursting with friends! And remember, people can comment on your stuff too, so get to know them.

