 If you have the Android device, there are many different ways you can block the person. You can use the Android messaging app, use a third-party app, or contact your phone carrier.To use the Android messaging app, tap and hold the text message from the person you want to block. Your phone will then ask you if you want to "delete the message" or "add to spam." Choose "add to spam" to stop receiving messages.
You can also download a blocking app from the Google Play Store to help you manage your texts.
If none of those options work for you, you can call or go to your phone carrier's website to add numbers to your block list.
 Your iPhone has a built-in block feature. Go to your contacts menu and choose the person that you want to block and click "Edit." The very last option should say "Block this Caller." Simply choose that option to stop the person from texting, calling, or facetiming you.If you need to block a number that is not saved in your contacts, you can block the person by going to the text message directly. Choose "details" in the top right corner of your phone. Press the "details" button and then tap the "i" icon. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and press "Block this Caller."
These methods will work for an iPhone, iPad, or iPhone touch.
 Contact or go to your phone carrier's website to block phone numbers. If you call your carrier, let them know that you want to add some numbers to the blacklist.On the carrier's website, go to your "my account or my preferences" page to find the options for blocking numbers.You may able to block a number on your phone without going through your phone carrier, but this varies by device.
 Most social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram will allow you to block another user.This is very helpful because a person may still try to contact you on social media even if you have blocked their phone number. Keep in mind that the person will be able to find out that you have blocked them. You can usually find the blocking information in the privacy settings or the help section.


Blocking the person is helpful for both you and the other person. You do not have to see any of the messages, and you will not be tempted to respond to any of them.
It is up to you if you want to let the person know that you are blocking them.

