 The 80s were defined by a unique blend of different styles that emphasized extravagance and materialism. Over-the-top clothing in bold (often neon) colors was the norm.Women’s fashion leaned toward oversized tops paired with leggings, tight pants, or a miniskirt.


Pull out any and all leggings you might have, in any color. These could be worked in to almost any 80s style outfit you can come up with.
If you have any oversized t-shirts, especially in neon colors, try out one of those. Roll the sleeves halfway up and cut the neck out of it so that it hangs off the shoulder. Wear a brightly colored tank top or sports bra underneath.;
, Mixing bold, bright (usually neon) colors was very stylish in the 80s. Incorporating lace, designer logos and shoulder pads on top of the bright colors was even trendier. Everything in the 80s had to be big and loud, so start putting together outfit ideas that include bright colors, extravagant designs and anything with shoulder pads.


Pair bright, tight-fitting leggings with an oversized t-shirt in a bold, contrasting color. If possible, try to introduce one or two additional colors on top of that. Brightly colored belts, leg warmers and shoes are great ways to accent your loud ensemble.
Try lacy black tights under a bright miniskirt. Or a loose, lacy top in a dark color on top of a bright miniskirt and neon tights. If you can find any way to incorporate lace into the mix, do it.
Raid your parents' closet for anything with shoulder pads. If you can't find anything, create your own shoulder pads by stuffing socks (or anything else you deem appropriate) into the shoulders of your top.
 Acid-washed jeans were huge in the 80s and women opted for a slim-fitting, high-waisted fit. Acid-washed jean jackets were also staples in the 80s, worn by both men and women.


Hit your local thrift shop for anything denim and acid-washed. It’s likely that you’ll find a denim jacket at any thrift shop – even if it’s not acid-washed it would still work great, especially if you cut the sleeves off and wash it so that the shoulders fray a little.
Try acid-washing a pair of jeans that you already have to give them an authentic 80s feel. Women used to acid-wash denim at home all the time in the 80s. All you need is bleach, rubber bands, and your chosen jeans.
 Neon colored sunglasses in large sizes, lots of colored bangles on both arms and huge hoop earrings are great jewelry choices.Look for anything with lace, especially gloves and headbands, to add to your ensemble as additional accessories.


Costume jewelry was also very popular, so add a chunky, brightly colored piece to your outfit. If you have a huge, garish cocktail ring, that is the perfect addition. The gaudier, the better. The 80s celebrated excess!

, For instance, try to track down a brightly colored fanny pack to wear with your outfit. Members only jackets were very popular at the time, as well, and are relatively easy to find at thrift stores. Carry a boombox along with you for an instantly recognizable 80s flair.
 There are several ways to approach 80s hair, but one thing all of the styles have in common is that they are big and hairsprayed. Perms were extremely common and curly hairstyles were very fashionable. Crimped hair was also popular – some stores still carry hair crimpers, if you want to try to look for one.


Curl your hair with a curling iron (or crimp with a hair crimper) and tease it to your desired size and shape. The bigger, the better – of course! Hairspray your hair and then tease it a little more.
Flip your head upside down and tease the underside of your hair to get even more volume. Finish it off with a healthy blast of hairspray.
You could also try out a side ponytail, another popular 80s hairstyle. Curl, tease and hairspray your ponytail and secure it with several scrunchies in different colors.
If you have bangs, tease them as high as you can get them and secure with hairspray.
 Loud, heavy makeup and neon colors were popular makeup styles in the 80s. Lips were usually pale and eye makeup was bright and emphasized dark, thick eyelashes with lots of eyeliner.Apply bright eyeshadow with a heavy hand. Line your top and bottom eyelids with thick black eyeliner, along with your water line. Finish it off with several coats of mascara and a light, frosty shade of lipstick or lip gloss.
You could also try a very dark eyeshadow instead of a bright one. The eyeliner and mascara would be the same, but this time finish it off with a bright red or pink shade of lipstick.
For real life makeup and hairstyle references, look up pictures of icons like Cyndi Lauper, Madonna, Molly Ringwald and Siouxsie Sioux.

