 Don't worry, they are REALLY slow. Simply knife every zombie once for a cool, easy 130 points each. To maximise the amount of points you receive per zombie, you should shoot them in the leg four times and then knife them. An easy 170 points a kill. At this rate you should have your first grand in no time.;
, This round is also very easy, if you are good with a pistol. You will want to go for chest shots, and drop 4 rounds into each zombie (same strategy as before, but chest shots do more damage). A knife will then kill them.


Every level thereafter, it will take an additional 4 shots and the stab to kill them, so a whole clip and a stab on level 3 (note that it is possible to kill them with only a clip with occasional headshots).
After round 3, it is slightly dangerous to keep with the pistol, as you'll need to either get consistent headshots or reload for each zombie, however it does still get points like crazy.
At the end of round 2, you should have the points to open the top door.
 This leads you to the MP40 and Stakeout. One person takes the top by the window and the table, and the other can watch the two windows on the bottom. All the zombies will walk toward the person on the top, so the bottom person can use the pistol to rack up points. The person on top is recommended to take the MP40, but nobody should grab the Stakeout.
 DO NOT TURN IT ON. This is the best place to rack up points in the level.
, When you save claymores, it allows you to use more than two when the situation calls for it.
, It all depends on how you prefer to play.


, The reason the Bowie Knife is a necessity is because the crawlers will not explode when you kill them with it. Plus, it make the Ballistic knife ridiculously powerful when stabbing.
 This should get you to a high round by itself. However, if you dislike crawlers enough to merit buying the bowie knife, you can get rid of them entirely here.
, This is crucial.
 One player (with monkey bombs and a thundergun) sits by the door and shoots the zombies coming down the alley. This player RUNS THEIR GUN ALL THE WAY OUT OF AMMO TO RELOAD. Failing to do so will open the door, causing crawlers to pour in and zombies spawning behind your group. The other two stand facing down the alley in line with chain link fence.
 you can permanently rid yourselves of the crawlers. Using these simple methods, you can have fun, help your team, and not seem like a total douche in online zombies. Read on for more helpful tips on how to be an efficient, number crunching zombies player.

