 Do so by tapping the grey gear icon on the home screen.;
, It's in the fifth group of options on this page.
 It will turn green. Doing this will add a folder called "On My iPhone" to your Notes app. Any notes stored in the "On My iPhone" folder are saved directly to your phone's hard drive.
 This option is directly above the Password section.
 Doing so will set the On My iPhone folder as your default save location for new notes. Now you'll need to move any notes saved to other folder into your On My iPhone folder.
 This is the yellow and white paper pad icon on the home screen.
 It's in the top left corner of your screen. If you currently have a note open, you'll need to tap the Back button twice--once to exit the note, and once to access the folders page.
 For example, if you've saved notes in the "iCloud" folder, you'd tap iCloud to open it.
 You'll find this in the top right corner of your screen.
 If you want to save every note in this folder, simply tap Move All in the bottom left corner of your screen.
 This is in the bottom left corner of your screen.


If you selected Move All previously, disregard this step.
 Doing so will transfer all of your selected notes into the "On My iPhone" folder.
 Your end goal is to have all of your iPhone's notes stored in the "On My iPhone" folder. Once you've accomplished this, it's time to remove the other account folders from the Notes app.
 Remember, it's the grey gear icon on the home screen.


If you didn't close the Settings app, this should re-open to the Notes tab. If so, skip the next step.
, This is at the top of the page.
 For example, if your Notes app has an "iCloud" folder, you'd tap iCloud.
 It will turn white. Doing this will remove your selected account's folder from the Notes app.


Depending on the account you choose, you may have to scroll down to find the Notes section.
 As long as you moved the notes from your selected account's folder into your "On My iPhone" folder earlier, you won't lose any information.
 Once you've completed this process, your "On My iPhone" folder will be the only available save location for Notes data on your iPhone.

