 Being prideful and knowing your strengths can help motivate you to persevere when you feel jealous or when times get tough.Own and embrace your sexuality.Think of yourself as intelligent, distinguished, and wise.
 Sometimes, all the love you may need at that moment is the love you give yourself. You can encourage yourself when you feel down and take yourself to a healthier place.


Tell yourself, “I am good enough. I am healthy. I am attractive. I like who I am.”

, Sometimes you can put up a brave face and say it does not matter. But the truth is - you do need love. You need someone who holds a mirror to your pain, who appreciates how hurt you can get, how small and lonely you feel sometimes. Consider how you can get this love that will serve as a balm to your spirit and that will pick you up when you are feeling down.


It may come from friends and family who care about you and love you.
 Showing confidence is about taking good care of yourself. This means taking care of yourself physically, emotionally, and mentally.


Your health is of the utmost importance in increasing and maintaining your confidence. Make sure you eat healthy, get enough rest, and exercise regularly.
Pay attention to your mental health. If you find yourself overly anxious or depressed, seek professional assistance from a therapist (MA, MFT), psychologist (PhD, PsyD), or psychiatrist (medical doctor).
 You can love yourself by filling your life with meaningful things and taking steps to move in a new direction..


Create daily, weekly, monthly, 6 month, and yearly goals.
Make sure your goals are attainable and realistic.
Some people pursue cosmetic surgery as means to feel and look younger., Sometimes jealousy can lead to aggressive behaviors toward others.However, this can increase your jealousy and cause other unwanted consequences.


Use relaxation techniques such as deep breathing (taking deep breaths in and out for 5 minutes) if you find yourself feeling angry.
Step away from the situation if you find yourself getting too heated. Using positive coping resources such as hitting a pillow, screaming into a pillow, or exercising.

