 Poker roulette requires a minimum of 3 players and a maximum of 5 if you're playing the game with a single deck. For each additional 5 players, you'll need another deck of cards.


Each deck of cards used should include both jokers.;
, Unlike most other poker games, poker roulette requires ties to be broken by suit. Cards are ranked numerically as in most poker games, with aces high and deuces low.
 This card is the "stock" card, the first card in the players' card stockpiles. Players can look at their stock cards but are not permitted to show them to their opponents.
 These cards are the "active" or "pocket" cards.
 This is the match card, to be matched by the players' active cards.
 Players can add matching active cards to their stockpiles according to these rules:


If either active card's suit or number matches that of the match card, the player adds that card to his or her stockpile.
If both cards match the active card numerically, the player adds both cards and the match card to the stockpile.
If both active cards match by suit, the player adds both active cards to the stockpile, but not the match card.
If 1 active card is a joker and the other active card matches the match card, the player adds both active cards to his or her stockpile.
If the match card is a joker and neither of the player's active cards is a joker, the player adds both active cards to his or her stockpile.
If both of a player's active cards are jokers, or if the match card is a joker and 1 of the active cards is a joker, both active cards are discarded.
, Players who matched at least 1 of their active cards get 2 active cards, while players who could not match either active card to the match card get only 1.
 Continue this until the draw deck has been exhausted. Players may bet, raise, call, or fold during the card-matching phase.
 Poker hands contain a maximum of 5 cards, but players with stockpiles of 4 cards or fewer must make the best possible hand with the cards they have. Highest hand takes the pot, with ties broken by the agreed-upon suit ranking. Hand rank is as in normal poker: a royal flush beats a straight flush (both can only be made with 5 cards), which beats 4 of a kind (may be made with a 4-card stockpile), which beats a full house (requires 5 cards), which beats a flush (requires 5 cards), which beats a straight (requires 5 cards), which beats 3 of a kind (may be made with a 3- or 4-card stockpile), which beats 2 pair (requires at least a 4-card stockpile), which beats a pair (may be made with a 2-card stockpile), which beats high-card single.

