 For the base, use a flat piece of cardboard, plastic, or a thick cutting board. It can be in any shape - square, circle, or heart-shaped, provided it's solid and pretty.


Some stores sell cake bases that could serve as a suitable base for the cupcake stand. These are usually very cheap to buy and come already wrapped in gold or silver foil.
 Cover the base with wrapping paper, foil or another type of covering to improve its appearance. This step isn't necessary if the base is already in great condition and looks nice.
 Basically, choose plates and platters that are lightweight and strong. They should ideally decline in size as they go up the stand, so choose something like a dinner plate for the first layer, a side plate for the next layer, a cake plate for the next layer and a saucer for the final layer.


Match the plates or mix them up. If you have plates with pretty patterns, eclectic matching won't matter. Plain white or silver platters are always a safe bet when you want a neutral look.
For the top layer, where you place only one layer, an unwanted CD is a clever item to use. You can leave it unwrapped (but do wash it first in warm, soapy water), or cover with paper or fabric.
 Here is where you get to have quite a bit of artistic license. Choose whatever is strong and likely to look nice. Most importantly, the item must be safe for use around food, it must not take up too much room on the plate, it must be balanced and it must decline in size as it goes up the layers, just like the plates do.


Some great examples of things to use as pillars between the layers include: a glass, cup, eggcup, fabric-covered cleaned out can, vase, sugar bowl, etc.
An example of layering could be: First pillar vase, second pillar a glass, third pillar a sugar bowl and final pillar an eggcup.



Place the base layer down in the area where it'll stay. This stand won't be moved once made.
Add the first pillar. Then carefully balance the next layer.
Continue adding pillars and balancing layers. Anytime something seems wobbly or uncertain, try a different pillar or layer object in its place to see what sits more soundly.
 Carefully arrange the cupcakes on every layer of the cupcake stand. Wait for the oohs and aahs from your party guests.

