 The range of shades available varies from brand to brand, but most of them offer around five options. These are typically light blonde, dark blonde, warm brown, brown and dark brown. Get the product that most closely matches your needs., Most root concealer sprays are temporary and wash out with one shampoo. To get the longest-lasting results, wait until you’ve dried and heat-styled your hair before you apply the product., Since this is a spray product, it is difficult to fully control where it ends up. Drape a towel around your shoulders to protect your skin from being stained by the product. Don’t spray root concealer while you’re standing on pale carpet or stainable tile, and keep it away from your clothing., Shake well and hold the can six to 12 inches away from your head. Start with the roots closest to your scalp and work your way out until you reach the end of visible root growth. Move the spray can back and forth over the root area until your roots are concealed.A little goes a long way, so err on the side of caution by spraying the concealer in short bursts., Try to avoid getting the product on your skin, especially when you’re working around your hairline. If you do get it on your skin, wipe it off immediately with a damp cloth. Otherwise, you may end up with a stained forehead.If you’re concerned about forehead staining, spritz the spray onto a tissue first and then dab the tissue around your hairline.
 Once you spray on the product, it will feel wet. Do not touch your hair at this stage. Allow the spray to dry completely on your hair first. Once your hair is dry, run a brush through it from root to tip to subtly blend the product into your hair.If you aren’t satisfied with the coverage, spray a little more onto your roots and let it dry., Some formulas may burn your scalp if you spray them too close. Keep the nozzle at least three inches away from your scalp. Burns can also occur if you spray the product for more than ten seconds continuously. Spray in short bursts of two to three seconds each.


Store this product away from flames and definitely don’t apply it near an open flame of any kind.