 Agencies help you book gigs, protect you in case of contract disputes, and put you in touch with other stars and producers. A list of licensed adult agencies can be found on the LATATA website, where you can contact them with your pictures, past movies, or questions. Search around their websites to find one that fits your boundaries and desires. Some large, famous agencies include:


LA Direct
OC Modeling
Burning Angel
Spiegler Girls
Lucas Entertainment
World Modeling, While there is no law saying you cannot use your real name, it is usually easier to keep your career under wraps if you make up a new name, or ‘’nom de porn.’’ While you can choose anything, from the normal sounding Ron Jeremy and Jenna Jameson to the more absurd Moe the Monster or Brick Steel, you should try and keep things relatively simple.


The most common first names are Lisa, Angel, Nicole, Jessica, and Vanessa (female), or David, Tony, Mike, Steve, and Jason (male).
The most common last names are Love, Star, Foxx, Rose, and Sweet (female), or Lee, James, Stone, Steel, Black, and Williams (male)., Much like a typical movie shoot, porn requires an enormous amount of coordination between cameramen, directors, sound engineers, lighting crews, and actors to succeed. Don’t walk in expecting to be a king – you should be ready for a full 3-4 hours of shooting, re-shooting, and posing. You may have to shoot the same scene 5 times, and you need to deliver and lines and show up at the right place every time. This will be harder than you think after 3-4 hours of near constant performance in the bed.


Hit your placement – there is usually a place on the ground, marked by tape, that you have to find and stand on without looking down.
Show up on time, with the proper paperwork documenting your age and STD test.
Be open and honest on set. Tell the producers your limits beforehand and ask for some time if you have trouble getting it up, getting in costume, or setting a scene., Porn is entertainment for other people, and the director, writers, and producers will all have a vision for what is the most appealing scene. You need to be flexible and willing to change, whether that means putting on costumes, working frequently, or using shots and pills to enhance your “goods.” This won’t always be pleasant, but is necessary to develop a strong, lasting career.
 This may anger producers, but you need to look out for yourself to avoid getting scammed. Wait until you have cash or a check in hand to before signing the contract to make sure your rights are respected., A straight male or female who only does one type of porn is, unfortunately, not going to get a lot of work. The porn industry is constantly changing and evolving, and it requires actors who are flexible, eager, and willing to try new things. While you should always respect your boundaries, test out new gigs as you become comfortable in the industry to take your career to the next level.Remember, the weirder the shoot, the more you usually get paid.
Scenes with multiple or same-sex partners often pay the most.

