 If your co-workers or friends are having difficulties understanding you, even if you’ve been practicing on your own, it might be time to seek out a professional speech-language pathologist (SLP) for help. SLPs work with clients on speaking rate, rhythm, intonation, public speaking, conversation, and accented sounds.Many larger universities have high-quality speech-language pathology clinics, so check your local university first.Use the search tools at non-profit organizations for speech-language pathology to find a certified SLP., A basic Internet search for "accent reduction," "accent modification," or “dialect modification” and the name of your locality. Some resources offer individual training, while others have group lessons.Group classes might be useful if you want to practice your accent with a wider variety of people.
Individual sessions are an option if you want to build more confidence before you practice with others, or if you need a more flexible training schedule.
 Some clinics and professionals will request a phone consultation to evaluate your needs and goals before beginning your training., In order to help you meet your particular goals, your SLP will first evaluate your speech patterns. He or she will ask you to read texts and words of various lengths, as well as engage you in a conversation. He or she will be listening to your pronunciation, intonation, rhythm, and syllable stresses.The SLP will also listen to your speech in conversation., With your SLP, determine your goals for your accent modification process. These goals should be based on your personal and professional needs, as well as the evaluation of your southern accent you completed.Some goals are highly career related, such as preparing for presentations, performances, or interviews. Be as specific as possible when having this conversation with your SLP.
Your later sessions, in some cases, will be aimed at achieving these specific goals, so be clear about them early. You can also adjust them along the way, as your skills and needs change., The sounds of your first language, including regional dialects, were imprinted by the time you were a year old, so you’ll always have the hint of your original accent in your voice. Continued practice with your new, neutral dialect will reduce the effect of your accent over time.