 Is there some room that you want all your visitors to see once they step inside. Perhaps it can be located in an opening room foyer or living area that is located in or near the entrance doorway.;
, Although fireplace mantels work for temporary display, mounting them on sturdy boards around and near Christmas trees work too.
 How good does a broken house (to a Christmas village) look when it's broken? Tiny fingers will always find their way into touching and prodding these buildings, and sometimes causing devastation when the house falls and breaks into zillions of tiny pieces.
 Unless the room is a tiny walkway with no viable places to put them, spread them out into other attached rooms in the house (perhaps even on the same floor as the floor the houses initially started at).
 Those that can become lit need to be powered to an electrical outlet, in order to work effectively. A house without the light will look like a house that has lost all of its electricity after an ice storm (dark and dreary) and not very appealing to anybody who walks by the village house on occasion.
 Know exactly where each areas of houses have been placed.


Keep an itemized listing of each of your houses and where in each room the house/houses are placed. Describe any tiny people gathering in your list, include what they wear and other attributes that set them each apart from all the others.
 When the areas start to fill up and when you can't fit another fingernail-sized item on the area, it's time to move the village to a new place.
 White felt draped overtop of all the mounting areas is one of the easiest methods to making the area look like a Christmas scene to begin with. Not too many areas in the world don't have snow at Christmas (except those in warmer climates (like Southern California, Florida and Hawaii) and also south of the Equator).
 Use white bowls and plates placed bottom side up to create a curvature that a hill/valley would show off.
 If you have train sets that are proper scaled to the Christmas Village model, add them to the scenery. Set up a train depot.
 Post offices, schools, fire stations, shops, and banks work well.
, These include ice skating rinks made of either aluminum foil, on a piece of cardboard ice skating rink (or a cut piece of a mirror), into noticeable pieces that all your "skaters" can skate on.
 They can be gathering on sidewalks, near mailboxes, gathering on street corners, and almost any other place that could be deemed an important valuable place.


Unless you really want to be funny, try not to show the people in areas where the conglomerates of people may look like they are fighting one another. It doesn't look spectacular.
 Leave some of the benches (if available) open, as not all benches will ever be full of people.

