 There are two basic types of headaches: a primary headache that is not caused by any other disorders, and a secondary headache that is caused by another disorder. A migraine is a primary headache. Other types of primary headaches include tension headaches and cluster headaches.A secondary headache can be caused by strokes, very high blood pressure, fever, or a problem in the TMJ (Temporomandibular Joint).
 Migraine headaches generally are only on one side of the head. Most commonly, they occur at the forehead or the temples. The pain can be moderate to very severe and may be preceded by an aura. Most people with migraines also get nauseous, are sensitive to light, odors, and sounds. Moving around generally makes the headache worse.An aura is a temporary disturbance in how you process environmental information. Auras may be visual, like flashing lights, blinking lights, or zigzags of light, or they may be the detection of smells. Other auras may be numbness that marches up either arm, speech disturbances, or confusion. About 25% of people with migraines also have auras.
Migraines can be triggered by all sorts of things and vary from one person to another. Potential triggers include red wine, missing meals or fasting, environmental stimuli such as flashing lights or strong odors, changes in weather, lack of sleep, stress, hormonal factors, particularly a woman’s period, certain foods, head trauma including traumatic brain injury, neck pain, and TMJ dysfunction.
 Headaches of any kind should always be evaluated by a physician. In some situations, a headache may signal a medical emergency. The red flags for medical emergencies are:A severe headache that occurs along with a fever and a stiff neck. This might be a sign of meningitis.
A thunderclap headache. This is a sudden and very severe headache that can signal a subarachnoid hemorrhage, which is bleeding under the tissue that covers the brain and spinal cord.
Tenderness, with sometimes a pulsating blood vessel, at the temple. This can, especially in older people who have lost weight, signal a condition called giant cell arteritis
Reddened eyes and seeing halos around lights. This can be a sign of glaucoma, which if left untreated can lead to permanent blindness
Sudden or severe headaches in people with cancer or a weakened immune system, like post-transplant patients and those with HIV-AIDS.
 Headaches can be symptoms of very serious conditions. You should go see your doctor to determine if you have a problem with primary headaches or a secondary condition that causes headaches. If you meet one or more of the following conditions, make certain you see a physician within a day or two, but no later:Headaches that occur with increasing frequency or severity
Headaches that begin after the age of 50
Changes in vision
Weight loss

, Medical treatment for migraines include the determination and elimination of triggers, along with managing stress and treatment. In severe cases, doctors may prescribe medications such as triptans (Sumatriptna/Imatrex or Zolmitriptan/Zomig), dihydroergotamine (Migranal), and a drug to control nausea and vomiting, if these are present.Triptans and dihydroergotamine cannot be used in people with coronary artery disease or uncontrolled high blood pressure and must be used cautiously in elderly patients or those with cardiovascular risk factors, including obesity, high levels of LDL cholesterol or triglycerides, or who have been diagnosed with diabetes.

