 Cashew tofu is a great source of protein, which is abundant in both the cashews and the tofu. To get started, heat 1 teaspoon of oil over medium heat. Add 1/3 cup of cashews and – if you enjoy a little spice – 4 or 5 red dried chilies, broken up into small bits. Stir almost constantly until the cashews are golden brown.Toss 4 or 5 cloves of finely chopped garlic into the pan, along with ½ an inch (or about 1 teaspoon) of finely chopped ginger. Mix the garlic and ginger into the nuts and chilies for about two minutes.
Next, add ½ of a chopped green bell pepper, ¾ of a cup of chopped broccoli (or carrots, or some other vegetable you enjoy). Increase the heat to medium-high and stir frequently.
Add about 8 ounces of very firm cubed tofu. Cut the tofu into cubes with edges of 1 centimeter (1/2 an inch). Sprinkle ¼ teaspoon of black pepper onto the whole mixture and let it cook for about three more minutes.
Finally, in a separate bowl, mix ¼ teaspoon of toasted sesame oil, 1 tablespoon of soy sauce, ¼ cup of vegetable broth, 3 tablespoons of hoisin sauce, ¼ teaspoon of sugar, and 2.5 teaspoons of rice wine vinegar. Add the mix to the skillet and cook everything for about one minute.
Turn off the heat and let the cashew tofu mix cool slightly. Then, spoon some over a bowl of brown rice or quinoa, and consume.
 Cauliflower-cashew soup is the perfect thing to warm you up on a cold winter’s day. You could also serve this creamy soup cold if you want something cool.In a large, deep pot, heat ¼ a cup of olive oil. Slice 4 large shallots and toss them in. Next, thinly slice 2 garlic cloves and add them, too, along with 2 bay leaves and 2 teaspoons of thyme leaves. Sprinkle a few pinches of salt. Add as much as you like, but remember, the more salt you add, the saltier the soup will be.
Pour ½ a cup of dry white wine to the mix and bring the pot to a boil for about four minutes.
Chop a head of cauliflower into medium-sized chunks and add all but ¾ of a cup of it to the pot. Additionally, add ¾ of a cup of cashews and ¼ teaspoon of cayenne pepper. Cover the pot and reduce heat to low for 20-25 minutes.
Stir contents occasionally. If you see anything browning, reduce heat further.
Add 6 cups of vegetable stock and bring the soup to a boil. Then, reduce heat and simmer for another 20 minutes or so. Remove the bay leaves and discard.
Spoon the mixture into your blender and puree until very smooth. You’ll probably have to work in batches by blending two or three cups, then pouring them into another pot, then adding more of the soup mixture to the blender, until the entire mixture has been blended.
In a separate, smaller skillet, add 2 tablespoons of chopped cashews, 2 tablespoons of buckwheat groats, and the rest of the chopped cauliflower to ¼ cup of olive oil. Heat the mixture over medium heat until cauliflower and nuts are golden brown.
Let your soup cool, then spoon some into a bowl for yourself. Drizzle the olive oil cashew mixture you made in the second, smaller skillet over the soup. One or two tablespoons is probably enough.
This recipe should produce eight servings of soup.
 Mix 9 cups of a puffed rice cereal (such as Rice Krispies, for instance), 2 cups of dried coconut flakes, and 8 ounces of salted cashew pieces in a large baking bowl. Then, in a large sauce pan or skillet, mix ½ a cup of light corn syrup, 1 cup of brown sugar, and ½ a cup of butter. Bring the mix to a boil over medium heat while stirring it.You’ll probably need to stir for at least five minute for everything to be blended properly.
Once the butter mixture is blended, stir in ½ a teaspoon of baking soda and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract.
Pour the mixture into the larger mixing bowl containing the cereal and coconut mix. Stir everything together with a spatula. Once the dry ingredients are completely coated with the hot, bubbly mixture, scoop everything out and into two foil-lined baking pans measuring 15 inches by 10 inches (38.1 centimeters by 25.4 centimeters).
Set your oven to 250° F (121° C). Place the pans in the oven for about 55 minutes, stirring every 15 minutes to mix the contents of each pan.
Remove each pan when 55 minutes has elapsed and let each pan cool on top of the stove. Use your coconut cashew crunch as a topper for ice cream, fruit, or yogurt.

