 The first step that you will need to take is to think of a word or phrase that you want to encode. This keyword or phrase will be one that you need to keep secret, encoding it in a larger document using spelling errors. Anyone reviewing your message will likely overlook simple spelling errors and let your message slip through.


Try to keep you message simple and short. “SEND HELP” would be a good example.
Messages such as “PLEASE HELP ME I'M IN DANGER” might be too long or too difficult to hide using the spelling error code.
 Much of the letter you send using this method will look completely normal. Write your letter as you normally would, using your natural writing style and voice. It's important to remember that you will need to spell every regular word normally to make this method work. Any actual spelling errors could change your message.
 You will need to hide your message by spelling it out using spelling errors. These incorrect letters will be read one-by-one, building your message and deciphering the code. Think about how you can spell words in your message incorrectly to hide your message.


Imagine you want to hide the word “RUN” in your document.
“Terrific! Nevur have been there. Another day perhaps?” would encode the word RUN using spelling errors. The letter R is missing from "terrific", the letter U is used instead of E in "never" and the word "another" has an extra letter N.
Try to space out your spelling errors. Make them look like actual mistakes.
Don't randomly place letters that wouldn't naturally be mistaken. For example, “I saw a ghost” would likely stand out too much, if trying to include the letter Z in your message.
 Before you send your code off, make sure your message is properly encoded. Each spelling error should build your coded message and allow the recipient to decipher the code. If everything is in order, you can send your message off and await a reply.


If you missed any letters that make up your code, go back and add them in.
It's important that you spell everything else correctly. Accidental misspellings will change the message.

