 Carve out time to work on your missed assignments each day. This can be after class, during the evening after dinner or in your downtime like a long car ride or wait for an appointment. Research suggests adding at least 10 minutes of homework time for every grade. For example, if you’re in the 6th grade, you should spend roughly 60 minutes. If you’re a 12th grader, you should spend 120 minutes tops. Plan to work for at least one hour a day on missed homework in more difficult subjects, such as math and science. , Pick a location you feel comfortable working in, and that you can also be productive in. This can include a quiet space in your home, such as the bedroom or kitchen, your school or local library, or your local coffee shop. It is important that the area is well lit, and does not cause you any physical discomfort. Make sure that white noise, or any background noise is down to a minimum. The place you choose to complete your missed homework in should be reliable, free from distractions, and support your learning style and success. , Gather all notes, supplies and materials you’ll need to begin your homework. Eliminate distractions by powering down your electronic devices, and logging out of your social media. Take small breaks if you need to. It is important not to rush doing your homework, as it can cause you to make mistakes that can count against you. Work on completing one assignment before moving to the next one. Refrain from multi-tasking, as that can limit your productivity. Create a reward for yourself as an incentive to stay focused and finish, if you feel unmotivated. Some suggestions include taking yourself out to breakfast, treating yourself to dinner, or seeing a movie. , Stay focused on learning the material you missed and do every bit of work to the best of your abilities. It is okay not to know it all, or not to completely understand it your first go-round. Keep in mind that everyone learns at a different pace. Focus on allowing yourself the time you need to study to really learn what your homework is covering.

