 Mix together a 50-50 white vinegar and distilled water mixture inside a spray bottle. Shake the bottle a bit before using. If you dislike the smell of vinegar, add in a few drops of an essential oil, such as lemon. This solution can be stored for a number of weeks without losing its cleaning power.It is possible to use apple cider vinegar in the solution, but this does not have the same sanitizing effect as distilled white vinegar.
Natural cleaners have a tendency to leave less residue and create fewer streaks than their commercial counterparts. Although, be aware that premixed cleaning solutions for laminate are available at most home stores.;
, Boil a cup of black tea using one tea bag and a single cup of water. Wait until the tea cools down and then pour it into a spray bottle for application. Shake the mixture a bit before spraying and use it immediately. Do not store this solution., Fill your spray bottle up with warm or room temperature distilled water. Add in one tablespoon of baby shampoo. Shake the bottle until it fills up with bubbles. Spray this solution lightly onto the surface of your floor. Baby shampoo is gentle and safe for most surfaces, including laminate., Before you do a general cleaning, make sure to address any specific stains or their residue can cause streaking across your finished floor. For a food-based stain, spoon a paste made from baking soda and distilled water over the affected area. Let it sit for a few minutes before wiping it away with a cloth dampened with water., Applying a bit of rubbing alcohol directly to a stain, using a cotton ball, can also help to remove it. But, don’t let the alcohol sit for too long or it can cause your protective coating to peel up, which can give the appearance of dullness and streaking., Using tap water is the easier option, but it can add deposits on top of your floor. This, in turn, can make your floor appear dirty or dull. Instead, go with warm or room temperature distilled water in all of your floor cleaning solutions. Using distilled water also makes it possible to store your solution up to a few weeks.