 Combine the ingredients listen below, and use as a substitute for anything that calls for all-purpose flour.3 cups (450 grams) brown or white rice flour
1 cup (125 grams) potato starch
½ cup (65 grams) tapioca flour/starch

, If you need a simple flour, but can't use potato starch, you can use soy flour instead. Gather the ingredients listed below, mix them well, and use the flour in your recipes.½ cup (75 grams) brown rice flour
¼ cup (25 grams) soy flour
¼ cup (30 grams) tapioca flour/starch

, The coconut flour gives this blend a slightly sweet flavor, making it ideal for cakes an pastries. Mix the ingredients below, and store them in an air-tight container.1 cup (150 grams) white rice flour
1 cup (100 grams) oat flour
1 cup (100 grams) coconut flour
1 cup (125 grams) tapioca flour/starch
¼ cup (30 grams) cornstarch
3½ teaspoons xanthan gum

, Bisquick is used to make pancakes and waffles, but the store bought kind contains gluten. You can make your own by mixing the ingredients below:2 cups (300 grams) white rice flour
1¼ cup (125 grams) coconut flour
1 cup (125 grams) dry milk powder
¼ to ½ cup (55 to 115 grams) granulated sugar
½ cup (65 grams) cornstarch
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 tsp baking soda
½ tsp salt

, Gluten helps bind ingredients together. Unfortunately, when you use gluten-free flour, you lose this important property. Fortunately, xantham gum and guar gum are great substitutes for gluten, and adding them will make your blended flours more effective. How much xanthan gum or guar gum you add depends on what you are making. Each of the measurements below are for 1 cup (100 grams) of flour. If you are using more flour, use more xanthan gum or guar gum.If you are making bars, cakes, cookies, muffins, or quick-breads, add ½ teaspoon of xanthan gum or guar gum.
If you are making yeast bread or baked items containing yeast, add 1 teaspoon of xanthan gum or guar gum.
If you are making pizza dough or pie crust, add ½ teaspoon of xanthan gum or guar gum.
 Just because a recipe, such as a sauce, calls for flour does not necessarily mean that you have to whip up a batch of blended flour. You can always substitute any of the flours below:Use arrowroot, amaranth, and tapioca flour to thicken roux, sauces, and pie filling.
Use chickpea flour, besan, and garbanzo bean flour to bind burgers and meatballs.
Substitute corn masa to make tortillas.
Try corn flour and millet flour when breading meat.
Use sweet rice flour to thicken gravy and sauces, and make noodles.

