 In western cooking, a mirepoix is a combination of onions, carrots, and celery used as the base of many kinds of soup, sauces and dishes. There is generally twice as much onion as carrots and celery. You then cook the ingredients until soft in some oil, then use it to start your soup or sauce. It is key in French and Italian cooking, in particular. The longer you cook a base, the deeper the flavor.


For Cajun/Creole dishes, many people substitute green bell peppers for carrots.
In Indian cooking, the "holy trinity" is onion, garlic, and ginger. It is used similarly, as a base.
In Spanish cuisine (like paella), use onions, garlic, and tomatoes.
In German cooking, you might use carrot, celeriac, and leek.

Caribbean cooking uses hot peppers, onions, cubanelles, garlic, and cilantro often pounded to a paste.

West African cuisine uses green & yellow onions, hot peppers, bell peppers, and garlic, often pounded into a paste., There are far too many spices to mention them all here, but there are some simple, easy combinations that all good cooks should know. A diverse, big spice rack is essential for cooking different cuisines and imparting subtle, but necessary, flavor to great dishes. The following, though necessarily incomplete lists, is a good starting point.



Italian: Basil, rosemary, thyme, oregano, bay leaves, cracked red pepper, fennel, pine nuts

French: Rosemary, parsley, thyme, basil, bay leaves, marjoram, nutmeg

American: Paprika, chili powder, oregano, basil, thyme -- very open-ended


Mexican: Oregano, chili powder, chipotle, cayenne, paprika, cinnamon, cilantro

Indian: Ginger, cumin, coriander, paprika, turmeric, cardamom, mustard seed, gram masala (spice mixture), clove, hot chili peppers, nutmeg

West African: Paprika, dijon, garlic/onion powder, hibiscus, cayenne, cumin, hot pepper

Chinese: Hot pepper, hot mustard seed, cinnamon, star anise, fennel, clove, ginger, licorice, sesame seeds, chili oilToast powdered or dried spices for 30 seconds in a medium hot pan, then cool them off before using for added flavor and professional complexity., Salt actually changes the chemical reactions taking place as you cook, removing moisture and expanding flavor. Anytime you add a new ingredient to the pan, sprinkle in a light dash of salt. Then, as you taste, you can keep adding salt to taste.Meats should be salted at least 20 minutes in advance of cooking, at room temperature. This removes surface moisture, allowing for a solid, tasty crust to form on the outside or skin., Trust your nose and tongue, not your eyes, when spicing foods. Good cooks are tasting constantly, checking in on their food at every stage of cooking. Spices actually mature in a dish, growing in flavor the longer they cook (so long as they don't burn). When cooking, you must be constantly sampling your food, adding a touch of this or a dash of that where needed.In general, fresh spices need to be added towards the end, so they don't overcook, and dry spices should be added early on to soften and gather flavor.
That said, you don't want to tear the dish apart. In general, a little taste after every new ingredient or spice should cover your bases.
 Whole books have been written about the used of acids, like lemon and vinegar, in cooking. Simply put, they give the food a kick in the pants, an expanding flavors so they pop more when you take your first bite. Acids are best when added at the very end of a dish for a fresh splash of flavor. If your dish is too acidic, add in some fat or sugar to balance it out.Try out:



Vinegar: Balsamic is sweet, white is bitter, rice is light, red wine is hearty, at this is only the beginning. A splash of the right vinegar in the pan, right before removing the food, is heavenly.

Citrus: Usually lemon, lime, or both, though oranges have use in some Caribbean and Asian cuisines.
 Good ingredients make good food. Moreover, you'll learn more from mastering a simple sauce than going for broke with an 8-hour meal. Each of the following recipes are great starters that will not only teach you valuable skills, they also make wonderful dishes:Basic Tomato Sauce (teaches vegetable chopping, sauces, "mirepoix," seasoning)

Indian Curry (teaches pre-seasoning, ingredient substitution, time management)

Stir-Fry (teaches cutting technique, cooking timing, deglazing, pan-frying)

Roast Chicken or Turkey (teaches poultry/meat breakdown, roasting, time management, internal meat temperatures, and homemade gravies and roux)

Basic Pizza Dough (teaches baking basics, working with yeast, recipe customization')

Homemade Vinaigrette & Homemade Salads (teaches emulsion, uses of different greens, working with different flavored oils and vinegar, effective meal planning)

