 If your cat has stomatitis, you may notice that it has bad breath and drools more. Your cat may also lose weight or have difficulty eating. You should also look inside your cat's mouth for signs of inflammation which include:Bright red tissue near the back of the mouth
Bleeding in the mouth
Cobblestone appearance of the tissue in the mouth

, In addition to physical signs of stomatitis, your cat's attitude may change since it's in a lot of pain. Your cat might struggle to chew its food (which causes the weight loss). You might also notice your cat doesn't groom itself as often, so its coat might look neglected.Your cat may also seem withdrawn. If so, it will avoid interacting with people (even those it likes) and may even hide.
 You should take your cat for regular teeth cleanings and exams, but certainly take your cat if you notice any signs of stomatitis. The vet will thoroughly clean your cat's teeth above and below the gum line. Your cat's teeth should be x-rayed to check for serious tooth disease or problems that could be causing the inflammation.Ask the vet to teach you how to care for your cat's teeth at home. You'll probably need to buy cat toothpaste and learn how to brush your cat's teeth every day.
 Since there's no diagnostic test for stomatitis, the vet will need to rule out other medical conditions that could be causing the inflammation. The vet will do a blood test to check for feline viral diseases like feline leukemia and feline immunodeficiency virus. The vet will also do a biopsy (take a tissue sample) to rule out:Eosinophilic granuloma complex
Fungal disease
Squamous cell carcinoma

, Once your cat has gotten medical care, you may need to follow special treatment instructions from the vet. If your cat has had teeth removed, it may have a feeding tube. Ask the vet to give you specific instructions on how to feed your cat using the tube. If your cat hasn't had a tooth extraction, it may just need to eat soft food for a while until it's no longer in pain.


If your cat hasn't been grooming itself very much and its coat is looking matted, ensure that you brush it every day to prevent hairballs.

