  Knowing your total debt payments per month is important.  But creditors like to look at the ratio of your total debt service to your total income in order to evaluate your creditworthiness.  This is called the debt service coverage ratio (DSCR).  The debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) measures the percentage of net income used for debt service coverage.  It is calculated by dividing the total net income by the total debt service, using the equation DSCR = total net income / total debt service.  Creditors look at this information to assess a debtor’s ability to pay current or new loans.  They want to be sure that the borrower has enough operating income to cover current debt plus enough left over to service new loans.  The higher the ratio, the more capable the company is of paying its debt obligations on time.,  Use this formula: net income / total debt service.  For example, suppose a rental company generates a net income of $500,000 and has a debt service of $440,000.  The debt service represents the total annual mortgage payments on the properties the company owns.The DSCR is calculated with the equation $500,000 / $440,000 = 1.14.

 The rental company generates 14 percent more income than they need to service their debts.
  The minimum DSCR a lender may demand varies depending on the performance of the economy.  Lenders may overlook lower DSCRs when the economy is growing.   However, such lack of scrutiny leaves lenders at risk for large numbers of borrowers defaulting on loans for which they shouldn’t have qualified.If the DSCR is greater than 1, then the company or individual has enough cash to service the debt.  

 If the DSCR is less than 1, then there is not sufficient cash to service the debt.  For example, a DSCR of .87 means that the individual or business only has enough cash to pay 87 percent of the interest and principal on debt for that year.  The borrower would have to draw from savings or borrow more to service the debt.

 Some creditors may require debtors to keep their DSCR above a minimum threshold while the loan is outstanding. 

 Most creditors will require a ratio of 2 or more before granting any new debt.


