 Nutritionally, generic infant formulas are essentially identical to brand name options. This is because all infant formula is required to meet the same nutritional standards, including minimum amounts of specific nutrients.Many manufacturers actually include a bit more of the required nutrients, to ensure the nutritional content of the formula maintains the minimum specifications for the product’s entire shelf-life.
While different brands may have slightly different “proprietary” blends of ingredients, these differences are not nutritionally significant. They may affect taste and texture, but that’s about it.
In fact, many generic formula brands are actually made by the same one or two manufacturers, and effectively mimic brand name formulas - sometimes exactly.;
, One concern regarding formula is that a product has been relabeled at some point during distribution. While this is both illegal and uncommon, it has occurred. For example, baby formula has been relabeled with new “use by” dates that do not accurately reflect the age (and thus the nutritional content) of the formula.Do not be overly concerned about counterfeit formula, but it is worth noting any changes in color, smell, or taste of the formula you use.
When purchasing by the case, check the “use by” dates on formula containers and compare them to those on the box. They should always match.
Contact the manufacturer directly with any questions or concerns. There will be a toll-free number on the formula’s packaging.
 A generic formula option is likely the best option. There's no good reason to go with a branded option, and generic options tend to cost about half as much. When you buy a branded baby formula, you're not paying more for a better product, you're paying more for fancy labels and other marketing costs.Once you settle on a generic that your baby favors, try to stick to it. This is easier on your baby’s digestion.
Your doctor will probably recommend a name brand formula. They do this because they have financial incentive to do so. The hospital will probably even send you home with brand name samples, for the same reason. Don’t fall for the marketing.
 Believe it or not, the three companies that sell over 90% of the baby formula sold in the U.S. use GMOs in their formulas and foods. Namely, Similac, Enfamil, and Gerber brand baby foods all include GMO corn, sugar beets, and/or soy.While GMOs have been approved for use in most countries, there are developmental concerns tied to their use, as well as potential environmental issues associated with their growth.
Unfortunately, many generic baby formulas also contain GMOs. If a product is not labeled as GMO-free, you can expect that it likely does contain GMO products.

