 You will take many photos and the last worry you need is to discover the memory card is full from last week's party photos. Format all memory cards and charge all batteries before leaving. Make sure that you have spares of anything you need packed in the camera pouch. There is no going back for missed items once you have your great spot in the parade.


Take as little as needed. You do not want to be wearing a huge camera bag that sticks into spectators or makes you worry about thieves. One large, freshly formatted memory card already in the camera also means you do not have to fiddle with changing cards over midstream.
Only take a lens if needed. The aim is to get up as close as possible; is your camera capable at such close range? If so, try leaving the lens at home. That said, a "moderate" lens is useful for wide angles for bands, floats, and marching groups. A "moderate" telephoto is useful for candid close-ups of individuals within the crowd.You need to be the judge of your camera's flexibility with or without an additional lens.;
, Position is one hundred percent important for parade photographs because you need to be where you will get full shots of the parade rather than heads of people in the crowd. Decide in advance if the front row (a great place for candid, expressive, and larger-than-life captures) or higher up, such as on a balcony or stand is convenient for you. The abilities of your camera to zoom in might also affect your choice of where to position yourself. Also, be aware the angles from higher up may not be as interesting or detailed as being able to crouch down low and shoot up at floats and parade participants and to capture smaller participants, such as children and animals.


You may need to check out your position the day before; give yourself plenty of time to do so.
If it is raining or snowing, select a covered spot.
 Highlight the parade's characteristics, not the busy buildings and too much crowd behind.


Colors are important. Try to find neutral colors in the background, to let the colorful display of the parade elements and participants stand out more.






Consider the sun's position. Avoid any position where you are pointing your camera direct into the sun. If the day is sunny, use buildings to help block too much sun.
 People are likely to be excited at a parade and push for a desirable view. Should this happen to you while taking an image, obviously the image will appear blurred. There are ways to try to prevent too many blurred images:


Find a spot free of people. Settle in near seated parents and children or people whom are keeping careful tabs on a front row place. Parents are unlikely to leave in a hurry or bump around because they are keen to keep spots and the parade will captivate the kids' attention.
Use street objects as barriers or leaning spots, such as lampposts, mailboxes, fire hydrants, and fence barriers. Just be sure not to lean on anything that security will move you away from, or you will lose your coveted spot.
Control your own excitement. It is common to feel excitement seeing parade features come toward you in a parade and you may be keen to get that perfect moment that you cannot stop bouncing. Of course, this will cause your photos to blur. Have a little jump of glee first, and then take the photo. Sasha Gitin suggests presetting the exposure first and keeping the shutter speed above 1/250 seconds for action, in the hope this will counteract your own excitability.If you are going to use a tripod, you will need a position that is not at risk of being bumped or toppled by members of the crowd. This might need to be up higher than them.
 Floats and participants in a parade continue to move. Time photos to get them at the right moment, not after the float or people have past. It is easy to miss a great shot when the objects and subjects keep moving, especially if you camera is slow to take the next image. Learn quickly from your first errors and adjust your click timing accordingly.

Walk backward to take your photos if you are moving with the parade. This takes practice; have a spotter to point when you're about to trip over someone or something.
 Close out the crowd and extraneous features by zooming right in on a favorite parade character or features. Zoom right up to the queen of the little ballerinas is sitting high atop her throne, even at the expense of the other float participants. This is a method to capture her joy in a moment.


Be aware of keeping all relevant items in the frame of your image. Too much zooming can sometimes leave out important parts, like a person's head.
 They can make wonderful shots in and of themselves, rather than just as background. Try to capture their joy and excitement, especially when key elements of the parade arrive such as football stars, Santa or someone famous.


For many photographers, it is the spectators who make the parade what it is, not the parade itself. Watch carefully for spectator reactions and capture these as they happen. Having a good combination of both elements is important.






Look to see if there are great photo opportunities of people from windows or on balconies.
Take photos before and after the parade. People look forward to parades before the event, while after it; they will be happily chatting about a happy parade or appearing thoughtful after a more somber one (such as a war memorial parade).
Look for quirky actions, such as someone running into the parade or a streaker. These can happen quickly, so prepare for anything, and click away.
 Depending on the weather and light conditions, knowing how to change settings on your camera can make the photos better. For example:


Use the zone metering to adjust dull clothing in the crowd during cloudy and gray weather. Do not use the spot meter. Photographer Steve Philipp recommends doing a -0.3 –– -0.7 EV exposure compensation if you find that your photos of the crowd look dark and spotty.Again for cloudy days, use vivid colors and reduced contrast, enhanced sharpness with normal noise control, to help improve the overall colors.For sunny days, consider using a flash to cancel any intense glare or sunlight. Use a lens head or your hand to shade from the glare., Cut images that do not have a sparkle or element of interest in them. Crop them to remove clutter and to get to the heart of each shot. Put together at least a dozen of the best photos and you'll be able to enjoy the parade that day for years to come.


Be aware that if you don't cull all the less-than-satisfactory shots, you risk never looking at any of them again because it will feel overwhelming. Being ruthless with removing the bad photos while you are still caught up by the occasion is the best way to keep an uncluttered photo album.

