 You may apply at the Educator Certification Online System available through the website of the Texas Education Agency (TEA).This certification lasts for a year, and it will allow you to begin teaching in the state while completing your EPP or ACP. You will have to pass a background check as part of the process., During your university program, EPP, or ACP, you will need to spend some time teaching, either as a student teacher or intern. 180 hours of experience is needed before you can apply for your certificate.You may be able to gain experience as an aide in a bilingual classroom or as an ESL teacher, which will make you more qualified when applying as a bilingual teacher.
 This will allow you to apply for standard certification. Note that the only supported internet browser for this form is Internet Explorer.As part of the application, you will need to submit:


Official transcripts from your university
Application fee of $37.75
Copies of all test scores
Proof of fluency in both languages
Recommendations from your university program or statement of eligibility from your EPP/ACP.
 All educators in Texas must have their fingerprints on record. After you have submitted your application and paid the fees, you will be given a FAST Fingerprint Pass. You will be directed to sign up for an appointment at a nearby Texas MorphoTrust. Bring both your FAST Fingerprint Pass and your photo ID with you to the appointment. It will take 5-7 days for your fingerprints to reach the TEA.While you will have already paid fees to the TEA at this point, fingerprinting will still cost $10, which you will pay to the fingerprinting agency.
 You will receive an email when your certificate has been approved by the state. Once you have been certified, you will be able to search for your information on the agency website. It is good to double check that your information is correctly posted.You want to make sure that you have your certification not only in your grade level and subject but in bilingual education as well, or else you will not allowed to teach in a bilingual classroom.
 You may be offered a job through your EPP or ACP before you finish. If not, you can begin the job search once you have finished your probationary teaching. You can search for open bilingual teaching positions through the Texas workplace commissionand the TEA.You may also consider contacting charter or private schools for job information.

