 The natural sugar in fruit is better for you than having a sugary dessert, so you may want to try having a piece of fruit after your main meal instead of a piece of cake or pie.You also can include fruit in side dishes, or use fruit spreads for dipping. Citrus fruits work well as glazes, or in salad dressings.
Many fruits, such as apples and pears, work well mixed in stir fries with meat and vegetables. Don't forget that some foods you may consider vegetables, such as tomatoes, peppers, and avocados, are actually fruits., If you keep the fruits you buy out in the open where you can see them, you'll be more likely to simply grab a piece of fruit when you're hungry rather than hunting through the fridge or pantry for something else.Since most fruit should be stored at room temperature anyway, it makes more sense to have a bowl on the kitchen counter rather than hiding it away.
Use a larger bowl and keep a variety of different fruits available, so you can pick something that suits your taste and the time you have to eat. Check the bowl regularly to make sure the fruit isn't going bad.
 You may have seen athletes eating fruit on the sidelines of a game, or before practice. Fruit contains healthy carbohydrates that are easy to digest, so you won't feel weighed down while exercising.Bananas also are rich in potassium, a nutrient that can help prevent muscle cramps when exercising.
An apple or a banana 10 minutes or so before exercising will give you the fuel your body needs for maximum performance.
 While fresh, raw fruit is the best way to eat fruit if you want to maximize the nutritional benefits, dried fruit can be just as nutritious. Include dried fruit in trail mixes or energy bars.Dried fruit also can be a good option if fresh fruit isn't available in your location year-round. Ideally, you want the fruit you eat to be in season, and dried fruit can work well during the winter months.
When snacking on dried fruit, keep serving sizes in mind. Only a few pieces of dried fruit can equal a recommended serving of fruit, even though the pieces are so small.
 Though heating most fruits can decrease their nutritional value, if you're trying to increase the amount of fruit in your diet, baking may be an enticing way to do so. Cut up fruits like peaches, nectarines, and apricots and place them in a pan. Cover the pan with foil and bake at 350°F (176.7°C) for 45 minutes, or until the fruit is soft and syrupy. Add 1/2 cup of the baked fruit to plain oatmeal, plain yogurt, or any other plain foods that you want to naturally sweeten.