 After bathing your dog, brush the vinegar through the dog's coat. It will improve the shine of your dog’s coat and will act as a deodorant. Do not use if your dog’s skin is dry, broken, or otherwise irritated.Treating your dog's skin this way will help prevent dry skin and itchiness.;
, The antibacterial properties of apple cider vinegar make it ideal to clean out a dog's ears. It will help to prevent infection and ward off parasites that are susceptible to the acid in ACV. Soak a small cotton ball or piece of clean cloth in the vinegar and gently wipe your dog's ears as carefully as you can., If your dog spends a lot of time romping around during the summer, using ACV may keep fleas away. Mix two cups of water and two cups of ACV in a clean spray bottle. Once a week, spray your dog's fur with the mixture. Although not scientifically proven to get rid of flea, the acidic taste of the vinegar may repel fleas and other parasites.If your dog dislikes being sprayed, dip a washcloth into the mixture and rub your dog's coat. There is no need to rinse your dog afterward. The smell will dissipate after the ACV dries.
 If your dog has a case of fleas, you can get rid of them by using a mixture of soapy water and ACV. The soapy water kills the fleas and the ACV keeps them from coming back. Make a mixture of 1/4 cup dish soap, 1/2 gallon water and 1/2 gallon ACV.Put on long sleeves and gloves. Before you start treating your dog, it's important to protect your own skin from flea bites. Work outside if you're dealing with live fleas and ticks.
Bathe your dog in the solution. Avoid getting the solution in its eyes. Cover every part of its fur and use your fingers to work the solution all the way to the skin. You want to work up a good lather to help kill the fleas. Let the solution sit on your dog for ten minutes. If it's a particularly bad infestation, have a second batch of the solution handy so you can do a double flea treatment.
 Carefully comb through the fur section by section to remove live fleas and their eggs. Dip the flea comb into a bowl of soapy water, which will drown the fleas on impact. The fleas should come off of your dog easily, since they'll be repelled by the taste of the ACV., When you're finished rinse to remove all traces of soap and dead fleas. Follow up by spraying its coat with a fifty-fifty ACV and water solution. Then let it completely air dry.

