 If he wasn't there when you found out you'd be having twins, there are lots of creative ways you can tell the dad-to-be.


Start purchasing supplies you'll need like cribs and car seats. Your partner will be very surprised when he sees that there's two of everything!
Show him the sonogram and see how long it takes him to see that there are two babies. If he doesn't realize on his own, point out the baby's face, and then point out the other baby's face.
If your partner doesn't know you're pregnant yet, wrap up not one, but two positive pregnancy tests. Surprise him with the news when he asks why there are two tests there.;
, Tell the most important people in your life before making a public announcement. You can be as creative as you want!


For close relatives like grandparents, aunts, uncles, and siblings, send a card or an e-card from the babies. For example, you could write, "We're really excited to meet you, Aunt Carol! Love, the Johnson twins." You may want to include a copy of the sonogram.If the timing works out, wait for a gift-giving holiday like Christmas, a birthday, or Mother's Day. You can wrap up your message in a box disguised as an ordinary gift, or you could give your loved one a twin-themed gift, like a T-shirt that says "World's Best Grandma" with a picture of two babies.Invite loved ones over and start showing them the things you have bought in preparation for the babies. You can be subtle with this by just showing them things like clothing and diapers and waiting for them to comment that you probably have more than you need. You may also be able to find outfits and bibs that are twin-themed., If you'd rather tell your entire family about the news at once, consider waiting until everyone is gathered to celebrate something else, like Thanksgiving for example. You can then give them all something else to celebrate!, If your friends and family know you're pregnant but they don't know that you're expecting twins, make the announcement at a gender reveal party.


This could work especially well if you're having a boy and a girl. Many gender reveal ideas are based around revealing a color, whether it's cutting open a cake to see if the batter is blue or pink, or opening a box to reveal blue or pink balloons.For twins, you can use a combination of blue and pink or a gender-neutral color like yellow. Your guests might be a bit confused at first, but they'll be really surprised when they figure out what's going on!
You can also use this idea if you're having two babies of the same sex. If you're having twin girls and you want to use the balloon idea, for example, you can put two large pink balloons in a box. Write "It's a girl" on one and, "It's another girl" on the other.
 If you're ready to tell the whole world that you're expecting twins, post the news on your favorite social media site. Depending on your preferences, you can post a simple and straight-forward message or a creative picture that requires a little bit of thought.If you want to post a picture, think about creative ways you can hint that there are two babies. For example, you can take a picture of two pairs of baby shoes. If it's around the holidays, you could post a picture of Christmas stockings for Baby #1 and Baby #2 hanging next to those for the rest of your family.You can also post a funny picture that shows you and your partner panicking about the thought of having two babies. Just make sure to make it clear that you're actually really happy!
If you already have children, think about including them in your announcement picture. They could, for example, be wearing T-shirts that say, "I have two little brothers on the way."Utilize yours or your partner's profession in the theme you use to spread the word about the twins. If you or your significant other is a lawyer, for instance, you could post a mock legal brief to announce the twins.
Make sure you tell those who are close to you first before you post the news electronically. Some people may be offended that you didn't tell them in person or on the phone.

