 If you are old enough to receive an allowance, than you probably have some role in helping out around the house. Whether you have a set list of chores to do, or you are just expected to pitch in when asked, make sure that you are completing all of your tasks. When you are getting ready to ask for an allowance, you want to show your parents that you know how to act responsibly.Go the extra mile. For example, if your job is to put away your clean laundry, offer to put away your little brother's clothes, too. Your parents will definitely notice and appreciate the extra effort.
 Every kid has certain rules that they are expected to follow. If you willingly follow your parents rules, this shows them that you are responsible and trustworthy. Make sure to consistently meet your parents' expectations. If they trust you to follow their rules, they will be more likely to trust you with money.Make sure that you not only follow the rules, but that you do it without complaint. For example, if you are told to complete your homework before hanging out with your friends, do it without grumbling.
 Finding a way to volunteer is a great way to show your parents that you are giving back. This will demonstrate to them that you deserve an allowance. There are lots of volunteer opportunities for kids, no matter what your age. You could help out at a food bank, or pet the animals at your local shelter. If you choose an activity that matters to you, you'll even start to have fun.You can also volunteer within your own family. For example, offer to spend some extra time with your grandmother. Help her out around the house. This will show your parents that you are a caring person.
 Being mature means that you are acting in a reasonable, responsible way. If you show your parents that you are growing up, they will be more likely to see you as someone who deserves an allowance. There are many ways that you can demonstrate maturity.Be honest. Always tell your parents the truth. This will show them that they can trust you.
Stay calm. Avoid throwing fits or whining if you don't get your way. Instead, remain calm and talk to your parents about your frustrations.

