 If you have a Boxer puppy or juvenile, consider spaying or neutering it before it becomes fully mature. Intact males are particularly notorious for marking their territory by going to the bathroom where they shouldn’t.If your dog is too old to be spayed or neutered, or if you prefer to leave it intact, you’ll need to double down on training and obedience routines to keep marking at a minimum.
Use regular command word training, especially with your intact male, to show that you’re the alpha and that your house is not the dog’s territory.
 Put your puppy or dog on a strict eating and bathroom schedule as soon as you bring it home. Take it outside first thing in the morning, several times during the day, and a half hour before bed. Feed it in the morning and evening, and take it out for a walk fifteen minutes after it eats.If you have a puppy, you will need to take it outside every 30 minutes for training purposes. Two hours is the maximum time that a puppy can hold its bladder. It is also important for you to praise your puppy after he goes potty outside.
If you have an intact male Boxer, don’t let it mark its territory when you’re out on walks. Say “Hey!” when it raises its leg, or pat its leg down and pull along to get it to continue walking if it doesn't respond to a verbal command. Do your best to only let it relieve itself if it actually needs to use the bathroom, and to look for your permission to go.
Making the dog feel the need to defer to your judgment when using the bathroom will cut down on marking territory indoors or other undesirable places., Use an enzymatic cleaner, such as store-bought pet odor eliminating cleaner, or vinegar and lemon juice. Clean up urine or feces as soon as you notice it, and be on the lookout for urine marks, especially if you have an intact male or puppy. If you ignore or miss a urine stain, your dog will be more likely to remark that spot and continue to use the bathroom inside., When your Boxer uses the bathroom outside, say “Great job! I’m so proud of you!” Use exaggerated, happy expressions, pet it, and use whatever other positive gestures you use to show your dog how happy you are that he’s used the bathroom correctly.All dogs naturally want to please their owners. Positive reinforcement is typically much more effective than yelling or other forms of discipline.
 If your Boxer’s bad bathroom habits seemingly came out of nowhere, it might be suffering from a urinary tract infection or other incontinence issue.If you’re concerned about a possible UTI, take a sample of your dog’s urine to your vet, or ask your vet to take the sample for you.
Ask your vet about anxiety-related causes, especially if your Boxer shows signs of anxiety such as excessive whimpering, keep its tail between its legs, and using the bathroom when the doorbell rings, if you turn the television on, and in response to similar sights and sounds.

