 The quickest way to make a kid lose interest in an activity is to continually criticize how they perform that activity. When they’re first getting involved with running, don’t criticize their form or speed (or lack thereof). Instead, emphasize the fun they’re having.For example, if you notice that their form needs work, sandwich it between two positive comments. So you could say something like, "It really seems like you're running faster! Just make sure you keep your back straighter while you run. But your stride looks really good!";
, For a kid to get interested in anything – not just running – they have to feel like they own the activity. A good way to foster this sense of ownership is by helping kids set their own running goals.Goals can include time goals – maybe they want to be able to run a mile in 20 minutes or run a 100 yard dash in a certain amount of time.
Kids can also have non-timed goals. For example, maybe they want to be able to run a whole mile without stopping.
It doesn’t really matter what the goals are, as long as the kids themselves are setting them.
 Celebrating kids’ running victories is another way to keep them motivated about running. Once kids have set their goals, help them celebrate when they meet them.You can say something like "You ran that whole half mile without changing your pace once! Way to go!"
Your celebrations should still support the healthy lifestyle that running engenders in kids. Celebrate with healthy snacks or a cute card. Try to resist celebrating with something like cupcakes.
 Another good way to motivate kids to run is by making an event out of choosing running clothes. Take them shopping for a new outfit especially for running, or for new shoes that are only running shoes. This makes the whole experience feel special.If you don’t have the money for new clothes, you can help them go through their existing wardrobe and pick out an outfit that’s just for running. Encourage them to keep it separate from their regular clothes and only wear it when they're ready to run.
 If the kids have a music player or a phone with music-playing capabilities, you can help them create a running playlist. This adds to the feeling that running is special. Music also works as a good motivation to keep moving.