 This can save you money until you buy a full collection. Consider buying tablecloths, curtains, wood paneling, quilts, antique doors, wrapping paper, mirrors, flags, rugs and newspapers.


Read photography blogs to get advice about other unlikely items that photographers use to create a unique look. If you collect these items as well as traditional photography backdrops, you may be able to save money and collect backdrops as you need them.;
, You are likely to get a large selection of new and used backdrops. Choose based on the seller ratings as well as the product description, because they are often a good way to judge the accuracy of the descriptions.


eBay and Amazon are excellent places to look for studio kits that include backdrops, lighting and stands. If you are just getting started with your business, look for a kit that comes with basic black and white backdrops.
 Stores like Ink & Elm provide unconventional backdrops, such as rustic wood, sequins jacquard, ikat and more on vinyl. They occasionally run specials where you can receive a free backdrop by purchasing 2 or 3.
 Although finding pre-made photography backdrops may be difficult, you can collect vintage fabric, upholstery fabric, antique posters and rustic wood that can be used as a backdrop.
 This website has a large array of options for pre-made photography backdrops. You can choose from categories such as fantasy, fur, canvas, vinyl, muslin, chroma key and alternative.
 You can also find other photography equipment on these sites. They often feature promotions, so be sure to check their sale or promotion sections.
 You can create a Google Alert using the Craigslist website and keywords like "photography" or "backdrop." The alert will arrive in your email inbox whenever it finds something matching your specifications.
 If you want to see your backdrop before you order it, then a large photography store may be the best place to go. They may also have catalogs that you can order from.
 If you cannot find the textures, colors and patterns you like, then you can make custom backdrops for your studio or stand. Many people start by buying muslin at a craft store or outlet and dying it in different colors.


Blogs like diyphotography.net show you how to create your own backdrops by mixing dye, bunching up white muslin and leaving it until it darkens. You may find that this is an inexpensive way of expanding your collection of colored backdrops, so that you can save money for buying more unusual photography backdrops as your business grows.

