 When you wash your hair, you rinse away the natural oils your scalp produces. These oils add texture and hold to your hair, much like a pomade or gel would do. Day-old hair is less likely to drop curls, since the natural oils in your hair will help the curls retain their shape.If it's too late, and you already washed your hair, you can still use this method. Just rough dry your hair with a blow dryer or let it completely air dry before you curl it.;
, There are several products you can use to add some texture to fine, straight hair so it keeps its curly shape longer than just an hour or two. Try smoothing one of the following products into your hair from the roots to the tips:


Dry shampoo. This is great to use if your hair looks a little oily at the roots. Sprinkle it around your roots, wait a minute, then comb it from the roots to the tips.
Curl-enhancing cream. Use a dime or quarter-sized amount (depending on the length of your hair) and comb in it from the roots to the tips to distribute the product evenly.
Gel or pomade. If you don't have curl-enhancing cream, hair gel or pomade will work. Don't use so much your hair gets weighed down; you want just enough to lightly coat your hair.
 Again, it's all about adding texture. Spray a light coating of light to medium hold hairspray a few inches from your hair, then comb it through from roots to tips to distribute it evenly.


Avoid using firm-hold hairspray, since it's designed to keep your hair locked in place. It could result in a stiff, crispy look.
 Now that your hair is prepped, use a curling iron, hot rollers or another curling device of your choice to add the curl you crave. Even if your hair is fine and straight, it should be able to hold any curly style if you prep it right. Here are a few fun styles to try:


Beachy waves
Spiral curls
Big, soft, sexy curls

, As you complete each curl, coil it against your head and use a bobby pin to pin it up. Repeat until all of your curls are pinned against your head. Let your hair fully cool down before removing the pins and letting your curls drop., Use a medium to firm-hold spray to keep your curls in place after you take them down. For a looser look, run your fingers through your hair before spraying; for tighter curls, spray away and avoid touching them.

