 You can go to Apple's main website, or directly to the Beta Program website.;
,
Click Sign in on the bottom of list.
On the right side of page click "Create Apple ID Now."
Follow instruction set then click " Create Apple ID".
You will need confirm your email address by clicking the link in the email sent by Apple.


On Apple's Beta Program website:

Click "Sign Up" in the middle of the page.
Sign in if you have an Apple ID or just created one, but if you haven't you can click "Create one now".
Follow instruction set and click "Create Apple ID."
Again, don't forget to confirm your email address by clicking the link in the email sent by Apple.
,,

,

, (Highly recommended, not necessary)


For an iOS device, (iPhone, iPod, etc.)

Connect device to computer.
Open iTunes, click on your device. (ex. Daniel's iPhone)

It will be a logo of a phone on your iTunes status bar.


Click "Back Up Now"


For an OS x device, (Mac computers)

You will need an External drive, Time Capsule , or OS X server on your network.

Open "Backup Disk" application. (Logo of a clock w/ arrow around it on top screen bar)
Select "Select Backup Disk" then choose your storage solution. Select "Use Disk"
Select "Backup Now"





,


Sign into Apple's Beta Program website.

For an iOS device, (iPhone, iPod, etc.)

On your device go to beta.apple.com/profile
Sign-In with your Apple ID
Download the Profile
After profile is downloaded, A beta software update will come directly to your device through the settings. (Settings > General > Software Update).
You have to download the actual beta through your phone(Settings > General > Software Update).

You will need an internet connection on your device or have an active service provider to access the internet.




For an OS x device, (Mac computers)

On the "Enroll your device" tab on Apple's Beta Program website, go to step 2 and select "Download utility to access the OS X public beta El Captain"
Sign-In with your Apple ID.
Download the utility. It will start automatically.
After the utility is downloaded, the beta software update will be ready for download in the App Store.



If device doesn't restart, install correctly, or you just don't like the software, you can restore your device from the backup you created earlier.

