 Plants and herbs that contain tannins have long been used as dyes, and although the coloring teas made by steeping plants in water aren’t as permanent or strong as commercial dyes, they can still change the color of your hair, especially if you repeat the treatment frequently. To darken hair with tea:


Choose a loose-leaf black tea or black tea powder and steep one-half cup (72 grams) of tea in two cups (16 ounces) of boiling water. Allow the water to cool with the leaves still in it. When it reaches room temperature, strain out the leaves and transfer the tea to a spritzer or spray bottle.
Spray your scalp with the tea water and massage it gently in to the roots of your hair. When you have saturated the roots, continue working downward toward the ends, spraying and massaging hair in sections until your hair is saturated and the tea is gone.Twist your hair or pile it on top of your head and secure it with a large clip or a few bobby pins. Then, cover your hair with a shower cap or plastic wrap and let the tea sit for an hour.
Rinse with lukewarm water only and style as usual. For best results, repeat on a weekly basis.;
, Like tea, coffee also contains tannins that can be used to change your hair color. With coffee, it’s easiest to grind one tablespoon (15 grams) of instant coffee granules into a course powder in a coffee grinder or with a pestle and mortar. Mix the powder into a cup (eight ounces) of your favorite conditioner.








When you bathe, use the coffee conditioner instead of regular conditioner. Each time you use it, let the conditioner sit in your hair for 10 to 15 minutes before rinsing it out.
 Black walnuts are another tannin-containing plant, and the shells can be crushed into a powder to make a hair dye. Place two to three cups (7.5 to 11.5 ounces) of crushed walnut shells into a large pot and cover with four cups (32 ounces) of water. Allow to soak for 12 hours. After soaking:Cover the pot with a lid, and bring it to a boil over high heat. When it boils, turn the heat down to medium and continue boiling for about two hours, or until the water becomes a deep brown. Remove the pot from the heat and allow it to cool to room temperature.
Strain out the walnut shells. Put on some disposable gloves (or gloves you don’t care about staining), wrap your neck and shoulders with a towel to protect your skin, and apply the walnut water to your hair with a tint brush, paint brush, or a cotton ball.
Let it sit for an hour, then rinse with lukewarm water and a mild shampoo.