 How you carry yourself can highlight or obscure different parts of your body. Stand and sit straight with your shoulders square and your head raised. Keep your abs contracted and your pelvis in a neutral position. This will not only make your butt more prominent, but it'll also slim your torso a bit and make your chest look bigger.


Imitate the way runway models walk. Imagine there's a straight line running on the ground ahead of you, and it's located exactly beneath your belly button, in the center between your two feet. When you take a step, move your foot toward the center of your body, putting it down on this imaginary line. Then put your other foot down on that line, directly in front of your first foot. Keep walking this way, one foot in front of the other and clench your glutes.
You can ask a personal trainer to evaluate your posture and help you improve it.
To further emphasize your curves with a feminine swagger, follow the steps in How to Walk Like a Diva.;
, You can actually make your butt rounder and larger by strengthening the muscles in it, known as your glutes. Do the following exercises at least 3 times a week for the fastest results:



Butt Bridges. Lie on your back with your knees bent and your arms at your sides. Lift your butt toward the ceiling, then lower it. Do 3 sets of 10 repetitions.

Squats. Stand erect with your feet about shoulder width apart and your arms extended in front of you. Bend your knees to a ninety degree angle with your back straight, then rise back up. As you do this, make sure that your knees do not move in front of your toes. Do 3 sets of 20 repetitions.

Lunges. Stand erect with your feet about shoulder width apart. Bend one leg behind you and the other leg in front of you. Both should be at 90-degree angles. Return to starting position, then alternate with your other leg. Do 3 sets of 20 lunges.
Do kick backs. Stand on one leg. With the leg that is free off the ground, kick it back until you see your butt squeeze into a bubble. Do 3 sets of 15 to 20 reps. To add resistance, use ankle weights. In this case, try doing 3 to 5 sets of 8 to 12 reps.
 Working on your core can tone your belly, making it look tighter and smaller compared to your butt. Exercise your core at least 3 times per week for best results. Start off with these exercises:


Leg lifts. Leg lifts (or raises) might sound like they're focused on your legs, but really they'll help work your abs. Lie flat on your back with your legs stretched out in front of you. Bend your legs and raise them, keeping your toes pointed. Straighten your legs so that they're pointed at the ceiling. Slowly lower your legs to about an inch off the floor. Repeat 5 to 10 times, then rest for 30 seconds.
Twist crunches. Lie on your back on the floor and bend your knees. Put your hands behind your head, keeping your elbows bent. Lift one shoulder off the ground, and twist to the opposite direction. For instance, if you lift your left shoulder up, twist your body toward the right. Repeat, alternating shoulders. Do 2 to 3 sets of 10 to 15 reps. Rest for between 30 to 60 seconds between each set.
 A hobby you enjoy could also simultaneously enhance your rear. Here are some possibilities:


Running
Cycling
Swimming
Gymnastics
Skiing
Volleyball
Soccer
Field Hockey
Cheerleading

, Whether you should gain weight or lose weight in order to make your butt bigger (relative to the rest of your body) depends on your natural body type, which is controlled by genetics. When you gain weight, where does the fat go first?


If it tends to go to the butt and hip area, gaining a little weight will help fill things out. See How to Gain Weight.
If fat goes to your arms, stomach, or back first, losing some weight will make your body more petite in relation to your butt, which makes your butt look bigger. Read How to Lose Weight. This is especially true if you carry extra weight on your waistline. Getting a smaller waist can make your butt look bigger, even if it didn't change a bit. See How to Lose Belly Fat.

