 The hair should be clean and damp while it is being cut. Comb all of the tangles out, and apply leave in conditioner if needed.


Decide on the length you want your hair to be before it is pinned up., The layers on each side should be the same length, and to help do this, it is important to divide each side into symmetrical sections. The trick is to pull away from the places you want layers by combing each section at an angle down towards the face from the back. Here are the sections you will pin:Pin together the "top box" section. Use a comb to make a part on the top left and right side. Use the end of the eyebrows as a guide for how far over the part should be. Divide this section in half. One part will be from the crown of the head to the forehead, and the second part will be from the crown of the head and reach to the middle back section of your head. This hair will be combed forward and be section off in the front. The back of the hair from the middle down will not be layered. It can be left loose or pinned back.Divide the right and left front sections. These sections will start at the temples and end at the ear. Start with the comb at the back of the head, and angle down towards the bottom of the ear., When you cut or trim hair, you will angle the scissors up and at a 45 degree angle, and use the tip of the scissors to cut small pieces at a time. This will create uneven edges that will give the hair a more natural look.As you are cutting, you want to avoid bringing the scissors straight across the bottom. Instead, slightly pull the scissors away after each cut before cutting the next piece.
 Take out the clip from the top front section. Make sure the hair is still damp and completely combed out. Lift the hair so that it is angled between your forefinger and middle finger about 90 degrees from the head. It is important to cut the hair at an angle so it falls more naturally. Slide your fingers toward the ends until they reach the length you want the layer to end. You will cut the hair that is sticking out from your fingers.Cut a little longer than you want the layers to be to allow room for error. Keep in mind that hair shrinks when it dries.Common layers are cut right below the earlobe, or just above the jawline to help frame the face.
 Next, take out the clip from the left section of hair. Brush through the hair, and run your fingers through the section at a 90 degree angle from the head. Hold the hair straight between your forefinger and middle finger, down to the side of the face where you want the layer to end. Trim the length of hair extending from your fingers. Remember to trim at an angle to create a more natural look., Next, take out the clip from the right section of hair. Brush through the hair, and run your fingers through the section at a 90 degree angle from the head. Bring your fingers down to the side of the face where you want the layer to end. Make sure it is even with the side you just cut. Use one hand to pull the layer that was just cut down so you can match up the two sides. When you are ready, cut the hair extending from your fingers., When you are finished with each section, check the length of the layers. Line them up on both sides to see if they are symmetrical. If one side or piece is shorter than the other side, go back and trim it shorter. When you make adjustments, take off small amounts at a time so you don't end up making the hair shorter than desired., Use a round brush as you blow dry to bring out the layers. Twist the brush inward as it dries to bring the shorter layers in with the longer layers. If you notice an area that needs to be cut shorter, remember to get all of the hair damp again before you cut it. If you only dampen one side, you will not be able to properly match up each side because the wet hair will appear longer than it will be once it dries.

