 There are sites online that allow you to swap and sell gift cards, known as gift card marketplaces. These sites offer a balance guarantee on any card purchased or sold through them. This ensures you are not scammed or given an unfair price for the gift card. They work as the middleman between buyers and sellers so you only deal with the company and not with any third parties.There are several popular gift card market sites online, including Cardpool and CardCash.
Cardpool offers up to 92 percent of the card’s value when you sell cards through them. You will get a mailed check or an Amazon gift card for any gift cards you sell through the site.
CardCash gives you up to 92 percent of the gift card’s value when you sell through their site. You can sell physical and electronic gift cards on the site and you can trade cards for other gift cards or get cash for the card.;
, You can also try a user-drive site that allows you to sell gift cards to buyers similar to eBay, but with less risk. You can list your gift cards on the site and set a price of your choosing. Then, buyers will purchase the cards directly from you. You will need to verify your gift card with the user-driven site before you can list it for sale.As a seller, listing the gift cards on a user-driven site will allow you to sell it for at least 92 percent of its value. Some sites take a 15 percent cut of any cards you sell.
Raise is a popular user-driven site for selling and buying gift cards.
 Be wary of using sites like eBay or online classifieds sites like Craigslist to sell or swap gift cards. Though you have complete control over pricing and selling the cards, you have no guarantee that the buyer is legitimate. There is a lot more risk involved in using these sites and you may end up getting scammed for the card or receive no payment for it.Keep in mind a gift card is only one step away from cash and this means they are good targets for scammers or buyers who want to rip off sellers.
You may end up selling a gift card to a buyer, for example, who then uses up the amount right away and claims that as the buyer, you did not sell the card “as described.” You may then end up having to refund the gift card amount to the buyer.

