


Learn about your skin type. Your skin may be normal (oil free and no acne), oily (skin has a natural shine and acne occurs frequently), dry/sensitive (gives you troubles when shaving, it irritates often), mixed (oily forehead and nose, dry cheeks and mandible), and aging (presents age spots).
Choose a cleansing product dedicated to your skin type (they are labeled accordingly).
Wash your face every morning with warm water to open up the pores.
Apply the facial cleanser to remove impurities and dead skin cells and gently rub your face in circles.
Rinse with cool water and pat dry your face.
Repeat the process every night you go to bed.;
, Do this after cleansing in the morning. Exfoliating removes dead skin cells and other impurities. This process helps new, healthier skin cells reveal themselves, improving your complexion.


Wet your face with warm water.
Gently rub in circles your face with the scrubbing product.
Focus on your forehead, nose, mandible and neck as these are the areas where dead skin cells and impurities build up the most.
Rinse with cool water and pat your skin dry.
 To do this, apply a face moisturizer dedicated to your skin type. This helps your skin to become firmer, preventing water loss and making sensitive / dry skin easier to shave.


Apply the moisturizer in the morning over your entire face after you cleansed your face and patted it dry.
Gently rub the product until it penetrates the skin.
Focus on the forehead and eyes’ areas.
Repeat the process every night.
 This will help prevent skin issues, blemishes, skin dryness and the effects of aging. Use sunscreen (at least SPF 15) each day you spend more than 30 minutes in full sun.

Gently rub the sunscreen on all exposed parts of your face making sure the product penetrates your skin and doesn’t make your face look oily.
Repeat the process every 2 hours if you spend a lot of time in full sun. Wash the sunscreen off once you come inside.
 Choose a man’s eye cream based on caffeine as it stimulates the blood flow, reducing bags and dark circles. Gently rub the cream around and under your eyes in circles in a circular movement starting from the temple towards the base of your nose.,

Keep your hands clean during the day by washing them and drying them with a fresh towel to avoid transferring germs or dust to your face.
Use a sanitizer gel for your hands when washing isn’t possible to avoid carrying germs and bacteria from your hands to your face.
Wash your face frequently during hot days to prevent perspiration clogging your pores, if needed.
Avoid touching your face with your hands during the day.

Cleanse your face with a soap-free product.
Towel-dry your hair, neck, shoulders, and body after you get out of the shower.
Keep your face wet.
Wait approximately ten minutes before you start shaving.
 Using a razor on a fully-grown beard can be painful and ineffective. It is better to use electric clippers and scissors or a manscaping tool to trim down the beard.
 Facial cleansers work best because they help soften the protein in the hair.Rinse your face with a pre-shave soap and warm water.
Moisturize your face with a product formulated for sensitive skin.
Use aloe vera, almond oil, or emu oil to moisturize and prepare for a clean, safe shave.
 When looking for a good shaver for manscaping, you should consider a few factors: your skin's sensitivity, the coarseness of your beard, differences between various types of razors.


Avoid disposable razors.
Use a razor with built-in moisturizing strip.
Change your blades after 4-5 uses if you have regular skin & after 2-3 uses if you have sensitive skin.
Rinse the blade under hot water before you start to shave.


Use a pre-shave product before using the electrical razor on your sensitive skin.
Use a special designed electric razor (dedicated for men with sensitive skin and coarse beards).
Make sure the electric razor doesn't cut too closely to the skin.
Soften acne-affected skin before the shave.
 A high-quality shaving brush will help you raise the hair for a closer cut. Furthermore, the shaving brush allows the creation of rich, creamy lather & improves exfoliation, thus reducing the occurrence of razor bumps and blemishes. When buying a shaving brush choose one whose bristles show a good balance between stiffness and softness. Experts say you should choose a brush made of badger's hair., There are plenty of gels, creams or foams on the market designed to keep the stubble soft and the skin moisturized.


Use a transparent shaving gel with low-forming properties to better see some portions of your skin (either affected by acne or blemishes, burns or razor bumps).
Use a shaving foam designed for sensitive skin or one enhanced with skin-soothing natural ingredients such as aloe vera. Shaving foam is recommended to men with oily skin.
Use a shaving cream if you if you have dry skin or stubborn, tough stubble. For sensitive skin use shaving cream formulated with glycerine for skin moisture and softening.
Use shaving soap which is formulated especially for sensitive skin.
Use a shaving cream containing glycolic acid or salicylic acid if you suffer frequently from razor bumps as it contains exfoliating agents that unplug pores.
Use hypoallergenic shaving products without perfume to avoid further irritations on your skin.

