 The introduction started with a home viewer sample puzzle. Generally, the narrator would begin "You're building on a(n) (x-number of letters)-letter word." Then the narrator would announce the topic after the word began (the clue word would sometimes be a distraction). The visuals would take over as he narrated. The pieces of the puzzle would begin to fill in. Generally, the word would be anywhere from 5-8 letters long, and could be found in any official Scrabble Dictionary.


After the word completely filled in, you could hear the audience burst out the answer that was displayed on the screen in that day's puzzle. Then a common quote is used to introduce the title sequence "It's the crossword game you've played all your life, but never quite like this." In the meantime, the visuals would bring Scrabble tiles moving randomly across the board. All of a sudden, the titles would join and you could hear the audience scream "Scrabble". Then they'd say, "And here's your host, Chuck Woolery."
By 1986, the introductory sequence including introducing the last player to get to the Bonus Sprint from the last show, as well as who'd be vying for a repeat spot in that day's game.
By 1988, on top of having the host talk to the players about themselves, the narrator would help describe in single sentences the name of the player and what they did when they weren't playing on the TV game show.
By 1993, the narration was followed up with on-screen text of what was being said in the narration. Instead of the tile randomly moving around the board, they were placed with better computer animations and graphics.;
, Most episodes never started at the beginning, but with players with one or two puzzles already solved. This information will be described below.
 After a brief visual transition, the camera focused on a board to the left of the host. The board looked like a gigantic Scrabble board set up with tiles. Computer animations would make a pink-bordered ring around the board to introduce the first match. Generally, the first puzzle would begin as a horizontally-placed word with one pre-filled letter, with at least one of these letters starting at the star at the center of the board. The host would say "Building on an x-numbered lettered word" and then would give a clue that sometimes would give away what the word would be. Players would pick from several different tiles on the contestant desk. These tiles turned into letters when picked and placed into the tray in front of said player.



Utilizing what letters were graphically put in front of them, letters would slide around the board from one end to the other; if the letter was a valid puzzle letter, the letter would slide into the slot. However, if the letter wasn't a valid piece and wasn't a piece of the crossword, these tiles were called a stopper (these were denoted by the red flashing symbol that was octagonal), the player could not finish their turn and play would be passed to the other player automatically. If the contestant finished with both tiles in the turn, they could draw more tiles. Players would try to guess the word either before drawing the tiles or after the letters were dropped into place on the board.
There were two bonus-colored tiles in this round: blue and pink. If players were able to guess the word after filling in a blue tile, they'd win $50 on top of all the other money they'd win at the end. For those correctly solving after placing a letter into a pink tile, the player would win $100. Meanwhile, regular tiles would add $25 to the bank/pot for the winner to take, should they win the Scrabble Sprint. The first player to win any three words would be the winner and would move on to Bonus Scrabble.
For about three months in 1985, when contestants guessed the word, the players had to spell the word correctly. Regular squares added $50 to the bank, blue with $100 and pink squares with $200. Most episodes were unproblematic, however when contestants started to spell MOSQUITOS, they both incorrectly spelled it and both were told it was wrong, though it was the right word. This rule was later abandoned after a bout a three month's run.
If the word was built on a letter from a bonus square word, the player was given the choice to solve the brand new word (given the clue beforehand). If not, the word was played in the classic style.
Both players kept any bonus money they won through guessing the words from bonus letters and such, and additional money was given throughout other rounds to double or triple their money from the day. However, in 1993, the money won from the Crossword Round's bonus square winnings would be added to a grand bank and be awarded to the winning contestant's jackpot.
Generally, following a format change in 1986, there would be two games of this played. The first round of this was between the player and the challenger from the previous day to go head-to-head in the Sprint, the winner would go on to face in Bonus Sprint then two new players would come out and play it all over again. The winner would go on to face two new contestants.

If all three stoppers were found, the next player had to take a wild guess at the word. If they could not solve it, it switched into Speedword mode. The remaining letters would be revealed in random order until only one remaining letter was left covered. Both players tried to guess that word; if no one figured it out, the word was thrown out and a makeup word was attempted. Rarely was the makeup word ever needed, as Speedword almost always got players to the answer.
 This round generally consisted of two segments. One segment was played to establish a time that the last player had to beat, and the other tried to beat that time. During the first segment, the player who won this past round/game set the time. The player stood behind a podium and, with a stopwatch timer, guessed a word. The display that was set in front of him (above him according to the TV screen to the viewer) would show a blank word at first. Much like in the Crossword Round, the host would tell the player of this round how many letters and a whimsical clue to the word. However, here, players were picking out letters to call out from a nearby screen - all letters were valid letters and there were no stoppers in any of them. At any time the player knew the word, they could stop their timer by hitting the maroon-red plunger/button in front of them. Most often, this started with either a 5 or 6 lettered word, but the amount of letters grew in complexity and no more than four puzzles (and what seems like all letters of the display the player had to guess - generally an eight or nine lettered word) here would set a "time to beat". Generally, there could be several minutes on the clock when the final puzzle was solved.

Watch the new Scrabble Sprint challenger from this episode. With this time, this player would try to beat the last player's score. Generally, this was the player from the previous day's show who was vying for additional money to add to their own bank of money. Generally, the stopwatch timer now became a countdown timer. The same words displayed in the same order, and this player had to solve all these same words to win the money. If they were able to beat the timer (if there was still time left on the board when the last clue was answered), they would win the bonus round money. However, if not, the first player (today's player) won the money and would come back the following day to face the next challenger.
Although the Sprint used to begin with three words, it was later increased to four words in 1985.
If the player incorrectly guessed the word, a ten second penalty was inflicted on the player and would be added to their stopwatch (first contestant) or countdown (second contestant) time.

During the first two years of the show, 1984 and 1985, two separate envelopes were drawn with different words that each players had to solve. However, this was later changed so that one set of words was used for both players to solve in the episode.
 This was an additional round that began in 1986's episodes following a special Scrabble specials week in September of that year (The $100,000 All-American Scrabble Tournament). The champion was generally the only one who competed in this version. Using the same set as the Scrabble sprint, players were given two final words. However, they were only given 10 seconds total to solve both words. The jackpot was generally $5,000! If the player won that day's playing they'd come back the next day and try and play again. If they still won, the bank was then set for $6,000 and so forth. However, they could only go five wins to finish as a player or had to become defeated at some point to exit from the Bonus Sprint.

Dependent on how much the players made in bonus money from the Crossword Puzzle Round, players generally competed for triple the bank money they banked from the Crossword Round. If they won 5 Bonus Rounds in a row, this generally gave them a $20k prize. After ten rounds, the player was given yet another $20k and was mandatorily retired., During the Crossword Round, each word was presented on a video monitor that had a copy of a Scrabble board. The sound effect used when the visual effects were seen was really neat and advanced.
 Chuck Woolery was the host of this show, over this show's long run. Although he had hosted other game shows, he really made a great impact on the way this game show was handled during its run.


There were a few times when Chuck Woolery wasn't the host, and Marc Summers (of Double Dare fame) stepped in instead.
 There were several weeks over each of the seasons where celebrities were featured instead of regular contestants. Two years in a row, a bunch of other game show hosts even came and played, and there were several other week-long specials that happened.
 This version of the game was hosted by NBC affiliates nationwide. It was shown during a half-hour block between 11:30 EST between the premier on 7/2/1984 and 9/4/87, buy was changed to 12:30 to 1pm between 9/7/87 and 3/24/89, and yet again to the half hour block at 10:00am between 3/27/89 and 3/23/90. It finally aired at 12:00pm between 1/18/93 and 6/11/93. In total, there were 1,335 episodes. 1,230 of those were shown between 1984 and 1990, and the remaining 105 were shown in 1993.


Reruns of the episodes were those episodes that aired on USA Network between September 16,1991 and October 13, 1995. However, there were no reruns of the 1993 series, since the cancellations after the show ended on June 11 1993., Both contestants were seated at an extended desk. In front of them the viewer would see a rectangle on which two star-like icons would be seen when no letters had been revealed. This block would fill with the letters as tiles were drawn. In front of the player was a slot where the tiles were inserted after use.


In the middle between the two players would be several tiles standing up. Although the number of tiles here differed depending on how many letters the word had, there would be one tile for each word and three stopper tiles that could be drawn. (In 1984, these tiles were a pinkish-red color with a yellow number, but by 1985 this changed to a blue with whitish-aqua numbers.) The set differed by a slightly different desk by the 1993, but still showed these same traits to the viewer and contestant.
During the Scrabble Sprint and Bonus Sprint Rounds, desks were only two separate podiums that contained only a microphone and a red stopper button the player could press. The lettered titles and desk disappeared and wasn't used for this portion of the game. Generally, the host stood between the two contestants without using a podium, while facing the contestant.
 Although for the first two years of the show a person by the name Jay Stewart announced the show, he was not hired back for the remainder of the seasons. During 1985-1990 and 1993, an announcer by the name of Charlie Tuna was used instead. Most fans could barely tell a difference between the two voices.
 Scrabble has had several different spin-offs that came as a result of this show including "Scrabble Showdown," which aired on the TV station called "The Hub" way back in 2012. Scrabble also led to Scrabble Challenge, which was hosted by John O'Hurley and aired on GSN in 2002 but wasn't picked up to a full-series run (only 2 episodes still exist on YouTube). There are still some spin-offs that are still airing in the United Kingdom to this day with a slightly-different format but with the same name as the original one.

