 Even with a youthful looking face, the skin of your neck, hands, chest and shoulders can show aging. Don’t neglect these other parts of your body in your care routine. Moisturize daily and use the same sunscreen of SPF 30 or higher on a daily basis for exposed skin. The thin and delicate skin of your neck is a major place that will show age, possibly even before your face will. This skin may benefit from a moisturizer with peptides, to help collagen production.You can draw attention away from your neck by wearing a long necklace or blouses with interesting prints of designs.
If you choose to pursue medical treatment, fraxel laser treatments can help the texture of your skin and Botox can soften those vertical lines., Many people complain that their hands portray their aging due to thinning skin that can look and feel papery. Your hands can benefit from products containing retinoids just like the skin of your face. Use an ultra-moisturizing cream plus a hand cream containing retinol; using a dollop of your facial moisturizer on your hands in the morning and evening is an easy remedy. As with other skin, protect your hands from UV rays with an SPF 30+ moisturizer, or accessorize with a pair of gloves when outdoors.Consult a dermatologist about whether these procedures are right for you.


Draw attention away from aged looking hands by skipping dark nail polish in favor of paler shades.There are rejuvenating procedures for your hands that use lasers or injectable fillers; these procedures can thicken skin that is thinning and remove dark spots.
 Wrinkled, sagging skin on your knees and elbows can show your age. Massage onto the area high-moisture lotion that contains urea or ammonium lactate, ingredients which help penetrate the thick skin on elbows and knees. Exfoliate using a cream for that purpose, or a brush or loofah. Do yoga several times weekly - yoga strengthens your joints and leg muscles, which tighten the muscles and skin around your knees.Skin-tightening injections for elbows and "knee lifts" are medical procedures available from plastic surgeons.
 Breasts sag with age, but wearing the appropriate bra can help them fight gravity and appear younger. Check your bra at home by standing sideways in front of a mirror. Bend your elbows to 90˚ and notice where the fullest part of your breasts fall. This should be about midway between your elbows and your shoulders. If they're below that level, tighten your bra straps. If you do that and they still fall low or it causes your bra to hike up in back, this isn’t the right bra for you.When purchasing a new bra, request a professional fitting to learn your correct size. This might be different now than when you were 25 years old. Try on multiple styles, and aim for supportive cups.
 Brows and lashes can thin after years of plucking and with your changing hormones, which can make your face look more aged. Fill in thin or sparse brows with a pressed eye shadow that matches your hair color. Use a small brush and light strokes. Utilize a lash-enhancing mascara or try out false eyelashes for a more youthful pop to your eyes.Droopy eyelids and fat around the eyes can be caused by oxidative stress, which is usually a result of poor diet full of processed foods. Switch to a whole foods diet of fresh rather than processed foods to reduce puffiness around the eyes and decrease inflammation. Celery is a particularly good snack for this., Teeth that are stained and yellowed are a sign of age, and a bright healthy-looking smile can take years off your appearance. Whiten your teeth by brushing with a whitening toothpaste twice daily, using a whitening tray or strips, or visiting your dentist for a cleaning and bleaching procedure. Avoid smoking and drinking black coffee and tea, which worsen stains. Of course, remember to floss daily., We all know that aging causes gray hair, but it also causes hair to be thinner, drier, and finer.Over-styling to compensate can further dull hair and cause damage, and over-washing dries hair out. Getting a color or highlights at a salon is always an option, as is dyeing your hair yourself at home, but coloring may cause damage to hair, as well. Try to reinvigorate your hair without chemicals, if possible. If you experience sudden or rapid hair loss, see your doctor to ensure there's no medical reason; getting a blood test can help pinpoint if you're deficient in certain nutrients or low in thyroid hormone, which can cause thin or brittle hair.


Hair products containing caffeine, niacinamide and panthenol can help decrease indications of aging hair.Volumize hair to counteract the thinning that happens with age. Many shampoo, conditioning, and beauty product lines promote hair thickening.
Part your hair in a different place or try a “zigzag” part. Hair tends to start thinning earliest at your regular part.Take a supplement of the vitamin biotin to increase your hair’s thickness and volume.Experiment with a new haircut to get rid of dull split ends and reinvent your look.

