 Getting regular physical activity is an important part to a healthy lifestyle. In addition, regular physical activity is important to maintain heart health.


Health professionals suggest being active at least three to four times a week. This amount of exercise has been shown to help lower your blood pressure, lower your cholesterol and help you maintain a healthy weight.Specifically, it's important to aim for about 150 minutes of moderate-intensity cardio activity each week. You can walk, jog, dance, use the elliptical or go hiking.In addition to cardio, add in one to two days of strength or resistance training. Try yoga, weight lifting or pilates., Smoking is a well known cause of many chronic and very serious health conditions. There is a direct link to smoking and heart disease.Studies have shown that smoking causes the hardening of arteries and build of plaque as well. This can lead to heart attacks and strokes.Quit smoking as soon as possible. Cold turkey is the quickest way to quit; however, it's also the most difficult.
If you're having difficulty quitting, consider seeing your primary care doctor for help. He or she may be able to provide you with medication to help you quit or refer you to a smoking cessation program.
 Maintaining a healthy weight is important to your general health. It also plays a serious role in the prevention of heart disease.


If you're overweight or obese, you're at a higher risk for high cholesterol, high blood pressure and insulin resistance. These are the same risk factors for heart disease.Determine if your at a healthy weight by figuring out what your BMI is. You can use online calculators to figure out your BMI. If your BMI is between 25.0-29.9 you're considered overweight. If it's above 30.0 you're considered obese.If you've determined you're overweight or obese, consider losing some weight to help you reach a healthier weight.
Talk to your doctor about appropriate weight loss programs or diets to help reduce your weight and your risk for heart disease.
 A more unusual risk of heart disease is stress. Studies have shown that stress can influence your risk for a variety of health conditions including heart disease.Stress is something we must all deal with, but many people choose to overeat, smoke, drink or be physically inactive when they're feeling stressed. These are all behaviors that can increase your risk of heart disease.Talk to friends or family members, go for a walk, listen to calming music, do yoga, meditate or take a hot shower to help reduce your stress.
Chronic stress has been linked to high blood pressure and high cholesterol.Stressful work and demanding jobs have also been linked to high blood pressure. Stress resulting from job loss, too, can affect blood pressure.If you're having difficulty reducing stress, consider talking to a therapist or counselor for additional stress management techniques.

