 Asthma tends to develop during childhood and is more common in boys than girls at this stage. However, it can develop any gender at any age and adult females are at higher risk than adult males., There are a few common symptoms of asthma. If you suffer from these issues often, talk to your doctor to help diagnose asthma or some other issues. These symptoms include:


Coughing, which is typically worse early in the morning or at night
Wheezing, which is a squeaking or whistling sound emitted during a breath
Tightness in the chest
Shortness of breath, If you believe you have asthma, go see your doctor. She will check for a history of symptoms and any family history of the condition. She will also help you decide what the best medication is for your type of asthma and pinpoint your triggers.Asthma manifests in two ways: as intrinsic, non-allergic asthma and as extrinsic, allergic asthma. Extrinsic asthma is the most common, which is triggered by inhaled substances and directly involves an immune response. Intrinsic asthma is all trigger based, and triggered by exercise, cold air, stress, and dry air.
Either form can be mild, moderate, or severe., One of the components of an asthma plan is to list your medications. To help treat your asthma in the short-term, use rescue medications, typically inhalers, such as levalbuterol (Xopenex), albuterol (ProAir HFA, Ventolin HFA), pirbuterol (Maxair), and ipratropium (Atrovent).


You can also use short-acting corticosteroids. , In order to treat your asthma over the long term, you will likely need a long-term medication. There are many different kinds, so consult your doctor to find which one works for you. Long-term medications to include:


Inhaled corticosteroids, such as budesonide (Pulmicort Flexhaler), ciclesonide (Alvesco), fluticasone (Flovent HFA), beclomethasone (Qvar), flunisolide (Aerobic), and mometasone (Asmanex)
Cromolyn
Long-acting beta agonists, such as salmeterol (Serevent) and formoterol (Foradil, Perforomist)
Biological medicines, such as zileuton (Zyflo), montelukast (Singulair), Omalizumab (Zolair), and zafirlukast (Accolate)
Theophylline