 Has he started working out more, dressing better, grooming himself with more care, or using a new musky cologne? While self improvement through physical fitness and grooming are healthy life choices, consider if he is trying to improve his physical appearance for someone else., If your boyfriend is usually in bed by 9 and is suddenly out all night or sneaking around the house late at night, this may be a sign of cheating.


Similarly, if he usually sticks to a set routine of going to the gym in the morning or heading home from the office by 5, but he is now sleeping in or staying at the office late, these adjustments in his daily schedule could hint at time spent elsewhere, possibly in the company of someone else., If he is usually a very attentive, supportive partner who asks you how your day is and enjoys having long conversations with you over dinner, and then suddenly appears uninterested in your day or bored by long conversations with you, this may be a sign his interest or engagement is focused elsewhere and not on you.Your partner may also lose interest in domestic activities like spending time with the kids, fixing up the house, mowing the lawn, etc.
He may also spend more time on his phone texting or on the computer in private chat rooms or social media pages. If his phone or computer use goes up dramatically or if he becomes secretive about his phone or computer use, this may be a red flag., Perhaps there has been a decline in the amount of sex you are having or a strange, sudden increase in sexual activity, with new sexual preferences or tastes that you did not experience with him previously.You may start wondering where he learned a certain sexual move or what caused him to develop a certain preference in bed. One possible reason is he may be trying out new moves with someone else.
He may also have a lower sex drive or spurn off your attempts at being intimate with excuses like “I’m tired,” or “Maybe another night.”, If he seems to be picking a lot of fights, get angry at you for something small he would usually not be upset about, or gets defensive when you ask him about his night out with the boys, these may be signs of cheating.Changes in his normal behavior that involve anger towards you could in fact be a reflection of his guilt for cheating or fear that you may find out about his affair.
 Does he leave, get some space, and then return to apologize? Or does he neglect to apologize or show remorse for hurtful words he said to you? If he is usually good at forgiving and forgetting after a fight and this is not happening anymore, this may be a red flag.It’s important to remember that your boyfriend’s inner turmoil has nothing to do with you and is a reflection of his own anxieties and fears. Try not to take his anger towards you personal or put pressure on yourself to try to make him forgive you or feel better, as this could also mean he is actually feeling guilty about an affair.
 This will help you compile evidence of his cheating and determine the times, dates, excuses given, etc, that helped him lie to you about the affair.A cheating spouse is likely to change their story, question your memory or deny your accusations, so keeping a record of their activity is critical.
 This article will help give you the skills to determine if your boyfriend is lying. Most people are bad liars, so if you use the right technique to detect his lies, you may be able to get him to confess to his affair.


Keep in mind that once he knows you're suspicious of his behavior, he might work overtime to cover his tracks. If so, you'll need to be more vigilant and work harder to get evidence of his cheating.
 If you are noticing shifts or changes in his behavior, it is possible he may be treating you this way not because he's cheating, but because he is dealing with other internal issues like depression, grief, severe anxiety, etc. Talking to him about your suspicions rather than resorting to drastic measures like snooping around or encroaching on his privacy, will show that you care about the relationship and about making it work.

