 Hold your fist out in front of you, knuckles facing the offender – but do not raise your middle finger yet. Then, make a fist with the other hand, and crank it in circles next to the first hand as though you are winding up an old-timey jack-in-the-box toy. As you crank, hum "Pop Goes the Weasel," the tune traditionally associated with jack-in-the-boxes. Hum and crank faster and faster as you approach the end of the tune. Then, at the final "Pop" of the "Pop Goes the Weasel" tune, extend your middle finger as though it is the jack popping out of the box. Finish humming the tune while flipping the person off.


Make sure that you have the person's undivided attention. This move takes a bit of time to pull off, and you want to make sure to get the full effect.
 Hold your fist in front of your face and put the tip of your thumb in your mouth. Act as though you are blowing up a balloon: "blow" into your thumb, and slowly extend all of your fingers as though your breath is inflating them. Then, hold you middle finger of the "balloon hand" with your other hand, and move the thumb away from your mouth. Slowly close the other fingers on your "balloon hand" until only your middle finger is left pointing at the person whom you want to flip off.
 Act as though you are looking for something: in your pocket, or between the couch cushions, or in a desk drawer. Make sure that you get the person's attention. Then, make a show of being relieved that you have found the thing you're looking for. Turn to show the person what you found: and flip them off!


Alternately, lean down in front of the person as though you are picking something up off of the ground. Come up flashing your middle finger, and say, "Did you drop this?", Blow on your thumb while pretending to play the trumpet, and flail your fingers as though you are hitting the taps. Periodically hold up only your middle finger. Add some musical effects for style!

, Extend the middle fingers of both hands. Then, bring your arms behind your back and through your legs. You should have both middle fingers clearly presented. Note: only people with long arms can pull this off.

