 You may have up to 14 clubs in your golf bag, so getting to know what each of them do will help you in loading your golf bag.


Identify your woods. Also called drivers, woods are the golf clubs you will use to hit the golf ball long distances. Woods will feature a large clubhead and a long shaft leading up to the handle.
Pick out your irons. Irons have a shorter shaft than your woods and feature a flat angled clubhead. These golf clubs are designed for shots as you approach the green or from more difficult places like in the woods, on the rocks, at the base of a hill or in sand pit. Golfers typically have more irons than woods in their golf bags.
Find your putters. Putters are primarily designed to tap a ball in order to roll it along the grass towards the cup and into the hole.;
, If you look into the top of your empty golf bag, you will see dividers creating three separate entry points where you may place your golf clubs.
 Designate a section for each type of golf club. Typically, golfers load their clubs with the woods in the top compartment, irons in the middle compartment and putters in the bottom compartment.


Stick the handles of the golf clubs into the open areas first when loading. The clubheads will be sticking out of the top of your golf bag when the golf clubs are loaded correctly.
 On the side of your golf bag, there should be extra pockets. In a regular game of golf, it's common to lose golf balls, so pack extra balls in a side pocket of your golf bag.
 Golf tees are the short pegs you use to hold your golf ball off the ground before hitting it with one of your woods at the beginning of each hole. It is common to go through several tees during a golf game, so pack extra tees in a side pocket of your golf bag.
 Once you have everything you need to play golf, you can pack other accessories. As an example, many golfers use specialty gloves that help them grip the handle of the club better. Others pack a towel on hot days to clear the sweat from their brow.

