 Administering dialysis and helping out sick patients can be an extremely rewarding profession. Although it may be difficult at times, there are many advantages to this career path.It is a great choice if you want to work in the medical professional without becoming a doctor or nurse.Providing help, aid, and comfort to individual patients and their families can be incredibly rewarding for you and those you help.
It can come with some emotional demands. You may be dealing with terminally ill or very sick patients, which can be upsetting. In addition, you may need to positively navigate different kinds of personal dynamics from your patients to medical professionals.However, if you enjoy working with and helping people, then being a hemodialysis could be a truly excellent career choice for you.;
, Before actively pursuing a career as a dialysis tech, assess your abilities and education. Taking an honest look at yourself may help you decide the most optimal way to pursue your career.If you’ve had positive interactions with dialysis techs, this can help influence your decision to become one. If you don’t have any experience with hemodialysis, considering asking a professional about her career. She can discuss her career path with you and may even let you shadow her for a day to learn about the profession.
You need a high school degree or a GED and some additional training on how to run dialysis machines.Learn about the licensing and/ or certification requirements. Every state requires that dialysis techs have some sort of certification or licensing to work. Depending on the type of hemodialysis tech you want to be, you may require additional coursework and practical training before you can work., Determine the ways in which being a dialysis tech may affect your lifestyle and even that of your family. Knowing if the time, emotional, and physical factors conform with your lifestyle can be important when pursuing this career.Can you handle possible physical demands? Being a dialysis tech may require standing or sitting for long periods.Do you have the personality for being a dialysis tech? Working with patients and other medical professional is a big part of the job. If you like working with and helping people, hemodialytic technology might be a great fit for you.
Because most dialysis techs work in an office or in private homes, this career may allow you to be more flexible with your time or have time with your family., Dialysis techs earn between $23,000-41,000 annually. This can change depending on experience, location, and if you work overtime.The hourly rate for dialysis tech ranges from $11.00/ hour to $19.00/ hour. Overtime compensation can be between $13-$28/ hour.If you are a registered nurse and want to be a dialysis tech, you can make an average of $55,000 annually.You will have to pay taxes and other fees for your salary. You may or may not have health benefits, vacation, and sick time, though most tech report that they do have these benefits.Current job prospects look positive and are expected to increase 24% in the next decade., At a minimum, you need high school diploma or GED to work as a dialysis tech. You’ll also need vocational training for required certification and licensing.Proper education helps you understand the various parts of your career in hemodialysis.


Once you have your high school diploma or GED, attend a training program for dialysis techs.Many vocational and technical schools, community colleges and online programs offer dialysis tech training programs.It takes between twelve and eighteen months to complete your coursework.Different sites on the Internet can help you locate the closest program to you. In addition, you may want to ask a local doctor or dialysis clinic if they can recommend an accredited program.
 Many programs will require clinical experience as a part of successful completion and taking required certification or licensing exams.Getting clinical experience can not only expose you to your chosen career path, but also help prepare you for taking required exams.


The amount of clinical experience will vary from program to program, but most require six months to one year of clinical work.Healthcare facility or private agencies can provide you with necessary experience. Contact local hospitals, doctor offices, and nephrology clinics for opportunities, or you can find options online.The Board of Nephrology Examiners Nursing Technology provides a list of accredited domestic and international programs at http://www.bonent.org/approved-programs.php.
 Before you can work as a dialysis tech, have to pass the licensing exam for the state in which you plan to work.You’ll need to check the specific requirements for your state before applying to take the exam.The three primary bodies that offer dialysis tech exams are the Nephrology Nursing Certification Commission (NNCC), the National Nephrology Certification Organization (NNCO), and the Board of Nephrology Examiners Nursing Technology (BONENT). Each has different requirements for taking the organization’s respective certification exam.
Consult study aids or join a study group to increase your chances of passing. You can find a variety of information about the different exams on each organization’s respective website.
Consult each organization for policies regarding re-taking a failed exam. #Maintain your certification. Every three to four years, you will need to get recertification to work as a dialysis tech. Recertification procedures can help you stay abreast of new research and trends in your hemodialysis.The criteria for recertification vary between the different certifying organizations and may also vary by state.In general, recertification requires elements such as a minimum number of hours worked during the previous period, completion of continuing education, and participating in professional training or workshops., There are all kinds of job opportunities as a dialysis tech. You can work for a hospital or nephrology clinic or center.You may also want to work for a doctor’s office and visit the private homes of patients.Sending applications to different types of facilities may help you find your dream job.Professional organizations including BONENT, NNCC, NNCO, offer information and portals to help you find a job.
You may want to ask local hospitals, clinics, and doctor’s offices if they have any positions opens.
Local or national placement agencies may also be able to help you find your dream job.

