 Benzoyl peroxide is similar to hydrogen peroxide in that it can act as an antibacterial agent and it can help dry out excess oil on your skin.Salicylic acid helps reduce inflammation and unclog pores, which in turn helps reduce or eliminate pimples.Both benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid can be found as the main active ingredient in topical skin treatments (i.e. creams or lotions) or cleansers designed specifically to treat acne. There are a large number of options available over-the-counter at your local drug store.It can take six to eight weeks before such treatments start to show serious results, so be patient. If you do not notice any difference after 10 weeks, consider trying something else.
 Lemon juice works as both an antibacterial agent and an exfoliant. It not only kills the bacteria that causes acne, but it help remove excess oil and dead skin from your face. Lemon juice can also act as a natural bleach and can help lighten acne scars over time. After you’ve washed your face using your normal daily routine, apply one to two teaspoons of pure lemon juice to the affected areas of your skin using a cotton pad or ball. Leave for at least 30 minutes. If you do this before bed, you can let the lemon juice dry and simply to go bed. If it’s during the day, rinse the lemon juice off your face with cold water.Apply your normal daily facial moisturizer when your face is dry.


Be careful using lemon juice if you have open sores, as lemon juice can cause stinging if applied to open sores.
Due to the skin lightening effects, you should not use lemon juice if you have naturally dark skin.
 Tea tree oil is a natural ingredient that works as an antibacterial to kill the bacteria that causes acne. It is also gentler on your skin that many other more acidic treatments. You can use 100% pure tea tree oil directly on pimples after you’ve washed your face, or you can mix it with either aloe vera gel or honey to create a cream that can be used for spot treatments.Make your very own facial scrub by mixing ½ cup of sugar, one tablespoon of honey, ¼ cup of olive or sesame oil and 10 drops of tea tree oil together. Once mixed you can apply it to your skin and scrub for three minutes to help exfoliate your skin, then rinse off with warm water.
For some people with acne, tea tree oil can be too irritating, so try it out in a small area before using it all over, and stop using it if it causes significant irritation to your skin.
 Baking soda is a great natural exfoliant, and it is very inexpensive. You can mix baking soda with warm water until it forms a paste, and then apply the paste to your face like mask for up to 15 minutes. Before rinsing off the mask, make sure you very gently scrub it into your skin to help remove excess oil and dead skin cells. You can also add a teaspoon of baking soda to your non-exfoliating facial cleanser before washing your face. The baking soda will add exfoliation properties to your cleanser.