 You can copy and paste text, website addresses, or images into a Facebook post, message, or comment.


If you want to share an article on Facebook, simply copy and paste the article's address from your browser's address bar.
Copied text will not preserve the original formatting. Facebook does not support fonts other than the standard Facebook font.
Copied images will appear in your posts and be uploaded to your Facebook photos. Copied image addresses will create a link to the photo.
You can only copy the text from other Facebook posts, not the entire post itself. Copying and pasting posts will not copy Likes or comments from that post. You cannot combine posts by copying and pasting them together.
 The process for copying what you want to paste will depend on what you're copying.


To copy text, highlight the text you want to copy, right-click it, and select "Copy." Windows and Mac users may alternatively use their keyboards to copy after highlighting the desired content. The former need simply press ^ Control + C while the latter press ⌘ Command + C.
To copy an image from a website, right-click the image and select "Copy Image."
To copy a link to a website, copy the entire URL from the address bar by right-clicking the link and select "Copy address/URL." Windows and Mac users may alternatively use their keyboards to copy after highlighting the desired content. The former need simply press ^ Control + C while the latter press ⌘ Command + C.
 You can paste your copied content into a new status update, a comment on another post or into a message with another Facebook user.
 You can right-click and select "Paste" or—using your keyboard—press ^ Control + V (for Windows users) or ⌘ Command + V (for Mac users). Different types of content will paste in different ways.Pasting text will just paste the raw text. You may wish to reformat it before posting. You can't change the font of pasted text.
Pasting a website address will create a preview of the website. The preview will include a thumbnail, title, and a short description. After pasting an address and generating a shortcut, you can delete the written address.
Pasting a picture into a status update will add it to your photo uploads. Pasting a photo into a message will send the image immediately to the recipient.

