
Click on the Search button, which is the first one on the list.
Enter an address or name of a place. Use the keyboard under it. Search in this format: House Number (space) Street Name, City, State. The search result you want should show up in the suggestions.
Click on the keyboard button at the bottom right of the address screen to minimize the keyboard and see all suggestions.

Warning: If you input an address that is more than 50 miles away from your current location, click on the Near me button at the top right to change it to the whole map or even a different city.
You will end up on a zoomed in map screen of your location. After making sure the address is correct, click on the Blue Steering Wheel button near the address to calculate the route.
Once a route has been calculated, click the Let's go button at the top of the screen to begin navigation.;
,
On the menu screen, click on Current Route.
Click the first button on the screen that should say Clear Route.
 Click on it.
From here you have three choices: Home, Recent Destinations, and Marked Locations. Click on Home.
Click on the blue Search button.
Search for an address and click on the suggestion that comes up which is correct.
Set it by clicking on the home icon when the map is zoomed in to the location. You can then start navigation if need be.
 Click on it.
From here you have three choices: Home, Recent Destinations, and Marked Locations. Click on Recent Destinations.
Choose the recent destination that is suitable.
Click the Steering Wheel button and then the Let's Go button to navigate to the recent destination.
You can also click the Edit List button to delete your recent destinations.
 Click on it.
From here you have three choices: Home, Recent Destinations, and Marked Locations. Click on Marked Locations to see your saved locations.
To add a marked location, click the blue Add button to search for an address.
When you find the address you want, click it.
There will be an option that says Add to Marked Locations. This will save that address as a favorite. You can also rename the saved place.
Another method is to search for an address, and when you click on it, it will also have an option to add the address as a marked location.
 The reason is because it uses the data from the phone to access real time traffic situations from the Internet.
To do this, click on the button in the bottom right corner with the three dots, and then click Search for Phones. Make sure the Bluetooth on your phone is on. When the results come up, choose your phone.
To see the traffic in your area, go back to the map screen and lines with different colors will show up. Yellow means light traffic, orange means kind of bad traffic, red means very bad traffic.

Search for any restaurant name you want.
Minimize the keyboard to look at the suggestions on the right side of the screen.
It is also possible to search the restaurant name, followed by a city to search for a restaurant in a city.
Type in general searches, like "Fast Food", and all the fast food in the area will show up.
To show locations on the map, click on the icon with two circles to the right of the button with three lines.
 You can click on the icons to see the name and address of the gas station.
It is also possible to search a specific gas station, or simply type "Gas Stations" in the search bar, and suggestions will come up.
Click on the button with the three lines to show the POI's in list form.
 You can click on the icons to see the name and address of the parking lot.
It is also possible to search a specific parking lot , or simply type "Parking" in the search bar, and suggestions will come up.
Click on the button with the three lines to show the POI's in list form.
 It will be on the last page of the menu.
From here you can change the settings to however you see fit, including the appearance, voices, sounds, and languages.
 It will be on the last page of the menu.
Click on the System icon.
The last thing on the list is Reset. When you click on it, it will ask if you are sure that you want to reset the device. Click Reset and the device will reset.

