 First, preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). While that heats up, let your butter soften to room temperature, or dish 2 tablespoons into a bowl or cup that’s safe to microwave. Nuke it for ten-second bursts and check in between to see how much it has melted. Quit once it has mostly melted, but still retains some of its original shape.Butter that has been thoroughly melted to the point of boiling will melt your chocolate and cook your egg before baking. So make sure not to melt it too thoroughly.
As an alternative to making your own dough, you can also use pre-made store-bought dough. In that case, skip straight to Step 4.;
, Transfer your butter to a small mixing bowl. Stir in 3 tablespoons of light brown sugar, ⅛ teaspoon of salt, ¼ teaspoon of vanilla extract, ⅓ cup (36.33 g) of all-purpose flour, and ⅛ teaspoon baking soda. In a separate dish, crack and whisk an egg until the white and the yolk are evenly combined. Add 1 tablespoon of this to the dough, and then stir until your dough is evenly mixed.If desired, either use the leftover egg for other baking or cooking. If not using it immediately, seal it in an airtight container and use within the next 24 hours.
 First, measure ¼ cup (27.25 g) of chocolate chips, which equals 4 tablespoons. Separate 1 tablespoon of chips from the rest and set this aside for now. Add the remaining chips to the dough and stir them in until they are distributed as evenly as possible., Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, then transfer your dough. Sculpt it into a flat disk roughly 3.5 inches wide (9 cm). Sprinkle the tablespoon of chips that you set aside over the cookie., Place the baking sheet in the oven once it reaches 350 degrees F (177 degrees C). Set a timer for 12 to 14 minutes. Cooking time may vary depending on your oven, so check your cookie at 12 minutes. Remove once it turns golden.


You can enjoy your cookie now while it’s hot. If you’d rather cool it off, place it on a wire rack. Once it cools down, transfer it to an airtight container if you’re going to save it for later.
If you use pre-made dough from the store, refer to its baking instructions for temperatures and times.

