 Cat wears items like dark skinny jeans, dark blue jean shorts, spaghetti straps, floral tank tops, high waisted skirts and rompers. She also wears short sleeve blouses with ruffles. Cat wears high heels and flats on her feet. She also wears many short, floral, colorful printed dresses. Her clothes are nearly always bright and colorful, except when she's upset and she wears "sad colors".


If it's too cold where you live for shorts, then wear skinny jeans, a tank top underneath, and a cute neon sweater.;
, Be aware that this is an extreme hair color that doesn't look good on everybody!

If you do dye your hair red (with a semi-permanent dye), be aware that if your original color was blonde, your hair may fade into a gingery color.
Also, most 'temporary' dyes do not fade from your hair until approximately 1 year has passed.
You don't need to dye your hair to be like Cat. You can always just get a red wig, and comb and style it.
 Cat has very wide brown eyes. If you don't have brown eyes, brown contact lenses would be an option. You can get contact lenses that are non-prescription as well.
 Later on in the show her hair is is twisted at the sides and pinned up to the side and is curled at the bottom.
 She usually wears them on skirts with cute tank tops.
 Because she is 5'3 1/2, she often wears heels. Ariana Grande wears them often as Cat. If you're tall, opt for ballet flats.
 It doesn't look trashy, but not very natural either! Think natural-glam.


Apply a shimmery eyeshadow to your eyelids and then use eyeliner. Follow up with two coats of mascara or even fake lashes. Contour your cheekbones very subtly with just a tad of bronzer, use a little bit of blush, and then finish off with a natural-looking lip color.If you're doing your nails, Cat usually does bright colors, like pink, blue, green, or yellow.
 You can also wear costumes that you've designed yourself! Cat has been dressed in various episodes as Little Bo Peep, a superhero, her teacher and a spy.
 Cat is an awesome singer so practice songs like: Give It Up or her song from her audition from Helen Back Again called Cat's Broadway Song.
 Cat is mostly upbeat and a happy person.
 One of Cat's hobbies and talents is costume designing.
 Cat drops the line "What's that supposed to mean?!" when insulted.
 At random times, ask comments like she does such as "If it snowed and then it was sunny, wouldn't it make a snow-bow?".
 Cat loves everyone, no matter what! She makes friends easily.
 Cat's a huge flirt. In "Stuck in an RV" (Victorious episode), she boldly stuck up a conversation with a few "hot" guys at the beach and then hung out with them. Appear cute and confident. But also very happy.


When flirting, poke boys in the tummy and start giggling and smiling.
 Some of Cat's favorite foods are cupcakes, candies, noodles, and potatoes. Don't forget red velvet cupcakes/cake!!!

, Cat is open about her emotions. When people are happy to see you or are crowding around you for something good that you did, say something like "I feel so loved!"

, Cat is known for being a "lovable klutz".
 Make your voice slightly higher when you're happy.
 Befriend people who will do anything for you! Basically a true best friend.

Also, Cat has both guy and girl friends.
 Decorate it pink fluffy pillows, butterflies, flowers and adorable stuffed animals. Check out her bedroom on the slap!

, Take stuffed animals with you wherever you go. Kiss them on the top of the head or on their adorable noses!

, Bring cupcakes to school for no reason (or even just because it's "someone's birthday, somewhere"!), come up with after school plans as the bell rings, and remember to be free to speak your mind, differing with others' ideas of "normal".


Cat also stays quiet at times, but she'll freak out when needed.







