 If you cannot safely get to the hospital on your own, then you need to call for an ambulance to come get you.Aggravated assaults can break bones, cut skin, and cause heavy bruising or bleeding. You may find it difficult to get to the hospital on your own.


If you don’t have a cell phone on you, ask someone nearby to call for you.
If you have been attacked in an isolated place, try to find the nearest group of people and ask for help.
Remember that even if the assault does not cause physical harm, it is still an assault. It is still illegal.;
, If you are bleeding and a mess, you probably will have the urge to clean up before going to the hospital. However, important physical evidence like DNA, hairs, or fibers may be on your body. If you don’t know your attacker, this evidence could be critical to identifying him or her. Also, your attacker may deny the attack. In that situation, having physical evidence can help prove that the suspect attacked you.


If you have been sexually assaulted, do not shower. A shower will wash away most or all physical evidence of the assault. You should see a doctor before showering., You should tell whoever treats you exactly what happened. Try to remember as many details as you can while they are fresh in your mind. Medical personnel need to know what happened so that they can treat you properly.
 In order to heal properly, you will need to follow your doctor’s medical advice. Take prescribed medication for the full length of time, do any stretching or exercises that facilitate healing, and keep a pain journal.


In a pain journal, you write down how you are feeling and identify the places where you feel pain, its severity, and the duration. A pain journal can help a doctor treat your pain. It may also be helpful in a lawsuit to show pain and suffering.
If you do not think that the treatment is working, you should talk to your doctor. Don’t simply stop taking medication or doing exercises because you don’t think they are helping. If you want a second opinion, then seek one out.
 Assaults can be traumatic. You may feel a variety of intense emotions: shock, anger, fear, helplessness. Some assault victims have nightmares or urges to hunt down their attacker and strike back. Other emotional responses include embarrassment and feelings that they provoked the attack.


You can seek mental health counseling. To find counselors, you can contact your physician for a referral or call your local hospital. Mental health counseling is now included in many health insurance plans. Check your description of benefits for more information.You can also contact the National Center for Victims of Crime at 202-467-8700 or the National Organization for Victim Assistance at 1-800-879-6682.If you don’t feel comfortable talking to a stranger, then you can talk to friends or family members.Find someone you trust who is understanding and will listen to you.
 If people witnessed the assault, then you should try to take down their names and contact information. If you are too injured to get that information at the scene of the crime, then you can ask someone else to take down the information for you. Or, you can return to the scene of the crime when you are better and ask people if they saw the assault.
 As soon as possible, you should write down details of the attack while they are fresh in your mind. Try to remember what was said and what you did during the assault. The police will want this information, and it can be helpful to refresh your memory later, should you testify in court.


You can also document the assault by taking photographs of your body. If you suffered bruising, lacerations, broken bones, or missing teeth, then you should take color photographs. These photos can be useful later on, if you bring a civil lawsuit to recover damages.
 You can report the assault by visiting your nearest police department. Take your documentation of the assault with you.You can also call the police if that is more convenient. Tell the person who answers the phone that you want to file criminal charges and explain briefly why you can’t come into the station personally.
 After hearing your story, the police will file an assault report. To help with this task, the police will ask you to provide them with relevant information. For example, you may be asked for the following:your name and address
the attacker’s name and address
the place where the assault occurred
the date and time of the assault
the details of what happened

, If you don’t know your attacker’s identity, you will have to give a description to the police. Based on your information, the police will perform an investigation. If they identify a suspect, then you might have to pick him or her out of a lineup. Alternately, they could show you several photographs in a “photo lineup.”At the lineup, you will look at a group of people and pick out anyone who you think is the attacker. The police will caution you that the attacker may not be in the lineup and that you are not obligated to pick anyone.If you do pick someone, the officer will ask you how confident you are in your choice. Always be honest.
 If you are afraid that the offender will assault you again, then you can seek a protective order, commonly called a “restraining order.” These orders limit what an offender can do. For example, they may demand that an offender stay 500 feet away from you at all times and not contact you directly or through intermediaries.


If the offender violates the restraining order, then he or she can be arrested.
For more information on getting a protective order, see Obtain a Restraining Order In the United States.
 Assault is not only a crime, but it is also a civil wrong called a “tort.” You can bring a lawsuit to recover any damages caused by a tort. In a criminal case, the state is the prosecutor. In a civil suit, you act as the plaintiff, and you or your attorney prosecutes the case yourself.


The purpose of a civil suit is to compensate you for the damages the defendant caused. In a suit for assault and battery, you can recover damages for any medical treatment you received as well as for pain and suffering.However, if you did not sustain any injury, then bringing a lawsuit may not be worthwhile.
 You might want to meet with an attorney to discuss your lawsuit. An attorney can help advise you whether filing a civil suit is worth your time and also how to make a strong case. To find a qualified attorney, you can contact your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program.


If costs are a concern then you should consider alternative billing, such as a contingency fee arrangement. Under this arrangement, the lawyer will not charge you a fee unless you win your case. You may still be responsible for court costs and fees. An attorney will only take on the case if he or she thinks you have a strong case, so asking about a contingency fee arrangement is an effective way to find out if you have a strong enough case.
You also might want to look into “limited scope representation.” Under this arrangement, the lawyer will not take over the whole case. Instead, he or she will perform only whatever tasks you give them, such as filling out forms or offering advice. Not every state allows “limited scope representation (also called “unbundled legal services”), but most states do. It is a good way to keep down legal costs., You will initiate a civil lawsuit by filing a complaint. The complaint lays out the facts as you allege them surrounding the assault. It also asks the court for what compensation you want. If you have a lawyer, then the lawyer can draft the complaint.


If you don’t have a lawyer, then you will be responsible for creating the complaint. Check with your court clerk if there is a blank complaint form for you to use. Michigan’s “fill in the blank” complaint form is available at http://courts.mi.gov/Administration/SCAO/Forms/courtforms/generalcivil/mc01.pdf.
If your court does not have a “fill in the blank” form, then you will need to type up your own. Try to find an example online by searching “assault and battery complaint” and then your state. You can then use any sample complaint as a template as you create your own.
 You will need to file the complaint in the court for the county where the assault took place or where the defendant resides.Make multiple copies of the complaint and take them to the court clerk. Ask to file. The clerk should stamp all of your copies.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee, which will vary by court. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form and fill it out.
You will have to serve notice of the lawsuit on the defendant. Accordingly, you will send a copy of your complaint and a summons (which you can get from the clerk). The summons will tell the defendant the deadline for answering your complaint. You should ask the court clerk about acceptable methods of service.
 A typical civil lawsuit will involve an investigation phase (called “discovery”), possible settlement discussions, and then a trial. If you prevail, then the defendant may have the ability to appeal that decision.


For more information on how to represent yourself in court, see Represent Yourself in Court (U.S.).

