 Sure, they still loan out books, albeit with a few twists. For example, you'll find it's easier to get a copy of what you're looking for through better systems that allow for inter-library borrowing from libraries elsewhere, broadening the opportunities for locating all titles.


Moreover, many public libraries are now providing access to books in electronic form. You may not even have to visit the library (beyond an initial visit to join) but can sit back at home and search for electronic books, key in your library number and password and enjoy the materials on your laptop, iPad or eReader.
In the United States and some other jurisdictions, libraries are now tied in together, all the local county branches, as well as any community college or other libraries located in the county. Just do a title search on the library computer for any titles not physically there, put in an e-request, and magic library gnomes deliver your request to your branch in a couple of days. Genius.;
, The library is now a multimedia zone, brimful of information in as many formats as formats have been created. If you think it's all about books, you really haven't been to the library in ages. You can borrow movies on DVDs, music on CDs, most popular magazines and some libraries even loan out toys and games.


If the magazine you want isn't in stock, ask about the possibility of getting it in. If they're keeping a list of requests, it may happen once there are enough requests for it.
Ask about online subscriptions to newspapers. This will get you around the subscription payments for a number of newspapers online and still ensure you access to your preferred reads.
Online subscriptions can include journals, articles, newspapers, magazines, reports, booklets, eBooks, legislation, local ordinances or regulations, property information, templates or precedents for legal and other documents and more.
Another source of library information includes readers advisories – these are created by librarians who will recommend new books/authors for you based on what you tell them you enjoy reading. There will often be lists of subject areas that you can collect for free.
 It would be hard to find a library without a computer nowadays and most of them will provide some form of internet access, whether free or paid by time slots. You may need to use your library card for "time" on or simply purchase slots of time – ask the librarian for details.


Just be sure to heed the usual copyright rules and don't download anything that is illegal because that will just get your library into trouble and could lead to restricted or no internet access, which would be really sad.
As well as surfing online, you may be able to take online classes through the library. The library may even run its own online classes in certain subject areas – ask them. And if you're skilled in some area, maybe you can teach one to help other library visitors learn something new.
You can also access a local library system online now, from your home or smartphone, to check for availability of resources, and put them on hold, or to order titles from other libraries in that same system, and many other functions that might have previously required your physical presence at the library.
 Libraries will often hold reading group sessions targeted to the very young through to the senior citizen. In particular, you might find it really helpful to drop off a toddler for a half hour reading group while you sit quietly in a corner with a good book or perhaps you're wanting to learn a language or improve your English (ESL, English as a Second Language) and there are language groups happening that you could join.


If you have difficulties reading or you're blind, ask about special reading opportunities for dyslexia, adult reading learners and braille as your library might be able to accommodate them.
As well as reading groups, libraries often offer other groups including craft, art, bookmaking, computer classes, open source and wiki discussions, learning about other cultures, foods, etc., environmental awareness, games and more.
 The library is a place where you can amble along at your own pace and read in a quiet corner or study amid a busy hub of students.


The library is like a place of refuge whatever stage your life is at – it's a place to learn about anything at all whether you're going through a transition, finding a job, learning specific subjects, wanting to understand about your body and health, looking for new recipes and ways to keep house, getting DIY answers, learning about pets, discovering volunteer opportunities abroad, sinking into fiction, flipping through the latest fashions, and so forth.
The beauty of the library is that it can always help to open up your world and opportunities by providing you access to information that is quality, varied and comes with a friendly helper in the form of the librarian.
Ask about lunchtime or other seminars held or hosted by the library. Many libraries invite speakers and authors to come and talk about a topic they know well and it's usually for free. This can be a great way to catch up on the latest information about things that interest you.
While the internet provides ample opportunities for exploration and retrieval of information, much of what is online is of dubious origin and accuracy. The library is the place where you can find a guide to your internet searches, including help on how to search online more effectively and finding ways to cut through the inexpert online advice to pinpoint which information online is trustworthy – it's as easy as asking your librarian to help.
 Children who grow up loving books, information and all the other things a library has to offer are children who will be reassured that they can find answers to the questions they have through life by researching it for themselves.


The sooner they feel comfortable searching for and absorbing information, the more likely they will be to embrace lifelong learning and the benefits that this assures them for a solid future. And be sure to let them see you enjoying the library too – that will impact them positively.
See How to teach your young child about the library and How to raise a child who loves to read for more ideas.
 If you're out of work or you're an already keen entrepreneur, your local library can become a launch space for your own business.


You can find information on starting a small business or running a business in your library in the form of books and online information, plus many libraries will help you with locally supplied information about business management shared through chambers of commerce, business bureaus and government entities.
Some libraries will hold courses on small business matters, too; and some libraries may even be able to rent out office space by the hour if you need somewhere to meet new clients. Ask your local librarian to find out what's available to you.
Many libraries will offer printing, faxing and database services that can be helpful to a person just starting up a new business.
 If there are volunteer opportunities available and you're interested in library work, teaching or the sharing of information resources, a volunteer role might be just the thing you're looking for to become involved in library or information work.


Find out what opportunities are available and if there aren't any, perhaps suggest some, such as teaching library clients how to start a wiki or how to write an eBook.

