 If you are looking for training programs, vet them well according to the percentage of trainees that are placed.;
, Hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and other establishments regularly take volunteers in both clinical and administrative capacities. If you want to work in an office, this is the best way to make connections that can pay off when an opening for a MT appears.


Use this volunteer position in your resume. A history with successful medical administration will show that you have some experience in the industry.
 These are available through most MT programs. Most job postings look for people with at least 2 years of medical transcription experience, so this work will help you to qualify for jobs more quickly.
 The quality of your resume and the way you present your experience will have a large bearing on the job offers you receive. The following are good guidelines for resume preparation:


Tailor each resume to the job you are applying for. Each job will have a different set of qualifications. You must respond to the qualifications in your resume and cover letter.
Use keywords that are listed on the company website and job posting in your resume. This will show you reflect the experience they are looking for, and it will show that you have interest in the job.
Use action verbs. Make sure each reference to your experience begins with an action verb. Good examples of action verbs include: evaluated, edited, increased, produced, achieved, created, corrected, developed, expedited, fixed, gathered, imported, led, launched, performed, oversaw, taught and refined.
Use a functional resume rather than a chronological resume if you don't have very much experience. Create headers that are separated by skills or qualifications, as listed in the job posting. Detail your experience under each heading.
Focus on your accomplishments as well as your skills. Many people focus too much on their qualifications and never talk about their value. Use facts and figures whenever possible. For example, statements such as "Increased productivity by 20 percent," or "Earned promotion after 3 months," or "Awarded Employee of the Month prize in August 2011."

, Since these are national sites, there is a lot of competition for each listed position. Sign up for daily alerts so that you can submit your resume and cover letter immediately.


If you are looking for work from home, filter your results by "telecommute" rather than location.
 Many organizations specialize in providing MT services. Instead of looking for postings on job sites, go directly to the MT companies and submit your resume and cover letter for future openings.


Get certified! Once you graduate, take the Registered Medical Transcriptionist (RMT) exam. The RMT exam is given by the Association for Healthcare Documentation Integrity (AHDI) and would be another great credential to add to your resume.
The Website Worldwide Work at Home has a list of medical transcriptionist companies. Visit http://www.worldwideworkathome.com/medicaltranscription.html to begin submitting resumes.
 Hospitals are the largest employers of medical transcriptionists. Submit a business card or resume to each hospital's hiring department. Attend hospital functions to network with people who work there.
 A paying member of this organization will get access to training and job postings. It will add credibility to your resume as well.


Try to find an AHDI chapter in your area. Although AHDI is a national organization, there are many local and regional chapters. Networking with members can allow you to open up job possibilities. People who are currently employed can recommend you for a job.
Other professional organizations include the Medical Transcription Industry Association (MTIA), American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) and the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS). Research these societies to see which chapters offer the best job search options in your area.
 Similar to a recruiter, these people work to place MT in jobs according to their experience. Contact CQI Placement Service and MT Connection Placement to start the process.
 Since medical transcription is commonly done from home, you should look for words like "freelance," "contract" and "telecommute" in job listings.

