 To get all craftable wings, you need to get Souls of Flight. Start by getting up to a Sky bridge or Floating Island.;
, They look like long, serpentine dragons. Kill it to get Souls of Flight. The maximum number you'll need is 20.
 You can do this by either continuously slaying enemies in the Harmode Crimson/Corruption. Combine 20 Souls of Flight, 25 Souls of Night, and 10 feathers (dropped by Harpies) at a Mythril Anvil to get Demon wings.

An alternative method to find Souls of Night is to kill the Eater of Worlds continuously.
 Kill all Illuminant enemies until you have 25 Souls of Light. Combine 20 Souls of Flight, the Souls of Light, and 10 Feathers at a Mythril Anvil to get Angel Wings., Combine 20 Souls of Flight and 10 feathers to get sparkly wings.

This only applies to the Mobile/Console Version of Terraria. The Dryad sells Sparkly wings for 40 Gold on the night of a Blood Moon.
 Take on his quests, and he'll reward you with the Fin wings eventually., During the Waxing Moon phase, you can purchase the Jetpack for 40 Gold., Eventually, they drop the Tattered Bee wing. Combine this at a Mythril Anvil with 20 Souls of Flight to get the Bee wings., Although they're rare, Moths have a 50% chance of dropping Butterfly Dust. Combine this with 20 Souls of Flight to get the Butterfly wings., They drop 1-5 Pixie Dust. Get 100 Pixie Dust and combine it with 20 Souls of Flight to get Fairy wings., They have a 1 in 200 chance of dropping the Giant Harpy Feather. Combine one with 20 Souls of Flight to obtain Harpy wings., Kill Armored Bones until they drop the Bone Feather. Combine the Bone Feather with 20 Souls of Flight to get Bone wings., Vampires drop the Broken Bat Wing, which is combined with Souls of Flight to make Bat wings., Move him to a Jungle Biome and purchase the Leaf wings from him for 1 Platinum., Find Snow Golems and hunt them until they drop an Ice Feather. Combine it with 20 Souls of Flight to get the Frozen wings., Kill Red Devils until you get a Fire Feather. Combine it with 20 Souls of Flight to get Flaming wings., Kill 100 HP enemies until a Dungeon Spirit spawns. Kill them until you have 10 Ectoplasm, a 100% chance drop from them. Use a Mythril Anvil with 20 Souls of Flight to get Ghost wings., One of his drops is the Beetle Husk, which you need 8 of. Combine it with 20 Souls of Flight to get Beetle wings., Defeat the Everscream boss. One of its drops is the Festive wings., After Plantera has been defeated in that world, the Truffle sells the Autohammer, which is solely used to craft Shroomite Bars. One takes 10 Chlorophyte Bar and 15 Glowing Mushrooms, and you need 18 bars, so in all you need 18 Chlorophyte Bars and 270 Glowing Mushrooms. Combine these with 20 Souls of Flight to get the Hoverboard., Beat Mourning Wood until you get a Spooky Twig. Combine it with 20 Souls of Flight to get the spooky wings., Defeat the Pumpkin pking boss until you get Black Fairy Dust. Combine it with Souls of Flight to get the tattered fairy wings., He has a 1 in 15 chance of dropping the Fishron wings., He spawns at the entrance of the dungeon once Golem is defeated. Destroy either the Stardust, Vortex, Nebula, or Solar pillars to get at least 14 fragments. Combine them with 10 Luminite Bars at an Ancient Manipulator to get the Vortex Booster, Stardust Wings, Nebula Mantle, or Solar Wings. Solar Wings are currently the strongest wings in Terraria.

This only applies to the PC Version of Terraria.
 A large creature named Mothron will rarely spawn and will drop the Mothron Wings.

This only applies to the PC Version of Terraria.
 They should drop a Treasure Bag. Rarely, developer reserved wings (such as Will's Wings, Yoraiz0r's Spell, and Skiphs's Paws) can be given. They no longer kill players.

This only applies to the PC Version of Terraria.

