 In water, ammonia acts as a proton acceptor, or Lewis base. This means that it readily takes a hydrogen molecule from the water to form NH3+. This forms OH molecules, and raises the pH of the solution.The high solubility of ammonia can be shown experimentally by turning a tube of gaseous ammonia upside-down in water. As the ammonia dissolves into the water, the water level will rise in the tube., Ammonia is stable under most conditions. It can tolerate being exposed to light or heat. Though ammonia is caustic, it will not corrode mild or stainless steel or glass, but it will damage galvanized steel, copper, zinc, and some other metals.Ammonia can form explosive compounds with some metals. Silver and mercury should not be exposed to ammonia for this reason.
 Ammonia readily reacts with acids to form salts. This includes strong acids, weak acids, and Lewis acids (proton donors). Because of its ability to react with acids, ammonia does not allow strongly acidic solutions. It does, however, dissolve some bases to create strongly basic solutions.Ammonium sulfate can be readily made in a lab. Mix sulfuric acid and ammonia together, boil gently, and pour into an evaporating dish. As the water evaporates, ammonium sulfate crystals will precipitate onto the evaporating dish.Sulfuric acid is highly corrosive. Wear goggles, gloves, and protective clothing. Do not inhale sulfuric acid or ammonia fumes.
 Ammonia reacts to halogens very violently.This results in a type of reaction called ammonolysis. In these reactions, at least one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by another type of atom. Though ammonolysis is very common between ammonia and halogens, it isn’t limited to halogens. Other compounds can replace a hydrogen as well.You can observe a safe version of this by soaking a cotton wad in ammonia and a second cotton wad in hydrogen chloride. Put the wads in opposite ends of a glass tube, and for a ring of white powder to appear. This powder is ammonium chloride., Oxidation-reduction (or redox) reactions also occur with ammonia. Most notably, ammonia will burn in the presence of oxygen gas to produce H2O and N2 (nitrogen gas). Ammonia can also be used to reduce the oxidation of hot metals, such as cupric oxide, to a non (or less) oxidized state.To demonstrate ammonia’s potential for redox reactions, you can ignite a ammonium dichromate(VI) and watch the reaction. Be careful to do this in a fume hood, on a heat proof surface.