 Some shrubs will respond more favorably than others to being transplanted. Find out about the chances of success in relation to the actual shrub you're contemplating moving.


Older shrubs in obvious decline should not be transplanted––it's highly unlikely that they'll survive. The shrub should be in good health and growing well.
Check for "transplantability" of the shrub––use online and book resources.;
, You'll need to get this ready before shifting the shrub. Dig the hole twice as wide as the root ball and as deep. Leave the soil to one side; the hole needs to be clear for adding the root ball.
 Using a sharp spade, dig a circular trench around the shrub in its existing position, about 30cm/12" deep––larger shrubs may need to be twice as deep. This will create a perimeter that includes what is going be the root ball of the existing shrub.


Clean the spade before digging, to avoid transferring any germs.
 The tool that you'll use to cut the roots will depend on the strength and size of the roots. Smaller roots can probably be severed using a spade or secateurs; for bigger, thicker roots, chop with an ax. Keep as much of the roots on as will form as root ball of about 60-90cm (23-35 inches) diameter.
 It helps to rock it gently to free it from the roots left behind after cutting. Once it is lifted a little, slip a piece of black garden plastic or a piece of burlap under the root ball. This will help you to lift the root ball out completely and either carry or drag it to its new hole.


At this stage, get help with lifting if the shrub is too heavy to lift alone.
 This is available from a garden center or nursery. Follow the instructions on the root-rot package.
 Slide it carefully off the black plastic or burlap and gently into the new hole. Using the soil piled up next to the new hole, backfill around the root ball. Only fill to the same height as where the shrub sat before––avoid filling over the shrub's stem or leaves.
 Finish with a decent layer of mulch to maintain moisture. Don't touch the stem with the mulch though––keep a clear space.
 However, don't over-water––simply ensure that the soil does not dry out. And keep an eye on the shrub's progress in general. When you see new growth appearing in spring, the shrub can finally be fertilized.

