 The Arizona Department of Real Estate will only investigate complaints for alleged violations of Arizona statutes, real estate law, or rules of the Real Estate Commissioner. To determine if your issue reaches this level, you may wish to consult with an attorney.You can review the Arizona real estate laws and rules at the Arizona Real Estate Law Book. This is located on the website of the Arizona Department of Real Estate at http://www.azre.gov/LawBook/LawBook.aspx.
Typical issues that the ADRE will investigate are those things that are illegal under state law. These include using fraudulent or intentionally misleading advertising, failing to disclose required information, creating illegal subdivisions, or taking actions that exceed the realtor's license.The ADRE will not investigate, for example, alleged ethical violations, which are within the jurisdiction of the Arizona Association of Realtors.
 To initiate a complaint, you may use the ADRE Investigation Request/Complaint form. This form is available at http://www.azre.gov/Inv/Forms/Form_INV-800_Request_For_Investigation.pdf. The form will request certain information. In addition to completing the form, you should provide the following information:Your full name, address and additional contact information.
The full name, address and contact information for the subject of the complaint (the realtor, generally).
The time and place of the incident (or multiple incidents) that resulted in your complaint.
The specific conduct that you believe was illegal or in violation of some real estate rules. Include direct references to Arizona statutes or real estate rules.
The names and contact information of any witnesses.
 In addition providing the information noted above, you should write a statement, in your own words, describing what happened and why you believe it was illegal. This statement should be clear and concise. Focus on the facts of what happened, and do not become emotional. Try to be as objective as possible. If some piece of evidence (a contract, for example) would support your points, you should refer to that item.When you finish drafting your narrative statement, you should have someone read it for you. Ideally, you should get someone who is not familiar with your complaint, to see if what you say is fully understandable.
 You should make copies of any contracts, correspondence, emails, closing documents, or anything else that was part of the real estate transaction. Even if you think a particular item may not be directly relevant to your specific complaint, you should include it. This way, the ADRE will be able to form a complete understanding of the transaction., Send an original and one copy of the completed form, along with your narrative statement and all evidence, to Arizona Department of Real Estate, Investigations Division, 2910 N. 44th Street, Suite 100, Phoenix, AZ 85018., After you submit your complaint, ADRE staff members will review it. If it is incomplete, they may return it to you for more information. Otherwise, they will review it and will prioritize it according to the severity of the issue that you raise. When your case is investigated, the ADRE will share your complaint with the broker for any response. The ADRE will then take whatever action it believes is appropriate. The responsive action may include any of the following:Formal Letter of Concern to the broker.
Negotiate a settlement between you and the broker.
Issue a civil penalty as required by law. This could be a fine or suspension, depending on the particular infraction.
Order rescission of the transaction. Under the right circumstances, the ADRE does have the authority to rescind or cancel a completed real estate transaction.
Refer the case to the Attorney General for further hearing or criminal investigation.
Suspension, revocation or surrender of the broker’s license.

