 To start this treatment, fill a medium sized pot full of water and let it come to a rolling boil. Carefully, remove this water from heat and pour it into a bowl, filling it about 3/4 the way up. To this mixture, add five drops of one of the antiseptic essential oils, such as tea tree, lavender, frankincense, rosemary, or oregano oil. Stir it in.


If you don't have any oil on hand, you can add 1 teaspoon of dried oregano, lavender, or rosemary., Once the water has cooled a bit but it still steaming, grab a towel and sit in front of the table where you placed the bowl. Lean your face over the bowl, staying a foot to a foot and a half away from the bowl, and place the towel over your head and the bowl.


This creates an enclosed area for the steam to collect around your face. This will help open up your pores and the oils will treat your skin.
Make sure you stay far enough back from the steam. You don't want to burn your face. , Stay under the towel in the steam for 10 minutes. After this, wet a soft wash cloth with cool water and cover your face for 30 seconds. After this, return to the steam treatment. Repeat this three times, ending on the cool cloth treatment.


Transitioning between hot and cold helps contract and expand your pores, which will help tone your skin and improve circulation.
As you go between hot and cold, the water will get cooler. You may need to move closer to the water as the water cool. Always stay at a distance that is comfortable for your skin that won't burn it., Astringents are liquids you put on your skin that can draw together your facial tissues, help dry your skin, and help reduce inflammation. There are a number of herbs, teas, and other liquids that act as astringents when applied to your face. Use a cotton ball or Q-tip soaked with the astringent to apply it directly to your pimple.


Some good astringent options include teas, such as black, green, chamomile, sage, and yarrow, undiluted lemon juice, and essential oils, such as boswellia, tea tree, sage, juniper, grapeseed, rose, oak bark, lemon, lime, orange, and willow bark, and apple cider vinegar.Don't over use this method because these astringents have intense drying power. If you use them too much, you can increase the possibility of more pimples and even skin damage.
 Once you have cleaned and use astringent, you need to protect your skin by using a moisturizer. You can use one of the non-comedogenic primary oils by itself as a moisturizer. You can also use a store bought non-comedogenic moisturizer.


Common brands that are non-comedogenic include Neutrogena, Olay, and Cetaphil. Always check the label to see if it is non-comedogenic.Repeat the steam method every three to four days.

