 You may think it’s difficult to use a bedspring. However, you can easily convert a bedspring into a piece of art to hang in any room. You can also make a memo board to remind yourself of tasks to finish.Cut a piece of plywood to fit around the bedspring. Nail or screw the plywood and bedspring together. Cover the unit with a fabric of your choice.
Use clothespins, hangers, or strings to hang pictures, cards, notes, lists, or other items you want to display.
 Chances are that you have things around the house that may require better organization. These may include fabrics, clothing, or jewelry. You may even want to let everyone in your home know what their chores are. Converting the slatted rails of your crib is a cheap and easy way to repurpose it.Paint the rails any color you like. Make sure to use non-toxic paint.
Nail hangers and clipboards or place “S” hooks on the rails so they are secure on the organizer.
Hang or secure the organizer by drilling through the pre-made holes with long screws.
 A crib frame presents an excellent opportunity to construct a new table or seating. Remove one long side of the crib and add a stable surface. You can then decorate the unit as a desk, play table, or organization center. Add a mattress for some comfortable seating.Take off either the front or back rail of the crib. These are the long sides of the crib. Secure a stable wood surface to the rails. Paint the table or decorate it another way you like.
Keep the bedspring and add a mattress if you want to use the frame as a bench., If you have a nice crib that you would like to continue using, consider converting it to a toddler bed. Some cribs are designed to easily convert to a toddler bed, while others require the simple installation of a universal guardrail. Checking assembly instructions for your specific crib can help you figure out which type of conversion is necessary.Find any packaging instructions that you have for your crib. This will let you know if it already has a build-in conversion feature. If you can’t find instructions for your crib at home, you often can find them online. Companies such as Graco, Bellini, DaVinci Baby, and Child Craft provide downloadable manuals online.Buy a conversion kit for your crib at retailers such as Pottery Barn Kids, Walmart, Target, or even your local hardware store. Many of these companies also offer online videos to further assist you in the conversion.Read the instructions or watch related videos carefully before you begin the crib conversion. Follow the directions from your instruction manual or conversion kit to ensure that your toddler’s new bed is safe.
 The side rail of a crib is generally the size of a full-sized bed headboard. If you have an old crib that doesn’t meet safety guidelines or a newer crib that you no longer need, you can use the side rail to create a headboard for a full-sized adult bed.Purchase posts from a home improvement or hardware store. You’ll connect these to your side rail for stability. Consider getting posts that not only match your side rail, but that are already sanded.
Sand the side rail and then paint it and the posts in a color you like. Let the paint dry and then join the side rail to the posts with dowels. Glue the parts together, clamp them, and let dry for 24 hours.
 If you’d like to display your beautiful old crib or even need some extra space, you can also use a crib for storage. You can repaint the crib to match new décor or simply leave it in the room. Some items you may want to store in your crib include:


Blankets or sheets
Linens such as towels
Stuffed animals
Clothing

, Your family members may love to play and laze on the floor. You may even have animals that could use a comfy bed. You can use your old crib mattress to create a plush seat or “bed” for your office, a playroom, or in a space for your pets.Make sure the mattress is in good condition without any stains, tears or strange smells. Older mattresses may contain mold or mildew that can harm humans and pets.
Place the mattress onto a wooden frame for something more structured. You can also simply place it on the floor. Consider adding wheels if you’d like to move the plush bed around the house.
Add a soft cover sheet and any blankets your family members or pets like. Consider putting a little canopy over the mattress to make a cozy nook for reading or sleeping.

