 It could be that the person you want to avoid is actually very nice, but they have a particular habit that rubs you the wrong way. Manage your interactions with this particular person to keep the annoying habit at bay.


If it is the other person’s hygiene habits (a bad smell, picking teeth, etc) that make them seem strange, stand farther away when talking to them or keep conversations to a minimum. In the case of a bad smell, wear loose clothing to pull over your nose (discreetly) so that you won’t be distracted by it.
Try changing the conversation if he/she consistently brings up a subject you are uncomfortable with.
Interact with this person only if there are others around so that you won’t be stuck with the other person by yourself and you can make an easy escape.
Set parameters for your interactions. If you notice the behavior only emerges at certain times (for example, boasting after taking an exam) or around certain people, avoid that person at those times.
 For some people, avoidant (nonsocial) behavior won’t work. You will need to be more obvious in your intentions. Don't be afraid to be direct; this might be the only way to let the other person know that you are uncomfortable.


If someone you don't want to talk to insists on approaching you, it's fine to make an excuse and leave.
If you want to be more direct, tell them, "I'm sorry, I don't want to talk right now."

, If all else fails, walk away. You do not have to stay in a situation that makes you uncomfortable. Even though it might feel rude at the time, if someone keeps pestering you in a way you don't like, it's best to leave.


This is especially true if the person is a complete stranger. Walk in the other direction to disengage.
If it's someone you know, you can use an excuse to slip away, or just start walking.
 If the strange behavior crosses a line, ask advice from a trusted friend. They might be able to shed some light on the situation. You can also go to an authority for help if the person continues to bother you.


If a strange person's behavior constitutes harassment, speak to a teacher or supervisor to discuss what actions to take.
If you feel you are in physical danger, seek help from law enforcement.

