 The tight, evenly-packed crystalline structure of diamonds makes them disperse heat quickly; thus, real diamonds will not heat up easily. Heat probe tests take about 30 seconds and are often done free of charge. It also doesn't hurt the stone the way some other ways of testing will.


Heat testing works for the same reasons that the DIY "shatter" test works. Instead of measuring whether the gem breaks under the pressure of rapid contraction, however, heat probes measure how long the diamond retains temperature.
 Many jewelers keep specialized devices that distinguish diamond from moissanite and can quickly indicate if a stone is a true diamond or a simulant.A traditional heat probe test will not be able to tell the difference between moissanite and a real diamond. Ensure that the test is being conducted with an electrical conductivity tester and not a thermal tester.
If you are testing a lot of diamonds at home, combination testers can be purchased online or at diamond specialty shops.
 Place the diamond under a microscope with the top facet dace down. Gently rock the diamond back and forth with tweezers. If you see a slight orange flash along the facets, the diamond may actually be Cubic Zirconia. It may also indicate that Cubic Zirconia was used to fill imperfections within the diamond.


To get the best view of the diamond use a 1200x power microscope.
 Diamonds can be distinguished by very fine differences in weight, since cubic zirconia weighs approximately 55% more than diamonds for the same shape and size.A very sensitive scale capable of measuring down to the carat or grain level is necessary to do this comparison.


The only way to accurately perform this test is by having a known real diamond of roughly the same size and shape. Without something to compare it against, you will have difficulty determining if the the weight is off.
 Many (but not all) diamonds will exhibit blue fluorescence under an ultra violet or black light, so the presence of a medium to strong blue confirms that it is real. The absence of blue, however, does not mean a stone is necessarily fake; some diamonds do not fluoresce under UV light.Very slight green, yellow, or gray fluorescence under ultraviolet light may indicate that the stone is moissanite.Though a UV test can help you narrow down your choice of possibilities, if possible, try to avoid relying on the results of this test as definitive indicators of whether or not a diamond is real. As noted above, some diamonds fluoresce under UV light and others do not. It's also possible for fake diamonds to be "doped" — treated so that they glow under UV light when they otherwise would not., Diamonds have a radiolucent molecular structure, which means that they don't appear in x-ray images. Glass, cubic zirconium and crystals all have slightly radiopaque qualities that make them show up clearly on an x-ray.


If you want to get your diamond x-ray tested, you will either need to submit it to a professional diamond testing lab, or make a deal with your local x-ray imaging center.

