 Depending on whether or not you belong to a specific congregation, you may need to find a church in which to arrange the ceremony.You may also want to host the baptism in a different, grander church than your usual congregation and can visit different locations to help you narrow down your choices.Visit possible locations or congregations where you might want to hold the baptism.
Consider factors such as how the congregation’s style and beliefs fit in with yours, as well as if the size can accommodate the number of people you want to attend.Find a church at least a few months in advance so you can get to know the congregation and it can get to know you.;
, Once you’ve located at least one possible church in which to hold the baptism, schedule a meeting with the priest or minister. She can give you a better idea of any requirements the church may have for baptism or other traditions the congregation celebrates for baptisms.Make a list of any expectations and wishes you have for the baptism. Discuss these with the clergy to see if they are possible at the church.
Ask any questions you may have that arise from the conversation. You may want to ask about any expectation the church has of you or the person being baptized, such as attendance in or helping with services.Ask if there are any classes, examinations, or training you require before you can be baptized. For example, the Catholic Church requires education in the Catholic faith before being baptized as an adult., After successfully deciding on your baptism venue, schedule the baptism with the church and clergy member who you would like to perform the ceremony. Consider special dates such as Easter or Christmas for the baptism, which may make the event more special or could make it easier for out of town guests to attend.Schedule the date at least four weeks in advance.Suggest several different dates to help ensure you get the church and clergy member you want for the baptism.Coordinate dates with loved ones if you absolutely want them to attend, especially godparents or sponsors.
 Some churches require that you choose godparents or sponsors for a baptism, or you may just want to have them to help guide the person being baptized.Choose a godfather and godmother or sponsor from among your family, friends, or other loved ones.In most cases, godparents provide spiritual support and nurturing to a child, while a sponsor can guide a child or an adult being baptized. However, in the Catholic Church, adults can also have one or two godparents.Many churches will require that a godparent or sponsor be baptized and active members of a church.Consider factors such as your relationships to the godparents or sponsors and their potential commitment to guiding the person in the faith or even being there if something should happen to the parents.Make several possible godparent or sponsor choices in case your first choice declines.
Ask the prospective godparents or sponsors if they are willing to act in this capacity. Respect the person’s decision if she chooses to not be a godparent or sponsor.
 You’ll likely want people to attend the ceremony and a celebration afterward. Make a list of definitive and possible guests who you would like to share in the baptism.Discuss the list with your spouse, the godparents, or anyone else taking part in the ceremony.Decide how many people you want to attend, including if it is adult-only or something for children as well.For example, if you decide to include children, you may want child supervisors or activities to keep them busy.
Make sure the number of guests you want to invite can fit into the church and any party venue., Depending on the formality of the baptism, you may want to send out invitations or simply inform guests of the event. Make sure to send out the invitations or information at least three to four weeks in advance of the baptism to ensure that people can put it on or rearrange their schedules.Include RSVP cards so you can get a head count on the ceremony and for any celebration you are hosting, especially if you are serving food.Inform guests of any gift policy you may have. For example, you can write “no gifts, please” on the invitation if you just want people to enjoy the ceremony and celebration.Let your guests know if children may attend and if you’ve included supervisors or activities for young guests.
 Baptisms can be a special time to honor family and faith traditions. Incorporate any elements you may want into the ceremony to help make it more personalized and special.You may want to choose a special christening gown or say a specific prayer.
Discuss incorporating the traditions with your clergy member, who can help you plan where best to use them.
 Depending on the size and formality of the baptism, you may want to hire a photographer, a caterer, or even transportation. These elements may help the day run more smoothly and be more enjoyable for you.Confirm with the church that photos are allowed within it.
Meet with a photographer if you want professional photos. You can also ask a friend or family member to take pictures of the day.
 A few days before the baptism, call the church and any other venues to confirm details and any numbers. This can ensure that everything is ready and in place on baptism day.


Have contingency plans if anything should fall through such as the church or clergy member.
 You may want to host a reception or meal following the baptism to celebrate the day. The church may have facilities or you can book a different venue to celebrate.Consider factors such as how many guests you’re inviting as well as the audience, especially if children are attending. The venue should be able to comfortably accommodate every person.
Find a location near the church so that you and your guests, including the clergy member, can easily and quickly attend the celebration.
 Decide on what type of food and beverage you’d like serve at the celebration. Keep the menu compatible with the formality of the baptism service and age of the baptized person as possible.


Decide on specific foods and if you want to have a buffet or sit-down meal. You may want to consider serving something like lamb, which many Christians associate with Jesus. If children are attending, you may want a mix of adult- and child-friendly foods.
Make sure to have options for children if any are attending. Chicken fingers, burgers, and fries are good options for kids.
Decide if you want to include alcohol in the day’s events or you prefer to keep it an alcohol-free party.
Meet with the restaurant or venue staff, or caterers. Staff members may be able to help you find the best options for the type of celebration you want.
You may want to hire a separate baker to make a special celebratory cake.
Give guests different options for food such as vegetarian, meat, or fish selections.
 You may want to offer your guests transportation between the church and party venue. This can help keep the group together and avoid people getting lost.


Meet with local transportation companies and ask about buses or limousines. Local schools may also be available to hire.
Ask guests to ride with one another or designate certain guests to drive others.
 If your child is being baptized or you’re an adult including children in your baptism, make accommodations for them. You’ll need food that children can eat and may want to come up with some fun activities for them to do doing the service or meal.


Ask the church if you can hire someone to look after children in their nursery.
Speak with the caterer or restaurant about offering foods that children will eat.
Find age appropriate games and activities for your child guests. For example, you could have a treasure hunt or board games and set them up on a table for your guests.
Consider hiring a separate supervisor or babysitter for child guests. This can allow everyone to enjoy the service and celebration without worrying about children causing trouble.
 No matter if you are staying at the church, going home, or meeting at a restaurant, add some embellishments to the venue. Anything from flowers to small trinkets or even party favors can make the day feel more special and help you and your guests remember it.Meet with a florist and discuss options. You may want to have elaborate arrangements or keep it simple. Make sure to ask the church and venue if and what type of decorations they allow.
Buy decorations at party supply stores. You can often find religious-themed murals or trinkets that can help jazz up a table.
Give your guests a favor by which to remember the day. Magnets or a small box of candies with the date are options you may want to consider., At the same time you confirm details for the baptism ceremony, finalize and confirm details with your venues and any distributors such as caterers or transport services. This can help ensure that you don’t encounter any last minute or unexpected glitches or cancellations.


Have a list of venues, caterers, bakers, or transportation services on hand in case of an emergency.
Ask friends or family members to help you out if you need it.

