 It is always nice to help people, but women, especially, tend to be extra sympathetic. Killers often prey on these sympathies to incite women to drop their guard. If someone tries to stop you for any reason—whether they need your help or are claiming to be helping you out of the goodness of their hearts—don’t automatically assume their intentions are sincere.Say “no” if someone unknown asks for your help getting to/into his or her vehicle. Whether they are limping with a cane, carrying too many packages, or whatever the reason is, if it sounds fishy, decline to help.
Avoid giving directions to unknown people in isolated areas. If they really need directions, they will drive to the nearest service station or call someone on their cell phone.
 If someone approaching you gives you the creeps, do not engage them in any way. Anyone in your surrounding area that makes you feel uncomfortable should be avoided. If you are entering into a situation that feels like it might go horribly wrong, get out of it immediately.


Be wary of getting into an elevator with a suspicious person, male or female. Wait for the next one and risk being considered rude.If a car parked next to yours looks suspicious, like a panel van, go back inside and ask someone to escort you to your car.Someone with a long story with lots of details describing how and why they need your help is likely making their story up. There is nothing wrong with saying, “No, sorry, I can’t help you.”, If someone approaches your door as a service person you were not expecting, call the company and verify before opening the door. Anyone claiming to need assistance can wait until a police patrol car arrives to help them., Make your social network profiles private and never post where you are or where you will be at any specific time. If you participate in online dating, don’t give out your home or work address without having met the person a few times.


Always schedule dates (whether romantic or “friend-dates”) with new acquaintances in well-populated public areas.

