 This mixture is the first half of what will be used to leaven the bread. If you took the yeast from a yeast packet, be sure to save the rest for the second batch of leavening ingredients.






;
, By putting the yeasty mixture into the refrigerator, you slow down the fermentation process. This gives the dough extra time to absorb some of the gasses let off by the yeast (yielding a softer dough later on) and gives the bread an aged flavor. (You may think that "aged" doesn't sound good for bread, but it is.) Moreover, the extra time and hydration help to form the gluten strands that are so very important for bread dough.









To leaven, yeast needs to reproduce quickly (to produce the gasses inside the bread); for the best flavor/texture, however, it needs to reproduce slowly. By making half of the pre-ferment in a cool place, you can get the best of both worlds.
 This is the fast stage two of the fermentation process.









If you plan to knead the dough with an electric mixer, add this mix to a mixing container.
 If you’re using the mixer, knead on low for 2 to 3 minutes using the dough hook attachment.
, The dough should be sticky, but not so sticky that you can't handle it. With a mixer, this should take 5 to 10 minutes on medium speed.









The thin sheet of dough is also known as the “bakers window.” This lets you know if the gluten is properly dispersed.
 A glass baking dish works well.









The hot water will do two things: warm the dough to let it rise faster and it keep the air inside the oven moist, preventing the dough from forming a dry skin on top.
 Allow to rise until doubled in size, approximately 1 to 2 hours.
 (This would be a good time to fold in any additions you may want, such as nuts or herbs.) Be sure to knead it using the proper technique:









Place it on a counter top or other working space.
Lightly dust your hands with flour, then press the dough out with your knuckles. Don’t squash or flatten it; simply spread it comfortably outwards.
First fold one side of the dough inwards toward the middle of the mass, then fold the other, (as if you were folding a tri-fold wallet). Repeat a second time.
Cover the dough with a kitchen towel and let sit for another 10 minutes.
Flatten the dough again with your knuckles, then it in onto itself like you’re shaping it into a jellyfish.
Turn the dough over and squeeze the bottom together so that the top surface of the dough is smooth.
Place the dough back onto the counter and roll it gently between your hands. Do not grab the dough but allow it to move gently back and forth between your hands, moving in a circular motion. The point of this is to tighten up the skin of the dough ball as much as possible.
 Be sure to put the dish into the cold oven; terra cotta needs to heat and cool slowly and evenly or else it will crack.
 The cornmeal will help the dough slide off later. (A pizza peel will also work if you have one.)









Cover with a kitchen towel and allow to rise for 1 hour (or until you poke the dough and it quickly fills back in where you poked it). This is called “bench proofing” and is the final rising stage before dough is baked.
 This is optional but will ensure a nice, crispy crust.
 The standard shape is a square on top of the loaf, but you can do an X on top, slash lines, etc.









While it bakes, the bread will simultaneously expand and form a crust. If the crust forms a shell, the bread won’t be able to expand properly and will become dense. The slashes let the bread rise one last time in a situation where it can't expand in all directions.
 (This can vary depending on your oven.) Once the bread has reached an internal temperature of 205 to 210 °F (96 to 99 °C), remove to a cooling rack and allow to sit for 30 minutes before slicing.
