 You should insist that everyone that enters the house wear hard shoes, especially teenagers and kids who might often wear flip flops. If there is structural damage or evidence for subrogation, do not allow others to enter at all.
 Remember to take your address book, calendar/daytimer, folders that detail necessary committees or activities of your children, a phone directory of both white and yellow pages, a notepad for writing to-do lists and insurance information, bills/invoices, and office working papers. Eventually you may need to go back for more office files or other items. If you feel that your personal data was compromised, consider buying identity insurance. It provides peace of mind.
 See notes on documenting contents and construction.
 Smoke will infiltrate the wood, fabric, and materials but can and will dissipate. The contents may be able to be completely restored if items are removed quickly, items are dusted and/ or cleaned, they have been able to sit in a clean environment for a month or two, they receive ozone treatment, or they are special wiped or cleaned by professionals. Usually furniture fabrics need to be reupholstered, but check for zippers and removable fabrics that may allow them just be dry cleaned.
 The does not preclude the need to videotape, photograph, and record serial numbers of appliances and construction details. This is a huge timesaver though because everything must exist in a written form eventually and this is a very arduous process. Your insurance professional may use a recorder to dictate and then have a clerical person transfer the notes. If you have to document the findings, then have a two-person system of helpers. One person handles the item and gets a little dirty. The other person records the item, possibly using a laptop computer to input notes or an expedient system for recording. Don’t be shy in taking a photograph of anything valuable for retention. Document everything – even “junk.” You may want to review your video documentation to make sure of its accuracy. Write down all electronic information (include model and style and serial number) that you can obtain from the items or from empty original container boxes such as iPods, televisions, stereo systems, computers, kitchen appliances, etc.
 These can affect your electronics, antiques, artwork and other contents. Temporary storage may be needed as an intermediary such as a pod outside the house, but not on a long term basis. All belongings are to be moved by professionals and insured for the move. A complete listing by box and item should be given to you. However, be wise to how they “administrate” the paperwork. Moving companies will often notate that there are scratches or mars on every single aspect and side to every single piece of furniture. That is the industry so that is why you have to protect yourself with photographs or video showing the condition of each piece. Also, be wary of the designation of “PBO” as packed by owner. Have the moving company or contracting firm state in writing that the contents were not packed by the owner but rather packed by others and it will be fully insured at their liability for destruction.
 If you have a cell phone, evaluate your contract for the amount of minutes that you may be limited to and increase it significantly.
 If the pets can not be relocated or adopted, consider contacting your local Humane Society for help. If the pet(s) are not intrinsic to your family structure such as lab mice or a lizard or turtles or rabbit or other possibilities, the Humane Society often finds new homes for pets and may be able to assist you.
 Others may have heard of the fire on the police blotter or the local papers that report fire calls. You may want to secure the garage with additional clamps so that it cannot be opened and only a key will suffice for the door. If your builder uses a “builder’s code” on a lockbox situation, demand a code that you have set yourself so that everyone cannot have access without prior authorization. These codes exist for years and are known by all past subcontractors and employees that may or may not be known or approved for entry.
 You will need to enter and there won’t be lights without electricity. Check to make sure all utilities except the phone are off and ask for them to be winterized to prevent damage. Remember that after the fire, some plastic parts that are exposed to water may need replacement due to leaking and caused by changes in the pH of the water that affects the plastic parts. Examples are toilets, water pumps, etc.
 A great stress reliever is exercise, but remember to warm up your muscles since the stress can easily cause them to be pulled.
 Access information from the Better Business Bureau, Angie’s List, and internet searches on your construction company. Consult insurance adjusters and run the same searches. Anyone can have a token reference basis – do more investigative research and don’t sign a long term contract without your own research. Access advice from the Red Cross website. Your computer will be your best friend so replace it quickly. You will need it to do all types of searches for knowledge in areas you never had to know, construction information and house selections, to name a few.
 Keep a running notebook in the car of your to-do list and carry it with you at all times.

