


Contact your city parks and recreation department about rental of park facilities. Reserve a party pavilion as these usually include grills and picnic tables for serving meals. City parks are usually lower-cost options with more free or inexpensive amenities including splash pads and playgrounds for employees with young children, horseshoes or disc golf courses, or baseball diamonds or large field for playing ball. Larger parks with ponds or small lakes also may offer paddle boats or fishing.
Buy picnic food in bulk at a warehouse store and assign a team of employees to serve as cooks. Ask company managers to make a real impact and give a special "thank you" to employees by doing the cooking themselves.
Arrange for catering with a local restaurant that might be willing to cut you a special deal if you pick it up and serve the food yourselves, or if you hold your company picnic at a time that is usually slow for them. They'll appreciate the business and might be willing to give you a discounted rate.;
, Look to an area theme park, sculpture garden, arboretum, zoo or dude ranch for a special company picnic your employees won't soon forget.


Each of these types of venues will have a group sales staff who can assist you with all the details based on your budget. Their packages will usually include admission to the park, a meal and snacks, a reserved area to which only your employees will have access, signage at the park announcing your group, and any promotional materials you might need to inform your employees of the picnic.
Such venues usually have specific times when they'll allow company picnics or require reservations of a set block of hours. Such a requirement may make your decision for you, as you might not want to pay for an eight-hour block of time if you only plan to have a four-hour picnic. Keep set-up and break-down time in mind when making your reservation.
 Perhaps your company has employees who work from home, in satellite offices or at retail outlets in other cities. Consider these employees' needs if you plan to invite them to the festivities.


Arrange for room blocks at an area hotel. You can work directly with the hotel or contact your local convention and visitor's bureau for assistance in negotiating between a couple lodging options. You are not charged for the blocks; the hotels will simply hold the discounted rooms for your employees for a set time.
Determine whether the company will cover transportation costs. If employees are coming from satellite locations, encourage them to ride-share or use company vehicles to transport them to the picnic location. Arrange shuttle service for the employees from their hotels to the picnic location, either via a company vehicle, hotel shuttle or rented bus or vans.
 Select a location away from your office such as a nearby lake with cabins or a ranch with bunkhouses and cabins on-site.


If including families in a retreat weekend, you may need to provide entertainment options for spouses and children or let them know that entertainment is each family's responsibility. Again, work with your local convention and visitor's bureau to come up with entertainment choices, discount tickets or group tours.

