 This recipe is extremely easy to make but having your tools and area prepared before you cook will turn baking into child’s play.


Preheat oven to 350ºF/180ºC. Keep in mind that some ovens run hotter than others so if your oven either bakes quickly or tends to run a little hotter either reduce the temperature by five or 10 degrees or shorten the baking time.
Grease a 9 x 13 inch (23cm x 33cm) pan. Consider using cooking spray for a reduced calorie brownie (but not by much) or take a stick of butter and run it along the bottom and sides of the pan.
Assemble your mixer, bowls, rubber spatula and ingredients. Pre-measuring the ingredients and placing in separate bowls will also make the process move a little quicker.;
, Since you'll be mingling other ingredients into the brownie mix, don’t add or improvise with the package recipe.


Consider using an electric mixer to ensure the batter is fully integrated. If you don’t have an electric mixer, use a wire whisk to blend ingredients.
Pour the batter into the greased pan and bake according to package directions (usually about 15 minutes in a 350 degree/180ºC oven).
 In a separate bowl, gently toss the remaining ingredients together.


Break graham crackers into 1-inch (2.5cm) pieces. Don't crush or crumble the graham crackers but make sure you have nice chunky pieces, just as how you'd find them in an actual s’more.
Dice the chocolate and into large chunks. If possible, use a higher grade milk chocolate to really bring out the flavor in the brownies and marshmallows.
Toss the marshmallows, chocolate and graham crackers together in a large bowl until fully integrated. The idea will be to spread an equal amount of chocolate, marshmallow and graham cracker over the warm, baked brownies.
 In honor of campfire s’mores, you'll want the marshmallow to melt over the top and combine with melted chocolate.


Allow warm s’more brownies to cool before serving. You don't want the brownies to be served cold but provide enough time for the brownie and s’more mixture to congeal and bind before serving (or you could have a big mess).
