


Evaluate your body mass index (BMI) to determine your healthy weight. Multiply your height in inches by your height in inches. Call that answer your total height. Now, divide your weight by your total height. Your answer should then be multiplied by 703 to get your BMI. For example, an individual who is 5-foot-6 (66 inches) and 160 pounds would have a BMI of 25.8.
You are at a higher risk of developing heart disease if your BMI is more than 25. Even a 10-pound weight loss can reduce risk of heart disease by lowering blood pressure.;
, Not only does exercise lower blood pressure, but it can also help in weight loss.


You don't have to complete all 30 to 60 minutes at a time. You'll get the same benefit if you break up your exercise into several 10- or 15-minute routines.
 Saturated fat and cholesterol clog your arteries, and salt increases blood pressure. All three elevate your risk for coronary artery disease.


Talk to a nutritionist or your doctor to learn what foods you can enjoy and what foods to avoid. Oatmeal, fatty fish such as salmon, and almonds are examples of food that lower cholesterol. Foods to avoid or include only in moderation include most meat, ice cream and other baked sweets, and chips.



Cigarettes contain nicotine which raises blood pressure. Nicotine also prompts the body to release adrenaline, making blood vessels and your heart work harder.



A daily aspirin can prevent heart attacks and strokes, and reduce the risk of developing heart disease. Discuss the benefits versus the risks with your physician, because aspirin may cause bleeding when taken long term.
Vitamin E lowers the risk of heart attack. Omega 3-fatty acids are helpful in reducing cholesterol which can build up as plaque in arteries.



Long term alcohol consumption causes the heart to weaken and stretch, making it more susceptible to damage. Alcohol use also raises blood pressure and increases your risk of stroke and obesity.



Stress can cause spikes in your blood pressure, and can also lead to destructive lifestyle habits such as smoking and alcohol. Exercise, rest and meditation are healthier ways to deal with stress.

