 A food journal can help you keep track of the foods that cause your indigestion. You can keep your food journal as a handwritten notebook or use an application on your mobile device. Every day, write down everything you eat and drink, any symptoms of indigestion, and feelings or thoughts about your eating habits for the day.You can use a mobile application such as Evernote to record your eating patterns.;
, Chocolate can make indigestion worse.If you regularly eat chocolate as a snack and experience indigestion, try cutting chocolate from your diet.


Replace your afternoon chocolate bar with a chia seed bar. Chia seed granola bars are gluten free and have loads of antioxidants. However, please avoid chia bars if you have an intolerance to chia seeds.
Replace your afternoon chocolate bar with a candied ginger snack. Ginger helps the body deal with indigestion. Replacing chocolate with candied ginger will help you avoid indigestion.
 Alcohol is known to exasperate indigestion.If you cut down on your drinking, you may be able to bring your indigestion under control. It is possible to enjoy one or two drinks but one should avoid drinking excessively and avoid fizzy drinks as well as strong liquor and wine.Try replacing your evening beer or wine with a ginger tea. Ginger tea with honey is a relaxing drink that can help you calm your nerves. Ginger tea also helps your body deal with indigestion., Mint is known to make digestion worse.If you drink mojitos or other cocktails with mint, you may be asking your stomach to handle two indigestion culprits at once. Try avoiding mint or replacing it with alternative herbs. If you have a recipe that asks for a lot of mint, consider cooking a different dish.


You can replace the mint in your recipes with an equivalent amount of basil, rosemary or marjoram.You can also simply omit the mint in some recipes. If you are making a mint chocolate chip pancake recipe, you can simply omit the mint and enjoy chocolate chip pancakes. Alternately, you could replace the mint with basil and enjoy basil chocolate chip pancakes., Try to avoid foods that come out of the deep fryer and foods that are cooked in a lot of oil. French fries, onion rings, deep fried calamari, and stir fries are among the deep fried and oil rich foods that you might want to avoid.


If you are eating out, consider asking your server if there are any low fat and non-greasy options on the menu.
If you are thinking about making French fries as a side for dinner, consider baking some potatoes instead.
If you are tempted by the stir fry on the menu, consider ordering an alternative dish such as steamed vegetables with rice.
 Coffee can worsen indigestion.Try replacing it with an alternative such as ginger tea, which can be very soothing for your digestive system.


You can also explore other coffee substitutes such as green tea, licorice tea, Siberian ginseng tea, or a wheatgrass smoothie.If you explore any of these alternatives, remember to write down your experience in a food diary. You might need to try a few options before identifying the coffee replacement that works best for your digestive system and overall well-being.

