 If you are making nachos for a group, use the entire bag. If you prefer a smaller portion, pour as many chips as you would like (you can try half a bag or 1/4).


If you are making more nachos than one plate can support, you can use two plates and microwave separate batches.;
, Add 1/2 cup of Pico de Gallo and microwave for 30 seconds. Mix together.


If your beans are still too firm to easily mix after 30 seconds, microwave them in 15 second increments until soft. Only microwave them until they are warm, you don't need to get them hot.
 Here comes the fun part. Scoop the bean and Pico de Gallo mixture all over the surface of your chip pile. Because the refried beans may be a little sticky, you might find it easier to drop globs all over rather than trying to spread them over the chips.
 Take a few pinches of your shredded cheese and evenly distribute it until you have used 2 cups. You can use less cheese if you prefer. Sprinkle 4 tablespoons of diced green chilies on top if you prefer a spicy kick to your nachos.


You can use a prepackaged bag of Mexican blend cheese or grate your own cheese. Freshly grated cheese may melt easier in the microwave.Spread the cheese evenly over the tortilla chips. You do not want any naked chips.
 Place the platter in the microwave and cook for 1-2 minutes. If the beans are still cool after 2 minutes, microwave them in 30 second increments until they are hot.


Don't let the beans get so hot that they boil, this will cause them to dry out and get crusty. When refried beans boil, they can also make a mess in your microwave.
Be careful when removing your platter from the microwave, it may be hot enough to burn you.
 Remove the platter from the microwave once your beans are hot and scoop 1/2 cup of sour cream and 1/2 cup of guacamole directly on top in the center or across the entire platter.


You can use more or less guacamole and sour cream if you desire.
Drop another spoonful of salsa or Pico de Gallo on top if you prefer.
 Depending on how hot your nachos are you may need to let them cool on the countertop for about a minute before enjoying. Serve warm and gather extra plates and napkins for sharing. Enjoy as a meal or an entree with tacos, burritos, hot wings, or anything you like!

