 Every standard pool table with have 4 corner pockets and 2 side pockets. Depending on the design of your pool table, these could be attached to the table in various ways, though usually you'll find staples attaching each to the table. Lay on your back underneath the pocket and pry the staples out with a flathead screwdriver or staple puller.To prevent an errant stable falling into your eye, you do not lie directly under the pool table, and you might consider wearing some kind of eye protection.
 Again, the part holding the rails to your table depends on your table, but chances are good that bolts will be holding these in place. You can remove these bolts easily with a regular socket wrench.Slide each rail free. If the rails are attached in sections, you may need a helper to flip them over all at once and disconnect them.
 This is the most delicate part of the process, as a tear to your felt can ruin it completely. If the felt is held in place by staples, a staple puller may help prevent you from incurring damage to the felt.Glued felt can be removed by gently pulling it backwards, never upwards or forwards, taking care not to rip it.If you are planning to reuse the felt, fold it up to prevent wrinkles.
 There will likely be screws holding the slate of your pool table to its frame. These can be most effectively removed with a power drill that has been fitted with the right type of bit.In some cases beeswax is used on the screws to prevent damage. If this is the case, use a flathead screwdriver to scrape off the beeswax before unscrewing the slate.
 The rock that forms the level surface upon which you play pool must remain unblemished to protect the integrity of your future games. Slate usually comes either in a solid piece or three pieces.Lift the slate off the pool table legs and set it in your transport vehicle.


It's safe to stack the pieces of slate on top of each other, but be sure each are properly fastened and don't jostle against anything the might cause damage.
To make sure that your slate is undamaged, you should wrap it in a blanket, drop cloth, or some other covering.
 Now that the delicate parts of your pool table have been removed and stowed away, taking the legs off the frame shouldn't pose a problem. Likely, your trusty drill will come to your aid again, and with a proper bit, soon the legs will be off., You can set the frame on top of the slate in your vehicle. If you have a finished table with lacquered wood, you may want to wrap the finished surfaces with a drop-cloth or some kind of padding to protect against damage., Any remaining parts should be manageable at this point, and shouldn't require any further disassembly. Finish loading these parts into your transport vehicle and move your table to to the new location.
 You should take measurements so you can be sure your table will fit comfortably wherever you move it, but even more important, you'll want to clear the area in which you are setting up the pool table and the path to this room. Getting tripped up by a throw rug when you're carrying the slate is a good way to ruin a perfectly good pool table., You will want to take great care when assembling your pool table. Improper installation can leave it unlevel, which will affect your game. Starting with your frame and legs, begin reassembling your table.


For specific issues dealing with leveling, warping, and cracked or damaged slate, please see the section on troubleshooting.
 The slate is one of the most difficult and delicate pieces in your pool table due to its weight. Any damage done to the slate can ruin your pool table. Single pieces of slate will install more easily since you'll only have to slide it into place. For pool tables with three-piece slate parts, move each piece to your mostly assembled table, setting each atop it with space between the pieces. Then:


Check to see the pieces haven't been damaged and fit together neatly. Are the dowel pins that connect the pieces bent or warped? If so, you may have to make a trip to the hardware store to buy a few new dowels.
Slide each of the three slate pieces together with the proper connectors between and slot the assembled slate into its place on the table.
Take care to not get your hands caught between pieces of slate. This can cause serious injury to hands and fingers.

