 You probably came here to learn how to hit both pins at once, but even pro bowlers have an extremely low chance to achieve this on a 7-10 split. If picking up one point leaves you in a competitive position, just take it rather than risk scoring no points at all. Follow the instructions below to attempt a spare only when you need a "Hail Mary" to get you back in the game.

Going for one pin gets even better when you are following a strike, since the single ball will count double.;
, Most right-handed amateur bowlers stand at around the 30th board, feet aligned with the leftmost dot and ball aligned with the large dot at board 30. When you have a 7-10 split, move left to board 38, and aim at the 10 pin. If you are a left-handed player, you would instead move eight boards right (to board 22) and aim at the 7 pin.

This article counts the boards from right to left. Don't get confused if you are used to the left-handed counting system, which counts from left to right.
If you do not normally stand at board 30, you can move eight boards from your usual starting point instead. However, for this shot, it may be easier to stand where the average person would, on board 38 or 22.
 Aiming for an arrow is much easier than aiming for a pin. Now that you are eight boards to the side of the center, you should be able to aim through the center arrow in order to hit the opposite pin.

If you moved eight boards from your usual starting position, instead aim for the arrow you would normally use to hit the center of the pins.
 Swing your arm in a long pendulum so the ball releases with a great deal of force. Your goal is to impart enough force into the target pin that it bounces off the kickback, then back to the other pin., Spin allows you to hook the ball, curving the path it travels along. You are more likely to score the spare if you can curve the ball into the side of the pin, slamming it against the nearest side wall.

If you add a significant hook to the ball, you may want to stand even closer to the edge of the lane.
Instead of hitting the pin against the kickback, some bowlers prefer to strike the pin on the gutter side, sending it onto the equipment at the center of the pit, then at the opposite pin. In this case, you should put an extreme amount of spin on the ball, and aim for the closer pin (7 for lefties, 10 for righties).

