 Last minute travel deals rarely work with kids, because they have plans, camps, school and possible trips to see another parent. Many travel organizations offer discounts to people who book early.
 The best way to curtail complaints and ensure a good time is to define what your children will enjoy most. For example, a child is probably more apt to enjoy a theme park when they are 8 and a European trip when they move into their teenage years.


Although you may want to go far away for a vacation, you are more likely to believe your hard earned and budgeted money is well spent if your children are excited about the trip.
 Children may not crave a 2-week vacation, like many adults do. Short cruises of 3 to 6 days and packages of 7 days or less will cost less while still affording you time away from home and work.
 Travel to Europe during the fall and winter. Travel to South America, Central America or the Caribbean in the summer or fall.


The weather might be rainier and slightly colder or hotter than the peak seasons, but you can save thousands of dollars in airplane tickets, hotels, excursions and other travel costs.
 There are a few different options for taking advantage of group travel discounts.


Book a specially organized trip for single parents. Singleparenttravel.com offers exactly this kind of trip. They choose a few destinations each year that include good activities for children. You can choose which trip works best based on your budget.
Organize a group trip yourself. If you have a sports group, church group or friends with children who are also interested in travel, you can contact a group travel provider and travel agent and ask for quotes on certain destinations. The price will go down as you sign up more people. Ask if travel is free for the group leader.
 Travel agents will try to book your trip without discounts, but they can usually throw something in, if you ask for it. Ask about cruise vouchers, upgrades, free excursions or other incidentals, if they can't offer an up front discount.


If your children are small and picky eaters, then an all-inclusive package is preferable. Most resorts offer food to please all age levels.
 If you book group or all-inclusive travel well in advance, you may be able to pay a few hundred dollars each month, instead of paying a thousand or more dollars all at once. Although you would pay the same amount, you can set up a monthly budget without dipping into your savings.

