 Try a product without harsh chemicals or much alcohol. Something with aloe, Shea butter, and oats works nicely. There are a few great home remedies for sensitive skin.Use something with sweet honey. It works as a great moisturizer and smells wonderful.Mix oatmeal with enough warm water to make a paste or cream. This helps remove oils and extra shine from the skin, and it may help with acne by removing dead skin cells and acting as an oil blotter.Try rose water. Using a product with rose water can help reinvigorate skin to a natural pH balance, and aids in healing light cuts and scrapes due to its antibacterial properties.It may even help fight wrinkles.;
, Dry legs thirst for moisture, so try a product with Shea butter for a variety of benefits (e.g. moisturizing, reduced inflammation, smoother skin) and perks (e.g. antioxidants, increased collagen production).If your skin is itching, try adding rose oil for a cooling effect.Maybe even include some willow bark which could provide additional inflammation aid.For the best results, apply your moisturizer immediately after bathing or showering, before your skin is completely dry. Moisturizers work by trapping water in the cells on the skin's surface, so it works best if you use it on damp skin., If you have a problem with cellulite, try a cellulite reduction cream/gel, also known as an anti-cellulite cream. It could take a month or more to work, but if you are patient and consistent you could see improvement.Consider using a moisturizing self-tanning lotion. Bronzing your skin can help disguise the appearance of cellulite.
 Whether you have minor bumps here and there or something like keratosis pilaris — a skin condition causing tiny bumps and dry skin — your legs won’t be smooth until you rid yourself of all the ups and downs.Try one of the following methods to cut down on the bumps:


Use a cream with lactic acid. Acid may sound dangerous in a skin product, but it a small percentage actually helps exfoliate dead skin, allowing the moisturizer to do its job properly.Glycolic acid is another great option. Start a regimen of low-percentage glycolic acid cream at night, and after a few weeks there should be results. Be sure to read the label, because some creams have up to 30% glycolic acid, and that may be a bit much when starting out.Take care of other blemishes. You can treat boils, use a variety of methods to get rid of a wart, eliminate a skin tag, or rid yourself of psoriasis. Whatever you do, however, treat your specific condition to help work towards smooth legs.
Use a cream with urea. Treating dryness and minor skin irritations is the primary purpose of urea-based creams. Some of these creams not only have moisturizing properties, but they also soften the keratin — a top layer of protective skin., Before even putting a razor to your legs, be sure to remove the dead skin cells. An added benefit of exfoliation is it raises the hairs, making them easier to shave.Make sure nothing impedes the ensuing razor swipes.
 It sounds simpler than it really is. There are a few ways to maximize your shaving efforts towards perfect legs.Try to avoid shaving as soon as you jump in the shower. Let the heat and moisture from the hot water work on your pores, opening them up and making the hair softer.
Nighttime shaving is best for smooth legs. There are a variety of reparative functions when you sleep, and shaving at night before bed may help the hairs recede some.
Be sure to use shaving cream or other lather that is not soap to assist when shaving. Not only does it help the blade glide more smoothly over your legs, but it also serves as a handy guide of where you’ve already been.
Use a good, fresh razor. Avoid the nicks and cuts, or worse, tugging of hair, by using a multi-blade razor that is replaced fairly regularly.
Go with the grain, then against it. This makes the blade-strokes easier, the cuts simpler, and the likelihood of issues.
 Moisturizer forms a thin layer that helps do many things, including sealing in moisture. Using a leg cream just after a shower, when your legs are still damp, helps lock it in., After the shower, there is only so much time before the moisture dries on your legs and dissipates. Wait too long and your skin may become dry enough that it not only loses the available moisture to be trapped, but it also invites the potential for allergens and bacteria., Most dermatologists seem to recommend starting out with a pea-sized amount and working your way up to more as necessary. You don’t want to leave your legs feeling oily, so use as little as necessary.
 Put extra lotion on the knees to reduce roughness and darkness, and be sure to gently rub it in. Apply liberally in the driest areas.
 Using a soft cloth so as to not aggravate the skin, spread the baby oil all over the leg. Repeat on the other leg, using any excess from the first leg.
 Results will not be something that happens overnight. Try to create a consistent habit so you can see positive results.

