 Magicians, like other performers, tend to stick to a consistent persona that entertains their audiences. The magic tricks are enhanced by the magician's personality and delivery. Figure out what type of performer you are, and start using your strongest personality traits to your advantage.


If you're naturally funny, add some clownish comic relief to your magic show. You might want to concentrate on tricks that involve physical comedy, like disappearing acts, pulling great lengths of scarves out of your sleeve, pulling a rabbit out of a hat, and so on.
If you're smart and slick, consider taking on a grifter's persona. Learn how to pickpocket a wallet and present it to the shocked audience member. Perform casino-style card tricks with a knowing smirk.
Some magicians have an air of mystery that completely enraptures the audience. If this is you, perform your tricks quietly and adeptly. Incorporate tricks that make you appear to have psychic abilities.
 When magicians perform, they tie their tricks together with what they call "patter," the stories and chatter that distract the audience from their hands and make the transition from trick to trick more entertaining. Without patter, a magic show would be a quiet, rather boring series of tricks without context.


Consider writing out a script and memorizing it. Rather than just winging it during your show, you might want to practice with scripted patter first. Just make sure it sounds natural by the time you perform.
Speak clearly and make eye contact. Follow the same rules that apply to other types of performance and public speaking. Exuding confidence and charisma will make your show that much more entertaining.
 Start with a trick that instantly captures your audience's attention and showcases your skill. Don't do similar tricks within the same show; the audience will get bored. End with your best, most flashy and exciting trick, then bow and leave the stage., You can practice all you want in front of the mirror at home, but to craft a great show, you've got to test it out in public. During your first few gigs, pay attention to the audience's reaction to your tricks. Which ones elicit oohs and aahs? Which ones seem to fall flat? Tweak your program as needed and keep trying until you're happy with your program and performance.

