 Chatroulette is a relatively new phenomenon and one which apparently proves irresistible to some exhibitionists who can't keep themselves from exposing more than anybody else wants to see. The anonymity of the feature encourages a "trenchcoat-wearing subway flasher" mentality for some (mainly) men.Being prepared for the possibility and being ready to disconnect is probably your best defense.


If you don't want to risk it, perhaps the best solution is not to use Chatroulette at all.;
, Make up your own mind whether or not you think Chatroulette's handling of the problem is sufficient enough to quell your concerns.


The site is using face recognition software to try to cut or censor any instances of non-face appearances. A warning also goes off for the site managers if a user is being constantly skipped, presumably enabling them to deal with it promptly.
The site has added a site notice informing all users that it is against US and UN law to expose themselves to minors and that the Chatroulette site is cooperating with law enforcement agencies., In addition to the above attempts to remove flashers, Chatroulette has added new channels - some "adult-themed" channels and a local dating channel.


Avoid the adult-themed channels if you don't want to risk flashers. Flashers are more likely to be using them.
Use the local dating stream for dating conversation and a decreased likelihood of flashers. Theoretically, people looking for a date will be doing so in earnest rather than considering exposing themselves!
None of this is foolproof. A flasher will go wherever a flasher feels like, so remain vigilant for moving on as fast as possible!

, If anything unsavory starts occurring on your screen, go to someone else who isn't abusing the chat, or switch it off altogether.
 For some, especially children, it isn't pleasant seeing somebody exposing themselves, or images depicting graphic violence and can be extremely troubling. If you experience shock, anxiety, panic, disgust, etc. after seeing a flasher, it is important to work through your upset. Find someone you can trust to talk to, whether it be another family member, a friend, a counselor, or someone else whom you feel safe talking with.


Try to keep it in perspective by realizing that such people are mentally unhealthy and this isn't meant as a personal attack on you. You're an anonymous victim.
If you find flashing is happening to you frequently when on Chatroulette, seriously consider not using Chatroulette at all.
 This will enable the site managers to track down the IP and other details in an attempt to have the offender caught and dealt with by law enforcement officials. The more that people understand that this is a high likelihood, the less tempted they will be to try.

