 An easy way to make washi tape ornaments is to simply apply washi tape to blank ornaments. This works well on smooth, round bulbs or other flat surface ornament blanks that can be found at many department and craft stores. For this type of project, you need:Blank ornaments of any color (avoid textures such as glitter)
Washi tape of different colors and patterns
Scissors
Ribbon or ornament hooks;
, Help the washi tape hold longer by wiping down your ornament blanks to get rid of any dust or surface debris. Use a damp wipe or towel to wipe down each ornament and let them dry completely before applying the tape.


You may also want to remove the metallic or plastic ornament caps at this time if you plan on doing a design that runs to the top of the ornament.
 Plan your design before you start putting on the tape. One minimalist design would be to run a single band of washi tape around the horizontal center of the bulb. You can also do horizontal or vertical stripes, or a more creative design. The only limit is your vision.If you have a patterned washi tape, consider cutting out individual parts of the pattern to create a more detailed design. For example, cut out individual dots instead of taping a whole row of dots.
Use a colored pencil one shade darker than your ornament (or a wax pencil for clear ornaments) to sketch or outline your design before you start applying tape.
 Once you have your design ready, add the washi tape to your ornament. If you want to vary the edges of your tape, use scissors or pinking shears to create patterns and textured edges.If you have small tape pieces such as individual dots or flowers, use tweezers to help you apply the tape to the designated area.
If you are creating multiple stripes or lines, try to have all the tape seams on the same side of the ornament so that you can face the side without seams outward.
 Once your washi tape ornament is ready, replace the cap and add a hook or ribbon to hang your ornament. Then, hang the ornament from your tree, around your house, or anywhere you think it will look good.While hooks work well for trees, ribbon works best for other areas such as from a mirror or on a nail.

