 If you’re especially wary of the scholar’s mate, or know for certain that it is something your opponent will attempt, you can use the french defense by responding with a pawn to e6. By not extending the pawn to e5 you close down any defense the white’s bishop would have provided for the white queen.








Responding with the french defense will shut down any scholar’s mate, but it will force you to use more advance techniques going forward. For beginners it’s recommended to respond as expected, with a pawn to e5.
Reacting as you know your opponent would like you to is generally very useful, as it places them under a false sense of security, distracting them from considering other options.
 Continue to play into the scholar’s mate as a continuation of the feint. In any case, playing another more interruptive move would leave your pawn defenseless at e5. Positioning your knight in this case is just as much about protecting that pawn as it is about baiting the scholar’s mate.
 If your opponent continues with the scholar’s mate, they would have moved their bishop to c4 in response to the previous move. Alternatively your opponent might delay their strategy a bit by moving their pawn to c4 instead. In either case, moving your pawn to g6 will effectively disable the four-move scholar’s mate.










Moving your pawn to g6 blocks the white queen’s path forward. Your opponent can no longer take your pawn at f7 and thus you avoid the checkmate entirely.
 The conventional response to the previous step will be for your opponent to withdraw their queen to f3. After this move, your pawn at f7 will be threatened both by the opposing queen and bishop at c4. Bringing your knight forward for defense is the safest way to protect this pawn.








Your queen will cover your knight from capture by the opponent’s queen, and your pawn is safe from their bishop, who would now be undefended if it tried to perform a capture.
 Once your opponent’s scholar’s mate has been disabled, they’ll be at a general disadvantage as they’ve set their board for a certain strategy that has failed. In general once you’ve avoided the scholar’s mate you’ll have considerable control of the game.

Consider castling your king shortly after moving your knight to f6. Strengthening your defense is a strategic choice when your opponent has over-committed to an opening strategy.

