 If you have the resources to do so, taking a formal class or hiring a private coach or tutor may help you learn Spanish more quickly.#*The benefit of having a coach or tutor is that you have someone else who is holding you accountable.


If you can't afford to hire someone yourself, or don't have the opportunity to take a class, consider learning the language with a friend so the two of you can hold each other accountable.
 There are numerous websites and mobile apps that will teach you the basics of Spanish, and many of them are free. Don't expect these resources to bring you to fluency, but they can help your skills in limited areas.There also are programs out there that may require a pretty substantial initial investment. If you have the money and think the program would be a good investment, go for it – but keep in mind you don't have to spend any money to learn Spanish.
Websites and mobile apps are good for drilling vocabulary and basic phrases, but typically you'll end up with a pretty scattered understanding of Spanish. Be prepared to do some immersion (either at home or abroad) if you want to become truly fluent.
These programs typically will be better if your goal is to be able to read and write Spanish. If your primary goal is to be conversational, you're better off actually having conversations.
 You aren't going to learn to speak Spanish overnight – it will take time. Decide how long your sessions are going to be, and try to have them at the same time each day so your language practice becomes habitual.Using a schedule on your computer or smart phone is a good option because you can set up notifications to alert you when it's time to start working on your Spanish.
Don't practice for so long that you're going to get bored or bogged down, but make sure your sessions are long enough that you can get something out of them. For example, if you're practicing for 15 minutes each evening, spend about five minutes reviewing what you learned the previous day, five minutes learning something new, and then the final five minutes reviewing what you just learned.
 The idea of learning an entire language can be overwhelming – especially when you think about how long it took you to learn your first language. Breaking that down into smaller, reachable goals enables you to monitor your progress.Your goals may relate to the language itself, or they may relate to your methods. For example, if you're watching a Spanish-language television show to learn Spanish through immersion, you might set the goal of watching one episode each evening. A language-related goal might be to learn 5 new verbs each week.
Write your goals down and evaluate your progress each week. If you fail to meet a goal, try not to get too down about it. Simply reassess and figure out what went wrong. If it's something you can correct by making an adjustment, make that adjustment and try again next week.

