 In the bottom-right corner of the window will be a link to create a Hangout party. This is a group video chat for up to 10 people. A Hangout party lets everyone connect through video and text. You can share YouTube videos and collaborate on documents.


Mobile users can join a Hangout party, though they will have limited access to extra features, such as YouTube videos and Google Docs integration.
 Once you start the Hangout, you will be prompted to enter a description and add people to the invite list. The description you write will be sent in the invite.


You can restrict the call to users 18 and over.
 If your webcam is correctly configured, you can start chatting immediately. The bottom pane in the Hangout window shows all of the users connected to your Hangout. The right pane houses the text chat. If you don’t see the text chat, click the Chat icon on the left side of the window.
 If there’s something on display that you want to save and remember, click the Capture button in the left menu. A Camera icon will appear at the bottom of the window, and a picture of the screen will be taken when you click it.
 Click the YouTube button in the left menu to start the YouTube Hangout app. You can add videos to the Hangout playlist, and videos will be played for everyone simultaneously. Click the blue “Add videos to playlist” button to search for YouTube videos to add.


Videos are played in the main Hangout pane. Anyone in the group can change the playback and skip videos.
The microphone is muted during video playback. Click the green “Push to talk” button to say something during a video.
 You can use Hangouts to share a display of your screen. Click the Screenshare button in the left menu. A new window will open with a list of all your open windows and programs. You can share a specific window, or you can share your entire display.This can be very useful if you are trying to troubleshoot a program with someone more experienced, or want to share something in another program with everyone in the chat.
 Click the Google Effects button in the left menu. The Effects menu will open on the right side of the window, replacing the Chat frame. You can drag the effects onto the video chat playback to add hats, glasses, and other fun decorations.


Click the arrows at the top of the Effects window to change categories.
To remove all of the effects you have added, click the “x Remove all effects” link at the bottom of the Effects menu.
 You can add Google Drive documents to your Hangout so that all of the members can work on the same document. To open Google Drive, hover your mouse over the “…” button on the left menu. Click the “Add apps” button. A list of available apps will appear. Select Google Drive.


When you click the Google Drive button on the menu, a list of all of your Google Drive documents will appear. You can select which document you would like to share, or you can create a shared notebook or sketchpad.
When you share documents, you will be sharing your email address. You will need to confirm to continue.
 If you need to mute your microphone, click the mute button in the top-right menu. The icon looks like a microphone with a slash through it. When your microphone is muted, the icon turns red.


To mute your camera, click on the video camera with a slash through it. This will turn your camera feed off. People will still be able to hear you if you don’t mute the microphone as well.
 If the video is not coming in smoothly, lower your bandwidth settings by click the button that looks like signal bars in the top-right menu. This will open a slider where you can adjust the quality of the Hangout. Lowering the slider will lower the quality of video. Moving it all the way to the right will make your Hangout audio only (for you).
 Click the Gear icon in the top-right menu to open your input settings. A window will appear with a small image of your webcam feed. Here you can select the devices that you want to use. This is useful if your computer has more than one camera or microphone attached.
 When you are finished chatting, click the Exit button in the top-right corner of the window. The icon looks like a phone being hung up.

