 Whether your sibling is struggling with school, work, or personal issues, they can benefit from their sister's love and assistance. If they ask you for help, assist them in any way that you can.Don't wait for your sibling to ask you for help. If they seem like they're struggling, reach out to them. You can say, "Hey, is everything ok? Is there anything I can do to help?"
Sometimes your sibling may not want you to interfere. Respect their decision, but state that you will be there if they change their mind. You can say, “I understand. Just let me know if you ever do want my help.”

, Don't hold back on noticing your sibling's skills and accomplishments. Let them know when they have made you proud or what you admire about them.If you know your sibling is insecure about something, lift their spirits by admiring them. For example, if your brother is worried about getting into college, you can say, “You’ve been working so hard! No matter what ends up happening, I know you’ll do well.”
Congratulate them on them on their accomplishments. For example, if a sibling wins an award, let them know how proud you are.
 When your sibling does a favor for you or if they support you, express gratitude to them. Let them know that you appreciate their presence in your life.For example, you can say, “Thank you so much for always listening when I need to talk. It makes me so happy to know I have a sibling like you.”

, When things happen in life, talking to a sibling can be a big help. You can get your siblings to open up to you by opening up them first. Be willing to share things and to listen to what they want to share.Sometimes, a person just needs someone to listen, not to give advice. Before sharing your wisdom, ask, “do you want my advice?” If they say no, just listen.
Let your sibling know that you are listening by occasionally repeating things that they say. For example, you can say, “I see. So your boss overlooked you for the promotion?”
Always keep your sibling's secrets. The only exception is where someone is likely to be endangered by keeping a secret.
 If your sibling is having a hard time with someone, ask them what you can do to help. They may ask you to talk to the other person or to help them file a complaint. If your sibling asks you to not interfere, you can still provide emotional support by letting them come talk to you.


If two siblings are fighting with each other, try to avoid taking sides. Instead, say politely, “I think this is something you both need to work out together.”

