 If acne is thought to be complicated by a hormonal imbalance, your dermatologist may choose hormone replacement therapy (HRT) as part of the treatment. The most common HRT for acne is contraceptive therapy using birth control pills. These often contain estrogens, progestins or both in varying concentrations. The type and dosing of oral contraceptive is an important factor in acne treatment, and only a dermatologist specialized in their usage for this condition should be treating acne with HRT. The use of HRT may be very effective in young women. Sometimes another hormone, spironolactone, is also added.Treatments with oral contraceptives can help some women with hormonal acne, but can have significant side effects. Side effects may include dizziness, headaches, weight changes, stomach upset, bloating, nausea, depression, chest pain, increased risk of heart disease (especially in women who smoke), shortness of breath, lumps in the breast, and liver problems.
These drugs have also been implicated in increasing the risk of breast cancer, deep vein thrombosis, and strokes. There doesn’t appear to be much difference in which oral contraceptive is used.Keep in mind that the biggest risk factors for women taking HRT is obesity, smoking, lack of physical activity and a history of clotting disorders. Like most medical treatments, inform yourself fully about the risks and benefits of the treatment in consultation with a qualified medical professional.;
, Bioidentical hormones are synthetic hormones that are most commonly used as topical treatments, but they are increasingly being used to treat hormonally-related acne.Bioidentical hormones are often recommended by naturopathic providers and are available over-the-counter. It is very important to note that these are non-regulated, meaning there is no standard or testing for quality or purity before they are released on the market and they may be manufactured without following pharmaceutical standards. While their chemical compounds are labeled as “chemically identical” to your own human hormones, no medically sound research determining the risks and benefits of these compounds exist. Premarin, for example, is derived from the urine of pregnant female horses.Before taking a bioidentical hormone, you should speak with a dermatologist who can order tests to determine your individual hormone levels and determine the specific hormones to be replaced to restore your body to normal physiologic levels. Monitoring of the hormone levels and any potential side effects is also a crucial part of treatment.
 With any form of hormone replacement therapy, the risks and benefits have to be weighed; you should do so with your doctor. Using oral contraceptives increases the risk of cervical, breast, and liver cancers, heart disease, and stroke.It has been reported that bioidentical hormones have been used safely in Europe for over 50 years to treat menopause, but there may still be risks associated with these hormones when used over a long time period and when used to treat acne, which has not been studied extensively. Exercise caution with any non-medical treatment that has not been studied using strict scientific methods to determine safety and effectiveness
The best advice is to consult your medical professional before using any treatment, including HRT, and to do so only under the supervision of that medical provider.

