 Green vegetables are one of the best foods to make your body more alkaline. Broccoli, Brussel sprouts, collard greens, cauliflower, kale, and cabbage are extremely healthy and help your body eliminate acids. They contain many vitamins and minerals.Eat them as a side dish, in a stir fry, on top of a salad, or as part of a casserole.;
, Asparagus is a healthy green vegetable that has one of the strongest alkaline effects on your body. Asparagus also has antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals.You can bake or saute asparagus, or throw it into a salad.
 Many vegetables help to increase your alkalinity. Eggplant, okra, peas, green beans, peppers, spinach, tomatoes, squash, and swiss chard are all alkaline-forming vegetables. They are also healthy and filled with many vitamins and minerals.You can make any of these items as side dishes. You can also mix them together in casseroles and other dishes, or snack on them throughout the day.
 Avocados are a green fruit that is a superfood no matter what diet you are following. They are healthy fats that help increase your body’s alkalinity. They also contain many vitamins and minerals. You can also choose to use avocado oil.Try avocado at all of your meals, including breakfast. You can put avocado in a smoothie, or you can eat it plain as a snack.
 Almonds are not only one of the healthiest foods you can eat, but they are a good alkaline food. You can eat almonds for a tasty snack or as part of meals. You can also switch dairy milk for almond milk, since dairy milk is acidic and almond milk is alkaline.Almonds contain calcium, iron, and protein.
 Many root vegetables, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, radishes, and beetroot, are full of vitamins and minerals. They also help balance out your pH levels. Make sure you are buying fresh versions of these root vegetables instead of canned or pickled varieties.Eat these foods as a side dish, in salads, or part of casseroles and stir fries.
 Many herbs and spices have alkalizing properties. Basil, cilantro, garlic, ginger, mint, chives, thyme, parsley, and cumin all help your body reduce the amount of acid and have alkalizing properties. Use these herbs and spices to add flavor to your dishes for a double benefit., Many seeds, such as chia seeds and flaxseeds, are nutritional superfoods. They have omega-3 fatty acids and fiber, along with other nutrients. They help increase the pH of your body, so throw them into just about anything you eat. Try flaxseed oil when you’re cooking, too.You put chia seeds and flaxseeds into smoothies, baked goods, or your dishes.
 Citrus fruit, such as grapefruit, lemons, and limes, are alkaline fruits. They also are full of antioxidants and vitamins, such as vitamin C. Consider squeezing the juice into water in the morning for an a.m. alkaline boost.