 Getting the pros and cons of a CMS straight from a business owner or marketing manager will get you started on your search. Start making a list of CMS that you are interested in.
 You may notice that, as of February 2012, WordPress has approximately 32 percent of the CMS market. It is a popular open source CMS; however, you should not choose a CMS just because it is large and popular or small and personal.


An Internet search will likely show the following CMS, as well as many others: Drupal, WordPress, Silver-stripe, Magneto, Radiant CMS, iWeb, Concrete5CMS, Frog CMS, CMS Made Simple and Joomla!.
 If you find an open source CMS and no one in the company is able to give you information on using it, then search for companies that provide support for open source CMS.


If you want to use an open source CMS and you have a small or non-existent IT department, you may need to hire a CMS expert to help you install, train and help with technical support.
 If possible, arrange a meeting where they can show you how their CMS works. If they cannot do this, make sure to ask for sample websites in your industry, then schedule a conference call to talk about the most common CMS company mistakes and weaknesses.


Ask how easily and quickly the CMS can be installed and switched over from your current system. Then, once it is set in place, ask how often it will be updated. This is a 2-part question because updating of a system to provide new features is a good thing; however, extensive website maintenance time is a bad thing, especially for e-commerce sites.
Ask how many options there are for customization on the front end. The frontend is the website's appearance when all of the information on the CMS is loaded into the designed template. Many companies need to brand their website specifically, so make sure the CMS either works with your current template, or you have options to customize the template options that the company has.
Ask how easily changes can be made on the backend. The backend is where the data is entered, usually by company employees. There is also a balance to strike with the backend of a CMS. For example, each business needs a certain number of changes to be made without having to call for technical support or web developer assistance. However, making too many fields editable by too many people also opens up opportunities for mistakes. Ask how permissions are assigned for CMS changes.
Ask about the functionality of the intranet. Most companies need to store data that is accessible to employees, but not published for the public. Make sure your employees can sign in easily to get the information they need.
Ask how progressive the vendor is toward developing new features. CMS is constantly changing, as is Internet commerce. The vendor's CMS must be able to support changes, plugins and possibly even customized functions as your business and customers grow and change.
Ask about the marketing options for your company. Even if you are not using them now, you should be able to add SEO and social media functions. For example, your URLs should be customizable, and they should lead back to your main website. Ask about tags, keywords, breadcrumb navigation and other features that will help your site list highly on an Internet search.

