 Get a holder who is the same size, weight, and is either as old or older than you. Don't get a beginner who has never held before, they will naturally flinch and mess you up.;
, For single board breaks, set up the board in the direction you are attacking. If it is a front kick, angle the board slightly forward and near the holder's stomach level, don't kick a vertical board. If it is a higher front kick, have them stand on a chair. If you are punching, make the board vertical. For both of these techniques, you want the holder to hold with their hands on top and bottom. For a hammer strike or knee strike you want to have them hold the sides. Elbow strikes are held on top and bottom, but the attacker is slightly to one side. For side kicks, make sure you use the heel. And for elbow strikes, use the fleshly part of the forearm instead of the bony elbow. For hammer strikes, have the holder go to a knee and angle the board backward at a 45 degree angle, not horizontal, and at their chest level. It will feel uncomfortable.
 The holder should hold the board at its very edges. The fingers should be scrunched up uncomfortably and not spread outward onto the board surface, for obvious reasons. Thumb tips should ride along the side of the board and not on either face except at the back slightly. The palms should support the back of the board only at the edge. There should be a space between the inside of the fingers and the side of the board big enough for a couple pencils to slide through if the thumbs were moved. Arms are out almost straight, but visibly bent. When the strike occurs, the holder should have their head turned to a side to prevent debris from hitting the face. Eyes should not be shut.
 The holder should be in a front stance. To do this, they stand feet together. For a right handed person, the left foot moves 2 feet (0.6 m) to the left and 4 footsteps to the front. Back leg straight, front leg visibly bent. Torso is leaning forward so shoulders are above the thighs and no further. If the holder is off-balance, have them move their front foot wider. The back heel should be planted on the ground. For right handed people, the right hand should be on the bottom of the board, head turned right.


If the breaker is doing a downward punch or foot stomp, use two cinder-blocks as supports instead of a person.
 Holder should be relaxed but stable until breaker is ready. At this point the holder tenses up preparing for the shock-wave of the hit. This relaxation helps ease pain in the finger and leg positions. Please! Warn your holder before you actually hit.



Double+ boards. For more than one board, two holders should be used. Both use front stances and position feet so both are comfortable and stable. Hands should criss-cross. From the holder's viewpoint, the left holder should have their right hand crossing the right holder's left, grabbing the lower right corner of the boards. Left hand is placed at top left. Top/bottom-Side positions remain the same as for single boards. Sometimes, the second holder can simply support the first holder's back. This goes for single boards too.






Types of boards. Assuming the right type of board is chosen, there are qualities to it that help in breaking. Boards with knots should be used for kicks and the knots best avoided. The strike should go with the grain of the board. For punches and elbows, the grain should be horizontal. All boards have a bend in them. You want the bend to go away from you so it breaks easier. The holder can even flex the board for extra help. If the wood has sap in it, it will be harder to break. If it has been left in a cold place for a while, this also makes it hard to break.







