 If the rash continues to spread over your body or does not seem to be improving, despite home treatments, it may be time to see your doctor. Your doctor should examine the rash and prescribe a treatment or medication to help get rid of the rash.As well, if you experience severe symptoms like difficulty breathing or swallowing, fever, or swelling of your skin or limbs, the rash may be a sign of a more serious medical issue and should be checked by your doctor.
 Your doctor, or dermatologist, will start by looking for the primary and more prominent feature of the rash. She may notice if the rash is circular in shape, ring-shaped, linear, or snake-like. She may also make note of the rash’s density, color, size, level of tenderness, and temperature (warm or cold to the touch). Finally, she may look at how the rash is distributed on your body, and if it only appears in certain areas or parts of your body.Your doctor may also run tests on your rash, such as a microscopic analysis of a skin sample and other laboratory tests. She may also run a patch test on you to determine if you are allergic to certain substances.You may also be required to undergo blood tests to determine if the rash may be a symptom of a viral infection or disease.
 If your doctor diagnoses you with a non-infectious rash due to an allergy or contact with an irritant, she may prescribe a cortisone cream or a medicated ointment to treat the rash.If your doctor diagnoses your rash as a symptom of eczema, she may prescribe topical steroids and medicated creams for eczema.
If your rash is diagnosed as a symptom of a fungal infection like tinea or ringworm, your doctor may prescribe a topical or oral antifungal medication.
If your rash is diagnosed as a symptom of a viral infection like herpes, your doctor may prescribe oral or intravenous antiviral medication.
 If you think your rash or hives may be due to a reaction from medication you are taking or have taken recently, you should speak to your doctor about switching medications. Never switch or stop taking medications without your doctor’s approval. Common allergy causing drugs include:Anticonvulsants, usually used to treat epileptic seizures.
Insulin, usually used to treat diabetes.
Iodinated x-ray contrast dyes, used when you get x-rays taken.
Penicillin and other antibiotics, usually used to treat infections.
If you experience a reaction to medication, you may experience hives, rashes, wheezing, swelling of your tongue, lip or face, and itchy eyes or skin.
 Once you have received a diagnosis and prescribed treatment from your doctor for your rash, you should schedule a follow up appointment with your doctor for the following week. This will allow her to check on your progress and ensure the rash is responding well to the treatment.


If properly diagnosed and treated, noninfectious rashes should fade and heal within one to two weeks.

