 Your doctor will determine what's causing your cough and might prescribe medication. For example, if your cough is caused by a bacterial infection, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics or antifungals (if it's a fungal infection).


Be sure to completely follow your doctor's recommended dosing, completing the medication as directed even if you start to feel better before you've finished your course of antibiotics.
 Cough drops can be useful for adults and older children who have a cough. Try getting some cough drops that contain menthol to help soothe your throat and open up your nasal passages.


Do not give cough drops to young children.
 Depending on the cause of your cough, your doctor might recommend that you take an OTC medication like antihistamines, pain relievers, or anti-asthma medications. Take care to read the medication's label for proper dosing and only take medications that specifically address your symptoms. For example, if your only symptom is a cough, you don't need a decongestant or antihistamine.


Avoid using any medication for more than seven days, unless your doctor has instructed you to do so.
Contact your child's doctor for medication recommendations. You may be able to give your child an over-the-counter medication, but it is best to consult your doctor first for specific recommendations.
 Expectorants thin out the mucus and phlegm which lets you cough them up easier. Use an expectorant like Guaifenesin which is available as a liquid, tablet, or capsule and follow the manufacturer's instructions. Avoid taking the expectorant for more than a week.Avoid giving guaifenesin to children under 4 years old. More studies are needed to determine the risks of using guaifenesin while pregnant or nursing., Ask your doctor about taking a cough suppressant since coughing is a natural way for your body to remove irritants and mucus. You might want to take a cough suppressant medication like dextromethorphan if:


You're coughing so much that you can't sleep
You're cough keeps you from concentrating
Your whole body aches from coughing

