 The curtains can fall just past the bottom of the window, or they can fall all the way down to the floor.
 Some fabric types cannot be washed, so read the side of the bolt when buying your fabric; it will tell you how to wash the fabric.
 You will need this extra fabric for the seam allowances.
 Make sure that you are folding towards the wrong side of the fabric. For extra support, insert some iron-on hem tape inside the hem before you iron it.
 Insert a strip of iron-on hem tape before you press the hem down, then follow the instructions on the package when ironing it. Make sure that the top edge of the tape aligns with the folded edge of the hem.Folding the hem twice like this gives you a cleaner finish, and you won't have to worry about any fraying edges showing.


You might find it easier to insert and iron 10 inch (25.4 centimeters) long sections of iron-on hem tape at a time.
 Once again, make sure that you are folding towards the wrong side of the fabric. Insert a piece of iron-on hem tape inside the second set of hems you are folding. For extra support, you can insert some iron-on hem tape inside the first set of hems as well.
 Once again, make sure that you are folding towards the wrong side of the fabric. For extra support, insert some iron-on hem tape inside the hem before you press it with an iron.
 Insert a strip of iron-on hem tape before you press the hem down. Make sure that the top edge of the tape aligns with the top, folded edge of the hem., This will help fuse the iron-on hem tape inside the hems further.
 This is the easiest and simplest way of hanging curtains.
 Flip the curtain so that the back is facing you. Cut 3½ inch (8.89 centimeters) long strips of 2 inch (5.08 centimeters) wide ribbon. Space the ribbons 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) apart. Glue the top of each ribbon strip to the top of the curtain. Glue the bottom of each ribbon 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) from the top of the curtain, creating a bulge. Slide the panels onto the curtain rod.Choose a ribbon color that matches your curtain color.
 Take the curtain rod off the wall, and attach the curtains. When you are done, place the rod back onto the wall. Position the panels to either side of the window, and tie them back with pieces of matching ribbon, if desired. If you have a very high ceiling, you may want to hang the curtains higher up, and pull them to the outer edges of the window (as opposed to the inner edges) instead.


If you are using curtain rings, clip them onto the top hem, and pass the curtain rod through the rings.
If you are using ribbon tabs, pass the curtain rod through the tabs.
If you are using just the hem, pass the curtain rod through the wide, top hem.

