 If you have grandparents or other relatives who have savings for such things, ask if they'd be willing to offer a loan. The benefit of getting a loan from a family member rather than a bank is that, being family, you'll probably get a better deal, interest-wise.
 CareCredit is a credit card that can be used for medical expenses. It allows you to pay for the expense in full and then make payments on the card over time. One of the benefits of CareCredit over normal credit cards is that they have promotional financing options, which allow you to avoid paying interest if you pay off a certain amount within the promotional time period, which is either 6, 12, 18, or 24 months, depending on the option you choose. The steps for applying for and using CareCredit include:Apply online at http://www.carecredit.com/apply/.
Check here http://www.carecredit.com/doctor-locator/ to find an orthodontist who accepts CareCredit.
Choose a financing option.
Make monthly payments.
 Joining a discount dental plan will allow you to get braces at a reduced cost. Find discount dental plans in your area using INeedDentalBenefits.com. Then you'll just have to pay around $100 a year to be on the plan. Orthodontists in your area who've signed on to the plan will then provide dental care including braces at a reduced cost., For low-income families, Medicaid can sometimes cover part of the cost of braces. Whether you or your child qualifies for Medicaid help with braces depends on your income and the state you reside in. Normally Medicaid will only apply for cases in which braces are deemed necessary for health purposes, not cosmetics.


Check with Medicaid's official website to learn if you qualify., Two of the biggest charities for dental work are Smiles Change Lives and Smiles for a Lifetime. Smiles Change Lives asks for a $600 commitment cost, and then covers the rest of the cost themselves. For both charities, you can see if you qualify, and apply for braces financing through their websites.Note, both of these charities are for children 10-18 only.

