 Use fennel to add licorice-like notes to your dishes without overpowering them with actual licorice. It can be eaten cooked or raw, but for the strongest flavor, try raw recipes. Anticipate a slightly weaker profile when cooked.If you find yourself mourning the loss of flavor when cooking fennel, try adding more than the recipe calls for and/or using the fronds as an extra herb.;
, When a recipe calls for fennel, expect it to specify only one part of the fresh piece that you just picked up at the store. Most likely, this will be the fennel's "bulb." Don't freak out if you've already used the whole thing when you weren't supposed to, though. Rest assured that all of its parts are perfectly edible, and that the only consequence of using the whole thing is an alteration in the dish's intended flavor.The bulb is the round, ball-like base of the vegetable, usually white and/or pale-green in color.
 Again, expect most recipes to only call for the fennel's bulb, but don't toss out the stalks and fronds just yet. Reduce waste by complementing your intended dish with another that uses the stalks and/or fronds. For instance:The stalks are the dark green shoots growing from the bulb. These leftover bits can replace the fennel bulb called for in cold salad recipes. They can also be sliced up and sauteed like onions to be include in braises, pastas, and stir-fries.
The fronds are the leafy greens growing from the stalks. These can be used for garnish or as an extra herb when cooking.
 Expect most recipes to call for the bulb when it’s being cooked.However, if you can’t find any (or just want to eliminate one more vegetable to prep), substitute the bulb with fennel seed, which you can find in the dried herbs and spices aisle at your grocery store. Use one teaspoon of fennel seed to replace each pound of fennel called for in your recipe.Sizes and weights of fresh bulbs vary, but on average one bulb weighs roughly 8 ounces (227 g).
If your recipe expresses the amount needed in cups, 1 cup of sliced fresh fennel weighs about 3 ounces (85 g).

