 They should be a healthy pink color, and its teeth should be white. If your cat’s teeth are yellow or brown, they have a buildup of tartar and plaque.Give your cat dental treats designed to reduce plaque and tartar.


Take your cat to the vet if you notice your cat has noticeably bad breath, or serious discoloration of gums and teeth. Vets can conduct an oral cleaning if necessary.
 There are many flavors of cat toothpaste available like chicken, liver, and malt. Choose one you think your cat will like. If your cat doesn’t like it, get a different one.
 Place a dab of toothpaste on your finger and let your cat lick it. Do this once a day for a few days to allow your cat to get used to the flavor and texture of the tooth paste.Do not put your finger in your cat’s mouth.
 You could use a baby human toothbrush, or obtain a specially designed cat toothbrush from your local pet store.Alternately, you could work the toothpaste into the cat’s mouth with a thin strip of gauze.
 For a few days before actually brushing your cat’s teeth, pull its lips back and just touch the brush to its teeth and gums. Reward your cat after doing so. Repeat for four or five days.
 Place a small dab of toothpaste on your strip of gauze or the end of your cat toothbrush and work it gently around your cat’s teeth in small circular motions. The teeth should have their entire surface brushed to a point just below the gum margin. Reward your cat after brushing with a yummy treat.


Do not brush directly on the gums.
Check for loose teeth while brushing your cat’s teeth. If you detect any, contact your vet for an appointment.
 Vets are specially trained to look for problems with cat teeth that you might not see.


Some vets will brush your cat’s teeth as part of a regular checkup routine. If they do not, or if you don’t want to brush your cat’s teeth yourself, you can typically get the vet to clean its teeth for an added fee.
 The meat and marrow from the bones naturally polishes the surface of your cat’s teeth as it chews the bone.


Never give your cat cooked bones, which are likely to splinter.
A cat that drags a raw meat bone around the house is likely to leave a greasy mess in its wake. Consider giving the bone to the cat only when it’s outside.

