 When you go to sleep at the same time every night, you help set your body's natural rhythms so that you will start to get tired around that time. For this to work, it's important to keep your bedtime every night, even on weekends or when you're on vacation.If you have a partner, ideally you both should have the same bedtime. Otherwise you may be distracted or wake up when your partner comes to bed.
 As you get older, you typically will become sleepier earlier in the evening and wake up earlier in the morning. This is a common syndrome associated with aging, in which your sleep rhythm is shifted forward.If you're forcing yourself to stay up as late as you did when you were younger, you may still find yourself unable to sleep later in the morning, which will result in you not getting enough sleep.
 The light from a television, tablet, or cell phone can make it difficult for you to fall asleep. Once asleep, you won't sleep as deeply if you fell asleep with the television on or while reading from a back-lit device.If you want to read before bed, read from a paper book or use a dedicated e-reader that isn't backlit, rather than reading from a tablet.
If you have a digital clock or other electronic devices with blinking lights, you may want to shield them from view. the light can be distracting and can make it difficult to sleep or cause interruptions in sleep without you even realizing it. Your bedroom should be dark and free of distractions.
 Once you've set your bedtime, a relaxing ritual will help your brain relax and get ready for sleep. Choose an activity that normally relaxes you, such as reading or taking a warm bath.Relaxation techniques such as deep breathing or meditation also can prepare you mentally for sleep. You also might try playing some soft, relaxing music to help you wind down.
Repeat your ritual every night until it becomes habitual. Typically you want to start your ritual about an hour before your scheduled bedtime to give your mind and body time to wind down from the day.
If you find yourself distracted by worries or things you have to do the next day, you might want to buy a notebook that you can use as a journal. Write down the things that are bothering you so that you can stop repeating them in your head as you're trying to go to sleep. You might also make a to-do list for the next day to help you stop thinking about errands for the next day.
 If you bring work into your bedroom, or have a desk or exercise equipment in your bedroom, your brain will associate the room with those things. This can make it more difficult for you to fall asleep.Particularly if you have work-related items in your bedroom, you may find it difficult not to focus on work as you're trying to fall asleep.
If you have a partner, romantic or sexual involvement before sleep may help you to fall asleep faster and get a better night's sleep.
Generally, your bedroom should be quiet. If your partner snores, you may want to use ear plugs to block out their snoring. If you need sound to fall asleep, try a fan or a white noise machine rather than playing music, which can be distracting.

