 This will help to give you a feel for how small the sweater has become and whether transforming it into a cardigan is a viable option. If it's too small to fit even as a cardigan, you may want to consider donating or trading it instead.;
, Smooth it out as much as you can.
 Use a tape measure to find the exact centre-line down the front of the sweater.
 Once you have marked the centre, stitch down each side of the centre join using an appropriate stitch. Choose a strong stitch, such as zigzag or serging stitch. Leave a very small gap between each line of stitching, to enable you to cut the cardigan opening.
 Using sharp sewing scissors suitable for fabric, cut the sweater in the tiny gap between the two lines of stitching, straight up (or down) the centre. The stitching from the last step will prevent any unravelling of the sweater.
 Cover over the stitching with ribbon that matches or complements the colour of the cardigan. Stitch with small, invisible stitches to attach the ribbon. If preferred, simply finish off with good, invisible stitching rather than adding ribbon. It depends on your skill and the final look that you are seeking for the cardigan.
 The closing mechanism depends on how much smaller your sweater has become. Even a brooch will suffice but here is a list of other possibilities:


In many cases, it might be best to just leave this as an "open" cardigan, to display pretty blouses or clean shirts underneath.






An eye and hook or a button at the top of the cardigan can be useful for keeping it together in one place. Alternatively, leave some ribbon at the top from the ribbon edging, enough to tie in a bow.






Consider inserting a ribbon or leather cord through the middle of the cardigan as a belt or sash.






Cardigan pins are fashionable also. These consist of little wooden pins (wren pins) that slide through the fabric. This might work for your new cardigan.






If there is a little give and the cardigan isn't at risk of puckering or stretching too much (not flattering to the chest area), you might like to consider buttons and buttonholes.






If there is plenty of give still, inserting a zip might be possible also. You will need to use your own judgment on this option as to what will serve your particular situation best.
 If you can't make a cardigan out of it, you might be interested in making your sweater into a purse, or a cat bed.

