 This is an important first step for further training. Begin calling your dog by its name as soon as you adopt it. Even though the dog won't understand that you are talking about it right away, the repetition over time will help it to learn that you are talking about it.


Pick a name for your dog that is easy to say. This will allow you to teach the dog its name more easily.
 This is an important bit of training that is key to having a happy and healthy relationship with your pet. House training a dog is a bit different than teaching commands. Dogs instinctually want to keep their bathroom spot separate from where they sleep and eat. Because of this, house training a dog is more about showing the dog the boundaries of home and bathroom than directing the dog when to go to the bathroom.


The key to house training is taking your dog out on a regular basis. When you first begin training your dog, there will probably be accidents between trips outside, as the dog is not used to the routine yet. However, over time the dog's system will adjust to the regular intervals between trips outside.
If a dog goes to the bathroom in the house, immediately take it outside to finish its business. The important part of this is taking the dog outside immediately. A dog doesn't have the ability to make a connection between going to the bathroom inside and being taken outside unless these things happen basically simultaneously.
 Dobermans, like all dogs, need to be socialized at a young age.This means that you must take your puppy to parks, dog-friendly stores, and other places your pup will meet new people. You want your puppy to constantly be meeting new people, so that it understands that this is a normal, and pleasant, part of life.


If your puppy goes with little socialization, he or she will not be friendly to other dogs in the future. This will prove to be a major problem.
 If you adopt an adult dog that has not been socialized you should begin remedial socialization with them. This means that you need to start with the basics to get them used to people and animals out in the world.Start by building trust with the animal. It needs to trust and follow your commands in order to be trained how to respond to strangers and other animals.
Once you have bonded with your adult dog, then start doing short excursions into public. You should keep your dog away from actual contact with strangers and animals at first, simply letting the dog see that others out in the world mean it no harm.
Gradually introduce the dog to new people. Get a friend to help with this training. Have the person stand near the dog in a non-threatening position, but not so close that the dog could actually make contact.Have your helper use a kind voice and hold treats for the dog, so that it gradually goes to the helper on its own.
Also introduce your dog to other dogs. This is a delicate and gradual process, in which the dog first needs to see and smell the other dog before being allowed to get close enough to make contact with the other dog. This may take quite awhile if your dog is aggressive to other dogs. Over days, and probably weeks, gradually expose your dog to the sights and smells of other dogs.

