 Wash your face regularly (twice a day with a cleanser) and use a suitable moisturizer. Look for natural moisturizers, over packaged ones. You may try using yogurt as a moisturizer and freshly crushed cucumber as a face mask.


Massage fresh yogurt onto your face. Use fresh crushed cucumber as a face mask. Relax as the cucumbers refresh your skin then wash it off. Talk to a dermatologist or skin care professional about what works best for your skin. You can try using an avocado face mask. Mash the avocado with 1 tbsp of milk and leave on for 30 mins .;
, Remove dry skin, dirt and debris from your face by exfoliating with natural products. Avoid using harsh skin chemicals that may damage sensitive skin. Aishwarya uses an ancient indian beauty secret mix of milk, haldi (turmeric), and besan (gram flour) to create a paste to exfoliate.


Rub the paste gently over your skin and make sure you wash it off thoroughly. Talk to your dermatologist or skin care specialist about what works best for your skin.
 Aishwarya washes her face with baby soap at least three times a day. She also applies moisturizer before she sleeps. Massage your moisturizer in upward strokes to fight wrinkles.Gently apply soap and moisturizer to your skin. Remember to also wash and moisturize your neck., Avoid processed food, fried food, and sweets. Watch your diet. You want to eat foods rich in vitamins, antioxidants, and minerals. Try to prepare you own healthy home cooked meals and drink a lot of water.


Eat a lot of fruits and vegetables high in antioxidant vitamins E, B, and C. Leafy greens, including kale and spinach, carrots, oranges, peppers, and berries can all help your skin and hair.For example, she eats boiled vegetables. Eat brown rice over regular rice because the high fiber content burns fat and helps regulate your metabolism.
 Water will keep your skin hydrated and give it a healthy glow. Drink about eight glasses a day to flush your body from toxins that may cause skin blemishes. Avoid processed and oily foods., Instead of eating three large meals every day opt for eating several small meals. This will help regulate your calorie intake and prevent you from snacking.
 Aishwarya firmly believes that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. She starts her day with lemon and honey mixed in hot water. This kick-starts your metabolism and detox.Use freshly squeezed lemon and active raw Manuka honey. This honey contains healthy properties because it hasn’t been processed, unlike regular store-bought honey., Aishwarya was is blessed with good genes and does not implement a strict workout routine unless a movie role requires it. While you may not have an upcoming movie role, you may have a wedding, vacation, or personal milestone that you will want to feel or look your best.


Aishwarya admits that she isn’t a fan of working out and only took up a vigorous training routine for her role in Dhoom 2. However, it is understandable if you have a different image of your body and enjoy including working out into your weekly routine.
 Aishwarya begins her day with a brisk walk, light exercises, and power yoga. Make sure you consult your doctor or a fitness professional before engaging in too much physical activity.


You may have to implement more strenuous activities to achieve your desired look. Aishwarya has been blessed with a figure that requires little work. Find an exercise routine that you enjoy and that will create the physique that you want.
 The consumption of alcohol and smoking cigarettes can speed the aging process. It can change the texture of your skin and discolour your teeth. They can also keep you up at night, further hastening the aging process.
 Aishwarya Rai is an international star but proud of her Indian heritage. She prefers to wear an Indian Saree to formal functions. Choose traditional clothes that suit your style and budget.Aishwarya has been seen wearing a sheer yellow saree with a zari border, a sheer net saree with beads and stone embellishments for the border, and even a net half saree paired with a velvet blouse. Whatever you choose, personalize your look by choosing the right size, colour, and material., Aishwarya loves wearing these trendy suits for any occasion. An anarkali suit is traditionally Indian and is composed of a frock-style top that’s long. This is known as the anarkali and worn with slim leggings known as salwar or churidar. She has worn a chocolate coloured hand embroidered suit with rich stone work. The materials include velvet, net, viscose, and chiffon. Find patterns, fabrics, and colours that work for you.You may also try another Aishwarya inspired Anarkali suit that’s heavily embellished in grey, green, gold, and white. Find Anarkali suits online or at an Indian garment district.
 Aishwarya enjoys an elegant style with her suit collection. She has been seen in a pink suit when she was honoured by the French government and an emerald green designer suit for a jewelry launch. Choose colours and textures that suit the occasion., Aishwarya has been seen in a white top, cardigan, and jeans. Create a simple yet chic look. Dress to suit your mood when you’re simply out and about.She looked effortless shopping in a yellow top and jeans, cool traveling in a loose fitting tank top and shorts, and hot in low waist jeans and a black shirt.
 Aishwarya favours form-fitting gowns and structured jackets for formal occasions. Choose outfits that are flattering for your figure. She also prefers outfits that are not too frilly or fussy.Aishwarya seldom takes risks and wears fits and colours that suit her body.
 Aishwarya also wears chikan salwar kameez for a casual look. These are a traditional Indian one-piece garment that are at least knee length. They can have long, short, or no sleeves and can be worn with or without matching pants depending on the length. Go for a consistent and timeless look., Aishwarya prefers rich colours and earth colours for traditional Indian outfits. She will wear black and white when it comes to western wear. Find colours that suit your style.Pastels include peach, blue, pink, tan, white, and yellow. Earth colours include cream, deep purple, dark green, gold, and maroon. She will also wear darker colours for her saris. She enjoys wearing tailored black jackets and clothes made from materials including lightweight wool, silk, and satin. Be sure to tailor your look for western clothing.
 Aishwarya likes to wear fashion designed by Manish Malhotra, Rohit Bal, Ritu Beri, Shahab Durrazi, Armani Prive, Sabyasachi, Elie Saab, and Sabyasachi to name a few.Don’t break the bank with designer clothes. You can find similar designs that suit your budget.
 Aishwarya enjoys wearing scarves or delicate jewelry. She also likes to wear heels with casual outfits. Choose pieces with colours and textures to compliment your outfit.Find close-toed black ankle boots or open-toed tan pumps. You may also look for a classic leather purse for its versatility.
 Aishwarya likes to wear printed, structured summer dresses. The colours are subdued and she will accessorize with wedges or sandals as well as a metallic watch and small earings.She also enjoys wearing large sunglasses regardless of the season, much like any celebrity.
 Aishwarya enjoys luxury watches as she is the spokeswoman for Longlines. She also enjoys wearing at least one ring, in particular a large pearl set to go with her wedding ring. She also enjoys wearing thin metallic or diamond bracelets and small earrings. Find jewelry that suits your taste., For your everyday keep your makeup as natural as possible. Aishwarya will wear pink, tan, or peach eye shadow, black eyeliner, and mascara for her eyes. She also consistently wears concealer and foundation to make sure her skin looks fresh and dewy.Find the shades that suit your skin tone. Research online or talk to skincare and beauty specialists.
Stick to colours that compliment your eyes and skin tone. Aishwarya’s prefered cosmetic brands include Lakme, Revlon, Mac, and Maybeline. For example, Aishwarya uses pink shades, brown, and peach for her cheeks and lips.
 Aishwarya will wear a peach blush or warm pink on her cheeks. She will then match a pink brown shade or peach brown shade of lipstick. Find the colour combinations to suit the occasion.Talk to a skincare or beauty specialist to find the right colour palette for your skin tone.
 Aishwarya prefers using makeup made by Mac, Lakme, Revlon, and Maybelline. She Also uses fragrances by Clinique and Calvin Klein., Aishwarya rarely wears a lip colour that is bold or extravagant. She understands that her lips don’t need excessive attention so she applies more subtle shades. You may try using shades that are brown or pink based., Aishwarya is known for her striking aqua-blue eyes. Emulate her look by wearing contacts that are green or grey if you have dark eyes. Avoid wearing blue contacts if you are Indian or Asian because they will look unnatural., Aishwarya avoids makeup that looks harsh, preferring soft and blended eyeshadows. Pink and peach eyeshadows pair well with a gel eyeliner containing a pop of colour. Consult a beauty specialist to find the correct colour palette for your eye colour., Aishwarya’s favourite hair colour is chocolate brown but she has been known to dye her hair and change her style on occasion. If you dye your hair also dry your eyebrows., Wear your hair down, keep it clean, and don’t hide your face. Aishwarya prefers to blow-dry her hair straight, blow-dry her hair then curl it, or wear a blow out. She also prefers to part her hair to the right and layer her hair, keeping front pieces trimmed past her chin.