 Stress leads to higher blood pressure and tension — both of which cause headaches. Find ways to relax to combat headaches.Tailor your techniques to your personality and preferences. What has the most calming effect? Here are some examples.


Slow, deep breathing in a quiet environment.
Focusing on positive outcomes.
Restructuring priorities and eliminate unnecessary tasks.
Reducing use of electronic devices. These may cause eye-strain and trigger headaches.
Use humor. Research has found humor to be an effective way to deal with acute stress.
Listening to relaxing music., Yoga improves fitness, lowers blood pressure, promotes relaxation and self-confidence, and reduces stress and anxiety. People who practice yoga tend to have good coordination, posture, flexibility, range of motion, concentration, sleep habits, and digestion. Yoga can be helpful for tension, migraine, and post-traumatic headaches, general anxiety and stress.Take a group class and be sure to focus on your breathing as well as your poses. The instructor will help you with both of these aspects of yoga., Tai chi is a gentle exercise program derived from martial arts. It consists of slow, deliberate movements, meditation, and deep breathing. Tai chi can help enhance physical health, emotional well being, coordination, and agility. People who practice tai chi on a regular basis tend to have good posture, flexibility, range of motion, and sleep more soundly at night. All of these factors help to regulate your body and decrease stress — thus alleviating many types of headaches.


Tai chi is usually taught by an instructor with weekly sessions that can last for an hour. Tai chi should also be practiced for 15–20 minutes twice daily at home, and is safe for everyone regardless of age or athletic ability., There is evidence that conscious interaction with the natural environment promotes healthier lifestyles. One study found that living in a green environment lowered stress levels and encouraged physical activity. Activities such as gardening, hiking, and playing tennis outdoors can help reduce stress and promote overall well being. Try to make time for outdoor recreational activities at least 1–2 hours per week.Take the necessary precautions if you suffer from outdoor allergens. Consider taking allergy medicines like Allegra, Claritin, Zyrtec, Benadryl, Phenergan, and Clarinex.