 Turn on the oven to 375 degrees F (175 C). You'll need to have a few baking sheets ready to put the cookies on. You won't need to grease or spray the baking sheets.If your cookies frequently stick to the pans, consider laying a sheet of parchment paper on the pans.
 Since this easy whole wheat sugar cookie recipe comes together in one large mixing bowl, just measure out the most of the dough ingredients into the bowl. Beat them with an electric mixer on medium speed until they're combined. You'll need:1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar
1 teaspoon of baking powder
½ teaspoon of salt
½ teaspoon of ground nutmeg
½ teaspoon of baking soda
2 tablespoons (30 ml) of milk
1 tablespoon of lemon or orange zest
1 teaspoon of vanilla
½ cup (113 g) of butter, softened
1 egg

, Turn the mixer speed down to low and gradually stir in 2 cups (260 g) of whole-wheat flour. Mix the dough together until the flour is incorporated and you don't see any dry pockets.Avoid over mixing the dough since this can make the cookies tough.
 Use a cookie scoop or two teaspoons to measure out a few tablespoons of dough. Roll each portion of dough between the palms of your hands to make a smooth ball of dough. Place all of the balls of dough on the ungreased cookie sheets and leave about 2-inches (5 cm) of space in between them.Each ball should be about 1-inch (2.5 cm) in size.
 Use the palm of your hand or a glass to slightly flatten each ball of dough a little. Mix together the remaining 2 tablespoons of sugar and 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon in a small bowl. Sprinkle the cinnamon-sugar mixture over the cookies.You could also play around with the flavors. Try substituting ground nutmeg or cocoa for the cinnamon.
 Place the cookies in the preheated oven and bake them for 8 to 10 minutes. The cookies should puff up and crack a little bit once they're baked. They'll also turn light brown around the edges. Remove them from the oven and let them cool on a wire rack.If you have to bake the cookies in batches, avoid placing cold cookie dough on hot baking sheets. Let the sheets cool completely before using them again.

