


The list of gluten-free foods is comparatively short and straight-forward and includes: all fresh fruits and vegetables; all non-processed meats, fish and fowl; eggs, unprocessed dairy, such as fresh milk and 100 percent natural cheeses; and grains such as corn, rice, buckwheat, amaranth, quinoa and millet.
The list of products that contain gluten is long and varied and includes everything from breads and pastas to commercial soups, ice cream, sauce packets, pre-made gravies and sauces, spice blends and flavorings, condiments, canned and cured meats, and the fillers in vitamins, medications and supplements. Considering how common gluten is, focusing on the "cannots" can be depressing and overwhelming.
A dietitian that specializes in celiac disease can direct you to extensive resources, such as gluten-free recipes, food lists, hidden gluten and other resources to show you how to live with gluten intolerance.



While there is no doubt that you will have to change your eating habits and remove some foods from your diet, in recent years several manufacturers have come up with gluten-free alternatives to many popular foods including bread, donuts and pancakes.
You can find gluten-free foods in health food stores, in the natural foods section of mainstream grocery stores, and even on the regular shelves. These items will have gluten-free prominently displayed on the package.
Due to the recent popularity of gluten-free diets, manufacturers of mainstream foods are also changing their package labeling to let consumers know which foods are gluten free. One example is General Mills' gluten free ad campaign.



These sites provide gluten-free recipes, lists of gluten-free products, gluten-free restaurants and other information to show you how to live with gluten intolerance.
Many of these sites also provide patient-to-patient forums where you can discuss your concerns, and share gluten-free tips with others.



Check the restaurant's website for gluten information or call the restaurant and ask the chef about his food preparation methods.
For example, a baked salmon entrée could appear gluten-free but if the chef uses a commercial spice blend, it could contain gluten.
If the restaurant does not provide gluten-free options, or if you are unable to determine how the food is prepared, do not eat at that restaurant.



Because gluten intolerance is not always visible, your loved ones might not understand why you have to change your diet.
Additionally, with the increasing popularity of gluten-free diets, it's easy for people to assume that you are simply following a trend.
The more they understand about your condition, the better they can help you live gluten-free such as providing alternative foods at gatherings or just supporting your need to provide your own food.



Because gluten appears in so many foods, it is almost impossible to completely avoid it. If you do ingest gluten, the only thing you can do is ride it out until the gluten leaves your system.
Having digestive remedies on hand will make the waiting period more bearable.

