 Before you enter the maze, know where you will be exiting. If it’s not apparent, ask an employee. Keep in mind the direction you’re heading while walking the maze.


While it helps to keep the exit in mind, remember mazes are made to be confusing. You may start venturing in the direction of the exit only to find yourself back where you started!;
, An employee should hand you a map before you get started. Use a pencil to follow the trails you pass so you know which direction to go. A map will also help you escape a trap.


While using the map, note your location. Keep note of turns and intersections that look familiar. Look for checkpoints. This will help assure that you do not walk down the same path twice.
 Pay attention to where traffic sounds are coming from. If there are carnival rides or any other loud events, pay attention to their location to help you place where you are in the maze.


Ask people in your group to be quiet and listen for these noises, too. Working together can be more effective.
 Stay together until you find your way out. Being lost as a group is hard enough. It's much more difficult to find your way out if you are also trying to find members of your group at the same time.
 While you may not have phone reception deep in a corn maze, this step is worth a shot. Look up a nearby location on your phone as your destination location. Follow the directions of your GPS until you find your way out of the maze.
 Choose either the left or right side and stick with it. Keep dragging your hand along the same side of the wall until you find your way out. This technique will not work if there are open areas where the wall ends.
 Other may have already gone through the maze and know how to find their way out. While this technique doesn’t always work, you may feel better to have a bigger group with you.


They may have new ideas you haven't thought of yet.
If you are both confused, ask them if they want to work with you to find your way out together.
 While most areas of the maze will look the same after a while, you may find small differences that make certain areas stand out. Look for items that show up repeatedly. For example, if there is a Coke bottle in a corner that you keep coming across, you may realize you’ve passed this area before..


Some mazes have clues throughout the maze to help you find your way. Answering the clues correctly will guide you in the right direction. Answering them wrong means heading in the wrong direction or back in a circle.