 You may not know what to say to someone who has lost a baby. This is okay. Your friend probably does not expect you to have the right words and, in fact, there may be little to say that will provide concrete comfort in the aftermath of a miscarriage. Often, the best thing to do for a friend grieving pregnancy loss is to simply listen without judgment.Oftentimes, simply telling the story is a healing process to someone suffering a miscarriage. Allow your friend to tell their story as many times as they need. Always be attentive.
You do not have to say a lot while listening. Acknowledge you're paying attention by occasionally restating your friend’s feelings or thoughts. Let your friend know you're always willing to listen, even if you can't take the pain away. Say something like, "I know I can't take away your pain, but know that I will always be willing to listen when you want or need to talk."
When your friend talks, give non-verbal cues you are listening. Make eye contact and nod on occasion.;
, A miscarriage can result in a wide range of feelings. There is no wrong way to feel about pregnancy loss. Oftentimes, a friend does not need someone to explain or change their feelings. They simply need the validation of knowing their feelings matter. After a miscarriage, try to provide your friend with this support.Encourage your friend to open up. Say something like, "No matter what you're feeling, you can tell me. It's okay to take this time to grieve."
Your friend may also experience negative feelings during specific times. Anniversaries, holidays, or the baby's due date may be difficult. Reach out to your friend during these times and let them know you're there to listen.
 People are often hesitant to raise the topic of a miscarriage. You may want to avoid making someone sad or raising a difficult topic. However, sadness is an essential part of the grieving process. Many people feel isolated after a miscarriage as people avoid the topic. Do not be afraid to ask your friend how they're feeling on occasion.Make sure you ask appropriately. Try something like, "I was just wondering how you're doing with everything. Let me know if you want to talk."
You can also make yourself available to watch a movie, hang out, or have a cup of coffee. Your friend may not know what she needs, so being a gentle initiator may be helpful.
Your friend may not always want to talk about their miscarriage. If this is the case, do not push it. Just let them know that, if they want, you're there to listen. Say something like, "I understand if you don't want to talk about it right now, but I'm always here."

, Keep the door open for support after a miscarriage. In addition to asking and listening, make sure your friend knows they can always come to you. Each time you talk to your friend, say something like, "Just so you know, you can talk to me any time you want. Feel free to call if you need to talk."Check in on occasion so your friend knows the door is open. You can, for example, send a text that says something like, "Just wondering how you're doing. Let me know if you need anything."

, If your friend is not ready to talk, you can show your support in writing. Do not hesitate to send a thoughtful condolences card just after a miscarriage. If your friend needs space, they will appreciate being able to read your heartfelt words even if they're not ready to reach out directly.You can also send additional cards of support or e-cards to let your friend know you are still thinking of her.
 Miscarriage can cause physical symptoms in addition to emotional ones. Your friend may be laid up after a miscarriage and unable to keep up with household chores. Offer to do things like the dishes, laundry, and other basic household tasks in the wake of your friend's miscarriage.Keep in mind, even after physical symptoms pass, your friend may find it difficult to get up the motivation for chores. Offer your help even if your friend seems physically capable.
 As a miscarriage can be physically debilitating, see if your friend needs help with any errands. Offer to do things like run to the dry cleaners, pick up groceries, pick up prescriptions, or any other tasks your friend needs help with after pregnancy loss.For example, if your friend needs a prescription filled, offer to pick it up for them. You can have them call in the prescription and let the pharmacist know a friend will be picking it up.
 If your friend has other children, childcare can be difficult after a miscarriage. In addition to the physical symptoms, your friend may feel emotionally drained and struggle to interact with their other children. Offer to help out with childcare. You can offer to babysit, take the kids somewhere, or simply just come over and help out with the kids while your friend is at home., Your friend may avoid social situations at first. Do not push your friend to come out if they're not ready, but always extend the invitation. It may be good for your friend to socialize after a point and you want them to know they're always invited.As your friend may initially hesitate to socialize, do not put too much pressure on them when extending an invitation. Say something like, "We're all going out for dinner Saturday. If you're feeling up to it, we would love it if you joined us. If not, we completely understand."

, Many basic tasks can be difficult after a miscarriage. Your friend may struggle to do things like cooking. Bring your friend over some food so they keep up with nutrition after a miscarriage.Make meals that can easily be heated up and will last for a bit. You could, for example, make a large casserole or pasta dish that your friend can refrigerate and then heat up when they want to eat.
 Many women are sensitive about their bodies. Before and after pregnancy, body image can be a tricky subject. You want to avoid talking about your body or your friend's body if they've just had a miscarriage. Such comments can trigger memories of a lost pregnancy.For example, refrain from discussing things like your weight, weight loss, or your friend's physical appearance. Even if they're unrelated to pregnancy, such comments can serve as a reminder.
 Many people forget that a miscarriage is a loss. Just because the baby was not carried to term does not mean you're friend is not mourning the child. Therefore, avoid comments encouraging your friend to see the bright side. Things like, "Remember, you can always get pregnant again" or "At least you know you can get pregnant" are not helpful during a miscarriage. Your friend likely already knows these things, but they do not make up for the loss., Try to avoid platitudes of cliches when discussing your friend's miscarriage. These statements are likely to come off as condescending or rude. Stick to talking about your friend's specific feelings.Things like "Everything happens for a reason" and "Time can help heal you" are generally not helpful. Such statements can even be offensive, especially if your friend is still grieving.
It is also important to steer clear of telling stories about other people’s miscarriages during this time.
Instead, focus on your friend's specific experience. For example, ask something like, "How do you feel about everything?"

, Your friend will not appreciate unsolicited medical advice. They probably have a doctor talking them through the miscarriage. Avoid suggesting ways to prevent a miscarriage in the future or speculating on the causes of a miscarriage. This is unlikely to help your friend grieve and will simply come off as insensitive.For example, refrain from making suggestions about your friend's health. Do not say things like, "I hear stress can contribute. Maybe in the future, when you're more relaxed, you'll have a healthier pregnancy." While you may think this is helpful, your friend may find it presumptuous and insensitive.
If your friend wants to talk about things like doctor's appointments, ask questions instead of diagnosing. For example, "How did it go at the doctor's? How are you feeling about what your doctor said?"

