 Aside from the vital importance of research to the process of providing accurate coverage, specific, in-depth research will also help you choose the most productive question to ask. News conferences in particular are usually held to update the public about a storyline that is already being covered. As such, you will be expected to have a base knowledge on the topic of the news conference, especially as a journalist.Your own organization’s coverage is a great place to get up to date, as is talking to any co-workers that have been involved in coverage of related topics, or those who may be familiar with the speaker in particular.
Research both the topic, and the expected speaker in particular.
 Particularly if the topic being covered is not immediately attention-grabbing, you and the other journalists may need to pull more information out of the speaker during the question and answer session than they volunteer. If you expect an announcement about something that could go one way or the other, prepare questions that would address the specifics of either scenario., This may benefit you in multiple ways. For one, your literal position in the room may prove to be the deciding factor in your getting the chance to ask a question. Further, arriving early allows the chance to speak with other journalists and maybe even conference organizers. Ideally, shoot for a spot near where the speaker is sitting, or in the middle of the front row.
If you are able to speak with a conference organizer, request the opportunity to speak with the speaker privately after the conference right off the bat. They may be planning to allow a few journalists a bit more nuanced perspective of a situation, and coming first to the table increases the chances you’ll get dessert.
 News conferences can be fast-paced, so having notes handy as a reference can be helpful. On a notepad, jot down the important points the speaker makes and any word-by-word verbatim quotes that may be relevant to the story you intend to write or the interest of the organization you’re affiliated with. In particular, take note of points you hope are revisited, and consider questions that would dictate a more extensive response regarding these points. Good notes will allow you to cite a speaker’s own words to them. For instance, you can later begin a question with “Earlier, you stated that _________, could you expand on that further or tell us explicitly what you meant be that?”

, Often, what a speaker chooses not to say is of equal importance to what they’ve said. The more familiar you are with the topic, the more likely you’ll be able to predict or look for certain types of comments, and know that their absence may also be significant.For instance, if you’re aware of a certain facet of the topic that you know should be addressed and is not, structure a question accordingly. You know there’s a reason it wasn’t brought up.
 Especially if you are affiliated with a reputable organization, it is always worth asking for the chance to speak with the speaker one on one after the conference. If they are hesitant to grant the audience, specify that you only have one question to ask.Further, specify that you have a question you’d rather not ask during the conference.


You can even apply a bit of pressure to earn a private audience by implying or telling the speaker you know something that not everyone does, and you wish to discuss it discretely.
While this may backfire and risk coming off as brash, it may also intrigue a speaker enough to hear your question.
 Unless you simply want to get your write-up to print as quickly as possible, hang around. This will increase the chances of seeing or hearing more than what was conveyed in the context of a formal news conference. The speaker may even be willing to speak casually with members of the press off the record, or speak further about topics unrelated to the topic of the press conference after it has concluded.