 Some children will tend to listen and take mental notes on the intonation of the parents speeches asking them to zipper back-up. They might very well begin to stop un-zippering shortly thereafter, without much action being taken.;
, Something that wraps over-top of the zipper is often-times enough to deter the kids away from unzipping their garment. Use this flap anytime your child uses these sleepers/pajamas. Day or night; it doesn't matter!

, Fingerless mittens tend to make it harder for small hands to work with such a tiny zipper closure. The bigger the mittens enclosure, the better possibility that it will work on the child.


If you can't seem to possibly find a pair of completely-fingerless mittens, let them wear a pair of their own socks (or one of your bigger socks would work too).
 Resew these feet back onto the garment. This action will cause you the parent, to be the only person that will be able to effectively zipper-up the sleeper on your child every night, since the zipper pull will then be in back of the child. It's not too easy for a child to unzip something that they cannot reach very easily, without parental assistance (and thereby without parental permission).
 Many online retailers sell sleepers with zippers in the back for this exact reason. It keeps the zipper out of sight and out of mind to the child, and makes it more difficult for them to unzip if they are determined to wriggle out., If there is one available in your child's size, they will be very worthwhile your money. You could find one with snaps or one with Velcro, but you'll have to look hard to find these.
 Again, they'll resist you doing this, but to keep them warm (and thereby still keep them healthy), it's pertinent that you still follow the standard protocol.
 Not only does an infant enjoy being tightly cocooned-up like a "jelly roll", they still get to enjoy the same warmth from your body when you hold them that close to their body and may even be able to forget what they were attempting to do in the first place. The child's parent (who should take this as bonding time with the child) will be able to relax too, knowing their child is safe and secure, held in front of them at all times.

