 Once you've talked to the girl enough to give her an inkling about your affections, it's time to go into ignore mode and to start chatting up other girls at the bar. You should do this after just a few minutes of talking to the first girl. Here are some great targets to try:


Whether you're at a party or a bar, just pick a girl near you and start talking to her. Slowly transition from talking to the original girl to being absorbed by the new girl completely. Make sure you look like you're laughing and have a great time.
Take the other girl to the dance floor. Don't make out with her or grope her. Just dance with her for a song or two and look like you're having a great time.
Pick a pack of girls to hang out with. Make them laugh and let the other girl watch.
 If you want to stay more local to the girl or if you're done with your random girls, you can make the girl jealous by paying attention to her friends. This will let you stay close and keep her focused on you while making her doubt your intentions.


Make all of the friends like you. Be your most witty, charming, and charismatic self.
Make a point of ignoring the original girl in front of her friends. Even if she's standing right in front of you, act like she's not there.
Don't isolate the friends too much. Try to get all of them to like you while you flirt it up. If you pay too much attention to a close friend of the girl's and she starts to like you, then you may create unwanted drama.
 This is a bold move. If you're out at a bar or a party, leave with another girl at the end of the night. You don't even have to end up going home with her. Just let the original girl see you walking out with another girl.


Acknowledge the original girl with a small nod or a smile as you walk out. Let her know that you know she's watching you.
 You can make a girl jealous even in the daytime. If you're hanging out with another girl, whether it's just a friend or someone you're also flirting with, let the girl see you having a great time with someone else.


If the girl you want to make jealous sees you with another girl, make sure to look completely focused on the girl you're with. When you "finally" notice jealous girl, you can say, "Oh, I didn't even see you there." Of course you didn't -- you were too busy having fun with another girl.
Pick places where you know jealous girl will be. Parade into her favorite cafe or dining spot with a gaggle of girls and look like you're having as much fun as possible.
If you have a class together, sit away from her and next to another girl, and let her see you whispering to the other girl and doodling in the margins of her notes.
 This is an important point. If you're just using jealousy to make the girl see you as desirable and to want you even more, you shouldn't spend too much time courting other women or talking about them, or the girl will see you as a playboy and will be turned off.


If you're using other girls at a bar or at a party to make the girl jealous, don't spend all night talking to them and then ignore her. Come back to the girl you want after a few minutes, before she loses patience.
Once you see that the girl is really interested, stop talking about other girls or chatting up other girls in the vicinity. The chase is over -- for now.

