 Avoid compliments that are too familiar or inappropriate when praising your co-worker’s performance or your mother-in-law’s exceptional family values.

You are trying to make her feel good about herself and associate you with this positive self-image, not make her self-conscious or feel threatened.

Just like it would be inappropriate to tell a co-worker how sexy she is (regardless of any positive personality trait you try to pair this with), you wouldn’t tell her you bet she’s a really great wife no matter what you know about her marriage.
Praising your boss with, “That was an especially difficult meeting and you handled it with grace and assertiveness,” is much better than saying “Those guys were really gunning for you, but you really whipped them into shape!”
Tell your mother-in-law that she should be proud for raising a strong and compassionate, well-rounded daughter, rather than just saying she must be a good mom and/or wife. The first praises her for her character strengths and passing those on, the second implies her identity is based on her ability to play a stereotypical female role well.
 In the same way that telling a woman, “Wow, you lost a lot of weight! You look great now!” can send her into a spiral of self-consciousness about others noticing her weight before, saying a co-worker is “really good at ___ now” references the fact that you didn’t think she was before. Concentrate on the present, not what you thought she was like before said improvement. Watch your tone. It’s incredibly easy to sound insincere when complimenting someone you don’t know very well and want to impress. Saying the same thing in a different tone could come off as sarcasm or spite. Likewise, don’t sound overly excited or it will feel forced or superficial. Imagine her saying it to you first.
 No sincere compliment should ever benefit you, as the giver, at least not in an obvious manner. Consider compliments gifts given for no reason. Tell your aunt she's excellent at creating her own dishes after having dinner at her house because you honestly enjoyed the meal, not so she will invite you again tomorrow.
Avoid fishing for a return compliment. Yes, you may want to impress or endear this woman to you, but your compliment should not make her feel like she is expected to give you one in return.
 You can ruin a perfectly good compliment by adding a diminutive like "sweetie," "honey," or "girl" at the beginning or end. Also, be careful not to give unsolicited compliments without an appropriate catalyst.


Telling your boss "You are really great at managing people" as you pass her in the lunchroom is not the best opportunity to show appreciation. Wait until she demonstrates that skill.
A good rule is to refrain from giving a female co-worker or academic partner any compliment you wouldn't give to another male.

