 It's located at https://www.facebook.com/. If you're already logged into Facebook, doing so will open your News Feed.


If you aren't logged into Facebook, first enter your email address (or phone number) into the top-right corner of the screen and click Log In.;
, It's on the right side of the Facebook page.
 Doing so will open a chat window for them in the bottom-right side of the Facebook page.


If chat is turned off, first click the "Turn on chat" link at the bottom of the chat column.
If you would prefer to open a recent conversation, click the speech bubble with a lightning icon in the top-right side of the page, then click a conversation in the drop-down menu.
 To do so, you'll click the text field at the bottom of the chat window, type in a message, and press ↵ Enter or ⏎ Return.
 Below the text field, you'll see a row of icons. From left to right, clicking these tabs will allow you to send the following items:



Photo - You can choose a picture or video from your computer.

Sticker - Allows you to select an animated "sticker", which is essentially a large emoji.

GIF - Lets you select an animated picture from Facebook's collection of GIFs.

Emoji - Clicking this button will pull up a menu full of emojis; click one to send it.

Money - This $ icon allows you to set up Facebook Pay, which will let you send money to or request money from the person in this conversation.

Files - The paperclip icon will allow you to select a file (e.g., a Word document) from your computer.

Picture - Clicking the camera icon will open your computer's webcam, allowing you to take a picture and send it to the person.
 To do so, click the + icon at the top of the chat window, type in the name of a friend, and click Done.
 These icons are at the top of the chat window. The video camera icon will initiate a video call, while the phone icon makes an audio call. If your friend is online, they will be able to answer your call.
 It's in the top-right corner of the chat window. Clicking it will open the chat settings menu, which contains the following options:



Open in Messenger - Opens your current conversation in Facebook's full-screen Messenger app.

Add Files - Allows you to send files (e.g., documents) to anyone in the conversation.

Add Friends to Chat - Prompts you to select friends to add to the conversation.

Turn Off Chat for - Makes you appear offline to the person with whom you're chatting. This option does not block the contact.

Change Color - Lets you change the color of the chat window.

Mute Conversation - Turns off notifications for the chat.

Delete Conversation - Erases the conversation's history.

Block Messages - Prevents your contact from being able to send messages to you.

Report - Use this option to report inappropriate correspondence or spam.
 This will close your conversation.


If your friend messages you, the window will pop back up.
 To do so, click the gear icon in the bottom-right corner of the page, click Turn Off Chat in the pop-up window, check the "Turn off chat for all contacts" option, and click Okay. Doing so will cause you to appear offline to all of your Facebook friends.

