 The cause-and-effect relationship between winter weather and dry, damaged skin is easy to understand — cold, dry outdoor air (or, worse, hot, dry air from your heating system) sucks the natural moisture away from your skin, leaving it arid and cracked like parched desert earth. One of the best ways to keep this from happening is simply to keep the air from touching your skin. If you can, try wearing long sleeves, long pants, and any other skin-covering accessories to keep your skin protected.


Gloves are an especially smart choice — since your hands are often exposed throughout the day, covering them when you can goes a long way towards protecting their skin. Try slipping on a pair of mittens or driving gloves early in the day before you head to work or begin your commute, slipping them off only when you need to type, write, or otherwise use your hands.;
, Lotions and other "moisturizers" essentially work by supplying moisture directly to the skin and holding this moisture in with a layer of oil or grease — this is why heavy balms, like vaseline, work excellently as moisturizers, but produce an unpleasant "greasy" feeling. If you're suffering from dried out skin in the winter, try giving yourself a quick rub with your preferred lotion to stay moisturized. This should help ease any skin that's already dried out and protect your skin from future damage for at least an hour or two.


If your skin is already irritated, try to use an unscented lotion or balm. Some fragrances are known to cause inflammation or rash when applied to already-irritated skin (especially if you're allergic to the fragrance).There are few lotions that flat-out won't protect your skin's moisture at least somewhat — nearly all will work basically the same way. As a very general rule, however, thicker "creams" and "balms" will give a greater moisturizing effect than thinner, liquid-y lotions., Even if the skin on your face and hands goes unscathed during the winter, there's a decent chance that the delicate skin on your lips may become dry, cracked, or flaky. To fight this, try using lip balm (or similar alternatives like chap stick, lip gloss, etc.), which works according to the same basic principle as ordinary lotions and balms for your skin. In a pinch, you can even use most high-quality thicker skin balms (like Vaseline or products containing beeswax or shea butter) on your lips to get the same effect, though the taste may be unpleasant.


Don't believe myths that claim that lip balm is addictive or contains ground glass — these have been proven to be false., Ironically, getting wet when you're out in cold weather can cause it to become dry and irritated later on. Wet clothes (especially gloves and socks) can cause irritation when they rub against the skin, leaving it chapped, sore, and vulnerable to further irritation. For this reason, try not to spend much time in wet clothes when it's cold outside. Heading inside for a fresh set of clothes is definitely worth it if it keeps your skin safe in the long run.


If you're outdoors for a long time in cold weather (for instance, if you're on a wilderness hike), try to pace any exercise you do so that you don't sweat heavily. Not only can this cause chapped, irritated skin, but, in extreme conditions can also lead to frostbite and hypothermia by making it difficult for the body to keep itself warm., Many people assume that because it's cold outside in the winter, they won't need sunscreen. In fact, the skin is extra-vulnerable to sun damage in the winter. The earth is actually closer to the sun in the winter than it is in summer, and, in addition, the ozone layer (which absorbs some of the sun's harmful UV rays) is typically at its thinnest in the winter.On top of this, snow and ice can actually reflect up to 85% of the sun's rays, allowing the rays to hit your skin both from above and below.For these reasons, it's important to remember to apply sunscreen during the winter when you intend to spend lots of time out in the sun.


Note that this need for sunscreen is especially urgent at high altitudes — the higher you go, the greater your exposure to the sun's UV rays.Keep this in mind as you pack for your winter skiing trip!

