 Once the child with TBI enters school environment, assessment is the first step. The school therapist, psychologist, behavior therapist, and physiotherapist team should all coordinate and compare assessments of the child. The usual problems that are seen after TBI include:


Motor disabilities, including both fine and gross motor skills.
Slow processing speed.
Cognitive impairment. For example, a child of average intelligence might lose cognitive skills and fall into the category of mild intellectual disability following the injury.
Behavioral problems caused by issues with recovery, suffering excessive pain and having difficulty adjusting to their new life..
Memory loss in the form of amnesia, or loss of memory of some events. Poor short term memory and forgetting issues.
Lack of attention and concentration.
Changes in personality (for example, a social child might become isolated).
 Some schools possess teachers that are experts in providing special education. If your child's school does not currently employ such a teacher, talk to the school authority and ask them to hire a special education expert.


Alternatively, you could consider sending your child to another school that has adequate facilities and staff to cope with his TBI.
 Intervention according to ongoing observation and assessment should be made by parents, doctors, teachers and other important figures around the patient. There should be regular meetings especially between parents and teachers. Special needs, improvements and requirements should be discussed. It is very important for the teachers to collaborate with the doctors, therapists, parents and other rehabilitation team working with the child.


You will have an idea about child’s present functioning, home environment and chances of improvement
It will give you an idea about the child’s progress.
Being a teacher you might find some deficit for example the child having difficulty with motor skills and may talk to the physiotherapist about it and device ways to manage.
This collaborative environment will also help all the team members along with the family to help out in rehabilitation in educational settings.
 The student himself, his parents and teachers should have enough knowledge about traumatic brain injuries. They should be encouraged to read many books and articles about TBI. They should also take the time to identify the specific symptoms related to the child's injury. This will enable them to deal with the problem more effectively. Some of the most common side effects of TBI include:



Dementia: People who suffer from dementia as a result of brain injury shows both memory problems and cognitive impairments. Their ability to think or reason is lost or significantly impaired. Their language skills are also greatly affected. They may even undergo personality changes. Most often they become worse with the passage of time. The patient may become increasingly aggressive.

Retrograde amnesia: People with retrograde amnesia do not remember their past. They forget what happened to them in the past. They may still show their abilities, but past memories of their life’s events is lost. They may not recognize their past friends or relatives. They may forget about how they got injured.

Anterograde Amnesia: This is more common and happens when the person can't remember ongoing events. The person forgets everything that happened to him from the time of head injury. He may not recognize new acquaintances and may need to resolve a [problem that was resolved the previous day.

Delirium: State of blurred consciousness where the sufferer has difficulty in concentrating, which results in misinterpretations, illusions and in severe cases, hallucinations.

Alzheimer’s disease: This begins with memory problems, lapses of attention and significant impairment in language and communication. In the later stage, the person might not even remember his name or be able to complete simple tasks.

Personality problems:Damage to certain brain areas (frontal lobes), causes major changes in personality. The person loses his ability to show appropriate emotions. He feels confused, indecisive and aggressive.

