 Before calculating your grade, you will need to figure out if your teacher is using a point system or a weighted grade system. With a point system, everything you do in the class will be worth a certain number of points. Look for a point score on your assignments or simply ask your teacher to determine if this is how you are being graded.
 Look at your syllabus, add the numbers listed on completed assignments, or ask your teacher to determine the total number of points available. If you are just trying to find out what your grade is at the moment, add together only the points for assignments you have completed so far. If you want to guess the grade you will end with in the class, you will need to ask your teacher for the total number of points that can be earned in the class.
 Next, add up all of the points that you earned on your assignments. You can get these numbers from the assignments themselves (if your teacher listed your point score) or you can get them by asking your teacher for your scores.


If you are trying to guess what grade you will end up with, you will have to guess how well you will score on future assignments in order to calculate your final grade. You can guess these numbers by choosing a number of points similar to the percentages you have been getting or you can choose a higher number of points (to see what would happen if you study harder) or a lower number of points (to see what would happen if you studied less).
 Now, take the total number of points that you earned and divide that number by the number of total earned points. You can use the points only for assignments so far or you can use the number of points for the entire class. It depends on the information available to you and your reasons for calculating your grade.


An example of this equation would look like this: Sam has completed ten assignments and one test. Altogether, these assignments were worth 200 points. Sam added together their scores and found that they had earned 175 points. Sam calculates the grade (175/200=.87) to find a score of 87% for their class grade.

