 Searching for phones online will give you an idea of what is on the market.


Use a search engine such as Google, Yahoo or Bing. Type in search terms such as "phones" or "cell phones" and you will be provided with thousands of shopping options.
Go directly to the websites you like. If you have been considering a specific phone brand or model for a while, or you know where you want to buy your phone, call up that website using the retailer's web address.
Look for articles, videos and other content. Many websites have more than phones for sale. Read and view anything informative that may help you decide which phone to purchase.;
, Whether you are buying a cellular phone or a traditional land line phone, you should have an idea of what you need.


Look for a land line phone that is cordless, includes an answering machine and identifies the phone numbers of callers. Some phones have larger buttons for easy dialing, and others can mount to a wall.
Research cellular phones that are "smart." Many mobile devices come with Internet and social networking capabilities. You can also find a cell phone with a camera and video recorder.
 Once you have determined what kind of phone you want, see which sites have similar phones for less money.


Check sites that compare prices for you. Websites such as Shopper.com compare similar products by price and feature.
 While you can find reviews from experts on sites such as Consumer Reports, remember to read customer reviews too. People who have used the phone you are considering have probably written what they like and dislike about it.
 You will need to know if your phone will ship to you ready to use, or if there are steps you will need to take to get it working. This is especially important for cell phones.


Check with your current cell phone carrier. If you are buying a phone online and keeping the service you currently have, your carrier, such as Sprint, AT&T or Verizon, should give you activation instructions.
Find out if you will be assigned a phone number. The retailer should mention this in the product description. If not, call customer service to inquire.
Research calling and data plans. When you buy a cell phone online, you are buying the phone only, not the plan that allows you to make calls, send texts, pictures and emails.
 Before you buy, make sure you can return the phone if it is defective.
 When you buy a product online, it will be shipped to your home, office or any other address you choose. Most retailers will give you options for shipping.


Prepare to pay higher shipping charges if you want the phone quickly. The faster it gets to you, the higher the shipping price.
Look for free shipping deals. Many websites and online retailers will offer free shipping to get you to shop with them.
 Most online sites will accept credit cards, debit cards, gift cards or PayPal accounts.


Enter your payment information. You will be required to type in your card number or account number, as well as the card's expiration date and your billing address.
Complete your purchase. There is usually a button that says "complete purchase" or "finish purchase." Click on that, and you have purchased a phone online.

