 Change your life through the power of education. You will simultaneously enrich your mind, increase your earning potential, and become a force to be reckoned with on trivia nights. If you’ve never graduated high school, enroll in a GED course. These are often available through your local high school or library. If you’ve never graduated college, visit some local college campuses and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to discover what kind of financial aid is out there to help you attend college.


Educating yourself doesn’t need to be expensive. Start reading more. Visit your local library and ask the librarian to recommend books that every well-educated person should read. Read a balance of both nonfiction and fiction. Watch documentaries about the topics you are interested in. Write your thoughts, feelings, and reactions to what you’ve seen or read when finished.
You could also visit a local museum. Tours or talks at local museums or landmarks can be a great source for building your historical, archaeological, and scientific knowledge.
There are tons of free courses online covering a variety of topics. Check out edx.org, openculture.com, and coursera.org for access to some great free learning material.;
, Read a book, catch a movie with some friends, or start a band. Invite your friends to try something new with you. Whatever you like to do, do it! You might try:


riding a roller coaster
baking a cake
learning karate
climbing a mountain
learning a musical instrument
swimming
writing poetry

, Now that you’re unattached, you’ll have more time and energy to devote to your job. Put in longer hours at the office. Go the extra mile on reports, presentations, and company projects. Go to your local library and ask for books about professional development, with a focus on your chosen field. After a few months of really exceptional work, pursue a raise or promotion. Even if you don’t get it, you’ll feel good about the way you’ve improved your work and given it your all.


A breakup can be an opportunity to institute other positive changes in your life as well. If you are unhappy in your current employment, consider changing jobs. Update your resume and start browsing classifieds online and in your local newspaper for something more suited to your temperament.
 Cash in those vacation days at work and travel somewhere new and interesting. It doesn’t have to be out of the country, but challenging yourself by encountering people, foods, and situations you aren’t familiar with promotes personal growth and makes you more open to new experiences.If you don’t have money or time for extended travel, you can still find plenty of ways to explore the world around you. Try an exotic dish, or travel locally to a nearby landmark. Additionally, you might:Get a shave or a haircut.
Get a tattoo (henna if you prefer a less permanent option).
Buy some new clothes.
Throw a “Free At Last” party. Invite all your friends (and her friends too, if you can swing it).
 Besides making you more attractive to women, getting healthy and fit will channel all your post-breakup frustration and energy in a constructive way. Adjust your diet and exercise daily for at least thirty minutes. A whole foods diet with lots of grains, fruits, and vegetables will make you feel energized and healthy.


You can exercise at home by doing yoga, lifting weights, riding an exercise bike, using an exercise ball, or running on a treadmill. Use exercise DVDs at home to guide you through unfamiliar workouts. Alternately, you could strap on your running shoes or hop your bicycle for some fresh air if you don’t want to be cooped up at home. You could also get a membership to your local gym. Adopt a diet with little to no added sugar, fat, or cholesterol.
Ensure your workout plan covers all major muscle groups and consists of:

a warmup (brisk walking) and stretching (such as touching your left foot with your right hand while not bending your knees)
an aerobic workout (getting your heart rate up through running or bike-riding)
a strength-building workout (lifting weights) requiring 10-15 reps of each exercise
a cooldown period (walking for at least ten minutes)


Diets rich in fiber, whole grains, nuts, seeds, fruits, and vegetables will improve your healthDrink water and limit your intake of caffeinated beverages and alcohol.

