 Once you have decided on your resume you can begin actually writing it up. Start by providing your full contact information at the top of the first page of your resume. Your contact information should include your name, address, telephone number, and email address.


If your resume extends beyond one page, ensure that your name is in a header on every page.
Your email address should appropriate for a job application. Use your own name or initials if possible.
Don’t use something jokey such as "sly-dude," "foxymama," or "smokinhot."

, After your contact information, you might want to include a one line objective that states you career goal. Employers have mixed opinions on the inclusion of an objective statement, so consider carefully whether or not it adds anything to your resume. If you do decide to include one, make it short and closely focussed to the position you are applying for.


For example, you might write that your objective is “To contribute to the design of new word processing software.”Alternatively it may state the position you hope to attain, such as “A position as in healthcare policy and research.”
Objectives have become less common, and you may prefer to provide this information in your covering letter., The order you use for the following sections may vary, but in many instances you will start with a statement of your education and qualifications. Here you simply need to detail your qualifications at school and college as appropriate. List the colleges or technical schools you've attended, in reverse chronological order. Be sure to give the date you achieved your results.


You can include a bullet point or two to provide a little further information on your specialism, if it is appropriate for the position you are applying for.
This section normally comes after your work history unless you're a recent college graduate, in which case it will generally precede it.
If you achieved any honours or awards as part of your studying or training include these here., List the positions you've held in reverse chronological order, with the start and end dates (month and year). In a chronological resume, the dates should be listed first, while they can be listed after the position title in a functional resume. Pick out the key tasks and responsibilities you had at each position, your accomplishments, and what skills you developed while working there.


Use bullet points to make sure it is clear and easy to read or scan through for key words relating to the position you are applying.You can include volunteer positions if they relate to the job you're seeking or if you have little paid experience., You will probably find that most of your skills have been covered in your education and experience sections, but it can be a good idea to have a separate skills section. This is an opportunity to highlight any skills and knowledge you have that is relevant to the position, but does not fit in anywhere else in the resume.


You can title this section as “Other Relevant Skills”, or just “Skills.”
This could include proficiency in foreign languages, knowledge of particular computer software and programmes, and any other specific skills not previously mentioned.Take care to avoid repeating yourself. You don’t need to say you have “excellent communication skills” more than once.
 Generally you should only include named references with contact information if they are specifically required for the application process. Often references will only be taken up a later date. If you are not asked to include references in the application materials just write “references available on request” at the end of your resume., Once you have the information in place in your resume, you can then format it as desired. Choose a single, easy-to-read font, either a serif font (Times New Roman, Book Antiqua) or sans serif font (Arial, Calibri, Century Gothic). All text should be 10 to 12 point, except for your name in the first-page header, which can be 14 to 18 point. Bold your name, your section headings, and your job titles.


Allow reasonable margins around the edges of the page. Word's default settings are usually sufficient for this.
Left-align your section headings. You can use single-spacing after a heading and before the section content, and double-spacing before a heading.
Get your resume down to one page if at all possible. You can try adjusting your line spacing in the Paragraph dialog box, but don’t lose your neat formatting trying to get it down to one page.
Rethink your words and try to express yourself more concisely.

