 It can be irritating, but you'll never get to the game if you don't go through with it.;
, If you need help, look it up.
 Coins are necessary for gameplay. A good way of getting coins is getting new animals. Try breeding the animals you already have, or buying new ones. Completing battles as the victor in the Battlegrounds also earns you coins (and food).
 Gems aren't as necessary as coins, but it's a good idea to get some. You can do this by completing quests.
 Choose two animals to breed together. Be careful or you could get an animal you already have! Try breeding different elements.
 The egg will appear in the nest on top of the Tree of Life. When there's a check mark above it, click on it and place the new animal on its habitat. If you have food, start feeding it immediately until you don't have enough food left for it. Make sure to grow new food in your farms.
 When your animal reaches a certain level, you can't feed it until you evolve it by placing it in the Evolution Flower.
 Your animal is now adolescent.
 You can evolve your animals several times, but it takes a lot of time, because as they grow they need lots more food.
 If you have enough Coins, upgrade them. Upgrading them will allow you to grow different foods, like Rune Prunes and Mystic Mangos.
, You now have food. Certain crops will produce more food than others, but Aura Apples, which give you the least food by themselves, produce food faster. Choose wisely.
 The animals' ancient Battlegrounds are tricky to navigate. You don't know who your opponent will be until you're fighting them. But luckily, you usually have at least two stamina when entering the ring.
 For example: Fire is weak to Water, Plant is weak to Fire, and so on.
 This way, you have more than one method of attack.


If worse comes to worse and you have enough Gems, use an Ultimate Attack, which is basically an instant win.
 For unlocking some areas you will need certain levels, so try to level up. When you are at that level, unlock the lands. The more lands you unlock, the more elements you have access to.
