 You can make a mason jar salad using virtually any healthy ingredients, as long as you add them to the jar in the right order. The dressing goes first, then the least absorbent ingredients, like tomatoes or onions. Work your way up to the lightest ingredients on top, like kale or lettuce.If your heaviest and wettest ingredients are on bottom, your greens will be less likely to get soggy.
 Your mason jar salads should store for up to five days. To make them stay fresher longer, try adding chicken and other protein choices the day that you’ll be eating the salad. When you’re ready to serve, just shake the jar well, and eat it from the jar, or pour it into a bowl or plate.Mason-jar salads allow you to make these meals ahead of time so they'll be ready to go throughout the week. Instead of spending time every day preparing your lunch, you'll do it all in one session at the start of the week. In addition, the mason jars mean you can easily transport your salad to work or school.
 You can go with a store-bought light dressing or you can make your own. Mash the anchovies if they aren’t already, and add them to a small bowl with the yogurt, minced garlic, lemon juice, and Worcestershire sauce. Slowly drizzle in the olive oil as you constantly whisk to create an emulsion, then season with salt and pepper to taste., Start with 2 tablespoons of your store-bought or homemade light Caesar dressing. Then, in the following order, add the tomatoes, cucumbers, chicken (if you eat meat), Parmesan cheese, and quinoa. Finally, add the kale and romaine lettuce.If you made chicken the night before, diced up leftovers are a great addition to this salad. Otherwise, or if you’re a vegetarian, it’s fine to skip the meat. Add a pair of hard-boiled eggs or baked tofu if you want a vegetarian protein fix.
 First, whisk up your citrus poppy seed dressing by combining all the ingredients for the dressing except for the oil into a mixing bowl. Whisk the ingredients together vigorously as you slowly drizzle in the oil until they’re suspended in an emulsion. Measure out 3/4 cup (180 mL) of the dressing to use in the salad.Then roast your asparagus. Preheat your oven to 400°F (204°C) and break off the tough ends of the asparagus. Toss the asparagus with olive oil, salt, and pepper, then place them on a baking sheet in a single layer. Roast them for 25 minutes, until the stalks are tender but still crisp.You can use leftover asparagus or easily roast some fresh for your salad.
 The recipe allows for two large servings, so use a pair of 32-ounce (907 g) jars. Start by dividing the dressing evenly between the two jars. Then, add half of each ingredient to the jars in the following order: onions, cucumbers, strawberries, asparagus, chicken (if you’re a meat-eater), avocado, spinach, and almonds.Add diced or coarsely chopped chicken from last night’s dinner for an easy protein fix. Or, if you’re a vegetarian, you can skip the meat or substitute with a couple hard-boiled eggs, or divide a 16-ounce (454 g) can of chickpeas between the two jars.

