 The holes will be for the string or elastic to go through. This way, you can secure the hat to your head. The holes need to be opposite each other. You can punch them using a hole puncher or a thick needle.;
, You can attach the hat in two ways: an elastic strap or by tying two pieces of ribbon in a bow under your chin. Here is what you need to do depending on which you choose:


Cut a piece of elastic and thread each end through each hole. Tie the ends of the elastic in place. The elastic needs to be tight enough to hold the hat to your head, but not so tight that it feels uncomfortable.
Cut two14-inch (35.56 centimeters) long pieces of ribbon or string. Thread the end of each string through a hole, and tie it in place.You will tie the loose ends of the ribbon in a bow under your chin when you wear the hat.
 You can use craft foam or poster paper for this as well, but avoid using plain paper or construction paper; it will be too flimsy.


Keep the brim proportionate to the hat. 5½ to 6 inches (13.97 to 15.24 centimeters) will be plenty. If you are making a pilgrim hat, then the brim can be even smaller.
If you are making a pilgrim hat, choose black paper for the brim.
 Place the cup upside down in the center of the brim you traced. Use a pencil to trace around the cup, then lift the cup away.
 Cut the outer circle first, then the inner circle.
 If you look at your paper cup, you'll notice that the rim is rolled under itself. Draw a thin line of glue right under that rim. The glue should be in the seam just between the cup and the rolled rim., Turn the cup upside down so that the bottom is facing you. Push the paper brim you cut out over the bottom of the cup, down the sides, and onto the glue. The cup's rolled rim will hold the paper brim in place and keep it from sliding down.Some of the elastic or ribbon that you threaded through earlier may show. Don't worry, you can cover it up with the hat band in the next few steps!

, If you'd like, you can decorate the hat with glitter, other painted designs, or even stickers. Be sure to let your designs dry before moving on.


If you are making a pilgrim hat, paint the hat black.
 This will make the band part of the hat. It is not completely necessary, but it will make your hat look nicer. If you are making a pilgrim hat, great colors to use would be white or brown. The strip needs to be wide enough to wrap around the base of your hat.If you are making just a regular hat, the strip can be any color you want.
 Draw a squiggle of glue along the band, then carefully wrap it around the base of your hat. For a pilgrim look, position it ¼ in (0.64 centimeters) above the brim.If you are using craft foam, the band may come apart before the glue dries. Use a piece of tape to hold the craft foam together until it dries.
 Cut out a 1 by 1-inch (2.54 by 2.54 centimeters) square out of yellow craft foam, construction paper, or cardstock. Cut a ½ to ¾-inch (1.27 to 1.91 centimeters) square out of the center. Glue it over the band, right in the center of the hat.,