 If you have multiple sources of debt, try to consolidate them into one account with the lowest interest rate. Pay off as much as possible every month until the debt is paid off. Then, avoid getting back into debt through the use of credit cards or loans. Keep your credit score healthy and remain debt free.Once you are debt free, take the monthly funds you would put towards your debt and put it into your savings account.
 If it fits your lifestyle, focus on reaching your retirement goal faster by doing freelance work outside of your day job. Take odd jobs for family or friends that will add funds to your savings account. Remember that every penny you save now brings you one step closer to retirement in your 30s.Some full-time jobs do not allow for you to work at other companies. Check your contract or ask your human resources contact.
It may be more feasible for you to work hard at your current job and get raises, bonuses, or promotions instead of focusing on other jobs after hours.
Think about skills or abilities that you can channel into extra forms of income. This could be a gardening or landscaping side business, or a freelance writing business. Try to maximize your skills and add to your savings nest egg.
 If you are living with a partner or involved in a long term relationship, your significant other should be supportive of your retirement plan. Work together to achieve a mutual retirement plan and agree to lifestyle changes that will help you both achieve your retirement goals.Pooling your financial resources could also help you both reach retirement in your 30s much faster.
 If you are renting an affordable apartment or living space, focus on cutting down on other expenses like your internet costs, your cellphone, and your food costs. Reducing your expenses by $10-$20 a month can add up to more funds in your savings account, towards your retirement.Focus on stacking savings on top of one another to add up to a large amount of money saved. This means embracing a frugal lifestyle and not spending money when you do not need to. Eliminating the desire for new or expensive items, for the sake of retiring early, will make it easier to avoid spending money on these items.
 One of the biggest expenses is likely your car. From the car itself to car maintenance and insurance, it can be a big money suck. When possible, bike to work or to run errands rather than pay to fill up your gas tank and using your car.Investing in a good bike means a small payment of $500-$1,000 that will provide you with free transportation for a long period of time, possibly for life.
 On average, most U.S. households spend 12.9% of their income on food a year.Reduce the amount of money you spend on food by cooking your own meals and only eating out once or twice a year. There are several budget friendly food blogs and books with recipes that take a short amount of time and won’t break your budget.Make grocery shopping part of your weekly routine. Take a list of grocery items to the store to avoid expensive spontaneous purchases or buying unnecessary items.
 Minimize your recreational spending by looking for free activities in your area or city. Go for hikes or walks, attend free street fairs or local events, and take advantage of entertainment that doesn’t involve spending money., Do home repairs yourself, and maintain your car to avoid costly repairs at an auto body shop. Look for how to videos online on bike repair and fix it yourself. Being your own handyman means you will have the skills to complete tasks yourself and avoid paying someone for these services.