 Take a moment to reflect on your previous week. Were there any times where you felt like you could have stepped up and done something differently? Take a few moments to think about what you would have done, and if that would have made you happier


For instance, if you see an acquaintance at the supermarket, you pretend like you never saw them. Instead of letting them notice you first, say “hello” right when you see them.
 You don’t need to ask them if they’ll mentor you into getting a boyfriend, but just ask them out for lunch or coffee. Be honest with them and explain that you struggle with being shy and you’re trying to build confidence.


Be sure you can trust this person before talking to them.
If you are out of people, talk to a guidance counselor or even a therapist for advice.
 Build your confidence by forcing yourself into a new experience. Take a small risk by following your impulse. You can start small by going out to dinner alone, take a class on an exciting subject, or repair an appliance by yourself. When you accomplish something, you feel better and your self-confidence improves.


Do something society doesn’t deem “ladylike.” For instance: take a class on welding.
If you’re feeling too shy to out to an event or a class alone, get a trusted friend to join you.
Try to do a small risk every week.
 Many women feel from societal pressures of beauty that they aren’t good enough. This simply is not true and just happens to be the negative side of western culture. Care about your appearance, but don't let that consume you. Project self-esteem by dressing in a way that makes you feel attractive. Another way to improve your self-esteem is by challenging your negative thoughts like:


Discard an all or nothing mentality that could lead you to think: "if he doesn't notice me in this dress, then I must be ugly."
Be proud of yourself instead seeing a positive as a negative like: "I was only chosen to lead the debate because no one else wanted to."
Change the way you handle negative thoughts. For example: If something got to you during school, come up with thoughts or activities that will reduce your stress., You must have something good about yourself and your personality, so let that shine through. Don't cover yourself up by trying to be what you think he might want. The best way to build confidence is by believing in yourself.


One way to be yourself is to expose what you like. If you love a band or musician, wear a fan t-shirt. If you’re enjoying a book you are reading, bring it to school or work.
Talk openly about what you are genuinely interested in. It will be hard at first, but talking to anyone about a mutual interest is healthy.
 Find a new way of doing your hair, dress a little differently from your usual, use your favorite make up. If you feel good about yourself, it'll show. If you're unhappy with the way you look, then do something about it. If you don't like your hair then change it.

