 Spread out a large blanket or towel to give your baby a spot to play, eat, and crawl around. You may wish to pack a few extra towels so you will have a dry, sand-free towel for your baby to use., Using a large beach umbrella is a great way to shield your baby from the heat and the sun’s harmful rays. Make sure to use a light-colored umbrella that will reflect the heat. This space will provide a cozy, shady area for your baby to play in the sand.


Take along a smaller umbrella that you can easily clip onto your baby’s stroller., Pack a cooler with your baby’s favorite snacks and drinks. Bring along bottled milk, water, or juice to keep your baby well-hydrated throughout the day.Opt to take some portable, pureed baby food packets so your baby can enjoy an easy snack. Take along healthy finger foods like carrots, bananas, or pieces of cheese if your little one is eating solid foods.Find a shady spot that isn’t in a windy area to breastfeed your child at the beach.Bring clean, lukewarm water to the beach with you. This will be useful to use as a rinse if your baby gets sand in their mouth or eyes., Your baby’s clothes will be sandy and damp after a day at the beach, and you may go through more diapers than usual to keep their bottom dry. Pack an extra pair of clothes to keep your baby dry and clean on the way home, and store extra diapers in your diaper bag.
 A small inflatable pool can be a useful tool for a day at the beach with your baby. The pool can serve as a safe playpen for your little one, or it can be a great space to take a nap. Make sure you do not leave your child alone even though your baby may be in a safe confinement., Your little one may be too enthralled with the ocean and the sand to pay attention to toys, but bring along a few just in case. Bring some brightly colored plastic beach buckets and baby-friendly toy shovels so they can dig in the sand. Bring along their favorite plastic truck or ball that they push around over the sand dunes.


Avoid bringing stuffed animals and toys that squeak. Sand may get stuck in the plush toy’s fabric, and a squeaker may suck some sand inside the toy.

