 Getting more sleep may help to stop sleep paralysis, so try to increase the amount of time that you sleep each night. Adults should try to get between six to eight hours of sleep per night, but you may need more.For example, if you are currently getting around six hours of sleep per night and you are having sleep paralysis as a result, then try to go to bed about an hour earlier so that you are getting seven hours of sleep per night. Seven hours is the minimum amount of sleep adults should get every night — you should aim for seven to nine hours if possible.
 Going to bed at the same time each night and waking at the same time every morning can also improve your sleep quality and quantity. Make sure that you keep this bedtime and waking time even on the weekends.


For example, if you normally go to bed at 11:00pm on weeknights, and wake up at about 6:30am, then maintain this schedule during the weekend as well.
 Having a regular bedtime routine can help to make it easier for you to fall asleep and stay asleep.If you do not have a sleep routine, then create one that will be easy to stick to.


For example, your routine might consist of brushing your teeth, washing your face, putting on pajamas, reading for 20 minutes, and then climbing into bed for the night. Choose a routine that works for you.
If you can’t fall asleep right away, don’t struggle. Just get out of bed and re-do part of your routine. For example, you could get out of bed, read for another 20 minutes, and then climb into bed again.
 A comfortable mattress, soft bedding and pillows, and a pleasant, uncluttered space can make falling and staying asleep much easier. Your bedroom should also be dark, cool, and quiet.If your bedroom is messy or if your bed is uncomfortable, then work on turning it into a more pleasant space. For example, you might buy some new sheets, de-clutter your bedroom, or invest in a new mattress.
If you live in a bright, noisy neighborhood, consider getting some light and noise blocking curtains to put up in your bedroom.
 Do not do anything else in your bed or it may disrupt your ability to fall asleep and stay asleep, which makes sleep paralysis more likely. Do not watch TV, use your laptop or other devices, or even read in your bed., Eating within two hours of going to bed can disrupt your sleep, which may increase your risk of sleep paralysis.If you usually have a bedtime snack, then schedule it for about two hours before you go to bed each night.
 Strenuous exercise done late in the day can make it harder to get to sleep, so try to schedule your workouts for earlier in the day, such as in the morning or afternoon.If you need to exercise in the evening, stick to low-impact exercises, such as walking, light weight training, and stretching exercises.
 Caffeine can keep you awake if you drink it too late in the day. Try to limit or even avoid caffeinated beverages such as coffee, tea, and cola in the afternoon and evening.For example, if you normally have a cup of coffee at about 4:00pm, try drinking a cup of half decaf coffee or a cup of green tea instead.
 Taking time to relax before bed may also help to prevent sleep paralysis and promote better sleep. There are many different relaxations techniques that you can use. Some good options include:


progressive muscle relaxation
deep breathing
a bath
yoga or gentle stretching exercises
calm music

