 Whether you're selling art or food, you want to be able to reach a wide range of customers. That means you need to price some items on the low end of the pricing range. However, pricing some items higher means you are able to make a better profit, and you don't have to sell as many items.Of course, some items you may sell at cost or just above it to draw people in. However, you don't want to sell too many items at cost, as it drives down your profits.
 When pricing your products, think both about the material costs and the time costs. The material costs are what the materials you used to make the product actually cost you. The time costs are how long it took you to make the product. You need to consider both when pricing items.For instance, if an item cost $4 in materials, and you spent 3 hours making it, you wouldn't want to charge $10 for the product. That means you're only making $2 an hour without even factoring in the time you spend at the festival. Consider what you think you should be making an hour, such as $10, and add that into the cost.
The cost of a product isn't just the materials, in other words. Think about what goes into it, including rent you pay and tools you buy.
 As you are scouting shows, pay attention to how things are priced, particularly similar items to what you sell. More importantly, look at what customers are willing to pay for certain items. That is, you may want to charge $10 for your stellar necklaces, but if customers aren't willing to pay it, then the necklaces won't sell.It can help to price slightly below competing products if possible. However, you may also be able to get people to pay higher if your product is better quality. The lowest price isn't always the driving factor.
 Your prices shouldn't always stay the same. You may find that your prices are too high for your target audience, for instance, or that your competitors are selling significantly lower than you are. Be willing to move up or down on your prices as needed.However, keep in mind that some products may not be profitable for you, and you may need to drop them. That is, if your competitors are selling significantly lower than you are on certain products but you can't lower your price and still make a profit on it, then you may need to drop that product or consider it a loss leader to draw people in.

