 You definitely want to make sure that the money you are depositing goes into the right account. This is particularly important if you have more than one account at the same bank. If you do not have you account number memorized, take your checkbook with you. Your checks contain your account number.If you are making a deposit into savings, make sure that you have that account number. You can look it up on the online banking site, or view one of your hard copies of a recent statement.
Your checks will come with some deposit slips that are printed with your information (name, etc.) You can use one of these, or your bank will have blank slips available if you don't have your own with you.;
, It is a good idea to take a photo id with you when you go to the bank. You probably will not need it to make a deposit, but just in case there are any problems, you will have it with you. It's always best to be prepared.Make sure that you know which forms of identification your bank branch accepts. You should be able to find this information by calling and asking or viewing information on the bank website.
Typically, you will need a driver's license, passport, state id card, or student id card.
 Make sure that you have all of the currency you would like to deposit. If you have cash, make sure that you have counted it, and then recounted it to make sure that you know the precise amount that you want to deposit.If you are depositing checks, you will need to endorse them. On the back of the check, there will be a designated space for your signature. Under your signature, you can write "For Deposit Only". That way if you lose the checks on the way to the bank, no one will be able to cash them.
 Many banks offer several different sets of business hours. The times that their drive through lane is open is often different from the lobby hours. Also, many banks have a 24-hour ATM in their vestibule. Familiarize yourself with all of the hours and days that the bank is open.Decide ahead of time whether you want to drive through, walk in, or use the ATM.
If this is your first time filling out a deposit slip, it is a good idea to use the lobby. There will be more people available to help you if you need it.

