 When horses experience strain, sprain, or other traumatic injury in their legs, their legs can swell. The leg may become inflamed and warm to the touch. In these cases, vets may prescribe a “sweat” bandage to help reduce fluid build-up and inflammation in your horse’s leg.Do not apply a sweat bandage to recent or open wounds

, Your veterinarian may recommend a particular poultice. You can purchase commercial sweating preparations or make your own. Ask your vet for suggestions if you choose to make your own. Common ingredients include:Epsom salts
DMSO (dimethylsulfoxide)
Nitrofurazone ointment
Mineral oil
Petroleum jelly
Glycerin or glycerol

, In addition to your sweating poultice, you will need to gather the following items:


Soap and water
A towel
Rubber gloves
Lightweight plastic wrap (e.g., kitchen cling wrap, packing wrap)
Sheet cotton, roll cotton, or leg quilts
Bandages
Stretch adhesive tape

, It is essential that you thoroughly clean and completely dry your horse’s leg before applying the sweating poultice.Poultices that use DMSO are particularly prone to carrying any substance on the surface of your horse’s body into the wound. Make sure all of your equipment is clean. DMSO can also irritate damp skin, so dry your horse’s leg thoroughly before you apply it., Even microscopic cuts or scratches can become irritated by sweating poultices.If your horse has very furry legs, clip the fur in the area where you plan to apply the sweating poultice. Do not shave the leg, as this could nick or scratch it.
 Wearing gloves, apply the sweating poultice all over the appropriate area of the leg. Apply liberally, but keep the layer even. If you apply too much, it will seep out of the wrap.Apply the poultice from the area under your horse’s knee to its fetlock., Wrap a thin, even layer of plastic wrap around the poultice. Try to avoid too many wrinkles.The plastic will help seal in the heat, producing the “sweat.”

, Wrap layers of cotton or leg quilts around the plastic wrap. The padding should be at least an inch thick. Keep the layers smooth and even., Use a support bandage that is at least 2-3” wide.Start at the midpoint of the leg and wrap in a spiral pattern.
Begin at the front and work to the back of the leg. Wrap the bandage counterclockwise for the left leg and clockwise for the right leg.
Wrap the bandage so that each layer overlaps the previous layer about halfway.
 Do not pull too tightly on the bandage. This could cause further swelling in the leg. Try to keep the padding smooth and even as you wrap.Do not wrap the bandage too loosely, either. The fabric of the bandage should stretch about halfway to its maximum extension as you wrap it.
Check the tightness by placing your finger between the bandage and your horse’s leg. If you can’t slip your finger in between the bandage and the leg easily, you have wrapped the bandages too tightly.
 A horse with a sweat poultice should be confined to its stall or a small run. This will keep your horse from overexercising its leg while it is wrapped.
 It’s important to check the bandage several times a day to make sure it is still in place. Check for swelling, irritation or redness in the bandage area.If you see swelling around the bandage area, remove the bandage.
If your horse becomes distressed or upset, irritable, or begins to gnaw or paw at the bandage, check the bandaged area. Consult with your vet.
 Do not leave a sweat on your horse for longer than 12 hours.If you need to apply another sweat, allow the leg to “rest” for 12 hours first. Then reapply the sweat.
 It’s important to wash away any remaining sweat poultice after you’ve unwrapped the sweat bandage. Usually, water will do, but you can also use a a small amount of a mild shampoo.