 A butch lesbian is unlikely to wear a ton of makeup. So forget sparkly eye shadow, pink blush, fake eyelashes, and all of that.


If you wear any makeup, choose black, brown or charcoal liner, akin to what a man in a rock band might wear. This is sometimes known as "guy liner."
Take care of your skin. Wear moisturizer that contains sunscreen every day. But you can forget the rest of the makeup routine.
 Butch lesbians aren’t going to be seen wearing acrylic or gel nails or any kind of colorful nail polish really.


They would especially avoid pastels or glittery colors on the nails. More likely, a butch lesbian would keep her nails short and clean.
Some butch lesbians might paint their nails black. Dark or neutral colors are the best choice if you prefer to do something with your nails.
 If you’re a butch lesbian, you’re not going to be carrying around a miniature poodle the size you could fit in a small purse.


You’re more likely to have a larger breed, a mastiff, a Great Dane, a St. Bernard, or the like. And you’re more likely to have a dog than a cat.
Go for a lion or big cat (if rules allow), a turtle, a snake, or any kind of insect or lizard.
 There are many different categories of being “butch” in lesbian culture. A butch is typically defined as a woman who adopts what are typically considered as masculine characteristics.


A soft butch is a lesbian with a largely androgynous appearance. The soft butch has some feminine traits, and falls somewhere in between a femme and butch.A sport dyke is a butch lesbian who identifies with being an athlete and is often seen in baseball caps and sporting wear. A stone butch takes the lead in sexual activity and doesn’t worry about getting pleasure herself.
A stud is usually dominant in a partnership and dresses and acts like a man, having no femininity about her. She is usually butch.
 While butchness can include traditionally masculine ways of behaving, it doesn't have to. Don't be fake or try to pretend to be someone you are not. People should like you for you, not for some fake personality traits.


However, it can be fun and enlightening to explore aspects of your personality that have been hidden away. If you want to explore your butchness, try working on assertiveness. If dressing butch means that you are asserting your preference for clothing, then having a butch personality means that you are assertive in life as well.
Don't limit yourself. The freedom to dress and act as you want to, and not how society wants you to, is at the heart of what it means to be a butch. If you want to wear a suit one day and a dress the next, that is perfectly okay. Your butchness can change from day to day, or minute to minute.
 There is more to butchness than just clothing and mannerisms. It is also a way of being and a way of belonging in lesbian culture.


Butches have a long and important place in lesbian history and their willingness to push the boundaries of sex and gender was foundational in creating lesbian-identified spaces and communities.For some, butchness is a way of expressing one's sexuality for the world to see. When you are seen as butch, you are also seen as a lesbian. This can be very empowering for those previously assumed to be straight. It can also help you get a date.

