 Go beyond your favorite color and pick a color that compliments both your eyes and your outfit.Try not to outperform the color of your natural eyes by using the same color as your iris. For example: If your eyes are blue, grey or silver is a smarter option over a matching blue. If your eyes are hazel, opt for a color that’s mostly brown but has a pop of green. Staying away from a pure green eyeshadow will prevent the makeup from overpowering your eyes, that is, showing people how plain they may be.
Opposites attract. For example use a warm purple, lavender or pink if you have brown eyes. If you have blue eyes, use bronze, or rusty colored eyeliner.Look at a color across from your eyes on the color wheel. Pick a color adjacent to the opposite for optimum pop.;
, Draw attention to your natural eye color by using similar eyeliner to shade the inner rims of your lower lids.


For example, if you have blue eyes, use a deep pearl blue; for grey eyes, use a matte silver; for green eyes, use olive green, for hazel eyes, use dark brown; and for brown eyes, use a rust color., With many different formulas available, texture matters. If you’re a novice, use a pencil or gel liner, as liquids are reserved for the more seasoned-users.


Maximize your control with pencils. This is especially useful when rimming your inner lashline with a firm hand.Add a dramatic line with liquids, as they are easily layered to become a thicker line. Liquids need a steady hand for application but give you the most pigment. Pens are easier to apply, and dry faster, but give less pigment.Gels glide on smoothly and evenly. Gels are often used as a stepping stone from simple pencil to difficult liquid. The look is often very intense and the gel allows smooth application A mixing medium (water) and an angled brush can be used to make any colored eyeshadow into a matching liner.
 If you find something that looks amazing and you feel great about it, go for it! Research pictures of people with similar eye color and see what works for them and test whether you feel comfortable with the same look.


Stay comfortable. It may look better in the magazine and that’s okay. Start slow and stay comfortable. Feeling in your element is more important than pushing your limits.
 When wearing colored liner, apply very subtle eye makeup. You don't want your face to conflict with your eyes, so keep your face makeup minimal. Perhaps skip blush and go for a strong highlight and contour.


For example, you wouldn't want to wear blue eyeshadow, with bright pink blush and red lipstick.
Let people focus on your liner. You don’t want the eyeliner to be a distraction from your pink lips and crazy hair, but rather, a statement and focal point to your look.
 Try to prevent skin showing between your lashes and liner. Start by lining your way from the top inner corner, line as close to the lashline as possible. Work your way outwards and use smaller strokes to create an even effect. Next, do the bottom line in the opposite direction. Start from the outside corner of your eye and gently stroke inwards to your desired location.Start small if you feel overwhelmed. First, line your eyes with a soft black pencil. After your liner looks great, line your eyes with your colored pen. Line the colored pen right atop the black. Afterwards, take a cotton swab and gently smudge the two liners together. You’ll end up with a richer shade nearing on black. This will help give you a small amount of color without it being too obnoxious or gaudy.
Move the liner rather than your head to get a clean, even line. Also, resist the urge to pull your eyelid back taut, because when you release it the line will be rippled and ugly. , If you’re unsure, keeping the line thin and precise is a good way to see if you can pull it off. After you’ve mastered your first look, expand to other styles such as cat eye, double winged or smudged kohl.Cotton swabs are your best friend. Remove excess eye makeup cleanly to prevent smudges.Never slather the colour on, and don't wear it all the time (if you really want a special effect). The less you see of something, the more valuable it becomes. If you're wearing eyeliner for a special someone, or a group of friends, be tasteful about the amount.
 Update your look by experimenting with different color combinations.


Navy blue and grey is one of easiest to pull off because it presents a smoky look during the day. Lightly swipe the navy on your lids and the grey in the creases.
Use purple and brown to complement each other. Use your fingers to blend the colors together as both look good either on the lids or creases. Try what works best for you. Similarly, use turquoise and green during warm weather for a bright summer look. For that all around sun-kissed look, use bronze and peach.