 This galaxy jar uses glow sticks, so it will not glow forever. Most glow sticks will only glow for a few hours, so plan on making this jar just before you want to use it. The best time to see this jar glow is at night, when everything is dark. Here's a list of what you'll need:


Mason jar
Latex or vinyl gloves (recommended)
Scissors or craft knife
Strainer
Glow sticks
Tulle or water beads (optional)
Glitter

, This project can get a little messy, so it might be a good idea to cover your table or counter with several sheets of newspaper. You could also try working over a sink or outside.
 Wash your mason jar with soap and warm water and let it dry. If there are any labels, try peeling them off. You can remove the label residue by covering it with some cooking oil and scrubbing it with a scouring pad. Be sure to clean the oil off with some soap and water, and to wipe the area down with some rubbing alcohol.
 Glow sticks have glass tubes inside of them. When you activate a glow stick, the glass tube will shatter. The strainer will catch the glass shards.


Don't use this strainer for cooking again. Even if you clean it well, there may still be tiny bits of glass caught in it.
 You can use any color of glow stick you want, but some colors, such as blue, purple, and white, might look more like a night sky than others.
 This will help protect your skin against the chemicals. It will also protect you from the glass shards inside the glow stick.
 Try cutting the glow stick over the jar, so that you don't spill and waste any of the liquid inside. If you are a child, ask an adult to help you with this step.
 Turn the glow stick upside down and jiggle it until all the liquid pours into the jar. You may need flick your fingernail against it to get all the liquid out.


You will need about three bracelet sized glow sticks per jar.If you are using regular glow sticks, you will only need one.
 Toss the shards into the trash, and rinse the strainer out well. Don't use the strainer for cooking again. If you are wearing gloves, pull them off by the cuff. They will flip inside out as you tug down on them. Throw the gloves away too.
 How much glitter you use will depend on how sparkly you want the jar to be. Plan on using one to two teaspoons. You can also add some other fillers, such as a piece of tulle to help suspend the glitter, or water beads to resemble planets.


You can find the water beads in the floral department of an arts and crafts store. They are about the same size as marbles, and gel-like.
 This will help mix everything together.
 The glow sticks will only last for a few hours. If you want to reuse this jar, you will need to add more glow stick liquid.

