 Baking soda is a great cleaning agent. To get rid of the dye, mix baking soda with distilled vinegar or lemon juice. Make a paste that is the consistency of toothpaste. Spread it over the stain. Use a sponge to gently rub it into the wood. When you're finished, wipe the paste from area. When you're finished, rinse with a rag and plain water.You can use your fingers instead of a sponge.
Add some more vinegar or water if the stain is being stubborn.
Repeat the process until the stain is removed.
You can also try a magic eraser to remove dye.
 For food and nail polish stains, try using dish detergent. Mix the soap in warm water, soak a rag in the solution, and then rub over the spot.


This method works best with non-greasy stains.
 For greasy stains on wood, try using a little bit of ammonia mixed with cold water. Cover a rag with the solution, and then gently rub over the stain., When pets mess on wood floors, bacteria must be removed. Bacteria causes stains and odor. To remove stains and bacteria, use a 5 percent phenol solution, which can be bought at hardware and home improvement stores. Clean the area by using a damp, soft cloth.


If your floor has a wax finish, use fine steel wool and mineral spirits to clean the area. Clean the area in a circular motion. Wax and buff the area afterwards., Place a small amount of isopropyl alcohol onto a rag. Gently rub the stain to remove it. Wipe off with a damp rag afterwards to rinse.


Test on the underside of your table first to make sure it doesn't damage the table.
Try toothpaste on the permanent marker stain, too., Use Oxalic Acid, which is found in wood bleach and some household cleaners. You can buy it at home improvement stores and some grocery stores. First, you need to strip the area with the stain of the finish so you can treat it.Mix the Oxalic Acid mixture with water to make a thick paste. Make sure not to do this in a metal bowl since Oxalic Acid can cause discoloration in metal. Apply to the stain with a rag or disposable paint brush. Let it sit until it dries. Add multiple applications.Rinse the area between the applications.If the bleach doesn't remove it, the stain may be from something else, like food or wine. Try hydrogen peroxide or household bleach then.
Refinish the spot. Don't refinish the whole piece unless you have to.
Black stains are water stains that have penetrated deeper into the wood. They are much harder to get rid of.