 Call or visit your local police station and explain the situation in your neighbourhood. You should understand that the police may not be able to evict them, but they will be able to give you advice on how to proceed. You can ask the police to visit the squatted house, or make their presence known if you feel threatened by the squatters.

Having a patrol car regularly drive past the squatted house might encourage the squatters to move out.
Contacting the police at an early stage will also ensure that the issue is on the record. This way you can back up your claim about when the squatters arrived and what they were doing with a police report.
Such a record could be useful in any potential legal action.
 To have an eviction notice served, you need to find the person or company that owns the house that has been squatted. Talk to your neighbours to see if anybody has any information about the property. If not, you can search city property and tax records for the address.Once you find the owners, get in touch and explain the situation. The owner may have no idea about the squatters and act quickly.
 If the squatters are causing problems, but the property owner is slow to act or seems disinterested in the issue, it’s important not to try to force out the squatters yourself. Instead, try to determine grounds for action to be taken by others, most particularly the police, but also the utility companies.

If the squatters have caused damage to the property, or committed theft or other crimes, you should contact the police and report it.
Unauthorised use of utilities such as electricity, gas, and water can also be a criminal offence.
Contact the relevant utilities companies to report the squatters.
 If the property is owned by a company or an individual who shows no interest in having the squatters removed, you can think about filing a nuisance claim against the owner.This can be a costly and time consuming process, so be sure that you have made plenty of attempts to get the owner to act before considering this course of action. If you do decide to take this action, you should contact a real estate attorney for advice on how to proceed.

A letter from an attorney to a landlord warning him that you and your neighbours are planning to submit a claim can be enough to spur him into action.
Try to co-ordinate with you neighbours, and work together to address the issue.
If you do have to employ an attorney, working closely with your neighbours will enable you to split the costs.
 Dealing with squatters can be a very difficult and unsettling experience, but it’s important that you try to stay calm and don’t escalate the situation. Aim for a clear dialogue with all the parties, but if there is criminality, leave it to the police to handle. It can take time to get squatters removed so be patient and don’t resort to trying to force anybody out yourself.


Stick together with your neighbours and support each other.
Be sure to keep your house safe by keeping doors and windows locked.

