 Remember it is your choice. You can check baby name websites for a great selection of names. If you want a unique name, you can find a site where you can exclude the most popular names. If you are interested in popular names you can take a look at those too. You can use flower names like Rose or a name that rhymes or corresponds with your name. Do a "today" name like Olivia or a "yesterday" name like Abigail.
 You could buy the clothes for your doll with out spending a lot of money. If you want cheap and good quality clothes shop for real baby clothes. You can pay great prices and receive cute clothes at your local thrift store or on Ebay. Baby clothes are better quality because they are made to go on real skin and not plastic. You can also make your own. You can get really cute fabrics and easy tutorials.
 Let it sleep with you for a week or so. Then make it a bed. Use small baby blankets and bits of fabrics for a cozy bed. Add some stuffed animals for a fun bedtime and place the bed for your doll close to your own. Love your doll so that it can feel happy and loved.
 A light shake will do it. Try and whisper something to it like, "Good morning sweetie, time to get up and start the day." Make sure her wake up isn't a harsh slap or a dreadful alarm clock. Gently pull up the covers and pick your doll up gently.;
, Be creative add a fun juice or some silly pancakes. You want your doll to feel well fed. This is breakfast, the most important meal of the day, right?


If it refuses to eat, try and feed it later. It might not be hungry. If it starts to cry it is a sure fire sign it doesn't want food. Gently clean the doll up and then try again later.
 Since it just ate, slowly rock the baby doll to comfort it. Then when its food digests, you may burp it if gassy.
 Take off its old one, clean it up, and put a new one back on. You know the drill.
 Pick out a cute, comfy outfit that it likes. If you want, take a picture of it in the adorable little outfit.
 Decide what you going to do with your doll that day. Take your doll places as if it were a part of the family. Take it on picnics or walks, to the grocery store, or a relative's house. If you are going somewhere you can't take your baby to, ask a friend, older sister, or even a grown-up or teenager doll (or even teddy bear) to babysit.
 Get out your toys and let it mess around. It'll have a great time! Take lots of pictures.
 Once again, it can be a bottle, or some mushy food if it's 10 months or older.
 You know the drill.
 Snuggle with your doll on the couch and talk to it. Bring a small book to read or a toy to play with.
 Don't forget to put on its sunscreen. If possible, go to the park and push it on the baby swings, go down the slide with it, or teach it how to climb a ladder. If you can't, bring out a small ball and watch it have a blast.
 Your cutie pie must be exhausted from all that fun, it's nap time. Lay it in its crib and let it fall asleep. If it's having trouble, rock it in your arms before you put it in the crib.
 Perhaps a small bottle should do it.
 Pretend to put it in the bathtub and use fake shampoo and body wash.
, Choose a fairy tale or make something up.
 Rock the doll in your arms and sing a soft song to your sensational sweetheart.
 Now that it's knocked out cold in your arms, gently lay it down in its crib and kiss it goodnight.
 First set up a time when each potential employee can come and be interviewed.
 But, you must still compare your options in both sitter experience and cost, if there is a cost. If one has real baby experience, but the other only has baby doll experience, does that matter? Choose the one with only baby doll experience, unless her services cost significantly more than the other.
 It's safest for you and your baby doll.
 Medications for sicknesses can usually be cured at home but check-ups can't happen at home. If a friend has baby doll or toy health experience you could ask her.
 If your doll gets dirty, do not put it in the bath tub. Instead, use baking soda. Use a damp wash cloth and rub on the powder. Then use a dry towel to wipe it all off., Undress your doll. Take a baby wipe, and put some disinfecting hand sanitizer on it. Rub it in, then rub this wipe all over your doll until she is slightly wet all over. Let her dry (it should only take a few minutes) then dress her.

