 Click here to go to My Chrome Theme on the Chrome Web Store. In the My Chrome Theme frame, click the + Free button, and then click Add. Google Chrome downloads and installs the extension. When it’s done, it opens the Chrome Apps tab in your browser.;
, On the Chrome apps screen, click the My Chrome Theme app.


If you don’t see the Chrome apps screen, open a new browser tab, and then, in the browser address bar, type: chrome://apps. Press the Enter key.
 On the My Chrome Theme page, click Start Making a Theme.
 On the Import your Image page, you can upload an image from your computer. Click Upload Image, choose an image on your hard drive that you’d like to use, and then click Open. The image loads in the theme preview pane.


You don’t need to use an image if you don’t want to use one. If you want to skip this step, click Continue to Step 2.
In addition to uploading an image from your computer, you can also take a picture using your computer’s webcam, if you have one.
 Once the image is uploaded to the app, you can adjust the position and size of the image. In the preview pane, click Adjust position. There are four Adjust Position options. Click Fit to Screen, and then click CENTER. If you’d like to use a different image position, choose that now. When you’re done, click the X to close the Adjust Position window.


Fit to Screen will attempt to fit the image to the size of the browser window. Images that are taller than wide will leave white space at the right and left of the image. Images that are wider than tall will leave white space at the top and bottom of the image. Once you select this option, you can align the image to the left, right, or center of the browser window.
Fill Screen uses the image to fill the whole screen of the browser window by zooming in on the image. This means that some of the image won’t be visible. You can choose which part of the image to use, top, center, or bottom.
Tile Image uses many small copies of the image to repeat fill the browser window. This option works especially well for simple, decorative images like tiles or fractals.
Custom lets you choose where on the browser window you’d like the image to be.
 Image effects will change how the image appears. It won’t change the options you selected in the Adjust position setting. Click Image effects, and then click BLACK AND WHITE. The image becomes a black and white image. Choose an image effect that you like, and then click Done.
 If you’re not happy with the image you chose, click Import new image, and then choose a different image. This will erase the work you’ve done on the previous image.
 When you’re happy with how the image looks, click Continue to Step 2. On the Step 2 page, you’ll see four paint brush icons for different parts of the browser window. Click a paint brush icon, and then in the Pick a Color window, choose a color for that part of the browser window. When you’re done, either click a different paint brush or click the X to close the Pick a Color window.


Click the > or < buttons to see different color choices.
 When you’re happy with the colors you’ve chosen, click Continue to Step 3. In the Give your theme a name field, type a name for the theme, and then click the Make my theme! button.
 To install the theme, click the Install My Theme button. Chrome will ask you if you’re sure you want to continue. If not, click Discard. If you do want to continue, click Continue. Chrome will ask you if you want to add your theme. Click Add. You may receive a message that indicates you can harm your computer by installing themes.
 If you’d like to switch back to the default Chrome theme, click the menu button, and then click Settings. On the Settings screen, under Appearance, click the Reset to default theme button. Chrome will revert to the default theme. When you open the My Chrome Theme app again, the theme you created will be saved there.

