 Douching is not generally recommended, because the vagina naturally cleans itself. But, it can be used sparingly when you have BV. You should know, however, that there is a risk of pushing the bacteria into your cervix and uterus and risk PID and other serious infections.


Douching is actually believed by many physicians to increase the risk of BV., Douching is the procedure of washing or cleaning out the inside of the vagina with water or other mixtures of fluids. You can buy prepackaged mixes for douching at most pharmacies and drug stores. These usually come in a bottle with a curved neck or a bag.


Start by getting into the shower or bath. Most women find it easier to prop one leg on a surface like the edge of the tub. Be careful not to slip.
Then, with one hand, spread the labia (the “lips” that are on either side of the vagina) and find the vaginal opening.
Hold the bottle or bag in the other hand.
Gently squirt the douche upward through the tube or nozzle into your vagina.
The mixture will come back out through your vagina.
 Apple cider vinegar is believed to restore the acidic pH of the vagina.It can be used with relative effectiveness to get rid of BV.


Get a douche kit from a drugstore. You will use the equipment that is included with the kit. Or, you can use an enema kit, which has the same equipment as a douche kit.
Mix two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar with one cup of warm filtered water. Don’t use white vinegar, as this is too acidic.
Use the douche twice a day for four days and then daily until all symptoms disappear. , Hydrogen peroxide has disinfectant properties, and it can also get rid of irritants that can cause BV.Mix 3% hydrogen peroxide with an equal amount of warm distilled water and douche with this mixture. Use distilled water because the water should be sterile and bacteria-free.
Use as a douche twice a day for four days and then daily until all symptoms disappear. , Use two to three drops of essential oregano oil in eight ounces of distilled water. Repeat twice a day for one week. Repeat twice a day for four days and then daily until all symptoms disappear. For yeast infections, try douching with two to three drops of essential tea tree oil in eight ounces of distilled water. Repeat twice a day for one week. Repeat twice a day for four days and then daily until all symptoms disappear. Never ingest tea tree oil. You can also apply two to three drops of the oil on a tampon and insert the tampon into your vagina. Leave it in for about one hour.
Do not use essential oil treatments if you are pregnant, nursing, or expect to become pregnant in the immediate future.

