 These movies are known for having little plot and tons of explosions, car chases, gun fights, and violence.
 These movies typically feature numerous fights, ninjas, and actors who are martial artists in real life. Some martial arts movies are Karate Kid and Mortal Kombat.
 This is the sci-fi action category. A few movies that belong to this sub-genre are the Terminator and Matrix franchise.
 If it does, it's most likely a spy film. Movies in this genre include the Bond, Bourne, and Mission: Impossible franchises.
 Sometimes, this is just a normal element of the action genre, but if the film as a whole centers around this ticking clock and has elements of suspense and anxiety, such as Die Hard and Lethal Weapon, you might be watching an action-thriller.
 This is an action suspense. Films like Dirty Harry, The Dark Knight, and the Bourne franchise have these elements.
 This is a chase or speed film. Movies such as Bullitt and the Fast And Furious franchise belong to this sub-genre.


Remember to evaluate the setting of the film. Some films, like the Mad Max movies, are chase films, but take place in more exotic and special locations, as opposed to the cityscape of the Fast And Furious movies. This means Mad Max would be more of a sub-genre of adventure than of action.
 This is an epic film. Consider films such as Braveheart and Gladiator.
 This is obviously the escape film, and you can use films like Escape From Alcatraz and The Count Of Monte Cristo as reference.


Escape films are sometimes considered a sub-genre of adventure instead of action. It's up to you to choose.
 This is a sub-genre of the Hong Kong action genre, and while it features tons of violence, it also incorporates themes of redemption, brotherhood, duty, and honour. Use films like A Better Tomorrow and The Killer as references.
 This is the vast superhero sub-genre. Movies like Doctor Strange, the Captain America franchise, and Black Panther fit into this genre.
 Antiheroes are complicated vigilantes that blur the lines between good and bad and do bad things in the name of being good. American History X, Watchmen, and Dredd all prominently feature antiheroes, as an example.

