,,

Once done, it should be in the "Games" section in the Steam client.
 When the game starts up, you will be met with a creepy-looking title screen. You want to click New Game.

You start on Night 1. Only the toy animatronics move in this night.
 Be careful, because it can run out of batteries. When you use it, you can see down the hallway in front of you and see if any animatronics are coming down it. Flash it a few times at any animatronics in the hallway., You also want to check these often because animatronics can come from them, the button above them toggles a light., This is especially important if they're in the vents or your office. There will be two buttons at the bottom of the screen. The red one brings up your mask if you hover the mouse over it.

When/if you hear banging from the vents, then that means it's safe to take the mask off.
 The white button at the bottom of the screen activates the camera. Using this, you'll be able to monitor other parts of the map. In the camera, you have to watch out for Cam 11. Also watch out for the vents, too, which are Cam 5 and 6., On the camera in Cam 11, there is a thing you have to do to keep an animatronic away from you. There will be a button saying "Wind Up Music Box" and a circle next to that.

Do not let that circle run out. If it does, the marionette, which is the thing that's in the room, will probably get you soon. You generally only want the circle to drop halfway before re-winding it.
 Whenever an animatronic appears in front of you in your office area, put the mask on instantly. With Toy Freddy, you only have 1.2 seconds to put it on. If you don't, then you're toast. The mask will trick the animatronics into thinking that you're one, so it's an essential.

The mask does not work on Foxy, who is another animatronic.
 If you pass the first night, then congrats! It will progressively get harder the further into the game you get. Don't worry if you die multiple times- just keep trying., Night 2 is almost the same as Night 1, but Foxy will appear in your hallway, and the animatronics will come out earlier, this includes the old ones.

Keep in mind that you must check Cam 11 after each time you check your office.
 Now it gets harder, as forgetting to wear the mask after checking the vents will trigger a jumpscare, next time you put down your cameras.

Foxy will also become more active during the night, so don't forget to flash him away.
 This is very similar to Night 3. Keep an eye on Foxy and the Puppet., This night is the hardest of the first five.

To complete this night, you must check Cam 11 all the time. If an animatronic is in your office for a long time, go straight to the Prize Corner, and wind the box to at least half way.
Toy Bonnie and Foxy will be problems in this situation, as Foxy will stay in the hall for ages, and even the slightest mistake will trigger a jumpscare. Toy Bonnie will stay in the vent for ages too, and if you don't put on the mask and keep him away long enough, it will result in a jumpscare. You may get lucky though, as another animatronic may get in your office before Toy Bonnie gets a chance to jumpscare you.
 When you beat the game, you can customize the danger of all the animatronics, and you get the option to do a 6th Night.