 If you resell goods, then you might need a loan to pay your suppliers. In particular, a large order might require that you make additional investments in your company. With purchase order funding, the finance company will pay the supplier directly.This type of financing works only if your markup is sufficiently large. You’ll need a gross profit margin of at least 30%.
You can contact a financing company about this type of funding.
 “Factoring” is a funding technique where you get an advance against your invoices. If your clients are slow to pay, then factoring can provide you with the cash you need. You may immediately get around 80% of the invoice value. When your client finally pays, you get the remainder less any fee charged.You’ll only qualify if your clients have good credit. For example, government or reputable commercial clients are best.Perform your research before working with a factoring company. Ask if they work with businesses of your size and ask about their experience. Also check if they have a minimum that you must factor.
 People who know you can also lend money to finance your business.This is probably an ideal option if you are borrowing a small amount of money.


Approach family with the seriousness that you would a bank. Explain why you need the money and how you intend to pay it back.
Consider paying your lender interest. This will also show that you are serious and not looking for extra money to spend on luxuries.
Write up a promissory note and sign it. This will bind you contractually to paying back the money., You can finance a start-up or an existing business by using your IRA or a prior employer’s 401(k) account. You have to roll over your current funds into a retirement plan created for the business. The plan then uses the proceeds to buy stock in the corporation.This is a complicated procedure, and you should hire a financing firm to help you with the process. Check how much the company charges and whether they charge a monthly advisory fee.
Also think carefully before using your retirement savings to finance your business. You had earmarked this money to support you when you retire. If your business folds, then you’ll lose these savings.
 Depending on how much money you need, you might use a credit card.Credit cards are a good option if you can get an introductory 0% rate for 12 months or more. Remember the following tips for credit cards:


Make sure to get a business credit card. You want to keep your business and personal expenses separate. If you commingle them, then it looks like your business isn’t really a separate entity, which could hurt you if your business is structured as an LLC or corporation.
Use the card wisely. It’s probably not a great idea to use the credit card for big purchases, like equipment. Instead, seek an equipment loan. Use your credit card instead for short-term financing, such as to pay travel expenses., You can get funding for one-off ideas, such as writing a screenplay or financing the creation of a rap album.You create an account with a crowdfunding site, and people who visit the site can donate to your project.


Crowdfunding is only for small, discrete projects, not long-term financing for a continuing business.
Common crowdfunding sites include Indiegogo, RocketHub, and Peerbackers.Visit these sites and read up on their terms and conditions.
 Your home may be the largest asset you own. Accordingly, banks will lend to you if you use your home as collateral. You can get an equity loan or a home equity line of credit (HELOC), which you can use to fund your business.With a home equity loan, you get a lump sum and pay it off in equal monthly installments. By contrast, a HELOC acts like a credit card. You use what you need up to a limit and then pay it back.
Talk to a lender about the terms and conditions of taking a home equity loan or a HELOC. Compare interest rates and how much time you’ll have to pay off the loan.
Using your home as collateral shouldn’t be your first option. If your business fails, then you will lose your home.
 You might be able to get a grant from the federal, state, or local government. Some non-profits also provide grants to businesses.Grants are often given to support emerging technologies and are typically reserved for specialized businesses. Grants are not a good option for most businesses.


However, if you think you might qualify, then check your local business development office to see what is available.
You can also use the BusinessUSA Financing Tool, which is available here: https://business.usa.gov/access-financing.

