 Cover surfaces with a drop cloth or newspaper or consider spray painting your oven outside. Tape and cover all the parts you don't want to paint.;
, If the oven is new it won’t need a lot of cleaning; however, you will want to ensure that any dust or debris is removed before applying the spray paint.


Cover the window portion of the toaster oven with painter’s tape. You’ll want to see the bacon sizzling away inside the oven so don’t coat the window with paint.
 Cover the entire oven evenly with paint. If you want to apply two coats, make sure the first coat is completely dry before applying the second coat.


Make this toaster oven something special by creating a little piggy face on the front. Since pigs are pink, pick up a can (or two) of high temperature auto engine paint. Although this paint may be found at craft stores you can also hit the automotive outlet for paint too. Of course, if you're a dude and having a pink pig in your room isn’t very manly, pigs come in other colors like black, grey or white.
 This will form the nose.
 This makes the piggy nostrils. If you want, you can color these black later, using a Sharpie to add detail to the nose.
,, Paint it.


Add black nostrils to the nose after the paint has dried using a black Sharpie pen. Draw two circles for the nostrils.
 Cut the wood into two squares.
 Paint.
, Drill the side of the toaster for screws to add the nose with.


Screw the nose on the side of the toaster.
, Curl the fuzzy wires into the shape of a pig's tail.


Drill the other side of the toaster for a screw to fit in, this is where you are going to put the pig's tail.






Install the screw.






Make sure you shave off the end of the fuzzy wire just to be sure it won't heat up and potentially catch fire. Once shaved, it should be easy to tie the fuzzy wire to the screw you installed.






Attach the tail to the toaster's body.
 While the method above may work well for you, there are some different options that you might wish to consider for attaching the features to the oven:


An alternative way to decorate the exterior of the toaster oven would be to use a hot glue gun to affix the nose to the middle of the window and the googly eyes to the metal area above the window of the oven.
Instead of wood, use felt. Cut out two large circles from the pink felt. Use the craft wire to construct pointy piggy ears on top of the oven. Apply the wire with hot glue to the toaster and allow it to dry. Wrap the wire with the felt circles and secure around the base of the wire. Trim excess material if necessary.
 You may want to test drive the timer to ensure you have set it correctly.


Plug the oven cord into the timer and the timer into the wall. Follow the instructions on the timer for setting the time.
 If you have your timer plugged into the wall, the piggy toaster oven should not start cooking until the designated time. However, you should have the oven set so it's ready to cook. Synchronize your alarm clock with the digital timer of the oven.
 There are a few ways to approach this:

Place frozen bacon in the toaster oven the night before. On the one hand, the bacon could sit in the toaster oven for a few hours, thaw and be perfect for cooking. However, be absolutely certain that allowing meat to sit out for a long period of time will most likely attract bacteria, causing it to be unsafe for eating. This is especially so if your room is warm.






Set another alarm to wake you up a few minutes before your toaster oven is set to activate. Head to the kitchen refrigerator to grab a few pieces of bacon and place in toaster oven.






Keep a small refrigerator near your toaster oven where you will maintain your bacon supply. Set another alarm and when it goes off, simply roll over, remove the bacon and place in toaster oven.
 Not everyone likes their bacon cooked the same way so you may want to adjust settings during the first few days to cook it the way you like it.
