 If you are trying to record gameplay from an older console without a capture card, your best bet may be using a video camera or your smartphone's camera app. You won't get perfect quality, but you'll still be able to record what you're playing.


If you're using a smartphone, you'll have trouble picking up the sound from your TV.
If you can, consider purchasing a capture device instead. These are external devices that you simply plug into your computer, making them much easier to install than a capture card. You will be able to record at the best picture and sound quality if you use a capture device.
If you're playing a much older system, such as an NES or Sega Genesis, you may want to record with a VCR. This will lead to a better quality recording, and with the right equipment you can transfer it to a computer.
 The key to a good recording is to ensure that the entire frame is filled with the TV image. Try to position the camera in such as way that it is looking directly at the TV, and that the frame is filled by the TV image. Move the camera a little closer so that the edges of the TV are just barely cut off. This will ensure that the entire frame is full.


Make sure that you aren't pointed at an angle, or you'll likely pick up some glare.
 If your video camera or smartphone uses digital zoom, avoid using it for filming your gameplay. Digital zoom will result in a blurry final video, and you need as much clarity as possible when filming this way.
 If you're using a camcorder, you may be able to route the game audio through the camcorder's input. You'll need a converter for the console's audio cable so that it can plug into the input or line-in option on the camcorder. This isn't possible on most smartphones.


Another possibility with a camcorder is setting up a microphone next to your TV speaker to pick up the game audio more clearly.
 Make sure that no lights are shining directly onto the TV screen. You don't want to make the room completely dark, or the TV image will glow too much. As long as lights aren't pointing directly at the TV screen or camera, you should be good.
 The worst thing you can do for clarity is to try to hold the camera while the game plays. Your camera needs to be absolutely steady, or it will be very hard to see the gameplay. Use a tripod if possible. If you don't have a tripod, set the camera or phone on a level surface and stabilize it with books or other heavy objects.
 When the screen is dark, you may appear in the TV reflection if you are sitting directly in front. Sit off to the side while recording so that you don't get caught in the reflection.
 Once you're finished recording, transfer the video to your computer so that you can edit anything out that you don't want in the video. This is usually useful to cut out the setup process or to remove boring parts. Since the sound recording probably wasn't very good, you may want to replace the sound completely with a soundtrack. After you're finished making your edits, you can upload the video to YouTube or keep it on your computer

