 When your loved one is raging about something or is upset and despondent, you should focus on the emotions he or she is trying to convey. When your loved one does this, he or she often is seeking validation and comfort for the pain he or she is feeling.This may be hard if your loved one is saying hurtful things. However, try to look past the words and see the underlying pain and other emotions being expressed. For example, if your loved one is shouting at you, then you could acknowledge her anger by saying something like, “I can tell that you are really angry right now.”

, For your relationship with your loved one to work, you need to listen to him or her. When your loved one is talking, push any judgment you have aside and actively listen and take in what your loved one is saying. Turn off TVs, phones, or computers and focus on your loved one.To let your loved one know you are listening, offer a periodic sound of acknowledgement or comment, such as "yes" or "uh huh." By using these types of statements, you will be letting your loved one know that you are hearing him or her. It does not mean that you are agreeing with everything your loved one says.
 Your loved one with BPD will have highs and lows as part of the disorder. This means that your loved one will sometimes be elated and overly enthusiastic. Just like you shouldn't get too emotionally involved when your loved one is belligerent, the same goes for when he or she is elated. Your loved one will act on impulse and emotions, often saying over the top things and suggesting things that are not feasible or possible. When this happens, detach yourself from the situation and try not to get swept up in the excitement.For example, your loved one may talk about how much he or she loves you. You loved one may also suggest you take a trip that is not feasible for either of you.
 Don't focus on the BPD in every conversation that you have with your loved one. Your loved one's life isn't defined by the BPD, so don't let your relationship be either. Talk about lighter topics that are of interest to both of you.For example, try talking to your loved one about his or her interests, a movie you recently saw, or plans for upcoming holidays.
 When you are with your loved one and his or her mood swings to anger or depression, try distracting him or her with an activity. Put on a movie you both want to see, go for a walk, make a cup of tea, play with a pet, or any other sort of soothing activity that takes your loved one out of the moment.Doing something soothing and enjoyable will get your loved one's mind off of the emotions and focused on something more productive and healthy.
 If you notice your loved one's behavior seems self-destructive, don't ignore it. Let your loved one know you are concerned. Even if your loved one tells you to mind your own business, keep a watch on him or her for warning signs. If you are worried about warning signs, talk to you loved one's therapist or doctor. If you see suicidal behavior, get help for your loved one immediately. The warning signs include:Reckless behavior
A change in behavior or normal activities
Refusal to eat
Any signs of self-harm, such as scratches

