 Most people opt for standard fit car mats, but if you're a bit more particular about what goes into your car, there are more advanced options to pick from, too.Standard fit mats are the least expensive and will usually work with any car that hasn't been customized. You should be able to find them in any store that sells automobile accessories. Some standard fit mats are universal by car type (subcompact car, compact car, minivan, SUV, pickup truck, etc.) while others are universal by both car type and car manufacturer.
Improved fit mats are similar to standard fit mats in the generalized method of sizing used, but the materials and dimensions are designed in a way that allows them to fit the space in your car more securely.
Vehicle-specific car mats are a little more expensive, but they're a good option for someone who wants a high-quality mat that is still commercially available. These car mats are designed for a specific make and model of automobile, so the dimensions should fit your specific vehicle very accurately. You can usually find these mats at car dealerships and some automotive stores.
Fully customized car mats are the most expensive, and you'll need to locate a business that specializes in making them since they aren't commercially available. You will need to provide your car's specific measurements when placing an order (please see the "Measure for Custom Car Mats" section).;
, Type refers to the overall quality of the floor mat. Someone who lives in a temperate climate and only uses the car for leisure will need a different quality than someone who regularly drags heavy, muddy work boots into a truck used while on the job.Standard car mats are the most basic. They protect the car floor against most liquids, but that's about all they do.
All-weather car mats are a little more durable. They can protect the floor from liquids and stay in place a little more securely. As such, the mats don't slip around as much when the weather gets nasty, so the odds of getting mud on the floor are lessened.
Cargo liners are liquid-proof and stay in place as well as all-weather mats, but they're made from materials that are more rigid than all-weather mats, making them slightly more durable.
Carpeted mats fit into your car securely, but they only offer minimal protection against liquids; they are not liquid-proof, strictly speaking.
Rubber mats are liquid proof and stay in place very securely. They can dry and crack when exposed to extremely hot or sunny conditions, though.
Heavy-duty mats are liquid proof and fit into your vehicle very securely. They're also extra thick, which adds an extra layer of protection.
Metal car mats are liquid proof and very durable, but they tend to slip around instead of fitting securely.
 The two main backing styles include flat backs and gripper backs. Both options have advantages and disadvantages.


Flat backs generally have a non-skid coating to help prevent slippage, but this coating may not be as effective as the nubs on a gripper back mat are. These nubs can wear into the flooring of your car over time, though.
Also pay attention to the type of rubber used on the back of the mat. Styrene butadiene rubber is more affordable, but Nitrile butadiene rubber is oil-resistant.
 Even though aesthetics won't impact the effectiveness of your car mats, for many, these details are still valued enough to consider.


Branded mats, designer mats, and sports theme mats all feature logos and designs related to a specific product, brand, team, or other interest.
Colored mats are a simpler way to customize the aesthetics of your car flooring. They tend to be both practical and visually appealing and come in a range of colors that can match or complement the car's interior.
 Use a measuring tape to measure the distance between the door and the center divider in between the driver and passenger side seats.


Only measure the floor space between these two points. Do not measure from the door itself to the wall of the center divider, since this measurement will be slightly larger than the floor space between both points.
The center divider in the front will be your car's center console. The center divider in the back will usually be the floor hump.
 Use a measuring tape to measure the distance between the back of the seat and the front stopping point for each mat.


The front stopping point will be the furthest point your feet are expected to reach while sitting in that seat. If you aren't sure where that point is, it might be a good idea to sit in each seat of the car and slide your feet as far up along the floor as possible.
Note that the length of the front passenger floor mat will be the longest and should cover all flat floor space in front of that seat.
The length of the front driver mat will need to stop just short of the gas and brake pedals.
 Car mats are never perfect rectangles because the space they need to cover is never perfectly rectangular.


The floor mats will only cover the flat portion of the floor. When the floor slants up or when an obstruction covers the floor, you will need to measure the space around that obstruction to determine how the mat should fit around it.
If you need guidance, it may help to look at commercial car mats designed for your vehicle or type of vehicle. The measurement of each slant, indentation, and angle may vary from those you'll need for your car, but these commercial mats should offer some guide. Floor mat diagrams may also help.
 Trace the measured perimeter onto heavy paper. Cut this pattern out with scissors.









You will need a separate car mat pattern for the floor in front of each seat.
These patterns do not need to look neat, but you do need to make sure that the measurements of your pattern perimeter match the measurements you took with your tape measure.
 Place each paper pattern over the appropriate floor space in your car. Add more paper or cut away sections as needed until each pattern covers the precise space it needs to cover.








When removing sections of paper to improve the fit, do so by cutting away small portions at a time. Stop once that side of the paper lies flat against the floor.
If you need to add sections of paper, do so by taping them on. Stop once the paper covers the entire flat surface of the floor without bending into any slants or obstructions.
 If you altered the pattern to improve the fit, make sure that you measure each straight edge and angle. Write these measurements down.









This set of measurements will be what you need to provide to the custom car mat service.
Even if you didn't alter anything, it's still a good idea to measure the perimeter of the pattern again, just to make sure that the measurements of the pattern match the measurements you've recorded.
 Remove any old mats from your car and clean the carpet lying beneath them.









You should be able to lift the old mats straight out. Removing old mats will ensure the best fit for your new ones. It's also safer to install new mats directly on the car floor, rather than installing them on top of old mats.
At minimum, you should vacuum the carpet covering the car floor. If there are stains and heavy soiling, you may need to clean the carpet with water and carpet cleaning shampoo. Make sure that the car floor is dry before continuing.
 Most newly purchased car mats are already fairly clean, but you should brush off any dirt or debris before installing them in your car.









If you are using second-hand mats, you may also need to vacuum carpeted mats or scrub hard-surface mats with soap and water.
 Lay out all of the mats at once and make sure that you know which mat goes in front of which seat in your car.


You'll need to take a few moments to do this regardless of whether you have standard or customized mats.
Spread the mats out where you can see them all at once. A driveway or garage is usually the ideal choice.
The car mats may come labeled, but if not, you will need to figure it out by shape and size. Shorter mats usually go in the back, while longer mats often go in the front.
 Most mats will simply lie directly over the floor in front of the seats. Some will need to be fitted onto factory retention posts, though.








Some cars have factory retention posts, while others don't. These posts are hooks or rods located at the center or around the perimeter of your floor in front of the seat. The number and location of posts will vary depending on your car model.
If the car has factory retention posts and the mats are specific to your car manufacturer and/or model, or if the mats are customized to your specific car, they will usually have corresponding latch spots. Secure these latching spots over the retention posts, snapping them in place.
Make sure that the gripping or non-skid side of the mat faces down as you install it.
Work around the perimeter of each car mat, pressing it down in place until it is flat against your floorboard and feels secure.
 Check the mat placement along the pedals and seat base to make sure that the mats do not block any of these features.


Look at both the gas and brake pedals. Both must move freely without hitting the mats.
Try to adjust the seats back and forth, sliding them along the track rails. You should be able to slide the seats smoothly and without running into the mats.

