 Traits are the parts of you that don’t usually change much over time.They are characteristics about you that may be positive, while others might be a bit more negative. Your personality is the sum of all these traits and characteristics and is what makes you a unique person. Listing your traits can help you define your personality.


For example, you might write that you are sensitive, caring, stubborn, determined, ambitious, hard-working, and dependable.
Use words that describe how you think, behave, and feel in general.For instance, you could include: calm, a night owl, sociable, a good planner, or helpful on your list. Look at lists of personality traits online that others have used to define themselves. See which ones are applicable to you, then add words of your own.
Include words that family and friends frequently use to describe you. For example, if they are always telling you that you’re comical, put it on the list. You may even ask family and friends to help you find descriptive words for yourself.;
,


Consider your attitude towards change. Write about a major change in your life. For example, you may write that you felt nervous and worried when you moved.
Think about how you handle challenges and obstacles. Then consider how likely you are to take risks, and how you respond to failure or set-backs. Write down the personality traits that come to mind.
For example, think about how you react when someone is rude to you. You might write, “I calmly tell them to stop and try to figure out what’s wrong.”
Think about the things you do. Would you describe them as individual activities or social?
For example, gardening, reading, and painting are individual activities. Social activities are things like team sports and participating in clubs and organizations.
 Think about three words that could be used to describe most of the things on your list. These three words will help you define your personality.Look over your list and find the words that could be used as synonyms, or to describe some of the other words.


For instance, ‘ambitious’ could be a word to summarize being determined, hardworking, and goal-oriented.
As another example, energetic, fun-loving, independent, and thrill-seeking could be described by the word ‘adventurous’.
Identify those three (no more than five) words that would tell someone about you in general if that was all they had to go on.
You might determine that you are outgoing, active, and easy-going, for example.

