 Cyberbullying is just as hurtful and harmful as real life bullying. People can easily use your social media profile as a place to spread rumors and share unwanted information. Unfriending the girl on Facebook will stop her from blowing up your page with potentially rude comments or photos. Plus, deleting her from your profile will show her that you’re not interested in further communication.To unfriend someone on Facebook, go to their page, click on Friends, and then click on “unfriend.”
This goes for all forms of social media. Unfollow her on Instagram and Twitter and don’t watch her Snapchat story.;
, Bullies like to feel as if they have control over your emotions and actions. They’re looking to provoke a specific reaction from you. Walking away will not only keep you from engaging in a conflict, but will show the bully that you’re not willing to let her have any form of control over your life.Avoid making eye contact. Keep your head held high and look straight ahead. This will show her that you’re above any kind of petty interactions.
 Talk to a trusted outsider about a girl who is mistreating you. Somebody else might be able to help you deal with the problem better than you can yourself.


If you are being bullied by a girl in school, talk to a teacher, parent, or other trusted adult figure about how to handle the situation. An adult will be able to help you and prevent the girl from being aggressive with others later on.If you are dealing with a romantic or workplace issue, try having a friend mediate a conversation or seek the help of a counselor.
 It might be tempting to be mean right back when a girl is attacking you either in person or behind your back. Don't gossip, yell, or cause drama. Be an example of good behavior. If she sees you acting kindly, she will be forced to reconsider her own behavior.If she attempts to get other people on your back, calmly explain to them what's really going on. It’s important not to perpetuate further gossip among 3rd parties. Say something like: “I don’t know what Sarah’s told you, but here’s my take on the situation.”

