 Don’t speak too softly or too loudly either. Speak at a volume that can be heard easily, and suggests confidence but never shows aggression.


Remember to adjust the volume of your voice to suit the surrounding environment.
If possible, speak at the same volume and tone as people in your immediate environment.;
, You can begin by saying something that is generally or universally true, rather than overly personal because that might seem to be insulting or offensive to some. Comment on the weather, or maybe some current event you heard about in the news recently. You could compliment someone on what they are wearing or the way they have done their hair.Small talk is not always easy though; since it can often be difficult to think of exactly what to say. Here a few examples:


"That's a nice hat, where did you buy it"?
"What's with this crazy weather?"
"I just love the view from here."
"Isn't Professor James' class fascinating?"

, After speaking about general issues such as current events, try bringing up more intimate or a more relatable topic. Asking questions that delve a little deeper below the surface. For example, asking polite questions about their family, employment, or hobbies can lengthen a conversation and make it more meaningful. Remember that a conversation takes two people, so avoid speaking too little or vice versa. Try as much as possible to ask open-ended questions; in other words, start with a "How," a "Why," or a "What," instead of those questions to which there can only be a plain and simple "Yes" or "No" answer. That doesn't encourage the person you're speaking to speak more. Here are some ways to lengthen conversations and give them depth:


"So, what you do for a living?"
"Tell me a little more about your family?"
"How do you know the host of the party?"
"How long have you been attending / been a member of weight watchers?"
"What are your plans for the weekend?"

, When interacting with a person you don't know all too well, there are some subjects you should steer clear of. In general, these would include controversial subjects like religion, politics, or the persons ethnicity/race etc. For instance:


While it appears appropriate to ask someone a question about an upcoming election, it might be offensive to ask someone who they plan to vote for.
While it seems okay to ask someone about their religious affiliation generally, it might be a bad idea to ask just about anyone about the church's views on sexuality.
 Instead of abruptly cutting them off and walking away, try to be polite about it. Tell them in a sweet, non-offensive way that that you have to take their leave, and give them the impression that you enjoyed the interaction. Try concluding with positive statements such as:


“I've got to run, but I hope we meet again soon.”
"Well, I have a bank appointment, but it's been fun chatting with you."
"I can see that you're busy, so I'll let you go. It was nice talking to you."

