 Hawaii has widely-varied terrains and sightseeing opportunities which you'll want to examine closely at the beginning of your trip planning process.


One of the most well-known beaches is Waikiki where you'll also find popular bars, restaurants, and shopping areas. Waikiki also offers experiences such as submarine tours and the Royal Luau.;
, Kauai is off the beaten path and a favorite destination of nature lovers.
 Here you can also snorkel, go horseback riding, and take helicopter tours.
 Oahu also offers scuba adventures, chances to swim with dolphins, and nature tours.
 If you can wash your clothes during your vacation, you will be able to pack less and travel lighter.
 Temperatures in Hawaii average from 70 to 85 degrees F (21 to 29 degrees C) year-round. Think about investing in easy-to-wash, wrinkle-free clothing to save time and energy.
 Dark clothes will absorb more sunlight than lighter, brighter-colored clothing.
 Temperatures can drop as you gain elevation. Dressing in layers will also help you handle changing temperatures on hikes in higher elevations or nighttime luaus on the beach.
 Visitors to Hawaii often spend much of their time on the beach or in the pool, so having more than 1 swimsuit ensures you always have one that is dry and ready to wear.


Tuck one into your backpack when out hiking so you'll be prepared for an impromptu dip should you come across one of the swimming holes and waterfalls often found along Hawaiian hiking trails.
,, At the very least, have a pair of sturdy shoes with non-slip or gripping soles. Hawaii's high humidity and plentiful water can make trails wet and slippery. Water shoes with good gripping soles can be useful when you are hiking over streams and around waterfalls where rocks and logs can be slippery.
 Look for hats specifically designed for travel; you can bend and fold them for easier packing, yet they retain their shape when you put one on.
 It usually rains at least once a day in Hawaii, and although the showers typically don't last long, having a purse-sized umbrella or fold-up rain slicker could come in handy.
 Remember items like chargers for your camera, too, so you don't wind up with dead camera batteries and no way to document the rest of your trip.
 Keep it in labeled bottles so if you need a refill, it will be easier to get. If you have too many bottles that it makes packing them cumbersome, make a list of your medications, dosages, and your doctor's phone number to tuck into your wallet.
 Make sure you pack a change of clothing in your carry-on just in case your bags are lost or delayed by the airline.
, Also a bag for the beach will help you keep all your items together when you venture out for a swim.

