 Millions of men who experience erectile dysfunction (ED) each year are too embarrassed to talk about it with their doctor. ED is a very common disorder, but it is not considered to be a "normal" part of aging. ED is often a signal that there is an underlying problem that needs to be treated. Before attempting to overcome ED on your own, it's very important to make an appointment with your doctor and clear up any other issues that might be affecting your ability to sustain an erection.


Talk to your doctor about your vascular health.If you have high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or high blood sugar, it's possible that one of these conditions has damaged arteries in your heart, which can lead to ED.
Heart disease and diabetes are two serious conditions that often start with ED.If you have one of these disorders, getting treatment should help you overcome erectile dysfunction.;
, Really. Make it a priority to get outside or go to the gym and walk, run, swim, bike, or do strength training at least 4 times a week. According to a study conducted by Harvard, walking 30 minutes a day caused a 41% drop in risk for ED.Getting regular exercise aids circulation, getting your blood pumping through your entire body. When it's time to sustain an erection, better circulation is key., Larger waistlines are associated with higher rates of ED.Putting in the work to slim down can lead to huge improvements in the bedroom. Make sure you're eating a healthy diet loaded with plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean proteins, and healthy fats.


Avoid processed foods and foods made with refined sugars and flours.
Replace high-calorie drinks with water or unsweetened tea.
Eat healthy snacks like nuts, carrots and apples instead of reaching for sugar-laden power bars or fast food.
 Smoking can make ED worse, since it interferes with your circulatory system and is linked to diseases that cause ED. If you're having trouble sustaining an erection, now might be the time to give up the cigarettes for good.


If quitting doesn't seem possible right now, cut back as much as you can. If you can limit your smoking to a few cigarettes a day, that's better than smoking a pack.
 Alcohol is another substance that has a huge impact on erections. After a few drinks, many men of all ages find it much more difficult to stay hard.
 The pelvic floor helps the penis stay hard during erections by pressing on a vein that keeps blood from leaving until the erection is over.Men who exercise their pelvic floor have better results than those who rely solely on lifestyle changes to correct erectile dysfunction. So how do you strengthen this internal muscle? Kegel exercises.


To find your pelvic floor, tighten the muscles you'd need to tighten to stop your urine flow.
Tighten and release the muscle 8 times, then rest and do it 8 more times. Continue until you've done 3 or 4 sets of 8.
Do Kegels every day at least once a day.

