 Changes to the Quick Access Toolbar only affect the program you are working in. For example, changes made in Excel will not appear when you open Word.;
, If you haven't changed your Quick Access Toolbar commands before, it will be right next to the Redo button.
 Selecting an option will close the menu and add a shortcut to the Quick Access Toolbar. Each new command will be added to right end of the list of shortcuts.
 If you don't want one of the commands cluttering up your toolbar anymore, you can either right-click it and select "Remove from Quick Access Toolbar", or you can open the list of commands and click the option to uncheck and remove it.
 You can add many more commands than the ones offered in the common list.
 This will open a new window that allows you to make detailed edits to the Quick Access Toolbar.
 Click the "Choose commands from" drop-down menu and select the category for the command you want to add. By default, the "Popular Commands" category will be displayed. You can choose any of your tabs (Home, Insert, Page Layout, etc.), you can view all of your macros, and you can select commands from specific tools. You can add virtually any command from Excel to the Quick Access Toolbar.


If you aren't sure which category your desired command can be found in, select "All Commands" to view the entire list of available commands in alphabetical order.
 Once you've found the command you want to add, highlight it and click the Add >> button. It will be added to the bottom of the list of Quick Access Toolbar commands in the right frame.
 You can use the right frame to rearrange your Quick Access Toolbar commands. Select a command and click the ▲ and the ▼ buttons to change the order. Commands at the bottom of the list will be on the right end of the Quick Access Toolbar.
 If you're planning on moving computers and want to quickly transfer your Quick Access Toolbar configuration, click the Import/Export ▼ button and select "Export all customizations". You can then import the file on another computer to automatically load your Quick Access Toolbar settings.
 If you find a command you use often, you can quickly add it to your Quick Access Toolbar. Right-click the command in the tab and select "Add to Quick Access Toolbar".