 Though they may not understand what is happening, babies will often feel and reflect their parent’s stress, sadness, and discomfort. If your baby shows higher irritability than normal, begins to cry more frequently, or even has trouble with sleeping or digestion, recognize that this may reflect unease related to your divorce.Try to convey a sense of calmness around your baby.
In particular, avoid having emotionally fraught discussions when your baby is present.
 Preschool and kindergarten children are particularly likely to blame themselves for your separation, as they are likely to interpret their parents unhappiness as their own fault. If your child begins to act out more frequently, becomes more clingy, or is easily frightened or upset, make an active effort to reassure them more frequently by telling them that you love them and hugging and cuddling them whenever they are upset., Children in their pre-teen years may become especially frustrated by the emotions they’re feeling as a result of your divorce. Look for signs of fluctuating moodiness, increased aggression, discomfort with gender identities, and feelings of being deceived or rejected. Performance in school may also drop, and kids of this age may even seek punishment.Respond to these developments by being more available to your child, and responding to their emotional extremes with patience.
Encourage them to share how they’re feeling and make sure they know they can speak with you whenever they want.
 Teenagers may go through all sorts of emotional turmoil, including diminished self-esteem. They may even attempt to develop their autonomy before they may otherwise do so, in order to try to deal with negative feelings they associate with your divorce.


Watch out for signs of relationship problems with friends, substance abuse, disinterest in school, depression, and even inappropriate sexual behavior.Tell your teenage children that you remember how hard it can be to be young and deal with parents who are struggling to get along.
If any of their behaviors risk getting out of control, ask your child to speak with a counselor or therapist.

