 Although your baby reacts to your words and voice almost immediately, it will take a while for her to understand the meaning of individual words. For example, most babies will begin recognizing and responding to their name at about nine months old. At 12 to 15 months, she will begin to process simple requests, such as "stop" or "quiet, please". Remember, all children develop at different speeds.Many children will not understand multi-step sentences until they are around 3 years old. For example, the phrase "Pick up your toys and put them away" is not something that kids will understand during their first couple of years.
Talk to your doctor about your child's individual development.
 One of the best ways to help develop your baby's language skills is to talk to her. She will learn by hearing your words and observing your actions. For example, when you are ready to feed her, say, "Are you ready to eat your dinner?" She will begin to understand what these means at around 9 months.At around 12 months, she will probably have a vocabulary of about 20 words. These words will generally be things she is very familiar with, such as "Mama" and "Dada", and maybe "milk".
When she talks, demonstrate that you are listening and engaged. For example, when she asks for milk, say, "Here is your milk! Thank you for using your words to ask for that!"

, You can help your baby's vocabulary grow by helping her to learn new words. Make this a fun activity. Babies love to play simple games, so turn language into a fun activity for her.For example, make a game out of teaching her the names for parts of her body. You can say, "Where is Rachel's nose? There's Rachel's nose!", while you point to her nose and laugh.
Singing is also a great way to teach your baby new words. Rhyming songs can help your baby hear patterns in language. Words with motions are also great, such as "Wheels on the Bus".
Reading to your baby is one of the best ways to teach her new words. It's also an excellent way to bond with your baby.

