 Are you close to throwing up in the air? There are some small measures you can take that might help you feel better fast.


Put pressure on the inside of your wrist. Press down, gently but firmly, with your fingers about two fingertip widths above your hand’s bottom.Suck on hard candy to keep your saliva going. This will help reduce the feeling of a sick stomach in many cases.
Ask for lemons. They will settle an upset stomach. The flight attendants might have some on their beverage trolley. Suck on the lemon wedges.;
, It’s easier to rush to the bathroom if you’re sitting next to the aisle. If you’re a queasy flyer, request one!


To reduce motion sickness, focus your eyes on a distant fixed point. Keep your mind occupied. Do a Crossword puzzle or play a game on your computer.
Take a long, deep breath through your nose, and then slowly breathe out. Take advantage of times that the seatbelt sign goes off, and take a bathroom break. This might help relieve some of your stomach stress.
Ask to sit near the plane’s wing, where it’s most stable or back by the bathroom so you're close. Be aware that the back of a plane is the bumpiest, usually. You're more likely to get sick to your stomach in the back., Don’t stay crouched in the same position. Give your body some relief by moving as much as you can!


You will want to stretch somehow, either by walking to the bathroom or while sitting in your seat.
Massaging the abdomen can also lower pain from gas. Do this gently.Try to shift position in your seat every half hour if you can’t get up. You can do this by crossing your legs, leaning forward, or putting your feet on your carry-on bag.
 This is the small nozzle you can turn on above you to direct air towards your face.


The gush of fresher air might make you feel somewhat better. Move your seat back and recline if you are allowed to do so.
Look at the sky out the window, if you have a window seat, with your head slightly tilted back. Focus on the horizon.If your upset stomach is caused by anxiety, try to calm down by listening to calming music or by sleeping.
Try to stay warm by requesting a blanket to at least cover your legs. Reading can increase motion sickness., They are there for a reason! Even if you’re not sure you’re going to throw up, it’s a good idea to have one ready.


You can usually find air sickness bags in the back of the chair in front of you. You might want to hold two of them near you.
If you can’t find one, ask the flight attendant. Letting the flight attendant know you’re feeling sick can also be a good idea in general. They may let you move to a seat closer to the toilet.Don’t feel embarrassed. Studies have shown that people have more flatulence and also bloating while flying, and that doesn’t account for the fact that some people just get nervous in the air, making it worse.