 The basic marching plank will challenge your core more thoroughly than the traditional plank, while also working your lower back, shoulders, and glutes.Get into the forearm plank position so that only your forearms and your toes are touching the floor.
Lift your right foot off the floor, taking care not to shift your body weight at all as you do so. Lower your right foot back to the floor and lift your left foot. Lower your left foot back to plank. This is one repetition. Do 5 to 10 repetitions, breathing deeply and maintaining a solid plank.
 You can incorporate the "marching" action with your arms by moving back and forth between forearm planks and high planks. Make sure your elbows and wrists remain directly under your shoulders as you raise up.First raise up to extend your right arm, then your left. Once you're in high plank position, immediately lower your right arm to your elbow, then your left, to complete one repetition. Do between 5 and 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 Add a crunch when you're in high plank position to further challenge your core and glutes. This exercise can be done from a static high plank position, or can be incorporated into the exercise where you transition between forearm planks and high planks.From high plank, bend your right knee and pull your knee toward your right elbow. Immediately release your knee and extend your leg back behind you. Then repeat the motion with your left knee to complete one repetition. Do 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 Exercises that incorporate jumps are known as "plyometric" exercises and they help build fast-twitch muscle fibers to increase your explosive power and reduce your reaction time.You want to add jumps when you're in high plank position, so don't try this if you're doing the basic marching plank from forearm plank position without moving your arms.
While in high plank position, jump your feet out simultaneously so that they're wider than shoulder-width apart. Then jump them back together and lower to forearm plank position. Raise back up to high plank position and jump again. Think in terms of doing horizontal jumping jacks. Do 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 The same knee crunch marching movement that you did with regular planks you can also do with side planks for an intense oblique workout that challenges your balance and stability.To do a marching side plank, you need to be able to get into a high-plank position on your side. Position your legs in a scissor stance so that the sides of both feet are on the floor, rather than stacking your ankles as you would for a regular side plank.
Lift your right knee toward your chest, release it back down, then left your left knee the same way. That's one repetition. Do 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise, then switch and do it on the other side.

