 There are many kinds of freelance work, and some of it might not be worth your time. A lot depends on what you hope to accomplish. Are you just trying to make a little extra money, or are you hoping to work the equivalent of a full-time job? What is your ultimate goal? Asking yourself these questions will help you see what you need to do to move forward.;
, Take the time to develop a basic, professional cover letter that you can send to employers. Describe your skills in detail. Having a basic template ready to go will make applying for jobs much easier.


Remember that this basic cover letter will simply serve as a template. When you start applying for actual jobs, you’ll need to customize your letters, adding specific details tailored to individual jobs.
 Check freelancing websites like oDeska, Elance, and Freelancer. These websites will list available freelance jobs and let you advertise your services.


Search these sites regularly for jobs, as they are updated frequently. Remember that there are not nearly enough well-paying jobs out there for all the qualified people who want to freelance, but with some persistence, you may find what you need. Consider setting time aside every day to search for jobs online.
 On freelancing websites, good profiles explain your skills in detail and include something that sets you apart from others. Choose a high-quality, professional-looking profile picture, and build portfolios with a few examples of your very best work.
 Enter “write for us” or something similar into a search engine, and peruse the offers that appear. You might find jobs not included on the biggest freelancing websites.
 If you think a particular business could use your services, send them an email.


Do your homework. It’s not advisable to send hundreds of form emails to every person you know and every company you think might conceivably hire a freelance writer. You’ll only waste time and energy (and annoy people). Direct these emails only to those companies you have reasons to contact, and personalize your messages.
 It’s probably not a great idea to apply for every single job you see. You will be a stronger, more efficient writer when you tackle subjects you know well. The cliché that you should “write what you know” applies to freelance writing too.


Consider your possible areas of expertise. Are you a doctor, economist, or computer expert? Are you an excellent cook? Do you know a lot about the entertainment business? Could you write about parenting? Explore potential jobs in the areas that fit your skills and interests.
 Remember that your employers won’t care whether you have children or if you have other obligations: they just want the job done well. Deliver a professional product.


Many freelancing sites allow employers to rate your work. You’ll need this rating to be high if you want to get more jobs.
 Make sure that your employer receives your work at the designated time. Lateness comes across as irresponsible, no matter what the circumstances were.
 Strive to make your writing better and better and to expand your areas of expertise.


If English is not your first language, work to master it. Freelance writers frequently need to write in English.
Learn about new subjects. Yes, it is best to write about what you know, but remember – you can work to know more and more! Do research on fields that seem to be in high demand.
 It can take time to build a reputation as a freelance writer. Keep taking the jobs you are offered, and keep doing your best work. With time and persistence, you will gain the approval of your employers and score higher ratings on freelance websites.
 If you don’t set some boundaries around your writing time, you’ll wind up trying to do everything all at once (and not doing any of it particularly well). Designate particular hours for writing, and do your best to stick to them – you are “on the clock.”


The best working hours will depend on your individual circumstances, but consider setting time aside when your children are usually asleep. This might mean getting up early (before your children) or staying up late (after your children have gone to bed).
If your children attend school, use those hours for work.
Make older children aware of your work schedule. If you must work while your children are present, teach them that you are “at work” during certain times, and encourage them to avoid disturbing you.
 Just as you must protect your working time, you need to make time for undisturbed interaction with your children. Designate particular hours for high-quality family time, and do your best to stick to them.


Again, the best specific hours for family time will depend on your individual circumstances, but consider protecting family meal times and bedtime routines. If you are present and attentive at these important times, your children will feel more secure – and you will feel less guilty!

, If you have a spouse of partner, it’s important that he or she understands your goals and supports you. Come to an agreement about how your family’s time will be managed. If, for example, you provide child care while your partner works a regularly-scheduled job, then perhaps he or she can do the same for you during evenings and weekends.


Remember that your children may still come to you when your partner or spouse is home. If this becomes a problem, consider going somewhere else (perhaps a park or a café) to work.
 If your children’s grandparents live nearby and are willing to help, let your children spend some time with them while you work! If you have other relatives or friends who offer assistance, accept their help, and try not to feel guilty – it’s good for your children to spend time with other people, and it’s good for your family for you to make extra money.
 Tell your friends and neighbors (as well as anyone else you regularly talk to or socialize with) about your freelance work. Let them know that you’d appreciate it if they’d avoid calling or visiting during your working hours.
 Schedule enough time for domestic tasks and parenting obligations, and then strive to get those things done in the time allotted.


Cook in larger batches, so that each recipe will make more than one meal.
Stick to a schedule for cleaning and laundry, so nothing ever gets out of hand.
Run weekly errands all at once, rather than running out again and again.
 In general, you should take care of any necessary research before you start writing. Decide how much research time a particular project will require, and then stick to that time.


Avoid spending too much time surfing the web and reading about subjects related to your topic only tangentially. Stick to the research that is absolutely necessary.
 Put some thought into how best to organize your data, and then start writing. Use your writing skills to their best effect.


Consider outlining your project and filling in topic sentences for every planned paragraph. Having this step complete will make writing feel much easier – you’re just filling in the gaps.
 No matter how excellent your writing skills are, your work will need careful proofreading and revising. Set aside sufficient time for these tasks.


In addition to fixing any errors and making the writing flow more smoothly, don’t forget to revise for format and style. Strive to produce a document that looks as your specific employer wants it to look.

