 The first thing you can do to treat a blister burn is to run cool or lukewarm water over the affected area. You can also use a cool bath or press a towel soaked in cool water on the burn. Keep the affected area in the cool water for 10 to 15 minutes.Make sure you are using cool water and not cold or ice water.;
, You can cover the blister burn with a thin layer of honey. Honey has antibiotic and antiseptic properties and has been shown to improve the healing of burns. Gently apply a thin layer over the affected area.Local wild honey is good choice. Another good choice are the medicinal honeys, such as Manuka honey.
 If you have a blister from a burn, it is recommended that you cover the affected area with a sterile bandage if possible. Leave enough room for blister formation. Make a tent in the bandage or cloth over the burn. This helps prevent the blister from breaking or becoming irritated or infected.


If it isn’t possible to use a bandage or gauze, use a clean towel or cloth instead.
 Many people believe that you should use all sorts of household items as burn remedies. People think you should put butter, egg whites, oil sprays, or ice on burns. Don’t put these substances on a blister burn. They can lead to infection or tissue damage.Instead, either use a burn cream or ointment, honey, or skip any type of ointment completely.
 You should not break open the blister that forms from a burn, at least for the first three to four days. To aid in keeping the blister in tact, keep it covered. To remove the bandage without breaking the blister, you may have to soak the bandage in warm water.


Change the bandage daily, applying either the antibiotic ointment or the honey every time.
If the burn blister becomes too painful or has become infected, you can take steps to carefully break the blister. Always wash your hands first, and then clean the area around the blister with alcohol or an iodine solution to kill off any bacteria on the skin. Pierce the skin of the blister at its base, near the bottom of the blister, with a needle that has been sterilized by swabbing it with alcohol. Let the fluid drain out. Use a cotton ball to soak up the fluid or pus. Leave the overlying skin as intact as possible.

