;
, Grip the skin near the bone and gently peel it toward the top of the drumstick. Don't pull it off entirely; just peel it back, so you can tuck butter and seasonings underneath. Turkey drumsticks are much larger than chicken drumsticks, so you'll only need one per person (two at most).
Recent studies have shown that rinsing poultry isn't necessary, and in fact disperses bacteria around the kitchen surfaces. No need to rinse your turkey after removing it from the packaging.
 This will keep the meat moist while the drumsticks bake. For larger drumsticks, you can use up to three tablespoons of butter.


To make the butter easier to spread, bring it to room temperature before applying it to the turkey.
Use olive oil in place of butter if you're calorie conscious.
 With the skin still pulled down, sprinkle salt and pepper all over the turkey legs. For more flavor, try rubbing a tablespoon of chopped herbs onto the buttered turkey meat while the skins are still pulled back. Rosemary, thyme and sage make great seasonings for turkey.
 Stretch the skin back over the meat and rub another tablespoon (or up to three) of butter over the skin of the turkey. This will help the skin crisp up as it bakes.
 Use a liberal amount of both salt and pepper to bring out the best in the turkey's flavor.
 Use a pan large enough to easily hold all of the legs with no overlap. If you want to catch the drippings, use a metal roasting rack over a drip pan.
 Place them in the preheated oven for 45 minutes. Turn them over and cook for another 45 minutes. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. They are ready when the internal temperature reaches 180ºF/82ºC.


To ensure that the turkey stays juicy, you can baste it every 20 minutes with a turkey baster or spoon. Use the drippings as your basting liquid, or baste with extra melted butter.
Larger drumsticks may take a total of two hours to finish cooking.
 This gives the juices time to reabsorb into the flesh, making the meat juicy. Serve whole or remove the meat from the bone.

