 When you realize your car is gone, check to see that it hasn't been towed. Look around and confirm you didn’t park under a “No Parking” sign or in front of a fire hydrant.If you did, then the city might have towed it.


If necessary, contact towing companies in your area and ask if your car was towed.Also walk around the parking lot. It is easy to forget where you parked, and you want to make sure the car has been stolen before taking next steps.;
, Sit down and write out the following information, which the police will need to find your vehicle:Year, make and model.
Car color.
License plate number. If you can’t remember it, call your insurer and explain that your car was stolen. Ask for the license plate number.
Vehicle identification number (VIN). Your VIN should appear on your car title. However, you probably left it in your car. (It’s a good idea to make copies of car documents and keep them at home precisely for this situation). Call your insurer to ask for the VIN., The police will probably have better luck finding the car than you will, so call them as soon as possible. Tell them you want to file a stolen vehicle report and provide the necessary information.Make sure to get a copy of the police report and the case number. You will need them.
Ask if the police report can be mailed to you. If not, take public transportation to the police station or ask a friend to drive you.
 Within 24 hours, you should report the stolen car to your insurance company.Don’t delay. Provide your insurer with the following information:date and time of theft
where your car was located
where the keys were located
names of anyone with access to the vehicle
detailed description of the car
description of personal items in the car
police report number
contact information for the financing company (if your car is financed)

, Many businesses now have security cameras recording their parking lots. Also, your community might have installed cameras that record streets, schools, and other government buildings.You should try to access this security footage, which could help identify the thief.


Stop into your town office or city hall and ask about checking security footage. Have a copy of your police report with you. Tell them the day and time you think the car was stolen.
You can also stop into private businesses and asks. Also show them a copy of your police report. Avoid delay. Sometimes, businesses delete or film over security footage.
 Cab drivers are almost always on the road, so they are good “eyes” to have looking for your car. You can call up local cab companies and offer a reward for information leading to the recovery of your car.Make sure to provide a detailed description and offer a sweet enough reward so that cab drivers have an incentive to find the car.
Some people think $100 is enough, but you should probably offer closer to $500.
 Whenever someone registers, titles, or services your car, the VIN will be entered into a database. You can purchase a vehicle history report at the AutoCheck website for $30-40.Check this report for any entries after the date your car was stolen.


In the United States, you can also use the VinCheck feature at the National Insurance Crime Bureau (NICB) website. This website finds cars that are reported as stolen or salvaged.Contact the police in the area where the car has been registered or serviced. Explain that your car was stolen and share your copy of the police report and your vehicle history report.
 If the thief parks your car and gets a ticket, then that information is entered into your city’s database.Go online and search your car’s license plate number. If you find that it has been parked somewhere, call the police and tell them where.
 The thief might try to sell your car online. Often, they will post a picture and other identifying information, so you can scroll through pictures and see if any look like your car. Popular online marketplaces for automobiles include the following:Cars.com
eBay Motors
Craigslist
Autotrader.com

, Make sure to contact both the police and your insurer if you find the car.Should your car need repairs, your insurer will cover it.


Insurers wait about 30 days before declaring your car lost. At that point, they pay out the fair market value of the car. This is the amount your car would fetch on the open market.If you find your car after receiving payment from your insurer, then the insurance company gets the car.
 About half of all thefts result from mistakes an owner can make. One of the biggest is not locking your car when you leave it. Remember to do so.


Also roll up your windows completely so that no one can open a door by reaching in through an open window.Close any sunroof as well.
 You should not leave your car running with your keys in it. You are inviting someone to steal your car. Instead, turn the car off and take the keys with you.


Also avoid leaving a second spare set of keys hidden in the car.For example, some people hide a second set of keys in the wheel well or underneath a floor mat. A thief can easily find these keys, which makes stealing the car a breeze.
 Someone might be tempted to steal your car if they see your purse or another valuable in the seat. Once they break into the car, some might be tempted just to take off with the entire vehicle. Accordingly, hide valuables underneath the seats or lock them in the trunk., There are several anti-theft devices on the market. Choose the one that works best for you. Two of the more popular are the following:Ignition cut-off systems that will prevent your car from being started.
A mechanism that locks onto the steering wheel. This device prevents the wheel from being fully turned.
 Many cars already come with a GPS tracking system. For example, General Motors has OnStar and Toyota has Safety Connect.If so, you can ask the service provider to track your car’s location (so long as the thief doesn’t disable the tracking system). You can also purchase a tracking system and have it installed.


LoJack is a popular tracking system. Although only 55% of stolen cars are recovered, 90% of cars with LoJack are recovered., Comprehensive insurance will cover a stolen car.Talk to your car insurer to ask about comprehensive coverage, including the cost. Also ask about any discounts available.

