 Try different surfaces. Take your time, look around and flex your toes gratefully. If you have some local streets, parks or nature centers that are appropriate (not too much traffic or litter) you can extend your pre-conditioning to those areas.;
, At first, the unfamiliar textures overwhelm the tactile senses. The first ten minutes or so for a beginning bare-footer can be the most difficult. You will be in a process of adjustment. Most find that after this time (sometimes just as they were about to give up), the going became considerably easier.
 Never allow your bare feet to kick, shuffle, or drag along the ground. It is lateral movement that produces the great majority of risk of cutting from any sharp surfaces.
 Stop if you want to take a good look at something off the path. When your bare feet are in motion, focus most often on the part of the path two to three paces in front. This practice will become very important when you hike on stony or uneven terrain. You should definitely start on your first day of barefoot hiking even if you are on the mildest of trails.


Being a matter of sensory coordination, much like catching a ball, this is a skill that develops mostly on a subconscious level, but you can consciously help it along by contemplating the fact that you are learning to coordinate two of your senses: the sight of your eyes and the newly discovered tactile sensitivity of your bare soles.
 Within comfortable limits, try to keep more weight on the forward part of your foot, for a longer time during the course of each step, than might previously been your habit.


The ball of the foot is supple and yielding, yet tough and resilient. It is the part where most of the weight of the body (in motion) should be borne. Notice how broad this part of the foot is and how much larger an area it presents to the ground than the heel. Feel how flexible it is, how the toes and metatarsals can move up and down independently to mold to the contour of the earth. This is what allows the ball to absorb shock so much better than the heel.
 You must never forget you are going barefoot so always devote a part of your attention to your bare soles. Be careful and deliberate as you rotate and maneuver your feet around obstacles. You should be ready to retract a step if you don't like the feeling of what you are stepping on.


Occasionally, you will step on something pointy even though you looked carefully before placing your foot. If it's too late to retract a step, quickly shift the weight onto other parts of your foot (heel --> ball, and so on). As you become more conditioned, this will be less of a problem since your soles will be thicker and the (now stronger and more agile) muscles and tendons of your feet will be more adapted to rapid re-configuration.
 If there is a gravel lead-in, consider the end of the gravel as the beginning of the hike. Later, short to medium sections of gravel will be just another texture to you. When you have finished your first day, your feet may seem sore. One of the best things about barefoot hiking is the vibrant, tough and resilient feeling that comes into the feet over the next one or two days as this soreness dissipates.
 You'll find that you'll be able to go further and on rougher trails as time passes. "Mileage" will vary, but typically by following the above regimen, you should be able to do four or five miles on easy to medium trails within a month or so. If you take the time to find small-grade gravel paths in local city parks and work out on them, the toughening process can be accelerated considerably.

