 If you're toying with your mental health by drinking, doing drugs, stealing, lying, and so on, you're detracting from your ability to be emotionally and mentally strong. Start phasing these vices out of your life, or at least limit them so they don't control your behavior and emotions. If you have an addiction, get help.
 Exercise, healthy food, rest, and relaxation will help you to develop and maintain your mental and emotional strength. By taking good care of yourself, you are sending your mind signals that you deserve to be taken care of. Make sure that you are devoting enough time to meeting your basic needs for exercise, food, sleep, and relaxation.Exercise regularly. Aim for 30 minutes of exercise per day.
Eat a balanced diet of healthy whole foods like fruit, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.
Get eight hours of sleep per night.
Set aside at least 15 minutes per day to practice yoga, do deep breathing exercises, or meditate.
Drink plenty of water, at least eight glasses a day, more if you are exercising and sweating.
 Challenge yourself to keep learning all the time. You'll get mentally stronger and wiser the more knowledge you accrue. Don't let yourself get stuck in a rut, either mental or physical. Be curious, aware, and informed about the world.


Read books, watch good films, go to concerts, go to plays, watch ballets, and take in art in some form.
Make your own art. Write, paint, make music, do sculpture, knit — anything that stimulates your creative side.
Learn new skills. Branch out in the kitchen, do some DIY projects around the home, plant a garden, learn how to drive a manual car, learn how to fish, train to run a 5K.
Talk to people. Have deep conversations that go beyond small talk. Learn people's histories and share your own.
 Many people gain strength from paying attention to their spirituality. Having a connection to something greater than yourself - whatever that may be - can imbue the spirit with strength and a sense of purpose. Research has shown that spirituality and prayer help to relieve stress and decrease healing times during an illness.Spirituality can take many different forms, and it's important to find the one that works for you. There's no right way to be spiritual.


Consider going to a place of worship to pray with other people.
Get into meditation or yoga.
Spend time in nature and admire the beauty of the natural world.

