 Having your own job builds positive character and will help you mature. Even if parents give you money, earning your own paycheck puts you on a path to success by giving you the opportunity to learn time management, job responsibility, leadership skills, team work, and life skills in the real world.Also, earning your own paycheck puts money in your pockets, and what you do with your earnings is up to you.
 Allowances, gifts, and paychecks will be your sources of income as a teenager. Learning to manage money starts with tracking how you spend that income. Create a money diary where you write down all of your spending for a given time period, either weekly, monthly, or yearly. Then, evaluate what you spend by deciding what is needed (such as gas, car insurance, phone bill) and what is entertainment (such as movie tickets, personal items, going out). Creating this diary will help you visualize where your money goes and can set you on the track to create a budget and savings., Once you earn money, it is very tempting to use it immediately. And as a teenager, it is easy to neglect saving money. In order to be more successful, learn that money can be saved for more-important spending opportunities. To help you save, open up a bank account. Banks can give many opportunities to teenagers. Get advice and research first before opening any accounts. Once you have one, figure out a monthly budget that will help you put aside money.When you start off, more than likely a co-signer or parent will have access to your account activity. Use this as a learning opportunity and ask for them to keep you in check of what you spend.
 Buying is almost always easier than saving. Small purchases can take a toll on your savings, and more often than not, those purchases could have been avoided. These impulse purchases are difficult for both teenagers and adults, so controlling these impulses at a young age helps ensure better money management throughout your life.Put yourself to the test and wait to buy items. Oftentimes, giving yourself a week will show you that you didn't really need the item, or the item would have been put on sale.

