 You will need a total of four rectangles of fabric. Make the cuts from one piece of patterned fabric and one piece of coordinating fabric in a solid color.


Note that you could use two solid colors or the same patterned fabric for all four rectangles if you do not care about creating a contrast.
Use canvas, cotton, or another durable fabric.
Cut two rectangles from your patterned fabric that are 4 inches (10.2 cm) by 9 1/4 inches (23.5 cm). Label these as pieces A1 and A2.
Cut one rectangle from your patterned fabric that is 2 3/4 inches (7 cm) by 9 1/4 inches (23.5 cm). Label this piece as piece C.
Cut your final rectangle from your solid color fabric that is 3 3/4 inches (9.5 cm) by 9 1/4 inches (23.5 cm). Label this as piece B.
 Sew around all four sides of pieces B and C separately.


Do not stitch the two pieces together yet.
Use a zigzag stitch, blanket stitch, hem stitch, or other edging stitch. The primary function of your stitches should be to hold the ends in place and prevent them from fraying.
You can hand sew the edges or use a sewing machine.
 Fold the top edges of both B and C over. Press the fabric using an iron and stitch it in place.


Fold just a little over 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of the top. As you fold, fold it over to the wrong side of the fabric.
Back-stitch across the top of each piece 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) away from the fold.
Back-stitch across the top of each piece 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) away from the fold.
 The smaller piece, C, should be placed on top of the larger piece, B, so that the bottoms and sides line up.


Place the pieces together so that the right sides both face up.
Pin them in place.
 Use a ruler or tape measure to measure out the center of the wallet. Draw a vertical line through this center using chalk or washable pencil.


The line should be perpendicular to the bottom edge and roughly 4 3/4 inches (12 cm) away from both sides.
The line should only extend up to the upper edge piece C. Do not extend it over the exposed portion of piece B.
Position pins along this mark to hold the fabric together at the center.
 Back-stitch or machine sew along your center mark to stitch B and C together.


Only sew up to the top edge of C. Do not sew onto the exposed portion of B.
This creates the billfold and credit card sections of your wallet.
 Place A1 beneath B and A2 on top of the other three pieces. Pin the pieces of fabric together.


Line up the fabric so that the bottom edges of all four pieces meet.
Do not pin the left side of the fabric.
 Back-stitch or use a sewing machine to sew along the top, bottom, and right edges of your wallet.


Do not sew the left side closed.
Make sure that all four layers are sewn together.
Leave a 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) seam allowance.
Snip the four corners of the newly sewn piece.
 Pull the inside fabric through the opening on the left side of the wallet until all of pieces B and C can be seen again and your perimeter stitches are hidden.
 Fold 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) of the open side in all the way around, creating a rounded edge along the left side.


Press this edge with an iron and pin in place.
 Back-stitch or machine sew the left side 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) in from the folded edge to finish your wallet.

