 You're usually prescribed a particular brand or type of lens by your optometrist, and you should know what that is before you start searching for a place to buy lenses. Not every place sells all lenses, so you need to narrow down places by the brand you need to buy., Not every place that sells contact lenses on the internet provides the quality and care needed for such an important product. Make sure to evaluate the websites you're looking at, and pick one that has good reviews and a quality website.If you're not sure which one to choose, as your optometrist for a recommendation or two.
Check with the Better Business Bureau to make sure the website you're looking at has a good rating.
Check for good customer service. That is, is it easy to contact the company if you have a problem? Make sure the website presents multiple ways to get in contact, such as by email, phone, chatting service, and/or mail.
Look at the return policy. With something like contact lenses, it's important to know that you can return them if there's a problem. Check the website to make sure the company you choose has a decent policy.
 Once you find some credible stores, it's time to compare prices. Try searching for your lens on each site to see how their prices line up. You can also use a comparison shopping site, such as Google Shopping to compare prices.Check for shipping costs and added fees. Some websites add additional fees at the end of the process making the contacts appear cheap at the start but end up costing more in the end.
Don't forget to compare larger quantities, too, as that can change the prices.
 When shopping locally, smaller is often better; however, when it comes to shopping for contacts online, bigger companies are better able to serve their customers. That's because bigger companies have more lenses in stock, plus they have the resources to provide adequate customer service and exchanges., When buying new contacts, start with a prescription that is up to date. Your eyes change over time, and a more recent prescription will correct your vision better. Plus, your optometrist or ophthalmologist can keep an eye on any problems that may develop in your eyes.In some states, prescriptions expire after a year. In others, it's two. If your state doesn't have a law, federal law says they expire after a year. If your prescription is expired, you will not legally be able to buy contacts.
 When you get your prescription, make sure you have all the information you need. You will, of course, need things like your name and the date of your exam. You will also need the date when you got your prescription, as well as the contact information for your optometrist's office.You'll also need to look for the power, the base curve, and the diameter (when needed), as well as the material/manufacturer of the lens.
The power will include the sphere, cylinder (if applicable), and axis (if applicable).
 When ordering contacts, the website will have a place where you enter each piece of information. Be careful to enter each piece of information exactly correct.Every contact lens company is required by law to check your prescription with your optometrist, so if you make a mistake, it should be corrected.Still, be as accurate as possible to ensure speedy service and no mistakes.
 Buying in bulk can help save you money. For instance, instead of buying a three-month supply, consider buying a six-month or year supply. You'll certainly save on shipping, and many places will offer you a discount on your contacts, too., Sometimes, a retailer will try to substitute a different brand for the kind you normally buy. This should be a red flag since a contact prescription is specific for the brand. A seller of contacts shouldn't be substituting brands.Don't buy contacts from a different brand without first consulting your doctor.
 When you receive your lenses in the mail, look for the information that tells you about the lenses you received. Check it against your prescription to make sure all the numbers are right. If they're not, call the company and ask them to fix the problem.