 Most conferences these days have adopted a corporate, casual style of dress, which offers a variety of wardrobe choices. However, some limitations still apply for both genders. Make sure your attire is made from quality materials, is pressed, clean and in excellent condition. Shoes must be clean, not worn, and polished. Though your accessories can have a touch of flair, keep them limited and conservative.Also keep in mind your particular industry’s codes and standards, time of day, location, and purpose.
Cover any tattoos and piercings.
Athletic shoes are usually not appropriate.
 Technically, they’re not required for business casual, but they are one of the best ways to look professional. Whether it’s a polo shirt with khakis or dress slacks with a button-down shirt, wearing a sports jacket will definitely give you a sharper look. It’s also better to be overdressed than underdressed at a conference., Since a tie is not required for business casual, make sure they are crisp, high-quality and stay up on their own without a tie. Be sure to tuck them in. Consider white shirts. They go with mostly everything and are the dressiest.


For outdoor or more casual events, polo shirts are a good choice.
 Worsted wool, khaki, cotton or gabardine are great choices. Khakis should have a flat front, not the rumpled-up chinos that you see on the beach. Pant length should reach the top of your shoe or be a tad longer. Wear conservative, leather shoes, loafers or ankle boots. Don’t forget the dress socks and a belt!, If you want to play it safe, opt for navy blue, black, brown or grey, which are known business colors. Match with long-sleeved, button-down, solid-colored (usually light blue or white) blouses or shirts. You don’t have to wear business colors, though. Instead, choose colors that you know are personally flattering. In fact, you may find wearing colors different from the norm attracts people to you!


If you have light eyes, then a light pink, button-down shirt may look good on you. For dark eyes, an earthy green might be a good choice. The most important things, however, are to not wear anything you’re not comfortable in or that are too outlandish!

, Wear a stylish, leather wristwatch. It looks great when resting your arm on the board table! Combine smart trousers with a well-fitting jacket. Choose pieces that are long-lasting, fit you well and are timeless, meaning patterns and designs that never go out of style.