 Follow the specific recipe you are using, including ingredient amounts, utensils and baking dishes, steps or instructions, oven temperatures, and baking times.
 Using a damp knife, cut the cake in sections or quarters. This allows the insides of the cake to cool down faster, rather than having the cake cool down from the outside in., When the cake pieces has reached room temperature or warm to handle, use your hands to crumble the cake in a large mixing bowl. You will want to break down any chunks, especially any hard corners., Start off with 1/4 cup of icing in the bowl. Use a wooden spoon to thoroughly incorporate the cake crumbs and icing together until you achieve a consistency of dough, as if you're making cookie dough. Add additional icing, if needed., Having the mixture chilled makes it easier for you to roll it into balls., Use a cookie dough scooper to help you make even ball amounts, about 1 tablespoon (15 grams). To avoid multitasking, scoop the entire mixture and place the balls onto a flat surface (such as a baking sheet or counter top), lined with parchment paper., Use both palms of your hands and circle each ball in a circular motion, to allow any flat surfaces become evenly round., For the best results, it's recommended to refrigerate the cake balls for at least two hours. By doing this, any coating won't affect the prepared cake when dipping., You can either use a microwave-safe bowl or create a double boiler. Stir the chocolate to make sure everything is melted evenly., Prick them in the center, just enough to pick them up from the parchment paper and hold.

If you're wanting to present the cake balls on a stick, it's recommended to use lollipop sticks, which can be found in specialty baking aisles. Dip about 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) of the stick into the melted chocolate prior to inserting them into the cake balls.
If you're wanting to present the cake balls in decorative individual wrappers, poke them with toothpicks.
 While holding the lollipop stick or toothpick, submerge the cake ball into the melted chocolate. When lifting it back up, gently lift them in a swirling motion or give them a gentle shake.

If you are using toothpicks, remove them from the balls. Add a very small amount of extra melted chocolate to cover the holes. You can use the back of a spoon to evenly spread out any extra coating as well.
 Place the chocolate covered cake ball in the same place on the waxed paper. Pick up the next one and repeat the dipping until everything is covered., For a faster timing, you can refrigerate the cake balls until the chocolate hardens., Dip a small paintbrush in the melted chocolate and apply it to the cake balls to create six different football-like ovals., Like a coloring book, use the melted chocolate to fully color in one section., You can either carefully dip the painted section in a small saucer of sprinkles or lightly apply them by hand. Lightly press down on them to ensure they stick to the cake ball., Repeat coloring in the oval with melted chocolate and a different sprinkle color., When you are finished, you should come up with three different sprinkle colored ovals and three white ovals., Pipe a very small circle on the top of each cake ball for an authentic beach ball appearance., To ensure a hard coating and for any topping to appear more uniform, place the cake balls in the freezer or refrigerator for about an hour or two.