 It is important to determine what type of hair your child has, because black hair comes in different textures just like any other type of hair. Hair Type 1: Straight. Hair Type 2: Wavy when wet hair forms a loosely shaped ‘S’. Furthermore, your texture can range from thin (Type 2a) to somewhat thick (Type 2b) to very thick and coarse (Type 2c). Hair Type 3: Curly hair, this hair has a tighter curl and more of an ‘S’ shape when it dries. The texture is fuller and sometimes frizzy. Type 3b looks more like ringlets or tight corkscrews with the circumference of a crayon. Hair Type 4: Kinky-this hair has a zig zag and/or tightly coiled curl pattern. This type of hair is the most fragile so be delicate when drying, combing, brushing or exposing to heat. This type increases with volume and difficulty combing as the letters increase. with Type 4b will see less of a coil or curl and the hair will bend in sharp angles like the letter ‘Z’.
 Now that you know what you're working with let's talk about the different needs depending on hair type. Straight hair needs to be cleaned often as much as every other day and as little as once a week depending on how thin the hair is and how long it takes the hair to smell bad or look greasy. Curly hair usually requires a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner and may need to be washed (or at least conditioned) daily to retain the curl pattern. I do not recommend combing or brushing outside of the shower or when hair is dry. Combing curly hair when it's wet almost always creates frizz and disrupts the curl pattern. Always use a wide tooth comb and comb hair into style while it is very wet. Most curly hair needs a product to help maintain the definition of the curl. I recommend finding an alcohol free product that is very light so that it does not weigh down the hair. Some with curly hair use too much product and have the wet look long after their hair dries. Letting hair air dry is the most protective way to dry hair while sitting under a dryer at low heat or as a last resort using a diffuser can help maintain the curls without adding frizz. For Kinky hair it is important that hair is cleaned weekly to avoid dirtying the scalp which can lead to delayed growth as well as breakage. it is also important to have any split ends removed every 3 months to avoid breakage. This type of hair is the most picky when it comes to products, heat and pulling. All of these can result in hair loss (by breaking or by being pulled to tight). Most kinky hair needs a perfect balance of moisture, sealant, oil and leave in conditioner. This will take some experimenting with different products but I recommend some of the products below., Using all natural products for all hair types is extremely important as is asking for advice from your hair stylist or from someone at your beauty supply store. It's always easier to find a black hairdresser or supply store owner/employee since they would usually have more experience with black hair care products., Avoid at all costs rubber bands on black hair. They lead to breakage and will damage the child's hair. Instead use fabric covered hair bands or anything that isn't rubber or plastic based. Next, do not use hair styles that excessively pull on the child's head for this reason I would avoid small braids or styles that use beads. I know from experience that this is not good for the hair or scalp especially for the children with Kinky hair. If you'd like to use braids the bigger the better and the looser the better. I know these do not last as long as the tighter smaller braids but your child will thank you in the long run., For straight and curly hair ponytails with non-rubber bands is a quick and beautiful style as is hair down with a headband. Hair parted down the middle at the bangs and then clipped on the sides is a good look too. For kinky hair ponytails is a good choice as long as they are not tugging at the hairline. Multiple ponytails can be productive as long as they ponytails are taken out daily and not slept in. Loose braids redone every morning and taken out at night. Headband with hair out and natural is another good idea. If you braid hair day one, the pattern from the braid can give hair a soft curl that can then make wearing a headband day two a nice option. Google natural twists, for another hair style that works well for kinky hair.