 Washing regularly helps to remove any hair product build up you might have, allowing your scalp to breathe. When you wash, you also stimulate blood flow to the scalp, which encourages hair growth.A lot of shampoos on the market contain sulfates, which can strip your hair of its natural oils. These natural oils help your hair to stay moisturized, preventing breakage. Search for sulfate-free products to keep your hair healthy and strong.Remember to deep condition when you wash. Deep conditioning can be time consuming, but it may help repair any damage from breakage.;
, If your hair feels too dry after a regular wash, consider treating your hair with oil, or pre-pooing, before shampooing. Popular pre-poo oils are olive oil and coconut oil. Coconut oil may even help reduce protein loss during your shampooing process.Mix together 1/4 cup of olive oil, 2 tablespoons of castor oil, and 4 drops of tea tree oil and apply to damp or dry hair. Cover your hair with a shower cap and let the mixture sit for about 15 minutes before shampooing as normal.Mix together 4 tablespoons of coconut milk, 2 tablespoons of honey, and 1 tablespoon each of 3 different oils. Olive, castor, coconut, almond, and jojoba oil are all great choices. Warm the mixture in the microwave and apply it to dry, unwashed hair. Cover your hair with a shower cap and a thermal heat turban and let it sit for an hour before washing as normal., You might find that your hair gets a little dried out even if you follow a good hair washing routine. If this happens, you may need to use a moisturizer or sealant between washes.Water is the best moisturizer for dry hair. Some days you may be able to get by with just spraying a little water on your hair to keep it soft. If you do have to buy a moisturizer, search for products that have water listed as the first or second ingredient.Sealants help keep the moisture in your hair, and are often made with oils and butters. You should only apply sealants after you moisturize, otherwise you'll just have greasy hair. If you find a product that contains both water and oil, it may work as a moisturizer and a sealant.If your hair is especially kinky or dry, search for thicker, creamier moisturizers., Massaging your scalp for 20-30 minutes a day may help encourage hair growth. If you have any damage or thinned hair from hair relaxers or weaves, this can be especially helpful.