 Face the ugly truth. It may be painful, but if you want it to end, you have to be strong by conquering it.;
, There is a need for an unbiased advice. Guidance Counselors are fit enough to give that.
 Don't be afraid to ask. It's their job to help you.
 Do something. Nothing is going to happen if you're just going to mope around like there's no tomorrow. Remember that school is a place for learning, to attain education. At times you fail, but as long as there's a new day welcoming you, you always have the choice to be the change you want to see.
 The internet is not just about the social networking sites. There are a lot of substantial sites out there waiting to expand what you learn from school.
 Explore different genres of books. Start with what attracts you then as you go on and on, try to be flexible by trying out books which are way out of your interests. The next time the teacher's going to give you handouts, you're going to accept it with a smile and not with a look as if it's the end of the world for you. Another good thing about enhancing your reading skills is how it's going to affect your writing too. You'll have a lot to say and that's a good feeling.
 Never be afraid to raise your hand and speak your mind. It adds up to the confidence level. Keep in mind that what you say controls the perception of others in you. So express yourself but at the same time be responsible.
 Discover more of what you are capable of by signing up for organizations you think you're going to learn a lot from. Are you a budding writer? Then hone your craft by writing for the school paper. Are you having trouble with math? Math club's open to teach you the tricks!

, It's your free period and you have nothing to do. Don't just sit there and daydream. Talk to your classmates. Socialize. Get to know them more. You might find the right person/ the right set of people who you could be yourself with. That's the best feeling.
 Set a schedule for each so you can never sacrifice time away from family and friends all because you were not able to accomplish something when you had time.
 It shows you respect your teacher and you respect yourself. Don't be a victim of cheating. You don't need to be a perfectionist to do this. When you do something, ask yourself "How should I present myself?"

, You define your grades. Grades are just numbers. You, on the other hand, are someone who is so much more than getting an A or an F, a 100 or a 65, a 1.00 or a 5.00, only if you try to see it for yourself. Learning is NOT JUST about the memorization. At the end of the day, it also requires application to fully embrace itself. Application shows that you learned. You helped. You contributed. You saved. And that's the legacy you want to be known for, right?

