 Heat is the period when your female dog is ready to mate. You may notice that your dog is urinating more than usual or that they are leaving behind a bloody discharge. This is a sign that they have started their heat cycle. Do not mate your dog right away. You should wait until you notice the dog going into the second stage of their cycle. This is marked by:


Swelling or enlarged vulva
Discharge turning from red to clear or brown
The dog’s tail moving to the side, instead of tucked under their body
The dog giving off a distinct smell meant to attract malesIf you are uncertain when your dog is ready to mate, the vet can perform either a vaginal smear or a progesterone test to let you know the best window for mating., Leave the dogs together. After the male mounts the female, you may notice that the two does are stuck together. This is called “tying,” and it is a sign that their mating is complete. Do not attempt to separate the dogs, as this can injure them. They will separate naturally within half an hour.If you have a hired a stud, you should take the female dog to the stud to mate, as male dogs may not mate in an unfamiliar environment., About 30 days after the mating, you can bring your dog into the vet for a pregnancy test. The vet may do an ultrasound, blood test, or abdominal palpitation to screen for pregnancy. Always have the dog’s pregnancy verified by a vet, as dogs can sometimes fake pregnancy., There is no special diet for pregnant dogs. Your dog will eat roughly the same amount of food for the first half of the pregnancy. After the fourth or fifth week, you can start slowly increasing their meals until they are eating about 25-50% more food than their normal diet. You can use commercial dog food, as long as it has all of the proper nutrients. A good dog food contains at least 29% protein and 17% fat.In the last twenty days of pregnancy, you may want to switch to puppy food to help your dog digest their meals.Small dogs, like Scottish cockers, may prefer wet or canned food during their pregnancy., When your dog is ready to give birth, she will want a dry, warm, and safe area. A whelping box is a special bed where your dog can give birth and raise her puppies. Whelping boxes can be purchased, or you can build your own. Find a quiet and warm area to place the box.


Show your dog the box. You may even want to place blankets inside. Do this early on so that your dog is familiar with it.
Dogs without a whelping box may choose an area of the house to give in birth in, such as a closet.
You may want to set up a heat lamp in one corner of the whelping box. This will keep the puppies warm, especially after delivery., X-rays can help your vet determine how many puppies are to be expected. While this the best way to know the litter size, it can only be done late in the pregnancy. Cocker spaniels may have litters of between four and eight puppies while Scottish terriers tend to have between four and six.You can have x-rays done around day 45 of the pregnancy, but you may have a more accurate litter size if you wait until at least day 56.