 Tricep push ups are simple exercises that can really work your tricep muscles, your pectoral muscles, and your shoulder muscles. If you are new to push ups, you may want to modify this exercise by dropping your legs to the ground so you can build strength in your arms over time.To do tricep push ups, place your hands underneath your shoulders on an exercise mat. Make sure your fingers are spread wide and weight is distributed evenly between the two hands. Squeeze your abdominal muscles and straighten your legs behind you, coming up on the balls of your feet. Activate your leg muscles and push out from your heels. Your body should feel well supported and your lower back should be straight, not dipping or swaying from side to side.
If you cannot hold the starting position, modify it by dropping to your knees, keeping your arms and shoulders straight. Keep your head in alignment with your back and lower your chest towards the floor. Your elbows should be tucked into your sides as you hover over your fingertips. It’s completely fine if you can only lower your body a few inches. The more often you do tricep push ups, the easier they become.
Exhale as you press back up to the starting position. This is one rep. Do three reps of eight tricep push ups to start to build up your tricep muscles.;
, If you feel comfortable with tricep push ups, you may want to try a variation on tricep pushups. The “2-2-2” push ups refer to three sets of two push ups using different hand placements: narrow, regular, and wide. The narrow push ups will work your tricep muscles and the wide push ups will work your chest muscles.Start in a plank position, with your shoulders directly under your hands and your hands shoulder width apart. Keep your core engaged and activate your leg muscles so your plank is strong and straight.
Do two push ups with regular hand placement. Then, move your hands wider so they are on the edge of your exercise mat. Do two push ups with this wide hand placement. Finally, move your hands into the center of the mat so your hands form a triangle directly under the middle of your chest. Do two push ups with this narrow hand placement.
Repeat this sequence three times, doing two push ups of each hand placement.
 This exercise only requires access to a chair but it will help to strengthen your tricep muscles and give them more definition.Start by placing a chair on a sturdy surface against a wall with the seat facing towards you. You can also do tricep dips on the edge of a counter, staircase (such as the 2nd or 3rd step from the bottom), or a workout bench. Stand one to two feet in front of the edge of the seat of the chair. Place your hands behind you, shoulder width apart with your fingers gripping the edge of the chair. Bend your knees so they are at a 90 degree angle and your knees are directly above your ankles.
Make sure there is equal balance in your arms and legs. Inhale as you bend your elbows and bring your butt towards the floor. Look forward as you lower your body and make sure your arms bend at a 90 degree angle. Only bend your arms until you feel your arm muscles activating and working.
Exhale as you raise your body back to the starting position. Do this gently and slowly so you do not hyperextend your shoulders. Be sure to retract your shoulder blades and keep your shoulders square and stabilized (not rolled forward or up). As soon as it is difficult to hold your shoulders still and pulled back, stop the range of motion. This is one rep. Repeat this exercise for two sets of ten reps. You should feel your tricep muscles working after two sets of this exercise.
 To do this arm strengthening exercise, you will need access to free weights and a workout bench or chair. If you are new to weightlifting, start with one to five pound weights so you can build your arm strength without hurting yourself.Begin with a free weight in your right hand. Rest your left hand and bent left leg on the exercise bench. Your left hand should be directly under your left shoulder so it supports your body. Bend your right hand while holding the free weight, making sure your back is straight and your torso is almost parallel to the floor. Form a 90 degree angle between your forearm and your upper arm. Keep your head up and your neck straight.
Exhale and use your triceps to lift the weight until your right arm is fully extended behind you. Supinate by turning your palm up as your arm moves back, so that your palm faces the ceiling. Move only your forearm and do not use your left hand or your legs. Pause once your right arm is fully extended, inhale, and then exhale as you bring the free weight back to the starting position.
Repeat the dumbbell tricep kickbacks on the right side ten times, then switch to the left side. Do two sets of ten reps on both sides.
 This exercise will work the muscles on the front of your arms, known as your biceps. You will need a set of five-pound dumbbells to do this exercise.Begin with your feet shoulder-width apart, keeping your knees soft and equal weight in your feet. Hold a five-pound dumbbell in each hand with your palms facing forward.
Exhale as you curl the dumbbells towards your chest. Keep your gaze forward and your weight equal in your legs. Inhale and then lower the dumbbells until they are three quarters of the way down. Activate your biceps muscles as you do this. This is one rep. Repeat this exercise for two sets of ten reps.
 Tone your upper arms and strengthen your shoulder muscles by doing weighted uppercut punches. You will need a set of one to two pound weights to do this exercise.Begin with your feet hip-width apart and a one to two pound weight in each hand. Hold your fists in front of your face with your palms facing each other.
Keep your left fist stationary as you inhale and punch your right fist up as high as possible. Make sure your arm is slightly bent and do not lock your elbow as you punch. Exhale as you bring your right fist back to the starting position. Then, inhale as you punch your left fist upward as high as possible.
Alternate from your right hand to your left hand for 60 seconds. Gradually increase speed until you are punching upward as fast as you can. Repeat this exercise for one to two minutes a day.
 This exercise will work your arm muscles and your core muscles at the same time. You will need a one to five pound dumbbell or free-weight for this exercise.Start in side plank on your right elbow with your elbow stacked directly below your shoulder and your feet stacked on top of each other. Lift the dumbbell in your left hand.
Raise your hips so your body forms a straight line from your shoulders to your ankles. Squeeze your right hand into a fist to find your balance and activate your arms muscles. Then, inhale as you extend your left arm so it is directly above your right shoulder. Grip the dumbbell as you raise your left arm.
Exhale as you lower your left arm back down so it is parallel to the ground and in front of your body. Keep your hips lifted as you lower your left arm. Repeat this exercise ten times on each side.

