 After you and a certain girl have spent enough time together, there will come a point where you should figure out what it is you want from the connection. Are you content with a short-term interaction, or do you think there's the potential for something greater? If you're unsure, you might bring this subject up with the girl in question. Finding out what her thoughts are may give you some clarity.
 This is helpful if you want to stay in touch, and particularly important if you think she may be leading you on. Many people will show their relationship statuses online. This way, you can see if a girl is truly as available as she says she is.


Likewise, you should expect a girl to look you up online as well. This means you should avoid trying to start romance if you are already in a committed relationship with someone back home.
 This is important to keep in mind going into the romance itself, as you shouldn't set yourself up for heartbreak towards the end. If anything, you should enjoy a romance for the short time it lasts. If the chemistry is really strong enough however, the two of you may want to take it further.
 If the chemistry between the two of you is potent enough, you should try to keep a connection between the two of you, even if there's a major distance. Some lifelong romances have occurred in spite of originally living continents apart. Ask for her number or email information and take it from there. If the two of you manage to foster a longer-lasting correspondence, you may decide to meet up again later on down the road.
 Like any romantic encounter, there is absolutely nothing to promise that the other person will feel the same way as you do. This is possibly especially true in a vacation setting, where a more prudent woman will recognize the folly of falling in love on vacation. No matter how bad it hurts at first, accept it gracefully and go back to enjoying your vacation. Don't let a rejection get in the way of the rest of your experience. It's quite possible that you'll meet another woman on the same trip and thing will turn out for the better.
 Even if it doesn't pan out and you wanted it to last, the experience still leaves a lot to consider. When you return from your travels, you should take the time to reflect on what happened, and how it may have changed your opinions on your day-to-day life.

