 Spread the word. Stress what you have in common with those you speak to. You will be especially effective if your questions direct their answers toward your conclusions. Make sure they know that anarchism is not about chaos or smashing things, it is a political and social ideology that advocates self-organization and a non-hierarchical political and economic system rooted in Direct Democracy, Radical Democracy, or individualism depending on the type of anarchism.
 Accusations of utopianism with examples of anarchy in action, most indigenous societies throughout history have been anarchist and even today there are many intentional communities that operate along anarchist lines - not always in the places you'd expect. The Amish, for instance, are a great example of non-ideological Anarchism in action., But remember, protest changes nothing if there is no movement behind it. That means long hours of community organizing, sitting through meetings, working with people who you probably disagree with and may not even like. It's not easy but if you really want to spread your message, it is necessary.


You will probably have to make a lot of cold calls, put up flyers, and set up booths at local events in order to gain people's attention. If you truly believe in spreading your philosophy, these are all necessary actions.
 Lead by example. There are a lot of local events led by anarchist groups around the world. They range from informal meet and greets to book fairs and concerts.
 There are some anarchists who disagree with the use of social media as it tends to support big social media corporations.In our social media age, you can find other people with similar interests easily. Search your social media platforms (Facebook, Reddit, 4chan, 8chan, YouTube, Google+, Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram, Vine, Steam....etc.) for other like minded individuals.
You can also help organize protests and other anarchist activities through social media. This is a great way to get free exposure for your movement.

