 Home remedies may work some cases, but if your symptoms return consistently, then you should see your doctor. Acid reflux or heartburn may feel like a burning sensation in your chest, or taste like sour liquid in the back of your mouth and usually occurs after eating, stress, physical exercises or lying down. Sometimes acid reflux can progress to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) with additional symptoms such as wheezing, coughing, difficulty swallowing, and increased chest pain especially when resting. If you experience any of these symptoms frequently, you should visit your doctor to determine if you may have GERD.
 Your doctor may suggest prescription medication to help treat moderate-to-severe symptoms of acid reflux.Whenever you are prescribed medication, it’s important to let your medical provider know about any other medications, herbs or supplements to avoid side effects. Medications that can help are:Antacids used to treat mild-to-moderate heartburn. These are the combination of magnesium, calcium, and aluminum with a buffering agent, such as a hydroxide or bicarbonate ion. Antacids can help provide immediate relief that lasts up to an hour. Side effects may include diarrhea or constipation.
H-2-receptor blockers work to reduce histamine 2, a chemical floating in the stomach that signals it to make acid. These may not provide relief as quickly as antacids, but may be effect for people with severe symptoms of GERD.
Proton pump inhibitors are more effective than H2 blockers at helping relieve symptoms of moderate-to-severe GERD and heartburn while healing the esophageal lining.
Your doctor can help determine the right medication and optimal dose for your condition.
 Certain medications you might be taking for other ailments can make your acid reflux worse, either as a side effect or causing intolerance. It is important to ask your doctor about other medications and supplements that may make your symptoms worse. Some medications for other conditions that commonly cause problems with acid reflux are:Anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin and Aleve, which may also be associated with an increased risk of peptic ulcers
Calcium channel blockers for high blood pressure or angina
Anticholinergics for urinary tract infections, allergies, or glaucoma
Beta adrenergic agonist for asthma or obstructive lung disease
Bisphosphonates for osteoporosis.
Some sedatives, antibiotics, potassium, or iron supplements.
 Surgery might be an option for you if medication and lifestyle adjustments don’t help alleviate your acid reflux symptoms and interfere with your daily activities or have caused permanent damage to your esophagus. Your doctor may recommend getting fundoplication, a minimally invasive surgical treatment that involves wrapping the upper portion of the stomach around the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) to reinforce and strengthen the LES. This procedure is safe and effective for people of all ages who experience moderate-to-severe symptoms of GERD and wish to avoid life-long dependence on medication.