 When the bacteria in your mouth break down sugars, it produces acids which dissolve the protective enamel coating on your teeth. This makes your teeth more vulnerable to decay.You can limit you sugar intake by:Not eating desserts like candy, chocolate, cakes, ice cream, pastries
Not adding sugar to your tea or coffee
Eating low sugar breakfast cereals
Avoiding sugary sodas and soft drinks
Drinking only one glass of fruit juice per day. Even unsweetened fruit juice is sugary.
 The following food are very common causes of yellow, unhealthy looking teeth:Wine
Tea
Coffee

, Alcohol wears away the protective enamel coating on your teeth. Prolonged consumption of high amounts can lead to cavities and tissue dehydration, making the the tissue in your mouth weaker and more vulnerable to bacterial aggression.People who both drink and smoke are at a higher risk of mouth cancers.
 These foods will help scrape your teeth clean as you eat them. And they are good for you! Options include:Apples
Celery
Carrots
Peppers
Cucumbers
Lettuce
Broccoli

, They are more likely to leave sugary films that will lead to tooth decay between your teeth. Examples include:Granola bars
Dried fruit like raisins
Gummy candies or taffies

, Acid can dissolve the enamel on your teeth and make the more vulnerable to decay. Highly acidic foods and drinks include:Orange juice
Grape fruit juice
Lemons
Pickles
Cola
Wine
Vinegar salad dressings

, Water will help prevent food from getting stuck in your teeth.If your mouth is dry, you are probably not drinking enough water. The quantity of water you need will vary daily based on the weather, your activity level, and the proper functioning of your salivary glands.
The first sign of dehydration is thirst. So if you are thirsty, help yourself to a tall glass of water.
 Gum will make the saliva flow, which will help breakdown any remaining pieces of food.It is important that the gum be sugar-free, otherwise you are coating your teeth in sugar and increasing the chances of tooth decay.
Sugar-free gums are widely available at local grocery stores and drug stores.

