 Illness is the golden standard of getting out of something, because people can’t question how you feel. Beware that some people might be suspicious if the sickness was unknown until just before the activity.Use an illness that is easy to recover from and doesn’t bring on too many questions. Things like a 24 hour stomach virus or a migraine work well because real recovery is quick. That way you can show up the next day as if nothing happened.


Sickness may still be the best way to get out of school or work, because you are allotted sick days. However, you may use up a valuable sick day that you later need when you are truly unable to get out of bed.
 This a very common reason for avoiding plans. Even if you do not have work, you can tell the person that you are swamped with paperwork or tests to study for. Most people will not probe you too much. Additionally, telling people that work or school is the problem will shift the blame from you to your boss or teacher.If the plan was to meet a friend or coworker, call them up and say, “I’m sorry, I’ve got too much work to do. Can we raincheck?”
You might be trying to get out of something with your parents. Try saying, “Dad, I just feel like I need to study more for the math test. I really want to get a good grade.” It helps if you actually have a test or paper coming up. Even if you don’t end up studying, at least you won’t get caught in a lie if your parents happen to check with your teachers.
 This excuse works well if you are invited to dinner, a show, or a weekend trip. Even if the activity requires only transportation, you might still claim that you need to cut back on train or gas expenses.Note that the person may offer to buy the ticket for you or pay for your drinks. If this is the case, say, “I wouldn’t feel comfortable with that. I need to be frugal and stay home a little more.”

, Your spouse, child or parent needs a nurse for the night. You may need to fill your spouse in on the lie so that they can cover for you in the future.
 This only works if you received a written invitation. If that is the case, wait for the reminder to break the news. Let the organizer know that you did not get the first invitation and made other plans.


Be careful with email invites. Some people use applications that allow them to see if a receiver has opened an email.
 If you do something poorly, or show disinterest, people might stop asking you to do it. This may be at work, school, or in social environments.


If your boss gives you task you don’t like, find clever ways to avoid doing it. Spend more time on something you like doing, wait until the last minute to do it, or turn it in late.Avoid showing enthusiasm when you complete your assignment.
Consistent social invitations may be harder to get out of. Show up late to the events and leave early. Spend most of the time on your cell phone so you don’t have to talk to anyone. The host may stop inviting you if you are boring enough.
 We use many machines in the 21st century. Sometimes things break. Use the technology around you to get out of something.


Point to transportation problems. Try saying that your car won't start or that there's been a train accident. This can either buy you some extra time or completely prevent you from doing something.
Blame your phone or computer. Phones and computers have difficulties often enough that you can use this excuse at least once. Say that your computer broke down or your phone won't turn on.
 Get out of something by leaving, not showing up, or not doing whatever you had to do. Don’t say anything, just act like everything is fine. This, of course, may have negative consequences.

