 Travertine can become dull and damaged if you use a harsh cleanser. Consider purchasing a floor cleaner formulated for travertine to use regularly. The label should clearly state the cleanser if formulated specifically for travertine.


Opt for a cleanser with a neutral pH of 7 or below.
You can also use a mild dish soap to clean travertine floors 3-4 times per year.
Do not use dish soap more than 3-4 times per year to avoid soap scum.;
, You should never use harsh cleaners like bleach or ammonia on travertine floors. These harsh chemicals can damage and dull the surface of your travertine floors, aging them well before their time., You should avoid using acidic cleaning agents on travertine floors, as they can dull and damage the surface of the stone. Do not clean floors with products that contain vinegar, lemon, orange, or other citrus extracts., Before you mop your travertine floor, you will want to make sure you remove any loose dirt or debris from the floor’s surface. Try using a dust mop made of microfiber to remove loose dirt., Carefully read the directions on the label of the travertine-friendly floor cleanser. Add the cleanser to a bucket of warm water, according to the directions on the label. If using mild dish soap, add a small squirt of soap to the bucket., Place the mop in the bucket of water and cleaning solution. Then lift the mop from the bucket and wring out the mop. Make sure you wring out as much water from the mop as possible.
 After wringing out the mop, use side-to-side motions to mop the floor. Begin at one side of the floor and systematically mop your way to the other side. Rinse the mop in the cleaning solution frequently, thoroughly wringing out the mop after rinsing.


If you are mopping a large area, make a fresh bucket of cleaning solution after cleaning half of the floor area.
 After mopping the floor with cleaning solution, you will want to rinse it with fresh water. Dump the cleaning solution down the drain and fill the bucket with fresh, clean water. Mop the floor with the clean water. Fill the bucket with fresh water about halfway through and continue mopping.
 After you mop the floors with clean water, you will want to dry them. This will prevent streaks and smudges from forming on the floor as the water dries. Use a soft, nonabrasive cloth made of cotton or microfiber to thoroughly dry the floors., One of the most important parts of maintaining your travertine floor is the removal of dust and debris on a regular basis. Try using a microfiber dust mop on your travertine floors several times a week., You should wet mop your floors weekly, or more often if the travertine floor is in a high traffic area. Regular mopping with a travertine-friendly cleaning solution will help your floors maintain their natural beauty for years.
 You can extend the life of travertine floors and avoid unsightly stains by cleaning up spills as soon as they happen. This is especially important if you spill something acidic like tomato sauce, carbonated beverages, or wine. The acid in these products can damage travertine., Travertine floors can scratch easily. Protect high traffic areas by placing area rugs, doormats, and runners on the floor. This will help prevent dirt and debris from scratching the surface of the floor., It is important that you seal travertine floors on a regular basis. Sealing floors helps prevent damage to the surface of the travertine. Contact the manufacturer and/or installer of your travertine floors to find a sealant that will work for you.

