 Use a grinder or food processor to grind up a half pound, or about 230 grams, of leftover turkey or ham. Gather 2 tablespoons of breadcrumbs and 1/2 cup, or 120 mL, of shredded apple. For seasonings, you’ll need:1/4 teaspoon of ground sage
1/4 teaspoon of ground or cracked pepper
A pinch of salt
A pinch of paprika
A dash of nutmeg

, Grab a pan or baking sheet that you use for broiling. Spray it down with nonstick spray coating. Set aside and make sure it’ll be handy when you’re ready to place the sausage patties on it., Add all ingredients to a large mixing bowl and combine well. You’ll probably have the most success mixing with your hands.Be sure to wash and dry your hands well before and after you combine the ingredients. Remember that the refrigerated meat can still harbor some bacteria even if it’s already cooked.
 You can use a large scoop to help you portion out evenly sized balls. Use your hands to flatten them into 1/2 inch, or just over a centimeter, thick patties. Arrange the patties on the broiling pan or sheet, keeping about an inch between each patty.If you use a scoop to make the same sized portions and flatten them to a uniform thickness, they’ll heat more evenly.
 They should be about 4 or 5 inches (10 or 13 cm) away from the broiler. If the ground turkey or ham is already cooked, they’ll only need a few minutes to heat and brown. Try to keep an eye on them through the oven window.Alternatively, you can use raw ground meat instead of leftovers. If you use raw meat, broil for about 10 minutes.
 If you’re not a fan of broiling or don’t have a reliable broiling option, you can use a nonstick pan on the stovetop. Heat the pan over medium heat, and spray it down with cooking spray or use a couple tablespoons of olive oil. Add as many sausage patties that you can fit into the skillet without them touching.Saute for about 3 minutes per side if you’re using leftovers. Increase the time to about 5 minutes per side if you’re using raw meat.
 Take the patties out of the oven or use a spatula to remove them from the pan, depending on your method of choice. Place them on a platter, and garnish with some sage leaves if desired. Serve with fresh toast and eggs to order as your guests prefer, like scrambled, sunny side up, or over easy.