 This is your pet’s primary “ticket home.” Search for your lost pet immediately and continuously if it would become lost. Lost and stray pets crowd pounds/shelters, resulting in less room for pets who are up for adoption. It is sometimes more difficult to find homes for stray pets that do not have a known history. Microchip your pets for added security.;
, No exceptions. Even if you keep your pets indoors and under supervision, spay/neuter is the only way to be completely sure your pet will never add to the tragic overpopulation crisis.
 Offer financial aid/or transportation to the vets, where appropriate. Stray cats can be captured in live traps, transported to the vets to be fixed and vaccinated, and then returned to the location where they were trapped, without even touching the stray cat.
 Petfinder.com is an excellent resource. This is a nationwide website of homeless, adoptable pets.
 If someone you know is considering acquiring a pet, research rescue organizations and potential pets for them to adopt, not buy. Offer to make the adoption fee (or part of the fee) a gift from you.
 These gift certificates will act as conversation starters at the event, and again when the gift certificate is redeemed. Teaching the others in attendance will spread the word about the kind solution to pet overpopulation.
 Pets are available from pounds and shelters, from newspaper ads, through contacts with social workers, churches, veterinarians, groomers, etc. Every day many pets need to be rehomed, through no fault of the pet. Pets lose their homes when people lose their homes, when people become unable to provide for the pet, when blended families can no longer keep a pet, when children lose interest in the pet, etc.
 Many pets become homeless when their humans fail to provide training.
 If you are a landlord and the tenant wishes to own a pet, require it to be a “fixed”, adopted pet. If you are aiding a relative or neighbor in some way (loaning a vehicle, or money, for example), require them to “fix” and adopt their pets. Put it in writing, to be certain they realize that you are serious. Your neighbor asks you to baby-sit their dog, require that it be a fixed dog.
 Speak to others you know, your hairdresser-barber, doctor, dentist, coworkers, and relatives. Tell everyone to never buy a pet, nor acquire from a breeding source.
 Pounds and shelters are needed, but the pet overpopulation crisis cannot be solved at the shelter level. It can be essentially solved at the home and neighborhood level through identification, spaying/neutering, and adoption.

