 If the police were called to the scene, then a police report was probably filed. You should see what was included in it. For example, you should look for the identifying information of any witnesses.Also, the police might describe the hazard you encountered on the property. This information could be helpful in negotiations, since it serves as proof that the homeowner created a hazard.
To find a police report, see Obtain a Police Report.;
, If you win your lawsuit, you can be compensated for any money spent to treat your injury. Accordingly, hold onto all medical bills and pharmacy receipts which show how much money you spent.


Also get copies of your medical records. These will help establish the extent of your injuries., As soon as possible, you should document your injuries with color photographs.Photographs can be graphic evidence of the injury. Your trial might not take place until a year after you were injured. By that time, cuts and broken bones will have healed and bruising will have disappeared.


Take pictures of your injuries from several different angles. Remember not to smile in the photographs.
If your camera shows a date on the front of the picture, make sure the correct date shows up.
 If possible, you should get photographs of where you were injured, though you shouldn’t trespass again to get them. However, if you can see where you were injured from the road, then take photographs. Use a long-distance lens to get close-up photographs.


Take pictures from many different angles.In particular, you want to be sure to establish that there were no signs warning you of a hazard.
For example, you might have been shot because the homeowner practices skeet shooting in his backyard. If the homeowner knows that people trespass in his backyard, then he needs to warn people that people fire guns in the vicinity.
 You should also write down what you remember of the incident.There is no getting around the fact that you trespassed, so don’t try to make up an excuse for why you went on someone’s property. Instead, stick to the facts.


Specifically mention whether you ever received a warning—an oral warning to stay off the property or a written warning in the form of a sign.
 A homeowner has a duty to warn trespassers of dangers if the homeowner has reason to know that people regularly trespass on the property.Accordingly, you should try to get witness statements from other people who trespass. These statements can help prove that the homeowner should have known that people routinely trespassed on the property and that warnings were therefore necessary.


For example, the public might routinely cut across someone’s lawn to get to the train station. Talk with people who take that route. Ask them if the homeowner has ever spoken to them as they were cutting across the lawn. If the homeowner had, then you can establish the homeowner knew that people regularly trespassed.
 You should meet with a lawyer before filing your lawsuit. The lawyer can listen to the facts of the lawsuit and advise you about your next steps. You can find a personal injury lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association, which should run a referral program.


Once you have the name of a lawyer, you can call for a half hour consultation. Most lawyers offer consultations for free or for a reduced price.
You should also think about hiring the lawyer. Lawsuits can be tricky and you would benefit from an experienced lawyer. Many lawyers will bring personal injury lawsuits on “contingency.” This means that they don’t charge a fee; instead, they take a cut of whatever amount you get in a settlement or at trial.
Usually, personal injury lawyers take 33-40% of the amount. You still have to pay for the costs of the lawsuit (such as filing fees, service fees, and court reporters)., You start a lawsuit by filing a complaint. In this document, you identify yourself as the “plaintiff” who is bringing the lawsuit and the homeowner as the “defendant” who is being sued. You also describe the circumstances surrounding the lawsuit and make a demand for money compensation.If you have an attorney, he or she can draft the complaint. However, if you are representing yourself, then you should stop into court and ask the court clerk if there is a printed “fill in the blank” form you can use. Often, courts have these forms.
 In your complaint, specifically allege that you are entitled to compensation. As a general rule, you cannot get compensation because you were a trespasser. Accordingly, you need to allege that you fit into one of the two standard exceptions to this rule:The homeowner willfully and wantonly tried to harm you. For example, if the homeowner shot at you as you picked an apple from his tree, then he has tried to willfully harm you. A homeowner cannot willfully harm someone simply for trespassing (unless you were breaking into the homeowner’s house). Explain how the homeowner tried to willfully hurt you.
The homeowner knew people were trespassing but didn’t warn of a hazard. With this exception, make sure you explain why the homeowner would know people were regularly trespassing. Also explain the hazard that the homeowner created and state that he or she was careless in not warning you of the danger.
 Once you have completed the complaint, make several copies. Take the copies and the original to the court clerk and ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee, which should vary by court. If you can’t afford it, then ask for a fee waiver form and complete it., You need to give the homeowner notice that you have filed a lawsuit. You can serve this notice by delivering a copy of your complaint and a summons.You can get the summons from the court clerk.


Each state has different rules about acceptable methods of service. Ask the court clerk.
Generally, you can hire a private process server to make hand delivery. Usually, they charge about $45-75 per service.You also might be able to have the sheriff make service for a small fee.
 Whoever makes service should fill out a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service” form. You can get this from the court clerk. After the server fills it out, the form will be returned to you.


Keep a copy of the form for your records and file the original with the court.
 The defendant should respond to the lawsuit by filing an “answer.” In this document, the homeowner will admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation.Your lawyer will receive the answer. If you don’t have a lawyer, it should be delivered to you.


Read the answer closely. It contains the homeowner’s version of events. The answer won’t go into great detail, but the answer will contain the first clues about what the defendant’s version of events will be.
Look to see if the defendant is making any factual allegations you disagree with. For example, the defendant might claim that he posted signs around his property warning people of dangers. Quickly return to the property and check to see if signs were recently installed after the accident. Take photographs and document the date the signs appeared on the property.
 Lawsuits are long and expensive. For this reason, you might want to settle your lawsuit. If the homeowner has homeowner’s insurance, then you can expect a call from the claims adjuster. Insurance companies often want to settle lawsuits rather than go to trial. To see if settlement is a good option for you, analyze the strength of your case.


Look at your evidence. Do you have proof that the defendant acted to harm you willfully? Do you have proof that the defendant knew that people were trespassing?
If you do, then you might have a strong case and can be aggressive during negotiations. If you don’t, then you might have to settle for less than you want.
 Before you can negotiate, you need to figure out the absolute minimum you are willing to settle for. Because negotiation is voluntary, you can walk away at any point. The minimum amount you are willing to settle for is your “walkaway point.”Your walkaway point can be higher depending on the strength of your case. For example, if you have a strong case, then you might walk away if the defendant can’t give you 90% of what you asked for in your complaint.
 Your lawyer will handle most of the negotiations with the defendant or the claims adjuster. Nevertheless, you should continue to give your input. Your attorney cannot accept a settlement offer without your permission.To negotiate effectively, remember the following:


Don’t cave too quickly.The other side expects you to negotiate, so you should continue to press even if the other side offers you a good deal right off the bat.
Stay calm. You will be more effective in negotiation if you come across as someone who is really listening to the other side and does not get upset.
Ask the other side to justify their offers. If you think an initial offer is too low, ask why you aren’t being offered a higher number.
 A settlement agreement is a contract between you and the homeowner (or you and the insurance company).As part of the agreement, you will agree to dismiss any lawsuit that you have filed and agree not to file any lawsuit against the homeowner based on your injury in the future.


Your lawyer should draft or look over the settlement agreement. If you negotiated without a lawyer, then you should at least schedule a meeting with a lawyer to look over the settlement agreement. You must understand everything in the agreement before signing it, and only an experienced lawyer can answer your questions properly.
 You should file a motion to dismiss the lawsuit once you sign a settlement agreement. You can also file the settlement agreement with the court if you want.


If the homeowner does not fulfill their promises under the agreement, then you can bring a lawsuit.
 After the defendant files an answer, the lawsuit enters “discovery.” During this phase of the lawsuit, each side tries to uncover helpful evidence from the other. One discovery technique is to request documents from the homeowner. You can get any document even slightly related to the case., Witnesses can also answer questions under oath during discovery. You can answer questions face-to-face with a lawyer in a “deposition.” Depositions take place in a lawyer’s office with a court reporter present. The defendant will want you to sit for a deposition, so remember the following tips:Don’t answer until you fully understand the question. Ask the lawyer to clarify questions.
Never guess and be careful when giving estimates. If you need to provide an estimate, then make sure the lawyer understands you are providing only a rough estimate.
Request a break to speak to your lawyer. You can confer at any time.
Always stay calm and don’t get rattled. Depositions can become long fishing expeditions. People’s nerves tend to fray after several hours. Always stay polite and smile.
Tell the truth. You commit perjury if you lie. Also, your lie could be introduced later at trial where it will undermine your credibility.
 After discovery ends, either side can bring a “motion for summary judgment.” You should expect the homeowner to file one. In the motion, the homeowner argues that there are no facts in dispute and that judgment is appropriate as a matter of law.Your lawyer will counter by arguing that there are meaningful facts in dispute. For example, whether the homeowner knew people regularly trespassed would be a factual issue for the jury to decide unless there is absolutely no evidence that anyone else has ever trespassed on the property.
 If you hired a lawyer to represent you, then he or she will be responsible for preparing for trial. If you are representing yourself, then make sure to do the following:


Get your witnesses lined up. You should only have people testify if they have personal knowledge of what they are testifying about. For example, someone cannot testify about gossip.However, someone could testify that they regularly trespass across the homeowner’s property and that the homeowner saw them many times.
Serve subpoenas on witnesses. A subpoena is a legal command to come into court and testify. You can get blank subpoena forms from the court clerk. Fill them out with the day, time and location of the trial. Then serve them on your witnesses.
 Go through your paperwork and find helpful documents. For example, you will probably want to introduce hospital records and bills, which help establish your damages. You can turn a document into an exhibit by affixing an exhibit sticker to a corner. You can get the stickers from the court clerk or an office supply store.Make several copies of your exhibits. You will need to give one copy of all exhibits to the defendant. Also the court will get a copy and the witness will need to look at a copy. Accordingly, make at least four copies of everything.
 You will probably be nervous representing yourself. To calm your nerves and give you confidence, you can sit in on a trial. Courtrooms are generally open to the public.Ask the court clerk if there is a trial you can watch.


Pay attention to where the parties sit and how they speak to the judge. Do they stand when speaking? Where do they stand when asking witnesses questions?
Also listen to how they ask questions.
Finally, pay attention to how they are dressed. You want to look as professional during your own trial.
 As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will go first. You can call your witnesses and possibly even testify yourself. If you have a lawyer, then he or she will ask the witnesses questions. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you need to ask them questions. Remember not to ask “leading questions.”


For example, “You regularly walked across the defendant’s lawn, right?” is a leading question. It contains its own answer and can be answered with a “yes” or “no.”Instead, ask a series of general questions:
“Where do you live?”
“Where do you catch the train?”
“How do you walk to the train station?”
“Did you have permission to walk across the defendant’s lawn?”
“How many times a week would you cross the defendant’s lawn?”

, The defendant goes second. The defendant will probably testify in his or her defense. Your lawyer will be able to cross-examine all defense witnesses.


If you are handling cross-examination yourself, then see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for tips.
 After all evidence has been submitted, the judge will read the instructions to the jury, who will retire to deliberate.If you don’t have a jury, then the judge will deliver the verdict from the bench. Usually, the judge will deliver the verdict immediately though, if the case is complicated, the judge might take the case under consideration and issue a verdict later.
 You should discuss with a lawyer whether an appeal is worthwhile. You will definitely need a lawyer for your appeal, so if you represented yourself during trial you should factor in the cost of hiring a lawyer for the appeal. Appeals are technical and require that the lawyer draft a legal argument, called a brief.


You might want to appeal if the judge made an error letting in evidence. For example, the judge might have let defense witnesses testify as to gossip that they heard about you. This is an error which you could argue influenced the verdict.
If you want to appeal, then don’t wait too long. Courts generally give you only 30 days or less to file your Notice of Appeal. The clock usually starts running from the date final judgment is entered.
 If you win your lawsuit, you must collect the money from the defendant. The court will not collect it for you. With luck, the defendant will pay up with no hassles. If not, then you need to take other steps.


You might garnish the defendant’s wages. If you know where the defendant works, then you can file a garnishment action.You could also put liens on the defendant’s property. After foreclosing and selling the property, you get to keep some of the proceeds from the sale.
For more tips, see Collect a Court Ordered Judgment.

