 In Word, click the "File" tab, then "Options." From there, click "Proofing." Select "Settings" from the list below "When correcting spelling and grammar in Word."Once here, you can tell Spell-Check to look out for several common punctuation errors: omitting a comma before the last item in a list, writing punctuation outside of quotation marks, and leaving too many or too few spaces between sentences.
 This is often called the Oxford Comma, and you may or may not want it in your lists. In the Grammar Settings menu, under "Comma required before last list item," select one of the following settings:


Don't Check: Choose "Don't Check" if you don't want the grammar-checker to flag any sentences based on commas.
Never: The grammar-checker will flag sentences that have a comma before the last item in a list. E.g. While walking through the jungle, I saw a lion, a tiger, and a toucan.

Always: Word will notify you about sentences that are missing the final comma. E.g.: While walking through the jungle, I saw a lion, a tiger and a toucan.
 Under "Punctuation required with quotes," choose one of the following:


Don't Check: Word will not flag any phrases based on quote-and-punctuation interaction.
Inside: Word will flag phrases inside quotation marks when a corresponding comma is outside those quotation marks. This sentence would be flagged: George called the actress a "diva", but he secretly admired her panache.
Outside: Word will flag phrases inside quotation marks where the corresponding comma is also inside the quotation marks. This sentence would be considered incorrect: George called the actress a "diva," but he secretly admired her panache.
 Word can flag sentences that have too many or two few spaces after them. Choose one of these options:


Don't Check: Choose "don't check" if you don't want the grammar checker to flag any phrases for their spacing.
1 (space): Word will flag any sentences with more than one space between them and the following sentence.
2 (spaces): The grammar-checker will flag sentences that have either a single space or more than two spaces after the period.