 You can buy an egg painting kit at nearly any supermarket around the Easter months. Hard boil some eggs and let your children have fun decorating them for the Easter holidays.Usually, you place dye of different colors in various cups. Eggs are then dunked in the dye to add color.
Make sure your kids wear old clothing when decorating eggs. It can get very messy.;
, An iconic part of Easter is the Easter egg hunt. You can have kids hide real boiled eggs they decorated. However, you can also fill plastic eggs with treats and hide them throughout your home.If opting for plastic eggs, you can provide things like Cheerios and pretzels if you want healthier snacks. Religious families sometimes put Bible verses on pieces of paper in plastic eggs.
Keep track of where you hid all the eggs in case they are not all found by the hunters. This is especially important if you're hiding real eggs, as these will eventually start to rot.
Some large easter egg hunts are put on by local communities or organizations and are open for you and your family to attend. See if you can find an Easter egg hunt in your area.
 Easter baskets are an important Easter tradition. Young children love waking up to a basket filled with Easter goods. You can buy baskets at department stores around the holidays. Fill them with small treats like candy and tiny toys.


If you're religious, try adding plastic eggs with Bible verses tucked inside.
Snacks do not have to be unhealthy. If you want your kids to have a healthy snack, put things like fresh fruit in their Easter basket.
You can also provide small toys instead of food-based items, like tiny plastic animals or small plush toys.
 The Easter bunny is an exciting part of Easter for children. Make baked goods shaped like bunnies. This can be a fun way for kids to get excited about the holiday.You can make cut-out sugar cookies using a rabbit-shaped cookie cutter.
Bake three cinnamon rolls. Stick two together, forming a snowman-like body, and cut the other in half. Place the two halves near one end of the cinnamon roll, making bunny ears, and then use cream cheese frosting to color your bunny white. You can use chocolate chips or blueberries for eyes.
 Children often enjoy decorating for the holidays. Invest in small decorations at a local department store or even a dollar store. You can also look for craft tutorials online. Your kids may, for example, enjoy using construction paper or felt to make things like chicks and bunnies.Window stickers are great for young children, as they're fun and easy to use.
If you're having an Easter Brunch or dinner, try having your kids make special placemats for everyone attending using cardboard paper.

