 You may already know quite a bit about Crohn’s disease, but new research is always being conducted and information about the disease being updated. The more you know about the disease, the better you’ll be able to manage it.Researching Crohn’s disease and learning more about it will also help you address misperceptions people have about it.


Talk with your physician about the latest developments in Crohn’s disease research. For example, you might say, “Could you tell me about the latest developments in this area?”
Frequently check websites like CCFA’s at http://www.ccfa.org/research/ to keep up-to-date with recent findings and updates about the disease.
You might also consider subscribing to an academic research journal, such as the Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis.
 Some research suggests that educating the public is one effective way to decrease the negative opinions and stigma associated with Crohn’s disease.When you hear someone say something about Crohn’s disease, or the symptoms and effects of it, make a point of speaking up. Sharing what you know about the disease can help you feel good about yourself, can correct misperceptions, and may prevent someone else from being stigmatized.


For example, if you hear someone make a comment about you frequently excusing yourself, you might take them aside and say, “Yes, I do. It's because of my Crohn’s disease. It can be a hassle, but it’s a part of my life.”
Or, for instance, if a co-worker asks about your ‘condition’, don't just say, “It's no big deal.” Tell them a little about Crohn’s disease.
Think about whether you are comfortable using social media as a platform to do this. It may be an effective way to reach lots of people, but only engage this way if you are comfortable doing so.
 A lot of the stigma related to Crohn’s disease comes from misunderstandings and misperceptions about the illness. You can cope with the stigma and educate others by correcting misperceptions you and others may have about the disease.For example, many people believe you can control or cure Crohn’s disease by having a selective diet. You can explain that while avoiding certain foods can help alleviate some symptoms, there is no dietary treatment or cure.
Or, for instance, you might challenge the misperception that if you just relax you’ll feel better. You might say, “Reducing stress can help me feel better in general, like anyone else. But, like anyone else, relaxing more won’t make my disease go away.”

, You can take sharing what you know a step further and work actively in your community to address the stigma of Crohn’s disease. Doing this is a way to cope with the personal stigma you experience, boost your confidence, and educate others all at one time. Take advantage of opportunities to advocate for yourself and other people with Crohn’s disease.


Take part in or organize informational activities in your area. For example, if your school is holding a health fair, you can advocate for Crohn’s Disease by setting up an informational booth.
Talk with the members of your support group about ways you all can advocate for Crohn’s disease. You might say, “Are there any ways they we, as a group, can advocate for ourselves and other people with this disease?” You can also discuss fundraising ideas and opportunities with members of your support group. Many organizations rely on donations to advance their research and public awareness efforts.
Be creative! For example, a group of UK ladies created a calendar to show that you can be sexy and have Crohn’s disease.