 If your acne is severe, you might need prescription medication. Your physician can talk to you about your concerns and prescribe a medication that works for you. Your doctor may also discuss options such as laser, light treatments, chemical peels or microdermabrasion if your acne is stubborn.


If you're female, your doctor might prescribe hormonal birth control to combat acne. As birth control regulates hormones, it can reduce breakouts. However, talk to your doctor about your personal medical history as well as your family's medical history to make sure you do not have any preexisting conditions that would make hormonal birth control dangerous. Other common options for treating hormonal acne include an oral medicine called spironolactone, and a gel called dapsone gel.A variety of prescription antibiotics and creams are specifically used to eliminate or reduce acne. Most oral antibiotics are not recommended for long-term use and should only be taken for a 6 month period. Topical retinoids are commonly prescribed and can be helpful in treating acne and in preventing future breakouts. Your doctor, after discussing your medical history and any allergies or other concerns, will find a medication that suits your needs.
Take the medication only as the doctor instructs and be aware of any troubling side effects. If you have any issues with the medication, contact your doctor to see if you should cease taking the medication.
 Over-the-counter facial cleansers and benzoyl peroxide creams that promise to eliminate acne are worth a try if your breakouts are persistent.


Acne around the mouth and chin is particularly difficult to eliminate due to the skin's susceptibility to bacteria. Be sure to apply cleansers regularly, following the instructions carefully for the best results.Combining cleansers can be a great idea when it comes to stubborn chin acne. Salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide can be used in conjunction. Together they not only kill acne causing bacteria but also clean out pores. This reduces and eliminating existing acne while also preventing future breakouts., Tea tree oil, which can be purchased at health stores and some department stores, can potentially reduce or eliminate breakouts.


Tea tree oil has a variety of antibacterial properties. As acne is often related to a bacterial buildup applying it to the skin can help curb breakouts. It also has a soothing effect on the skin, so it can reduce overall irritation.Dilute tea tree oil before use. Adding a drop of tea tree oil to a few dabs of aloe vera is a great home recipe to fight acne.While tea tree oil can improve acne for some, if you have sensitive skin it's best to avoid it altogether. People with eczema should be especially wary of tea tree oil as an acne cure.