 If you have any symptoms of nodules or know that you have them, see your doctor. This will help ensure that the nodules are not cancerous or symptoms of another condition. Your doctor may also be able to suggest natural remedies to help dissolve your nodules.Nodules are growths that form under the skin. They may be filled with fluid, tissue, or both.They resemble acne, cysts, tumors, boils, and abscesses, so it’s important to see a doctor to rule out these conditions.Nodules can grow anywhere in the body, but are most common in the thyroid, lungs, underarms, groin, and vocal cords.;
, An iodine deficiency may cause thyroid nodules. Taking iodine supplements or eating iodine-rich food may minimize or prevent nodules.You can buy iodine supplements at most drug and health food stores. Follow the instructions on the packaging for dosage, but aim to take at least 150 μg iodine per day.In many countries including the United States, iodine is added to table salt, so you may ingest plenty through salt use.You can also get iodine through whole foods such as seafood, dairy produce, eggs, and meat., Taking Chinese herbal supplements such as sargassum and ginseng every day may help dissolve your nodules naturally. There is little clinical proof these herbs work against nodules, but holistic and Eastern medical practitioners suggest using them to aid healing.


Ginseng contains anti-inflammatory compounds that may shrink thyroid nodules. Taking ginseng extract every day may help cure your nodules.Sargassum is an iodine-rich herb that may help treat thyroid nodules. Drinking three cups of sargassum tea every day may help shrink thyroid nodules and prevent any recurrences.One study found no conclusive evidence that Chinese herbs can treat nodules., If you have lipomas, or fat deposits, drink a mixture of apple cider vinegar and honey every day. This may help reduce the size of or dissolve lipomas.


Mix one teaspoon apple cider vinegar and one teaspoon raw honey in one cup of cold distilled water. Drink this mixture three times per day to help reduce lipomas.Proponents of this remedy believe that the apple cider vinegar will help you lose weight, which in turn will help decrease fat deposits., Drink herbal teas such as chickweed or bamboo every day to help reduce the size of nodules. This treatment may also help prevent further nodules.Add one teaspoon of dried chickweed to one cup of boiled water and drink the mixture at least twice daily.Add one teaspoon dried green tea leaves to one cup of boiled water and drink the mixture at least twice a day.You can make a tea of dried bamboo leaves to help prevent the formation of mucus, which may help dissolve nodules., Bentonite clay may absorb and remove toxins from your body, including those that can cause nodules. Drinking bentonite clay every day or using it as a mask may help dissolve and prevent nodules.Mix one teaspoon of bentonite clay with your water every day to help remove toxins, which may dissolve or prevent nodules.Apply a mask of bentonite clay to your neck and to help remove harmful toxins from your body, which may dissolve or prevent nodules., Prepare a mask of honey or green tea to help shrink nodules. These remedies are particularly effective for acne nodules.Make a honey mask to apply to your skin by mixing one teaspoon raw honey with one of the following ingredients: avocado, lemon juice, egg white, coconut oil, or yogurt.Make a green tea mask by mixing the water from one green tea bag with two tablespoons of plain yogurt.You can make a green tea and honey mask by combining two teaspoons of honey with one cup of green tea., Avoiding fatty and greasy foods may aid the digestive and lymphatic systems, and also may help you lose weight. These measures may help dissolve nodules and decrease your risk of developing additional nodules.Continue to eat healthy fats such as avocados, nuts, seeds like flaxseed, and lean proteins. These will help you stay healthy and may help you lose weight.
Try to not eat fried foods like French fries, deep-fried veggies or meats, or processed foods. Not only can these contribute to weight gain, but they may also exacerbate nodules., Certain foods stimulate the production of mucus in the body. Avoiding these foods may help aid and prevent nodules.Foods that produce mucus include dairy products like cheese and butter, deep fried foods, and even pasta and tofu., Sugar may compromise your immune system by creating inflammation in your body. Reducing your sugar intake can help dissolve nodules and prevent them from returning.If you want something sweet, try eating different fruits such as oranges, lemons, raspberries or strawberries. Citrus fruits may also help reduce the size of nodules., Fish and seafood are iodine-rich foods. Consuming more of fish like salmon or seafood such as shrimp may help dissolve and prevent nodules.Fish and seafood may be particularly effective with thyroid nodules., Regular exercise will keep you healthy and may help your lymphatic system flow more effectively. This can contribute to dissolving and preventing nodules.


Exercise may help you lose weight, which may also minimize nodules., If you have vocal cord nodules, avoid speaking for lengthy periods of time or any kind of yelling or screaming. This may aggravate or cause nodules.Keep your vocal chords hydrated. If they are dry, they will not close properly, rubbing together sometimes and causing hoarseness, swelling, and eventually nodules., Products containing petrochemicals, sodium lauryl sulfate, SLS, DEA, and propylene glycol can upset the endocrine system and cause nodules. Avoid products with these ingredients to help dissolve and prevent nodules.The National Resources Defense Council has more information on products containing these chemicals. If any of your products contain these contaminants replace them.