 This reduces the chance of damaging the printer or injuring yourself. Wait for the printer to finish shutting down. Unplug the printer for additional safety.;
, Remove all loose paper from the

Using force may permanently damage the print head.
 To remove paper, grasp it firmly and pull very slowly. If the paper tears, it can spread paper fibers that interfere with printing. Pulling too roughly can also cause injury, as even a powered-off printer may pinch or scrape your fingers.


Use tweezers to reach narrow areas. Pull even more slowly when using tweezers, and alternate tugging from the left and right ends of the paper.
Whenever possible, pull in the direction the paper would travel through the printer.
If there's no way to avoid tearing, grab the paper from both ends of the jam. Try to catch hold of all torn pieces.
 If the paper is still stuck, follow the instructions for your printer model to remove the print head or the ink cartridges. Gently tug out torn paper scraps, or grasp intact crumpled paper with both hands and pull gently downward.


If you don't have your printer manual, search online for "manual" and the name of your printer model.
 On inkjet printers, paper sometimes gets stuck in mechanisms near the output tray. Look into the slot feeding the output tray and gently remove any visible paper.


Some models have a knob that will enlarge this slot, making removal easier.
 If the printer still will not function, you can try taking it all apart to search for paper. Because there are many different models of printer, you should look for specific instructions in your user manual. Search online or contact the printer manufacturer if you do not have a manual.


Many printers have a basic way to remove the back panel and/or the input tray, which are good places to start. Check for movable access panels on the back, and a plastic tab deep inside the input tray.
 If you've removed the bulk of the paper but still have printing issues, run a print head cleaning process. This should get rid of paper microfibers clogging the nozzles.


Close all access panels and return all trays before you print again.
 If the printer still won't work, consider contacting a printer repair service. In some cases, buying a new desktop inkjet printer may be the cheaper option.

