 If something feels “off,” trust your gut: It probably is. Many times people ignore their gut instincts out of politeness or not wanting to hurt someone’s feelings. You are always allowed to leave a situation without explanation, but especially when you feel threatened. While this may be more difficult in situations where you know the person who is making you uncomfortable (and in some instances, may even be related to them), keep in mind that most sexual assault victims know their perpetrator.Three out of four rapes were committed by someone known to the victim, while 93% of juvenile sexual abuse victims knew their abuser.It can be very difficult to stop caring about what other people think. If you are still feeling compelled to stay in an uncomfortable situation, you could think to yourself: They started it! The person who is making you feel uncomfortable clearly doesn’t care about your feelings, so why should you care about theirs?;
, Think about what you might do if you were at a party and someone started touching you in a way that made you feel uncomfortable. What would you say? How would you get away? Planning ahead and visualizing your response will help you feel more confident and prepared in case something were to happen.


Make sure someone else not at the event knows where you’ll be and who you’ll be with.
If you are going to an event with your friends, talk to each other beforehand about looking out for each other, or coming up with an emergency “get me out of here” word that can be employed when someone feels unsafe.For example, if you are meeting someone new for a drink at a restaurant and they are making you uncomfortable, you could excuse yourself to the bathroom and inform a server you need help, ask the kitchen staff if you could leave through the back entrance, or ask another person in the bathroom for assistance.
 Don’t rely on someone else to take you home. Drive yourself or take public transit. If you’ve had too much to drink, call a taxi or use a ride service, or ask a trustworthy friend.


Always carry extra cash for a taxi.
Be wary of offers of rides from strangers, even if they appear concerned., Keep your eye on your drink at a party. Keep in mind that alcohol is often used to help commit sexual assault. Make sure that you know the strength of your alcoholic drinks, your tolerance level, and that no one is spiking them with additional alcohol.Be very wary of others buying you drinks. You could accept the drink and not drink it or put it down somewhere and “forget” it.
Hold onto your drink and cover it with the top of your hand.
Watch the bartender or party host make your drink or open your drink in front of you, even if it’s just a bottle of water.
Predators can drug your drink to make you feel extremely drunk, confused, or weak, and likely be unable to defend yourself from a sexual assault. These drugs are commonly known as “date rape drugs” and include Rohypnol, GHB, and ketamine., Pay attention to behavior that may be making another person uncomfortable. Do not hesitate to intervene and offer assistance.


For example, say you are at a party and notice a man groping a woman who seems very intoxicated. Team up with another guest to help extract her from the situation. You could go over to her and say, “We have been looking for you! We have the best news we want to share!” Pull her away from the other person and ask her if she needs help. If the man seems dangerous, consider alerting the party host and/or calling the police.

