 In many cases, homework assignments reflect what you’ve recently been learning in class. If you don’t understand the homework because you’re not familiar with its topic, review your class textbook to gain a better understanding.This can be especially helpful when your teacher assigns problems from your textbook or from a related workbook, but even if the assignments come from a completely different source, you can still review your textbook chapter on the same topic for additional insight.
Don't be afraid to do unassigned problems from your textbook, too. Some textbooks may have answers to even-numbered problems, for instance, in the back of the book; if your teacher assigns you the odd-numbered problems from the same chapter, do a few of the even-numbered ones and check your answers to increase your understanding of the material.If you don’t understand the way your textbook explains things, you can also go to the library and look at their collection of textbooks on the same subject. One of those might present the material in a clearer way.
 Many teachers will return assignments with corrections on them. If you have any related to the homework you’re currently working on, consult these past assignments and your teacher’s noted corrections, and try to figure out what your past mistakes were. Understanding where your processes have gone wrong in the past might help you figure out how to approach the current homework.


On a similar note, many teachers also pass out handouts related to the class material. Keep these handouts and refer back to them while doing the assignment. They may contain helpful supplementary information that isn’t in the textbook or your notes.
 If your textbooks and study materials aren’t providing you with the information you need to understand your homework, search for tips and guidance online about how to complete your assignment. For example, if your teacher assigned an essay about the subject, but you don’t know how to write essays, look for essay tutorials and sample essays that can help you get started.


For math and science problems, you could also search for free online video tutorials about the subject.For vocabulary, math problems, historical dates, and other related information, try typing the question directly into a search engine. An explanation of the material might pop up among the results.For literature assignments, you can often find online study guides or discussion guides for the work.
You may also look for a computational problem solver for math problems, or an online translator for foreign language problems. Just make sure you choose a resource that provides explanations so that you're understanding the material, instead of only getting the assignment done., Playing interactive games about topics you don’t understand can be a fun, effective way to enhance the learning experience. For example, if you’re struggling with understanding algebra homework, search online for websites that offer several free math games that can help you grasp algebraic equations.You can find interactive games on a variety of topics--from language arts to biology and everything in between.
This might work best during your grade school and middle school years. Once you start learning more advanced concepts in high school and post-secondary school, you’ll likely find fewer games dedicated to the subjects you’re studying.

