 Plug in a pair of headphones, and head right for the radio app. This article will explain this process in more detail: How to Access the FM Radio on an iPod Nano.;
, Swipe on the station slider bar either to the left or right (either through a fast flicking motion or a rather gentle station flick that increases the slider .2 station frequencies away.) You can also have the device auto-scan for a working frequency.


For a more localized view, tap the frequency portion of the display, then tap the tree barred lines icon then Local Stations, let it search or if you have changed locations, you can refresh the list by pressing the refresh button.
 As you move the slider up and down the dial, the frequencies will be adjusted.
 At first, keep the volume at 50% intensity and adjust it higher or lower after your headphones have been placed in your ears. The volume switch is located on the left side of the device up near the top. However, place your finger on the slightly extended buttons (not the button in the direct center between these two volume buttons).
, Either press the center button on the side of the device (in between the up and down volume) or you can also press the play button in between.


If it is already playing, a Stop button will appear in the same space instead, and pushing the side button once again, will stop the Radio from playing.
If you have previously went in to check out what stations are playable and have located a working station, the app will automatically begin to play the feed once you open the app on the iPod nano device.
 Sometimes however, some stations may just provide an extension of their frequency name (including their frequency tagline or common station identifier, so be prepared in the event that this can happen.)


If you miss a song name and would like to retrieve it, as long as you haven't changed stations or reset its power, you can single tap the frequency display, tap the barred lines icon, then tap Recent Songs to retrieve this list again.



To see the list of favorites, single tap the frequency portion of the screen and tap the the bars icon from the drop down box that displays then tap "Favorites".

