 Do not hesitate to text him too much. If a guy is interested in you, he won't worry about you being overly enthusiastic or overeager. Text him what you really want to say to him without trying to tone down your feelings or emotions.For example, say a guy texts you that he got a new after school job. You feel inclined to say, "That's so great!! I'm super happy for you!"
You may feel the inclination to pause and try to tone your language down. Instead, you may feel it's better to say, "Cool." Avoid filtering yourself. If a guy likes you back, he will be happy that you're happy for him.
 Many people worry about rules regarding who should text and when. Try not to put so much stake in this. If you're being standoffish, a guy may not realize you have feelings for him. If you think of something to say to him, send him a text without hesitating. Telling a guy about your day to day life is a great way to show him you have feelings for him.Text him about what you're doing and when you're thinking of him. For example, say he's a huge sports fan. You can text him something like, "The football game is playing on the radio. Made me think of you!"
Text him things about your life you think may interest him and ask him about what he's doing. For example, "I'm so excited to go to my friend's place tonight. What are you doing? Any exciting plans?"
Do not wait around for him to text you first if you think of something to say. Just do it. Making regular conversation with someone without prompting can help show them you like him.
 If you like a guy, give me a little extra attention on social media. Like his posts frequently. Comment on things like pictures. Retweet his tweets. This will show him you care.


If you're feeling bold, try posting something flirty on his social media. If he uploads a new profile picture, for example, comment something like, "Cut pic! :)".
 Public social media interactions can certainly be flirtatious. If you like or comment on a guy's posts a lot, he may get the sense you like him. However, a private message can give an extra sense of intimacy. Try chatting with him in private via social media. This shows an extra amount of interest.If he's on an app like Facebook messenger, try talking to him there. Send him a generic message, like, "Hey, what's up?" to begin a private conversation via social media.
Share things with him via social media. For example, send him funny links or links to articles that may interest him. Send this material with a flirty message like, "Thought of you! :)".

