 Are homes cheap right now or expensive? Try searching for a graph of household income to home prices and see whether the city in which you're searching has a high ratio relative to other cities.Note that some cities like New York and San Francisco may be historically immune to such ratios.


Talk with a real estate agent, or several agents, about the relative price of homes. Even if you don't get a definitive answer (it's tough to gauge whether the housing market is cheap or expensive, as the information is not always clear), you may get leads on specific markets to watch for or even homes that are steals. This information is valuable.;
, Is a second home still a safe investment without rent padding the list of expenses? If it's not, you should seriously question buying a second home. Too many families buy a second home that's too expensive, betting that they'll be able to rent when they're not occupying the second home. When renting becomes unfeasible, impossible, or generates much less than anticipated, the homeowners are left with a failing investment.
 Add up all the likely expenses of owning a home. Can you fit these expenses into your budget with room to spare? Yes, you'll be building equity in your second home, but if investing in a second home leaves you severely cash-strapped each month, you may be better off waiting until you've paid off your first mortgage, for example. Here are some likely expenses to consider:



Property taxes. Different from state to state; the average annual property tax in Los Angeles is $1,200 for a $100k home, or 1.2%.If property taxes are inordinately high in the town you are considering, investigate the mill rate (real estate taxes) in neighboring towns. You could save a lot of money in real estate taxes simply by purchasing a home in a town close to your preferred location that doesn’t have a high tax burden.
Basic utilities. These should be much lower if the house goes unoccupied for large portions of the year, but should not go overlooked.
Upgrading/upkeep expenses. A house is a living thing — it grows, gets old, needs assistance. Factor in the costs of regular renovations and upkeep services, such as landscaping. The yard and garden of a second home should be kept up if you have tenants, or if you are absent part of the year. In the summer months, overgrown weeds and uncut grass advertise that the property is unoccupied. In cold climates, an unplowed driveway and unshoveled walkways are invitations to vandalism or theft.
Increased insurance. The cost of insurance might be higher because the property will be vacant part of the year, or because you have tenants.

Property management services. A property management company should be a big cost factor in your calculations, especially if you buy a second home that is far away from your primary residence. If you rent out the property, you will have to make arrangements for someone to provide emergency repairs for your tenants. If you have a remote vacation home, you have to make sure someone can check for freezing pipes or leaks in the roof or any other possible damages to your home in your absence.
 Check with the IRS to find out what the tax implications of a second home will be. For many people, the tax costs of owning a second home outweigh the tax credits, especially if you are living in the house for more days than you are renting it out.


For example, if you rent out your house for fewer than 14 days, you don't need to declare any earnings. If you occupy your house for fewer than 14 days in a year, your property is considered a business and up to $25,000 a year in losses can be deducted., A CPA or tax advisor will be able to give you accurate, up-to-date information about tax write-offs, loans, interest rates, etc. For example, you can probably expect a more expensive mortgage, with a higher interest rate, regardless of your credit history — a second home usually just costs more to secure.
 A lot of people make the mistake of buying a property in a market which they know nothing about and which, at the end of the day, they end up not really caring for. Even if you plan on using the second home as an investment and renting it out, it should ultimately be a place where you could see yourself living, if only for a few weeks in the year. Rent for at least a little while in the area to make sure you're comfortable living there.
 Find out what the locals like about the area; where they think it's heading; how long they've lived there, etc. Locals can give you great insight into how an area is doing. Use this information to determine whether buying a property in the area is a sound long-term investment.


Become a local yourself (while you rent for a spell) so that you can investigate some factors that will increase the value of your potential home:

Proximity to good schools
Reliable and extensive transportation options
Shopping options
Proximity to hospitals, as well as police and fire presence
Low crime



, Comps, or comparable home prices, should give you a good idea about how expensive the average home is in your area. You may talk directly to real estate agents for comp data. The key to comps is looking at sale prices instead of listing prices.Use comps as a rough guide — just because the 4 bed, 3 bath down the street sold for $575,000 doesn't mean the 4 bed, 3 bath you're interested in will.
 If you want to use your second home to rent out and build equity, it's necessary to know what's expected of you. Don't put yourself under legal fire by being lazy or willfully ignorant — it will come back to bite you. Here are just a few things you should start researching as a prospective landlord:


Know how to evict a tenant or terminate a lease.
Learn your state's laws about security deposits, what they can — cleaning, unpaid rent, excessive damage — and can't — appliance upgrades, normal wear and tear, refurbishing — be used for.Know how to structure the rental application and tenant screening processes. Anti-discrimination laws legally oblige you to follow a protocol.
Know your duties when it comes to regular repair and maintenance.
Protect yourself from liability when it comes to tenant injury. You are liable for any serious accident involving a tenant that was the tenant's responsibility to protect against or fix in a timely manner.Know the list of tenant's rights, especially concerning privacy. In most states, you must give the tenant 24 hours notice if you intend to fix or show the property, except in cases of emergency., A good real estate agent, one with at least 5 years of experience in the area you're searching, will be your advocate throughout the buying experience.Agents will help you narrow down your housing search until you've weeded out all but the best fits. Then, after you've finalized your purchase, a good real estate agent will stay in touch with you after the sale. This becomes increasingly important for homeowners whose primary residence is far away from their second home.
 Getting pre-qualified and then having the mortgage in tow will let you know what kind of house you can afford to buy. Since this will most likely be mortgage no. 2, expect to pay a higher interest rate on it, and possibly qualify for less. After you have your total budget fixed, set aside money for a down payment.


In order to get the prized second mortgage, lenders will often look for a debt to income (DTI) ratio of under 36%.This means that your total debts, including your first mortgage, should only be about a third of the money that you bring in each month. For example, homeowners who take in $7,000 monthly and have $2,500 in debt have a DTI of 35%.
Be prepared to put down 20% of the purchase price. This money will have to come from your personal savings or the equity in your current residence. You might also consider borrowing against your life insurance policy or your retirement fund.
 Make an offer on a second house that you like. Expect to make several offers that are ultimately outbid before you land one.
 Your second home is an investment, so you'll want to make sure you take pains to protect it. Here are couple things you can do to safeguard your newest asset:


Get a home inspection prior to purchasing. You want to be aware of any lingering problems or damages a seller may not have disclosed before the sale.
Get title insurance.
Get hazard insurance (earthquake, flood, fire, etc.)

