 You’ll be working with wire to create this homemade gift, so make sure you have good needle nose pliers and a wire cutter. You’ll also need a roll of chain (gold, silver, or bronze, depending on what you’d prefer), three different colored spandex strips, gold jewelry loops, a gold clasp, scissors, and tape.Cut the first length of chain to size. This will be the piece that will go around your neck so make it around 24 inches long.
Prep the spandex strips. Cut them about a half inch wide and keep them very long. Stretch them so they turn into round thin pieces of string.
Use a piece of tape to create a needle at one end of the spandex, kind of like the end of a shoelace. Tie one end of the spandex onto the chain, as far down as you want the color to start. Thread the spandex through the chain to make the first tier of the necklace, about 11 inches centered at the bottom of the necklace.
Cut the next length of chain 1-2 inches shorter than the first chain. Thread the spandex through with the same process. Cut another length of chain 1-2 inches shorter than the second chain and thread the spandex through. Repeat the process so you have three lines of the first color.
Cut the chain shorter and shorter and thread them through with the second color and the third color. You should now have: three lines of the first color, two lines of the second color, and one line of the third color.
Use the gold jewelry loops to attach each level to the level above it. Use the needle nose pliers to fasten them.
Finish the necklace by attaching a clasp.
 Bleach is a simple and inexpensive way to play around with fabric dying and create a personal gift for someone. Keep in mind bleach is toxic so keep it out of reach of children and wear protective clothing and gloves when handling it to avoid contact with your skin.You’ll need fabric safe household bleach, a synthetic bristle paint brush, a glass or ceramic bowl, a dark colored cotton blend top, a towel or rag, white chalk, and a piece of cardboard.
Place the piece of cardboard inside the shirt to create a flat workspace. Use elastics or clips to attach the cardboard to the shirt so it doesn’t move around.
Sketch out a phrase or design on the shirt with the chalk. Think about using a personal phrase or a unique design ideal for a gift.
Prepare a bowl of undiluted bleach. Dip your brush into the bowl and drag it on the edge of the bowl to eliminate any drips. Use steady strokes to trace the outline of your phrase or design. The fabric will soak in the bleach quickly so work efficiently to complete your design.
Once you’re finished, step back and look at the design. Fill in any uneven or missed spots with small dabs of bleach on your brush. Use the towel to clean off the brush.
Let the shirt dry outside in the sun for several hours to let the bleach process and lighten the shirt. Hand wash the shirt and hang it to dry before gifting it.
 Look for a sturdy canvas that will fit the desired space. Canvas can be pricy, but keep in mind duct tape costs almost nothing, so this homemade gift shouldn’t break the bank.You can also use washi tape to make canvas art. Washi tape comes in a variety of colors and textures, so play around with patterns and designs to make a unique work of art.
Paint the canvas a solid neutral shade or a brighter shade, depending on your preference. Add on strips of duct tape, criss crossing as you go, or create a geometric shape.
You can paint the resulting triangles or shapes a darker hue to create contrast.