 The first step in making a visitation agreement is to set out who will have visitation rights. While this will most often be the parent not having custody of the child, there are situations where other individuals may get visitation rights. For example, in Washington State, a person other than a parent can have visitation rights if it is in the best interest of the child.Regardless, provide a detailed description of all parties to the agreement, which should include names, addresses, contact information, and their relationships to the child.


Such a provision may look like this: "I, Jane Doe, am the parent of Kevin Doe and I have full custody of that child. I agree to allow John Doe, the father of Kevin Doe, visitation rights as set forth and agreed upon below. Jane Doe lives at and can be contacted in the following manner . John Doe lives at and can be contacted in the following manner .";
, Once you have defined the parties to the agreement, you will want to include a detailed discussion about the child. Such a clause should include information about the child's basic needs, which will include their need for love, support, guidance, and health.A good example of this type of provision may take the following form: "Kevin Doe is the child of John and Jane Doe. John and Jane Doe are creating this agreement to allow Kevin's father, John, certain visitation rights. Kevin wants and needs the love and support of both parents and therefore John should have certain visitation rights in order to provide certain basic needs. Kevin is currently nine years old as of the date this agreement is executed, and having his father involved in his life is in the child's best interests. Kevin and John have always been close and have had a good relationship. This agreement will help maintain and further the relationship they already have. Kevin is currently in good health and allowing John visitation rights will help maintain and promote this good health."

, This section will be the body of your agreement and will set forth all of the rights and obligations of the parent or other person receiving visitation rights. When creating this section, consider the child's age, personality, experiences, and abilities.

You should also try to give the child a regular and consistent schedule that can easily be followed.Use enough detail so that the agreement is easily understandable and enforceable.Also, the agreement should give the child a sense of security and a reliable routine.Physical custody includes information about where the children live and how they spend their time.When writing this section you should think about where the children should be during the week and on the weekends; where the children should be for holidays and other special occasions; which party will be in charge of what activities (sports, music events, homework); which party is in charge at what times; and how the children will get from one place to the other.Legal custody includes information about which party to the agreement will make important decisions regarding the child.When you write this section be sure to include information about decisions regarding school, daycare, religion, medical and dental care, emergency care, jobs, and driving., If at any time during the drafting process you and the other party do not agree to certain terms, you may want to consider trying mediation. During mediation, both parties will have the help of an expert (mediator) to try and resolve their differences.The mediator will talk with both parties about their concern, disagreement, resentment, and anger.The mediator will then try and come up with an amicable solution that makes you and the other party happy. If successful, the mediator may even help you draft language into your agreement that reflects the progress you made during your time with that mediator., Once you have completed your agreement, you will need to attach other required documents to your agreement in order to have a judge review your plan.In general, the following document will be required along with your written agreement:



Stipulation and Order for Visitation of Children, which will require you to sign a document stating that the court has jurisdiction over the children at issue and that you are agreeing to the terms of the agreement attached to this document., Once you have filled out the required documentation and attached it to your written agreement, you will go to your local courthouse and have the documents signed by a judge.The judge will look over your agreement and ensure everything included is in the best interest of the child. If the judge approves of your agreement, they will sign it and give it back to you. If the judge denies your agreement, you will have to start over or go to court.
 Once the judge has signed your agreement, you will file all of the signed documentation with the clerk of courts at your local courthouse.Once filed, you and the other party to your agreement will get copies and the agreement will then be binding on everyone involved.