 If the fire is rapidly approaching, you may not have time to take any precautions to protect the structure. However, if time permits, there are a number of things you can do to keep the building as safe as possible.


Shut off any and all fuel lines, including propane, natural gas, and oil.Move curtains and fabric-covered furniture away from windows and sliding doors. If the glass breaks, you do not want anything flammable near the window/door.Remove any combustible objects from the yard, especially gas grills and fuel cans, and discard them as far from your structure and any nearby structures as possible.You should also move any stacks of firewood as far from the building as possible.If time permits, trim grass and vegetation as low to the ground as possible around the building and any external propane tanks. This will help reduce the combustible material that would allow the fire to reach you or the fuel source., If the building has hoses and running water, utilize that water to create a safer structure. Remember that water may not necessarily stop a fire, but it will slow it down.


Use hoses or sprinklers to saturate the roof of the building, the walls, and the ground immediately surrounding the building.Fill any large containers present with water (if possible), and surround the perimeter of the building with them., Whether you become trapped in your home or you take shelter in a building you come across, stay inside no matter what. If the fire surrounds the building, you're more likely to survive inside than out.Close all the doors, windows, and vents in the building to prevent a draft from spreading the fire inside.Do not lock the doors to the building. If things take a turn for the worst and you need to escape, or if firefighters find the building, you'll want to ensure that the doors are not locked.Stay away from exterior walls. If the building is big enough, try to get into the middle of the structure, like a centrally-located room, so that you are as far from the exterior as possible. If you are with other people, stay together.