 Food stamps are meant for U.S. citizens and qualified aliens. You cannot be an undocumented immigrant and receive SNAP benefits.


You also must be a resident of South Carolina.If you aren’t, then apply for SNAP benefits in the state where you reside.;
, You cannot have too much income to qualify for SNAP. Generally, your gross income cannot exceed 130% of the federal poverty level for a household of your size:An individual should make $15,400 or less to qualify.
A household of two should make $20,826 or less to qualify.
A household of three with an income of $26,208 or less to qualify.
A household of four should make $31,590 or less to qualify.
Households with a disabled person or someone 60 or older have different income limits.
 You can get food stamps within seven days if your household has less than $150 in monthly gross income and your liquid resources such as cash, savings, or a checking account totals $100 or less.You might also qualify for emergency benefits if your rent/mortgage and utilities are more than your household combined monthly income and liquid resources. For example, you’ll qualify for emergency benefits if your rent is $800 and your monthly income and liquid assets are less than this amount.
You can also qualify if a family member is a migrant or seasonal farm worker who is destitute and your household has less $100 or less in liquid assets., Visit https://scmapp.sc.gov/EA/GettingStarted.aspx and use the “Am I Eligible” tool to easily find out whether you qualify for SNAP benefits. You can use this tool without creating a username and password, though it may be more convenient to do so.


If you aren’t eligible, then you should consider applying anyway. You might not have calculated your income properly or made some other mistake. Let DSS tell you whether you qualify.
 South Carolina makes it easy to apply for food stamps. You can apply online, by mail/fax, or in person. Choose the most convenient method for you.


To apply online, visit this website: https://scmapp.sc.gov/.
To apply by mail or fax, print off an application. There are English and Spanish-language applications available at the DSS website: https://dss.sc.gov/assistance-programs/snap/how-do-i-apply/.
To apply in person, complete a paper application and deliver it to your local DSS office.
 The application will ask for basic information about you. For example, provide the following:full name
address
mailing address (if different from where you live)
phone number

, DSS asks for information on everyone who lives with you in your household. You only need to give the Social Security Number and immigration status for people who will receive SNAP benefits. Provide the following:names of everyone who lives with you (include yourself as well in the list)
relationship to you (e.g., child, spouse, etc.)
date of birth and age
sex (male or female)
race and ethnicity
Social Security Number or date of application for a number
citizenship information
whether each person is blind or disabled
whether each person is in school or working
list of all non-citizens living in the household

, The application will have a series of questions you must answer about the criminal backgrounds of those in your household. Answer all questions honestly. Some of the questions include:whether anyone in your household has violated parole or probation
whether anyone living with you has been convicted of a drug-related felony
whether anyone has been convicted of trading, buying, or selling SNAP benefits

, Household resources are used to determine whether you qualify for emergency benefits. Gather your financial records so that you have accurate information as of the date you apply. You will be asked for the following:amount of cash
amount of checking accounts
amount in a savings account
whether anyone in the household owns any cars, trucks, or other assets (other than the building you live in)

, You’ll need to provide detailed information about your monthly income, so gather this information ahead of time. For example, you will need to provide the following:names of anyone in the household who is working
name and address of employer
employer contact information
gross pay (this is the amount before taxes and other deductions)
hours worked each week
child support payments received
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits
Social Security benefits
unemployment benefits
retirement or pension benefits
veterans benefits

, Next, enter the information about your household expenses, including the following:rent or mortgage
house insurance
property taxes
how much you pay to heat or cool your home
childcare expenses
child support payments someone in your household makes

, If you are mailing or hand delivering your application, then you should find the address to your county’s DSS office. Look in your phone book for the address. You can also check the website here: https://dss.sc.gov/contact/.


Remember to make a copy of your application for your records.
 Once your application is approved, you will be sent an appointment date for an interview. Write down the date so that you don’t forget it. You need to interview with DSS staff before you can begin receiving benefits.


The office should tell you what documents you need to provide. Make sure to gather them ahead of time, otherwise your approval could be delayed.
You will also be given a phone number to call if you want to interview over the phone instead., You should receive your benefits within 30 days of your application.Remember to read which items are eligible for purchase with SNAP benefits. For example, you cannot buy tobacco or alcoholic beverages using SNAP.You will receive your benefits loaded onto an EBT card, which you can use like a debit card at the grocery store. If you lose your card, call 1-800-554-5268.
Avoid selling or trading SNAP benefits. If convicted, you will become ineligible for future benefits.
 SNAP recipients aged 18-49 who do not have dependents must meet certain work requirements to get benefits for more than three months in a 36-month period. In particular, you should be engaged in 80 hours of work activity each month.Work can be paid or unpaid. For example, you can volunteer for the state’s Employment & Training Program to satisfy your work requirements.You do not have to work to get an initial three months of benefits. However, the requirement kicks in if you want to extend your benefits beyond three months.
 You can request a hearing by calling toll-free 1-800-311-7229. You should request a hearing within 90 days of the decision.