 To do this, shake the towel out and spread it evenly over a flat surface. A table is better than the floor as it's easier on your back and arms.


A large towel is ideal, such as a beach towel or bed sheet. If necessary you could use a closed-weave blanket of a similar size. Open weave blankets offer little protection and are not suitable because the cat will catch her claws in the fabric.;
, A regular-sized towel has a longer length and narrower width. You will want to place the cat centrally on the towel, at a right-angle to the length, with her nose touching one edge.


Let the cat rest on her belly in a natural crouching position, with her paws underneath.
There should be an equal length of towel on either side of the cat’s body.
 If you are right handed, use your left hand to grip her scruff and vice versa. This area of loose skin over the shoulders is where a mother cat holds her kittens to trigger a passive reaction. Although you may feel reticent about gripping your pet firmly, be assured you are not hurting, or harming her in any way. To make the first fold:


With your right hand, grasp the towel edge 8 to 10 inches (20 to 25 cm) from the cat.
Apply firm tension to the fabric and fold it right-over-left across the cat’s back, and include the hand restraining the cat in the wrap. You will remove your hand after the next step.
Gently lift the cat by the scruff, such that her body is raised at a 45 degree angle to the horizontal, with her bottom resting on the floor and her forequarters elevated.
Feed the fold of towel lying across her back, under her left front paw. Then lower her paws back to the table top so that her body weight anchors this first wrap in place.
 To make the second fold, do the following:


With your left hand still encased, grasp the towel on the left side of the cat. As before, apply firm tension as you cross the fabric left-to-right over the cat’s back. The cat is now enclosed in a towel cocoon with just her head sticking out.
Now free your left hand. Let go of her scruff and wriggle your fingers free of the wrap. If you applied the correct tension to the towel, the cat’s limbs will remain firmly held against her body.
Place your newly freed hand under her chest. Lift her front end up off the flat surface so that her body is angled at about 45 degrees horizontally.
Now use your right hand to grasp the trailing edge of the second wrap. Feed it under the cat and pull it firmly so she is tightly swaddled. Continue to wrap the remaining length of towel around the cat until the free length is used up.
 The cat is now rolled in a towel but, if she is determined, she could wriggle out backwards. The final, or "burrito" fold, involves tucking the width of the towel dangling behind her, under the body. This is as simple as it sounds:


Simply lift up her wrapped rear end and tuck the dangling tail of fabric beneath her.
Now when you lower her back end down, her body weight pins the towel beneath her and there is no backwards escape route.
 After wrapping your cat, you can immediately give her medicine. Or you can examine a leg or paw by slowly pulling the desired body part out for examination, through the opening end of the towel or blanket.


wikiHow's How to Give a Cat a Pill might come in handy right about now!

