 A judgment is a formal decision made by a court following a lawsuit. In this case, a creditor sues a debtor due to non-payment of a debt. The judgment is a legal requirement to pay the debt, and a judgment is part of the public record.


There are several forms of judgment. A judgment can be satisfied or vacated. The judgment may remain on your credit report for 7 years after the filing date.
A credit bureau collects credit information from a variety of sources. Keep in mind that not all creditors (bank, credit card companies) report all credit activity to the credit bureau.
In many cases, the borrower must follow up to get accurate data reported to each credit bureau. Your efforts can help you ensure that your credit report is based on accurate information.;
, A satisfied judgment means that the judgment has been paid. It’s important the paid judgment is reported on your credit report. If you pay a judgment, the total amount of debt that you owe goes down. Also, a paid judgment reduces the judgment’s negative impact on your credit score.You can satisfy a judgment by paying the balance in full. When the creditor is paid, that entity must file a satisfaction of a judgment form with the court. This is the former debtor’s evidence that the debt was paid.
In some cases, you can negotiate a settlement of your judgment. The creditor may be willing to accept a smaller payment now, rather than wait for full payment over a period of months or years.
You can satisfy a judgment by filing for bankruptcy. The bankruptcy will allow your judgment to be discharged. The discharge means that the judgment amount is no longer owed.
 Once the judgment is satisfied, either you or your creditor can file a satisfaction of judgment document with the court. Each credit bureau should be notified of the satisfaction of judgment filing. The bureaus should use that information to update your credit report.When you pay the judgment, check with the credit bureaus periodically to ensure that the paid judgment is reported.
The credit bureau is required to mark your judgment as having a $0 balance.
Even though you paid the judgment, the judgment will be listed on your credit report for 7 years after the filing of the judgment. The credit report should include the $0 balance.
 A vacated judgment does not mean that the judgment was paid. Instead, a vacated judgment is treated as if it never existed. The court will issue an order to set aside the judgment. That order documents that the judgment has been vacated. You can provide a copy of that order to the credit bureaus.Normally, the credit bureaus do not maintain records of vacated judgments. Since they don’t exist from a debt standpoint, there’s no reason to list them on a credit report.
If a credit bureau does include a vacated judgment on your credit report, you should dispute the item. When you complete their forms to dispute the item, you can include the order to set aside that the court provides.
Some credit bureaus treat this issue differently than others. One credit bureau may have a written policy not to include vacated judgments. Other entities are tougher on this issue. In fact, there have been class action lawsuits to remove vacated judgments. Ask the credit bureau about their policy.
A vacated judgment should be completely removed from your credit report. The rule requiring the judgment to stay on your credit report for 7 years does not apply. Instead of showing a judgment with a zero balance, all evidence of a vacated judgment is removed.
 Your credit report will contain a credit score along with information found in public records. That will include any court judgments that have been entered against you for debts owed and crimes committed. The public record includes any tax liens that have been entered against your property, and any bankruptcy filings.The credit report includes your identity, including your legal name, past addresses, and date of birth.
A report will list existing lines of credit that you have, including both open and closed credit card accounts. The report will disclose how much you owe to creditors and your payment history.
A common item on a credit report is a federal tax lien. The IRS may remove a tax lien in certain circumstances. If the tax lien debt has been paid in full, or you have entered into a repayment agreement with the IRS that results in full payment, the lien may be moved.
 As a matter of law, you are entitled to access one free credit report per year. Credit reports can be accessed from a wide variety of sources, some of which require payment. Request copies of your credit report and your credit score from each of the largest 3 credit bureaus. Sometimes the data can vary by bureau.You need to review your credit report for errors, such as a judgment that should not be posted. If incorrect data stays on your credit report, it will impact your credit score. A lower credit score will make it more difficult for you to borrow money at a reasonable interest rate.
Consumers should also review their credit report for positive credit information that may be missing.
If you pay off a credit card balance, for example, it’s important that your credit card company report that information to each credit bureau. When each bureau receives notice that your debt was paid off, it will improve your credit score.

