 Water helps flush out excess sodium that causes high blood pressure and hypertension. These symptoms often lead to angina pain and coronary heart disease.


Aim to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours., 2 liters of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult. If you take caffeinated beverages, take 1 liter of water for every cup (1 fluid oz.) of caffeine.
If you are taking blood-thinning medications or diuretics (water pills) for angina pain, ask your doctor about how much water you should consume.
Not getting enough water can also lead to dehydration. Dehydration can cause headaches, irritability, dizziness, irregular heartbeat and shortness of breath. Non-caffeinated, glucose-free sports drinks with electrolytes can help alleviate dehydration as well.
 Not getting enough sleep has been linked to increased risk of high blood pressure, hypertension, diabetes, obesity and chronic stress, all of which can cause angina pain and increase the risk for heart disease. Studies show that sleep deprivation can weaken the immune system, increase the production of stress hormones, put you at higher risk for chronic disease and lower life expectancy., If you suffer from sleep apnea or insomnia, talk to your doctor for possible treatments. Other ways you can make sure you get enough sleep include:


Avoid caffeine, nicotine, alcohol and sugary drinks four to six hours before sleeping. These can act as a stimulant to keep you awake.
A quiet, dark, and cool environment can help promote sleep. Use heavy curtains or an eye mask to block light. Light is a powerful cue that tells the brain that it's time to wake up. Keep the temperature comfortably cool (between 65 and 75°F or 18.3 to 23.9°C), and keep the room well ventilated.
Make sure your bedroom is equipped with a comfortable mattress and pillows. Change your sheets and pillow covers often. If you have trouble breathing, try to prop your head up on a pillow to improve air flow.
Struggling to fall asleep just leads to frustration. If you’re not asleep after 20 minutes, get out of bed, go to another room and do something relaxing until you are tired enough to sleep.
Avoid activities such as work or exercise three to four hours prior to sleeping. Physically and psychologically stressful activities can cause the body to secrete the stress hormone cortisol, which is associated with increasing alertness. Try listening to relaxing music or doing some light reading a few hours before sleeping.
Having a regular sleep schedule helps to ensure better quality and consistent sleep. Try to set a routine by going to bed early and waking up early to set your body’s internal clock.
If you have congestive heart failure in addition to angina you may need to elevate the bed with pillows when you sleep so that your head is above your heart.
 Sitting idly greatly increases the risk for angina pain and other heart diseases. Do not sit in front of the TV, behind a work desk or driver’s seat for more than two hours if you have been diagnosed with angina.Think about ways you can walk while you work, such as standing while talking on the phone. Take five minute breaks between work to stretch your arms and legs. The muscle activity needed for standing and other movement seems to trigger important processes related to the breakdown of fats and sugars within the body. When you sit, these processes stall and your health risks increase. When you're standing or actively moving, you kick the processes back into action.
 While a small amount of stress is healthy, it can cause blood pressure, anxiety, irregular heartbeat and alter immune function, triggering angina pain and in severe cases cause heart attacks. As people age, achieving a relaxation response after a stressful event becomes more difficult.To avoid stress, practice meditation exercises like yoga and tai chi, make time for recreation and be sure to get enough rest. Other simpler ways to reduce stress are:


Slow, deep breathing in a quiet environment. Breath in through your nose and out through your mouth. Try and feel the diaphragm muscle when you breath in order to stimulate the parasympathetic nervous system.
Focus on positive outcomes.
Restructure priorities and eliminate unnecessary tasks.
Reduce use of electronic devices. These may cause eye-strain and trigger headaches.
Use humor. Research has found humor to be an effective way to deal with acute stress.
Listen to relaxing music.
 Studies show that regular exercise is beneficial for individuals with stable angina as it helps regulate high blood pressure, cholesterol, diabetes and obesity. Aerobic exercise, in particular, increases blood and oxygen flow to the heart while at rest and when you're doing everyday things like climbing stairs or carrying groceries. It also helps reduce the body’s production of stress hormones and has a positive impact on psychological health.,,Talk with your healthcare practitioner or a registered clinical exercise physiologist (RCEP) before starting an exercise program. Ask for specific program recommendations to improve cardiovascular fitness, increase muscle strength and endurance, and improve range of motion.
An extended warm-up and cool-down may reduce the risk of angina or other cardiovascular complications following exercise. Warming up and cooling down are important parts of every exercise routine. They help the body make the transition from rest to activity and back again, and can help prevent soreness or injury, especially in older people.
Choose low-impact activities such as walking, cycling or water exercises, which involve large muscles groups and can be done continuously. If your fitness level is low, start with shorter sessions (10 to 15 minutes) and gradually build up to 30 minutes five or more days per week.
Perform light-resistance circuit training and whole-body range-of-motion exercises two to three days per week.
Closely monitor your intensity level and stay within your recommended target heart-rate zone. Take frequent breaks during activity if needed. Stop exercising immediately if you experience angina. Contact your physician if you experience chest pain, labored breathing or extreme fatigue.
Don’t eat for two hours prior to exercise. Drink plenty of fluids before, during and after a workout. If nitroglycerin has been prescribed, always carry it with you, especially during exercise.
 Irregular heartbeat, high or low blood pressure and increased stress can trigger angina pain, and in severe cases cause heart attack. Your doctor may ask you to keep track of your blood pressure at home. To do this, you will need to get a home blood pressure monitor. The monitor you choose should be of good quality and fit well., , Digital monitors are the best choice for most people. Practice using the monitor with your doctor or nurse to make sure you are taking your blood pressure correctly. A digital blood pressure monitor will not be as accurate if your body is moving when you are using it. Also, an irregular heart rate will make the reading less accurate. Your arm should be supported, with your upper arm at heart level and feet on the floor with your back supported and legs uncrossed. It's best to measure your blood pressure after you rest for at least five minutes.
Blood pressure should not be checked right after experiencing stress, exercise, tobacco exposure, or consuming foods or beverages, such as coffee, that can raise blood pressure.
If your blood pressure monitor shows a reading of more than 120/80 mmHg, you may have moderate hypertension. If it shows a reading higher than 140/90 mmHg, you may have high blood pressure and should tell your doctor.
All adults should have their blood pressure checked every one to two years if their blood pressure was less than 120/80 mmHg at their most recent reading.
 Soak a small towel in lukewarm water (104–113°F or 40–45ºC), then wring the water out. Lie down and apply the warmed towel to your chest or mid-back for 20 to 25 minutes. This helps improve circulation in the arteries and reduce spasms to relieve acute anginal pain within five to 10 minutes. If the pain is extremely severe, causes dizziness or shortness of breath, you should seek medical care immediately., , Taking lukewarm showers (104–113°F or 40–45ºC) for five to 10 minutes can help improve circulation and reduce muscle pain, thus decreasing the chance of angina pain. You can do this up to two or three times per week.


Taking frequent showers or showers longer than 15 minutes is not recommended as it can cause dry skin.
 Smoking, secondhand smoke, exposure to carbon monoxide and taking in any form of nicotine can aggravate symptoms of angina pain. It can also cause hypertension and an irregular heartbeat, and it can constrict blood vessels. This increases the risk of having a heart attack and frequent angina pain. Try to avoid exposure to smoke and hazardous fumes in your environment. If you currently smoke, ask your doctor about ways to quit smoking. , , A moderate amount of alcohol, whether it is wine, beer or spirits, can help lower the risk of heart disease and heart-related conditions such as angina. However, alcohol should be taken in moderation. If you have a condition related to angina, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat) or diabetes, you should reduce alcohol intake to one drink a day for women, and two per day for men. , Avoid alcoholic drinks if you are: someone recovering from alcohol addiction, pregnant or breastfeeding women, someone with a family history of alcoholism, someone with liver disease, or someone taking one or more medications that interact with alcohol.

