 If all of the walls in the room are the same, neutral color (e.g. white or off-white), you could choose a bolder color to paint this wall.For example, cooler colors, such as blue and green, will provide a calming feel.For a more energizing feel, choose warmer colors.;
, If you don’t want to paint the wall, you could choose a bold wallpaper to make the wall more interesting. For example, you might find an interesting argyle pattern or one with a vintage pattern that will give you something to look at besides a plain wall., Color blocking means choosing two or three completely different colors, and then putting them together to create something that looks interesting.For a wall, this can mean painting the wall with different colors, or hanging squares (or whatever shape you would like) of each color. It can even mean simply choosing posters that are made up of one primary color., You can do this by having a picture that you like blown up to a very large, and having it printed as a poster that you can hang on the wall, or having it made into a wall decal you can stick onto your wall.This will make the wall very interesting to look at.


Alternatively, if you don’t already have a picture in mind, you can visit home decor stores, which commonly sell pre-made wall murals. Typically, these are applied as decals, which make it easy to stick to the wall.
 This is done by painting the bottom part of the wall in one color, and painting the top part of the wall in a different tone of the same color. Typically the wall is divided in half, but you can do it however you like.If your wall has wainscoting or bead boarding, which is the decorative panelling that is sometimes present on the bottom portion of a wall, you can use this as a guide to help you decide where to divide the tones.You can also have wainscoting installed to help break up the wall, if you don’t have it already.
 Maybe you rent, and aren’t allowed to paint or nail into the wall, or maybe you want to be able to change your decorations easily. Either way, Washi tape offers a way to decorate your wall in whatever way you want.Washi tape is essentially masking tape with different designs on it. It comes in many, many different colors and designs.
You could try taping large stripes on the wall, or creating a design of your own in the center of the wall.

