 Have a serious talk about the internet and online chatting in a calm atmosphere so your child can focus and pay attention to you. Explain to your child to never give out their full name, birthday, address, phone number, credit card information, and the school they go to unless they ask you first and you allow them. Tell your child to block or report any users who are making them feel unsafe or worried, and say to them that if anything terrible is going on (such as cyber bullying) that they tell you or a teacher. Check your child's activity by viewing their history.You can occasionally check on them when they are using their electronic by asking a few basic questions. Examples:


"Hey Natasha, are you chatting to Daddy?"
"That's an interesting game you are playing, Henry. What is it called?"
"Good morning, Rosa. I see you're up bright and early. What are you doing?"

, They can set the table, serve the food in dishes, and do other types of jobs. You can also have them clear the table once everyone is done eating. Simple jobs like picking up the dishes, wiping the table, and storing away food is the perfect responsibility for them. If you have multiple children and family members, have them all help up and give each one of them a specific task so everyone can work together.


Do not let your child do this everyday or all by themselves. Too much chores can overtire a child and will make them not want to clean or help again.
Once your child tackles setting and clearing the dinner table at home they can start carrying what they have learned at a guest's house. Encourage your child to clean up with the adults to thank them for the meal they had made. Doing this will not only make your child responsible, but polite and appreciative as well., It's that time that your child needs to learn to start preparing meals for themselves. Have them start with very basic meals such as sandwiches, ants on a log, and other basic snacks and lunches. Have them cook with you in the kitchen and present them on how to make a specific recipe. Encourage them to look for all the ingredients in the pantry or cabinets. Once they tackle the easy recipes, they can move on to harder recipes such as boiling pasta, making a salad, and frying scrambled eggs.


You can also teach your child about cooking safety. Talk about things such as never running with knives, never cook use the stove top without an adult, don't touch sharp objects, etc.Have your child practice making breakfast for themselves. The first breakfast meal you'd want your child to make could be cereal or toast. The steps are rather simple and your child will learn quickly.
 There are many ways that you can help your child learn about money at a young age. Doing so will help your child learn how to handle money and how to care for it responsibly. It will also help encourage independence.Give your child an allowance. Explain to them that if they want a special treat or item, they can use their own money to purchase it.
Count change. With younger kids, you can begin by teaching the value of each coin. Then they can make a game out of helping you sort your change.
Help them open a checking or savings account. Go to your local banking branch and ask a teller to help you set up a child's account. Then teach your child the value of depositing Grandma's birthday checks!

