 Bathing your feet every day in warm water will help reduce foot odor.Use a mild antibacterial soap.
Dry your feet thoroughly after washing. Don’t forget to dry between your toes.
 A variety of foot soaks can help reduce or prevent foot odors:Make a mixture of one part vinegar to two parts water.Soak your feet in this for thirty minutes at a time as needed.
Soak your feet in strong black tea for thirty minutes a day.Use two regular sized tea bags for each pint of water. Boil for fifteen minutes, and then add two quarts of water to make the tea cool enough to soak your feet in. Soak them for thirty minutes a day for a week. Because it is acidic, the tea will have an antibacterial effect that can reduce foot odor.
Dissolve a handful of kosher salt in warm water and soak your feet in the solution for thirty minutes as needed.No scientific studies conclusively show that salt prevents foot odor. However, it can dry your skin, potentially reducing moisture and thereby odor.
Squeeze the juice of one lemon into a tub of water large enough to place your feet in and soak your feet in the solution.Lemon juice has antibacterial properties, and can help remove dead skin cells. This may help reduce foot odor.
 A variety of medicated foot powders and simple home ingredients can help reduce or prevent foot odors. Take a small amount of your chosen powder and rub it all over your feet. Use a soft cloth to lightly dust off any that cakes up. Common powders used to control foot odor include:Corn starch.
Baking soda.
Baby powder.
 These may be found at pharmacies. Carefully follow all instructions supplied with your cream.
 Spraying your feet with antiperspirant or deodorant will help prevent foot odor. There are specialized foot sprays, but regular underarm deodorant or antiperspirant sprays work just as well.Over-the-counter or prescription roll-on deodorants and antiperspirants may also be effective.
 The foods and drinks you consume can contribute to body odor.If you have a problem with foot odor, it is possible that eliminating certain foods and drinks from your diet can reduce the problem. Common foods, drinks, and spices thought to contribute to body odor include:Caffeinated beverages.
Foods containing sulphur compounds, including onions, garlic, and cauliflower.
Red meat.
Alcohol.
Strong-smelling spices, such as cumin or fenugreek.

