 Puppies learn how to socialize by playing with other puppies. Very young puppies don't know that they can hurt others with their teeth. They learn by playing; when one puppy bites another puppy too hard, the puppy yelps and stops playing. In this way, puppies learn to control how hard they bite., Play with your puppy the way another puppy would; by tickling her and wrestling with her until she starts to nip at you. When she bites your hand, let out a high-pitched yelp, just the way another puppy would. Let your hand go limp and stop playing. Your puppy will learn that when she bites, she doesn't get attention anymore.


Your puppy may try to making up for the bite by nuzzling and licking your hand. Praise her in a sweet voice and reward her with a treat, then keep playing with her. She'll learn that playing nicely gets rewarded.Never spank a puppy to cause her pain in return. Using physical punishment against a puppy will only make her afraid of you.
 Puppies love to use their teeth, and they have to be taught that human skin is not for chewing. Provide plenty of puppy-safe chew toys for your puppy to gnaw on during play time.


When your puppy starts nipping at your skin, put a chew toy in her mouth. This will teach her that she should be chewing on the toy instead of your hand.
Do the same thing if your puppy nips at your heels and ankles when you walk around. Stop walking and give her a chew toy. If you don't have a toy handy, just stop. When she starts playing nicely, praise her.If she grabs something of yours, distract her and and swap the item for one of her own toys in its place.
 If your puppy is having trouble learning not to bite, you may need to create a time-out area, a place where you take her to teach her that if she can't play nice, she doesn't get to play. Set aside a corner of her play room and take her there right away when she bites.


Don't use the puppy's crate as a time-out area. She should never associate being crated with punishment.
After your puppy has been in time out for a few minutes, bring her back to play with the family. Reward her when she plays nicely. If she bites again, give a high-pitched yelp and take her right back to time out. Eventually she will learn not to bite.
 Children move quickly, make high-pitched noises and are often on face level with puppies. Puppies and children can have a lot of fun together, but they have to be taught to play properly. If your puppy gets rough with a child, put her in time out immediately. Make sure your kids know how to place nicely, too.


Always supervise your children around your puppy. Make sure that your children know that puppies are fragile and teach them what to do if the puppy nips or gets too rough.