 Your 401(k) is meant to provide retirement income and should be considered a last-resort source of cash for expenses before then. Withdrawing from your 401(k) before you reach retirement age can come with some IRS consequences.If you withdraw any amount from your 401(k) before age 59.5, you will usually pay a 10% penalty to the IRS on top of ordinary taxes for the amount you're withdrawing. There are hardship exceptions from penalties; for example, if you have a disability or excessive medical bills.
On withdrawals after 59.5 years age, there will be no penalty, but the amount you withdraw will be considered taxable income for that year, so you'll owe taxes at the end of the year.
Generally, after age 70.5 and if you are retired, you must begin withdrawing from your 401(k) or IRA accounts according to the conditions of the agreement.
The costs of early withdrawal are not only limited to the 10% penalty and ordinary taxes. You are also interrupting the wealth compounding effect of time and regular contributions. Withdrawing even a year or two early can result in thousands of potentially lost retirement funding.
 Since withdrawing ahead of time is expensive, it is wise to consider alternative options first if funding is necessary.


Borrowing funds from your 401(k) plan allows access to funds without technically withdrawing. Your plan must offer a loan option for this to be possible. While borrowing funds will interrupt the long-term compounding, borrowing and repaying the loan is a better option than taking a distribution and paying the penalty and taxes due. However, note that failure to repay the loan will trigger a distribution that will be subject to penalty and taxes
Loans must be repaid within 5 years and are subject to a competitive rate (prime + 1%). Many people fail to make contributions during loan payback since deductions go to repayment. Contact your adviser to determine if this is the right approach for you and explain specific restrictions. For example, you cannot borrow funds and then roll them over into another account.
Low-interest loans from a lender would be a smarter withdrawal option than dipping into your 401(k). In the long run, taking money out of the 401(k) will yield you a net benefit of barely half a withdrawal.
Looking into sale of assets, loans from friends or family, reducing expenses, or utilizing any cash savings are often better options then subjecting yourself to penalties from early withdrawal.
 This provision allows you to withdraw money based on your life expectancy. This simply means that the distribution you can receive under this plan is calculated using your estimated life expectancy (according to statistics tables), which helps to ensure that the distribution you receive will not lead to prematurely depleting your account.


Under this rule, you must make withdrawals for at least 5 years or until you reach age 59-1/2, whichever is longer.
This most commonly occurs when employees are 56 and about to retire, withdrawing a certain amount of money each year until 61. Or you could withdraw less for a longer period of time.You can avoid the 10% early withdrawal penalty this way, but you'll still pay taxes on the money withdrawn, losing compounded earnings you'd otherwise have had.
 If you plan to withdraw before the age of 59.5 using any of the above methods, your administrator can guide you through the process of bringing funds from your 401(k) to your bank account.

