 There are thousands of free games out there, and this category goes way beyond app stores. Both major developers and independent studios have been exploring the free-to-play model. Keep searching, and you may find a favorite game that matches your interests without trying to nickel and dime you to death.


Some of the most famous free games include the battle arena League of Legends, the collectible card game Hearthstone, the first-person shooter Team Fortress 2, and the Diablo-like Path of Exile.
 These technically fall into the free-to-play category, but there are so many of these they deserve a separate mention. If you are at all interested in online role-playing games, there's probably something out there you can spend hundreds of hours on for free. From Lord of the Rings Online to Star Wars: The Old Republic to the first twenty levels of World of Warcraft, you have many options available., Unlike free-to-play games, these don't even have an obnoxious message trying to convince you to purchase in-game perks. It's almost the default now for games to become free eventually, although you may have to wait a few years after the release date. Browse huge collections of these games at the following sites:



The GOG free games section occasionally includes more high-profile games than other sites.Reddit free games and Reddit efreebies.
 EA's Origin game store client might be a little desperate for users. Visit their ongoing promotions and download the free Origin software. Check back regularly to see which games are up for grabs, as these rotate frequently:


The "On the House" promotion offers a full, free game with no strings attached. The game is typically a few years old, but that doesn't mean it's not fun.
There are often several "Game Time" promotions running at once. These are also full games, but each one gives you a limited amount of time to play. This is great for trying out a game you're interested in, but not so much if you want to play through the whole thing.
 The most famous and generous promotions in the indie game world come from Humble Bundle.With multiple "bundles" of games available each week and a "pay what you want" price tag for most of the games on offer, it's hard to find better value. If you truly need it to be free, pay one cent for every dozen games and visit the "take a penny" at the grocery store.

