 In order to do electrical work in Oklahoma, all electricians are required to be licensed in the state. To obtain a license, applicants must be at least 18 years old; have a high school diploma or show proof of 2,000 hours of electrical trade experience; pass a national criminal background check; and pass an electrician exam. The Oklahoma electrician license exam is administered by PSI, which is an independent testing company. Electrician license application forms are available online at the Oklahoma Construction Industries Board website.
 There are several types of electrician licenses in Oklahoma. Each type of license has specific requirements and fees, but the application process in Oklahoma is the same for all license types.
 In Oklahoma, an unlimited electrician contractor license permits electricians to maintain, alter, repair and install any equipment that uses electrical energy. The license requires at least 12,000 hours of on-the-job experience, including 4,000 hours as a licensed journeyman and 4,000 hours in a commercial or industrial workplace.


Provide proof of $50,000 liability insurance, $5,000 license bond and workers' compensation insurance.
Pass the unlimited electrical contractor exam. The unlimited electrical contractor exam is 2 parts. A 50-question exam focuses on business law, and a 100-question exam focuses on electrical installation requirements and the National Electrical Code. Applicants must pass with a score of at least 75%.
Pay the unlimited electrical contractor fees. Applicants must pay the $330 unlimited electrical contractor license fee, $25 application fee and $88 exam fee.
 A limited Oklahoma contractor license allows electricians in Oklahoma to manage electrical project, but prohibits license holders from doing any hands-on work. The license requires 16,000 hours of work experience in industrial work, electrical work and project management; or an electrical engineering degree from an accredited college combined with 8,000 hours of work experience.


Provide proof of $50,000 liability insurance, $5,000 license bond and workers' compensation insurance.
Pass the limited electrical contractor exam. The limited electrical contractor exam is 2 parts. A 50-question exam focuses on business law, and a 100-question exam focuses on electrical installation requirements and the National Electrical Code. Applicants must pass with a score of at least 75%.
Pay the limited electrical contractor fees. Applicants must pay the $330 limited electrical contractor license fee, $25 application fee and $88 exam fee.
 The residential electrical contractor license in Oklahoma allows electricians to work only on 1- or 2-family residential buildings. The license requires at least 8,000 hours of on-the-job experience, including 4,000 hours as a licensed journeyman and 4,000 hours as an apprentice, or 3,000 hours as an apprentice and 1,000 hours of formal education.


Provide proof of $50,000 liability insurance, $5,000 license bond and workers' compensation insurance.
Pass the residential electrical contractor exam. The 80-question test focuses on general electrical knowledge, installation requirements, electrical circuits and feeders, and safety. Applicants must pass with a score of at least 75%.
Pay the residential electrical contractor fees. Applicants must pay the $300 unlimited electrical contractor license fee, $25 application fee and $88 exam fee.
 The unlimited electrical journeyman license allows electricians to conduct electrical work under the supervision of an electrical contractor. An unlimited journeyman electrician may not contract on his/her own. The license requires at least 8,000 hours of on-the-job experience, including 4,000 hours in commercial or industrial settings. Applicants must have completed at least 4,000 hours of classroom education.
 The 80-question test focuses on general electrical knowledge, installation requirements, electrical circuits and feeders, and safety. Applicants must pass with a score of at least 75%.
 Applicants must pay the $75 unlimited electrical journeyman license fee, $25 application fee and $88 exam fee.
 The residential electrical journeyman license allows electricians to conduct electrical work in 1-, 2- or 3-family residences under the supervision of a licensed electrical contractor. The license requires at least 4,000 hours as an apprentice, with 2,000 of those hours in classroom education.


Pass the residential electrical journeyman exam. The 80-question test focuses on general electrical knowledge, installation requirements, electrical circuits and feeders, and safety. Applicants must pass with a score of at least 75%.
Pay the residential electrical contractor fees. Applicants must pay the $75 residential electrical journeyman license fee, $25 application fee, and $88 exam fee.
 The refinery electrical journeyman license restricts electrical work to refinery facilities. This license is only available if you have an Oklahoma electrical license in good standing.


Provide proof of $50,000 liability insurance, $5,000 license bond and workers' compensation insurance.
Pass the refinery electrical journeyman exam. The 100-question test focuses on general electrical knowledge, installation requirements, electrical circuits and feeders, hazardous locations and safety. Applicants must pass with a score of at least 75%.
Pay the refinery electrical contractor fees. Applicants must pay the $75 refinery electrical journeyman license fee, $25 application fee and $88 exam fee.

