 There's a stereotype out there that girly girls need to be ditzy and airheaded, but this is not at all true. There is nothing feminine about intentionally acting dumb, so don't enforce this terrible stereotype!


If the guys you like seem to only be interested in ditzy girls, they are not good relationship material. Look for someone who appreciates your intelligence instead.;
, Traits often associated with femininity include kindness, honesty, compassion, and openness. Embrace this by always being nice to everyone, helping others, and sharing your emotions.Don't lie or spread gossip. This is not nice and it will make people think badly of you.
You can be honest without being cruel or blunt. Always try to put a positive spin on things.Keep in mind that there are some potentially negative aspects to being nice all of the time. Because we live in a male-dominated world, feminine traits like kindness and compassion are often undervalued. If you want to be successful, you may need to be aggressive and competitive at times.
 It may be hard to be perky and energetic all the time, but it helps if you always try to at least match the energy level of the people you are talking to. If you have a lower energy level than the people around you, you will come off as dull, boring, and not particularly girly.Even if you are not enjoying a conversation, always maintain eye contact and be polite.
 A girly girl is always poised and graceful, so work on your posture if need be. Good posture will make you look feminine and super confident.


Always keep your shoulders down and back and your head up, whether you're sitting, walking, or standing still.When seated, make sure to keep your legs together. The most feminine way to sit is with your ankles crossed and your knees together. You can also cross one leg over the other, although this may be bad for your back.Project confidence by walking slowly and deliberately and keeping your hands in a relaxed position by your sides., Girly girls are polite, so brush up on your etiquette if need be. The right manners will depend on your situation, but in general, follow these rules:Thank people for doing something kind.
Say hello to people and respond when someone asks how you are.
Look people in the eye when talking.
Apologize if you bump into someone.
Cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough.
Avoid making noise that may disturb others.
 The best part about being a girly girl is getting to enjoy girly activities with your girlfriends. Consider things like going to the spa, going dancing, or staying home to give each other makeovers. Whatever you do together, embrace this time with your friends!If you don't already have a group of girlfriends, get out there and meet some new people. You can try joining clubs if you have trouble meeting people.
 Find out what other girly girls in your age group are interested in and check it out! Common interests may include boy bands, Disney stars, romantic comedies, and musicals.


Keep in mind that trends are constantly changing, so stay on top of the latest pop culture.
You don't have to like every girly band or movie out there. Be true to yourself when choosing your interests.
 To help get yourself in a girly mindset, try reading some girly books. Anything light, bubbly, and centered around the girl getting the guy of her dreams is a good choice.


Magazines are also a good option because they tend to be popular with girly girls and they will give you good information about the latest style trends.
This doesn't mean you shouldn't read other things too. Remember, you can be smart and girly at the same time.
 Girly girls typically like cute things, so get invested in picking out some adorable accessories. When shopping for everything from school supplies to phone cases to decorations for your room, look for matching accessories that include girly tropes like:Animals such as ponies, kittens, and puppies
Princess paraphernalia
Stickers, fluffy feathers, etc.
Girly colors such as pink, purple, and light blue.
Glitter
Monograms

, Girly girls don't just do their makeup, they genuinely enjoy doing it! If you don't yet have a passion for makeup, try some new things until you find something you can get excited about. You can choose whatever kinds of makeup you want, whether you prefer elaborate nail polish or perfectly applied eyeliner.If you don't know anything about makeup, try watching some videos online and buying some new products to experiment with.
 Just because you're a girly girl doesn't mean you can't be interested in sports, science, or anything else. Don't give up hobbies or interests that are important to you because you want to seem more girly!


Empower yourself by defining femininity for yourself, instead of letting others tell you what it means., Girly girls love their hair, so try to think of your hairstyle as a way of showing off your girly personality. The right hairstyle for you will depend on the length and texture of your hair. Choose something that works for your hair and makes you feel good about yourself, and remember that girly girls frequently change up their look. Some styles to consider include:


Loose waves
High ponytails
Braids
Twists
Straight bobs
Any style held back with a cute headband

, A girly girl always takes the extra time in the morning to do her makeup, so make a point of waking up a little earlier if need be. Try experimenting with different makeup techniques to bring out your natural beauty. Look naturally pretty and don't overdo the makeup.Make sure your concealer or foundation is the right color for your skin, and don't wear more than necessary.
Set your makeup with powder if you have oily skin.
Choose a shade of blush that matches the color your skin is naturally when flushed.
Choose a lipstick color that is close to the natural shade of your lips.
Use neutral shades of eye shadow for a universally flattering look.
Use black or brown eyeliner and mascara.
 Every girly girl has her own individual style, so don't feel like you have to dress exactly like someone else. The important thing is to choose clothes that have a distinctly feminine touch, whether it's a bright color or a fancy embellishment. Consider options like:Clothes with ruffles bows, sequins, and lace
Sheer blouses (as long as you wear something not sheer underneath)
Lightweight patterned sweaters and cardigans
Skirts and dresses
Feminine heels and ballet flats
Colorful tights and jeans
Chic blazers

, Girly girls always add a little something extra to their outfits. When you get dressed in the morning, think about adding one or two tasteful accessories to make a big statement. Some good options include:Colorful or patterned bags and shoes
Headbands
Statement necklaces or earrings
Waist-cinching belts
Classic pearl jewelry

