 Some research indicates that one of the most effective ways to treat reactive attachment disorder is to provide the child with a safe and stable home.This is because a large part of their RAD comes from being moved from caregiver to caregiver or being institutionalized.


If you are considering adopting or have adopted a child with RAD, make certain that you provide them with stability in your home.
Initially, at least, try to avoid having multiple caregivers take care of your child. For example, you may want to reconsider having a weekday nanny, weekend babysitter, and Mother’s Day Out teacher for your child.
If you’re the counselor, teacher, or other adult in the child’s life, try to ensure that the child experiences stability in your setting, as well. For example, meet with them in the same room each time you get together.;
, You can help treat reactive attachment disorder by making sure that the child has an environment in which they won’t be physically, mentally, sexually, or emotionally harmed.Children with RAD sometimes act aggressively or with no regard for safety so you may also need to take special care to make sure the child can’t injure themselves or someone else.


Try to ensure that anyone interacting with the child has the child’s best interests in mind at all times.
If needed, remove weapons, sharp objects or items that can be used as weapons or used to self-harm.
 Children with RAD often have problems forming secure relationships with others because their needs weren’t met early on in life.They don’t trust that someone is going to be there for them when they need help. You can help treat reactive attachment disorder if you make sure that you are responding to your child’s needs.


Pay attention to them to pick up on signs or cues that something is wrong or that they need something. When possible, anticipate their needs before it becomes an issue.
Attend to their needs as soon as reasonably possible. For example, if the child is showing signs that they’re hungry, provide them with a quick snack.
You will need to be persistent when you respond because children with RAD sometimes resist being comforted, even though that’s what they need.
 Children with RAD benefit from order and routine.When you establish a regular schedule with predictable routines it can help treat reactive attachment disorder. This provides the child with a sense of security and certainty about the future.


If you are a parent, establish morning and bedtime routines. For example, an hour before bed each night, give your child a small snack, brush their teeth, and read a book with them.
Establish routines in other settings like the classroom. For example, have a clear procedure for coming into the classroom each morning such as: come in, put your backpack up, and sit down.
Create and post a schedule showing regular and special events that are coming up. This can be daily, weekly, monthly, or all of the above.
You can use pictures instead of words to make a visual schedule for the child.
 Research suggests that children can grow out of RAD.Don’t give up on treating your child’s reactive attachment disorder. Keep working with your child and providing them with the stability and security they need to overcome their reactive attachment disorder.


When things get frustrating, remember that you are helping this child overcome RAD and develop a sense of self-esteem and security.
You might tell yourself, “It’s hard right now, but I can do this. I’m not going to give up on this child.”
Remember that you may have to try some things over and over and over again before it seems like they working. But it will pay off when you see the positive effects.

