 The three common oils used for waterproofing wood are linseed, walnut, and tung. Tung oil is typically found as a mix in most commercial products. Raw tung oil is often more expensive than other oils, so it is usually used on smaller wood projects. Walnut oil is the same product you’ll find next to olive oil in the grocery store. Due to nut allergies, walnut oil cannot be used commercially.


Linseed oil can be purchased at most DIY repair shops, but many of these products are sold as raw or boiled. Boiled linseed oil contains metal drying agents that are poisonous. You can still use this product on outdoor patio equipment, but you should not use it for anything involving food.Linseed oil can also be bought without metal drying agents. Seek out raw linseed oil if you want a safe coat on certain woods like your kitchen counter top.;
, Scope out your project and decide which wooden surfaces you want to treat with oil. For larger projects like a patio deck, consider using an exterior stain and deck sealant. Oil is good for smaller based wooden objects like a cutting board, table, counter top, or baseball bat.


Make a list of surfaces you want to treat. This will help you know how much oil to purchase. A good thing about treating with oil is that the oil stays good for several years.
Purchase the oil that best suits your treating needs. Purchase a large container of oil. It is better to have too much than too little.
 You can create a stronger treatment and sealant by mixing the oil with turpentine and apple cider vinegar. Mix one part oil (tung, linseed, or walnut), one part turpentine oil, and ½ part apple cider vinegar. This mixture will preserve your oil supply and will create a more durable finish.Mix the ingredients in a metal container, like an empty coffee container. Mix the liquids until everything is blended.
It isn’t necessary to create a mixture, but many wood enthusiasts advise this type of concoction.
 Any surface imperfections will be more noticeable after the oil is applied. The oil or oil mixture will highlight all the colors in the wood. Use thick sandpaper or a metal file for any imperfections that are visible from the surface. Scrape with the sandpaper or file until the wood looks even.


Finish by sanding the whole surface with fine grit (220) sandpaper. This will prep the surface to absorb the oil.
Sweep the area or rub away any scraps with a dry cloth before applying the oil. The wood must be dry before treating with oil., Fold a lint-free rag and keep other scrap rags nearby. Folding the rag removes rough edges and stops potential snags when spreading the oil. Put on thick rubber gloves when handling turpentine and other products with mineral spirits.
 Pour a small amount of oil on the rag’s surface. Don’t apply the oil directly to the wood. Rub the oil with the grain by moving from the interior to the exterior. Be careful not to touch the oil while it’s absorbing. Concentrate on getting an even coat. Apply more oil instead of rubbing too hard to release the oil from the rag. Don’t leave any standing puddles of oil.
 Wait about 30 minutes for the oil to settle into the wood. Wipe the surface with a clean cloth to remove excess oil. Leave the wood to cure for 24 hours, or until it is dry. Waterproofing with oil takes longer than waterproofing with sealants.


Rub the surface with “0000” (very fine) steel wool.
 Apply another layer of oil onto the wood. Repeat the same drying times and sanding with steel wool. Let it cure for several days to several weeks before using the wood. You will know if it is finished being cured if you can slide your fingers across the surface smoothly.