 You can use recycled or new wood, provided the pieces are good for outdoor use and are not painted with anything that might be toxic to birds. Decide on the size of the table top; this shouldn't be too small, or the birds might squabble to get to the food. For this simple wooden bird table, you'll need:


1 piece of wood about 30 x 50cm (12 x 20 inches) (just a suggested size), approximately 0.5 to 1cm/ 1/2 inch thick (table top piece)
Four slim pieces of wood about 1cm/2 inches high to form a rim on the table top piece
One thick long piece of wood for the post (the height should be determined by the height you can reach comfortably for adding birdseed)
Four pieces of wood for the base, all of the same length, width and height
Four wooden support pieces that go from the base pieces and attach to the post piece
Four metal angle brackets to attach the table top to the post
See "Things You'll Need" below for a complete list.;
, This is vital for the table top piece and the ridges added to it as it will prevent any build-up of old food in crevices, which could also harbor disease.


Do not coat the wood on the feeding part of this table unless you know the product is absolutely safe for birds. It is better to reattach new tabletops after weathering than to poison your feathered friends.
 Leave a small gap between each end or at two opposite ends, so that sweeping out old birdseed is made easier and rainwater can drip out with ease.


If using glue, ensure that it is not toxic and will survive outdoors.
 Nail or glue the four base pieces to the bottom of the post; each one should be facing outward to form a cross shape around the post base, creating a stand.


These base pieces need to be long enough to support the weight of the bird table. They should also be substantial, so that they sit solidly.
 Nail or glue short wooden support pieces to both the base pieces and the post, at an angle.
 Do this using the brackets, nailing both the post and the tabletop where the bracket holes indicate. As you're adding the brackets, keep checking the levelness and sturdiness of the tabletop and make adjustments as needed.
 The base can be affixed safely to the ground by using wooden wedges each side of a base piece, held in place by a strong rubber strap.
 If you would like, you can add a birdhouse to the top, or screw in hooks for hanging bird feeder chains from the sides of the table (just be sure to balance these evenly).

