 Attach the primary yarn color to your crochet hook using a slip knot, then work enough chain stitches to complete a foundation long enough to wrap around your finger.

The exact number of chains will vary depending on the size of your finger, but you'll usually need between 12 and 17 chains. Periodically check the length of the chain by wrapping it around your finger.
 Join the last chain to the first using a slip stitch.

This should create a round and establish the final size of the ring band. Check the band again by putting it on your finger. Ideally, it should feel just a little loose.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet into each stitch of the previous round.

Slip stitch the last single crochet to the top of the first to even out the round.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of excess. Pull this excess through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Hide the remaining tail by weaving it into your stitches with a tapestry needle.
Note that this step only completes the band of the ring. You need to create the decorative ruffle separately.
 Create a magic adjustable ring using the main yarn color.

This step starts the decorative ruffle for your ring.
To create the magic ring, loop the yarn around your fingers and insert the hook through both overlapping sides of the loop. Grab and pull the yarn through this loop and chain stitch twice.
 Work 24 double crochet into the center of the magic ring.

After working this row of double crochet, pull the yarn ends on either side of the ring to close the circle around its center.
Consider placing a stitch marker in your final double crochet to help you monitor your stitch count for the duration of this project.
 Work six double crochet into each of the double crochet across the previous round.

You'll work a total of 144 double crochet during this step.
The ruffle should take shape by the end of this step.
 Switch to your secondary yarn color, then work one single crochet into each stitch across the previous round.

To change colors, start the stitch and grab the new color with your crochet hook. Pull up a loop with the new color and complete the stitch.
After working the new color into the ruffle, you can cut the main color, leaving 2 to 3 inches (5 to 8 cm) of excess.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 2 to 3 inches (5 to 8 cm) of excess. Pull the extra tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Weave this tail and all other excess yarn into the stitches of the ruffle using a tapestry needle.
This step completes the ruffle portion of the ring.
 Thread a sewing needle with all-purpose sewing thread. Attach the bottom of the ruffle to the top of the band with a few stitches.

When the ruffle feels secure, knot and cut the thread.
Completing this step completes the project, so the ring is now ready to wear.

