 When you feel ready to try balancing on a moving skateboard, start with something easy such as a level stretch of concrete. Position your front foot on the board and place the other foot on the ground just in front of that foot. Then, use your foot to push on the concrete and move your board and body forward.








Keep a low center of gravity as you push. Bend your knees and balance your body weight over the foot that is on the skateboard.
Find a flat sidewalk or visit your local skate park to find a flat surface that is away from traffic.
If you do decide to try skating on a surface with an incline, make sure that the incline is low to avoid losing control of the board.
 After you push off, you will need to bring your pushing foot up and onto the board.Remember to place this foot behind the bolts on your board and keep it turned sideways. This will make it easier to balance on the board because you will be able to rock back and forth on your foot in a more stable way.









Keep your front foot planted as you bring the back foot onto the board if you push "regular"
Keep your back foot planted as you bring the front foot onto the board if you push "mongo"

, After you get positioned on the moving board, ride it and do your best to stay balanced until it comes to a stop on its own.If you are on a flat surface, then this should not take very long.









If you have decided to try riding your board down a hill, then this may take a little longer and you may even need to stop yourself if you start to feel unstable. To stop the board, use your back foot to step on the tail of the board. This will cause the tail to grind against the ground and come to a stop., You can experiment with turning the board while you are practicing riding it. To turn the board, simply shift your weight slightly from one side of the board to the other.








For example, if you shift your weight to your heels, then the board will shift to the right or left depending on which direction your heels are facing. If you shift your weight to your toes, then your board will turn in that direction.

