 Begin to dry your damp book by standing it up vertically. As noted above, this is usually easy if your book is hardbound, but can be trickier if you have a paperback. If you need to, you can use heavy weights or bookends to keep the book upright. Open the book a moderate amount — no more than about 60o. Ensure the book is well-balanced and is unlikely to fall over before proceeding.
 Without opening the book's cover to more than about 60o, gently fan the book's pages out. Try to arrange the pages so that there is a tiny gap between most (if not all) of them. The pages should be able to stand roughly upright — none should hang at a diagonal angle or flop limply against neighboring pages.
 When your book's pages are evenly fanned out, allow it to begin drying in its upright position. To speed the drying process, ensure that relatively dry air is circulating freely through the room. Use a fan or create a draft by opening a few windows, or, if the ambient air is fairly humid, use a dehumidifier to make it drier.


If you use a fan or a natural breeze, look at the edges of the book's pages closely. The movement of the air shouldn't cause the pages to flutter or flap in the wind, as this can lead the pages to become ruffled and "puffed up" when they dry.
Be patient here. It can take days or even a week or more for the book to dry completely. Check on your book frequently to get a sense for how quickly you're making progress.
 Eventually, after you've allowed your book to dry patiently, no further moisture should remain in its pages. However, even if you've followed the instructions very carefully, it's likely that the book won't sit completely flat once it's dry. The paper used for most books' pages is somewhat fragile and can easily warp and deform as it dries, leaving the book with a "crumpled" or "ruffled" appearance when it's finally dry. Luckily, to a certain extent, this can be fixed. Lay your dry book flat and place a heavy weight on top of it (thick textbooks are great for this) and allow it to sit for several days to a week. This can substantially reduce the "crumpled" effect that drying can produce, though it may not fix it completely.


To avoid deforming your book, make sure that its edges are perfectly square as it lays under the weight. Don't let the weight sit on top of it in a way that bends the book or forces the edges of its pages to lay at a diagonal angle.
 While the methods above should work well for most books, small, thin paperbacks can be dried with a shortcut that requires a little less effort than the fanned pages method above. If your paperback is very wet, dry it as you normally would according to the methods above until it reaches a point where it's just damp — paper towels inserted into its pages should no longer become saturated with moisture. At this point, string a fishing line, a thin wire, or a piece of string between two vertical surfaces and hang the book over it so that it opens downward. If you're indoors, circulate the air with a fan or use a dehumidifier. Within a few days, the book should be dry.


As noted above, if you're hanging your paperback outside (for instance, if you're using an existing clothing line), don't let it stay out overnight. Dew that forms in the morning can dampen the book.
Don't hang paperbacks that are very wet. Since moisture makes paper more fragile, the fishing line or wire can tear the book under its own weight if it's too wet.

