 Start thinking and planning about what you want for your black and white room. Look at your room. What would be realistic for you and what could fit in your space? Go to PBteen.com and search 'design.' Click on 'Plan Your Room.' This will give you an idea of how you can decorate your room. Also, you can Google search Black and White Bedrooms for more ideas.;
, Go to Ikea, Kohls, Target, or shop online. Walmart and Kmart sell cheap sheet sets if you have a small budget. Get a white feather quilt and a black sheet set, or vice versa. Add black, white, or silver pillows. If you have a favorite color, add some smaller pillows in that color. Pillows with rose or ruffly designs add a girly feel to your room.
 Get a large mirror. If you can afford one, wall mirrors(going from the ceiling to the floor) work well with the black and white color scheme. If that's not available, try an arrangement of mirrors. Get four or five smaller mirrors with different settings. For example, one should have a dark wood cubed look. The next can be faux iron, curly and floral looking. Put them on a boring or drab wall and make it instantly appealing.
 Get a mural with flowers or other designs. Nighttime Cityscapes look really amazing on a grey or silver wall. A green or purple pop on the wall will add color and pleasure to the room.
 You don't necessarily have to paint white or black. Black can make you feel wealthy, but it can really darken a room. Try silver, mocha, beige, purple, or black and white stripes(for a nautical/bohemian look). Paint each wall a new and distinct color.
 You're a teenager now, and homework and study time will take up space. So get a desk! Try a look with a black or brown desk and a modern white chair. Add a pillow to make the chair more comfortable. A small ottoman under the desk would be a nice touch, to give you storage space, fashion, and a place to rest your feet.
 Black and white rooms, especially modern-style, can make a room seem cold or unused. Decorations will help make it feel warm and comfortable. Put up pictures, posters, vases, and more. Try to decorate with colorful modern tones. If your old things don't really work, don't throw them out. Try painting or refurbishing them.
 Some of the most important ways of making a great room is the windows. Lightweight cotton curtains with a black rod(once again, paint your old one, don't buy new) look really nice.
 Put your bed near the window. Keep the bookshelf near your desk. Chairs and beanbags around the entertainment center. Make sure nothing is blocked or hard to get to. Never settle for less then the best!

