 The longer you have your leather, the more scratched up it gets. In order to give new leather this appearance, rub it gently with steel wool or sandpaper. Go in back-and-forth motions instead of circles, as this will create more natural-looking scratches.Sandpaper may be too coarse for some leather. Try starting with steel wool and moving up to sandpaper if you need it. You can move up to even coarser sandpaper if you want to create deeper scratches., Wire brushes can scuff up new leather. This is perfect for spots that will naturally wear down over time. Rub the wire brush in back-and-forth and circular motions in the spot you’d like to age. Go slowly and monitor the amount of distress you’re creating in the leather.For shoes and boots, focus on the top part of toe. For bags, scuff up the bottom corners. For jackets, spend some time on the elbow creases.
 Strike the leather with the rock in downward motions either head-on or on a diagonal. The rock will create scratches and small marks while also softening your leather. Don’t hit the leather too hard, as you don’t want to tear or put holes in it., Position your leather under your tires on top of an uneven surface. Roll your car over the item to mark it with the rocks and your tires. You can repeat this process a few times, but check the piece before each round.Don’t drive over leather straps, buckles, zippers, or the soles of shoes, as the weight of the car will break them.
You can also tie your leather to the back of your bumper and drive down a gravel road. Drive slowly and go only a short distance before checking on the item., Take your piece to the park and find an empty sandbox or baseball diamond. Put your item down and kick it around a little, making sure that it gets dirty all over. The sand or dirt will make tiny marks and scratches in your leather, giving it a dull and weathered look.You’ll need to brush your leather off after taking it on its outing. Start by wiping it down with a soft, dampened cloth and then drying it off with a fresh rag. Clean the item with leather cleaner if it’s still dirty.

