 Coins that are made from silver or gold are best, as coins made from nickel and copper will leave stains on your finger.


When you are first starting out with making coin rings, you should practice with smaller coins, such as nickels, dimes, or pennies. This is just to get the hang of the process.
Quarters are a highly recommended coin because of their larger size. Look for quarters made prior to 1965, because until that point, quarters were made with 90% silver.Half-dollar coins are also a good option, again because of their size. It is still best to look for half-dollar coins made prior to 1965 due to their high silver makeup.Half-dollars are especially recommended for people with large ring sizes.;
,


A silver coin
A hammer
A vise (This is a tool that can be bolted down to a table or work surface. It has a clamp with a rod that can be turned to open and close the grip onto something, like the coins, in this case. It also has an anvil on the side opposite the tightening rod.)
A ring-sizing mandrel (This is a rod that is wider at one end and tapers down to a smaller point. It is used to size rings.)
A drill and drill bit (recommended size: 1/8” or 3/16”)
A handheld rotary tool (A rotary tool is a small, handheld device with a small rod that sticks out of the tip. Different parts can be added to the tip based on what you want to do, like file something down, polish it, et cetera.)
A carbide cutting bit (This is a particular type of bit used for cutting through metal and can be attached to the rotary tool.)
Calipers (Similar to a ruler, this is a measuring stick that has moveable arms. The arms are used to measure something, so you expand or narrow them to whatever the object is.)
Sandpaper (recommended grit: 200-600)
Felt polishing tip and polishing compound

, Stand it up on an edge so that you can tap the edges with the hammer.You can secure the coin in the grip of the vise to reduce the risk of hammering a finger or thumb in the upcoming steps. However, you will have to stop very frequently to turn the coin in the vise so that you tap all around it evenly.
You can also grip the coin between your index finger and thumb to keep it in a standing position and prevent it from moving. This can be unsafe, as you run the risk of hammering a finger, so take care. Have an adult do this for you, if you are a youth.
 Lightly tapping is an absolutely essential component of this step.Tapping too hard on the edges causes the coin to become warped, and it is extremely hard to repair that mistake.
 Try to avoid tapping the same spot on the coin repeatedly, so as to avoid making one edge of the ring too flat.Rotate the coin slightly with every tap. You can gently turn it toward you or away from you as you go.
After about 10 minutes of tapping, you should observe that the reeded edge (i.e. the lined edge) has started to flatten. Eventually, those reedings should disappear altogether., This could take up to two hours, so prepare yourself for this time-consuming process.Eventually, the text on the edge of the coin should start to wrap around what will soon become the inside of the ring.
The coin should continue to shrink in diameter while the band of the ring continues to flatten and widen from the tapping.
Half-dollar coins take even more time to tap, as they are larger than a quarter, so keep this in mind when you choose your coin.
 Despite tapping lightly, it is possible that the coin could start to warp a bit. Be sure to check for warping periodically so that you can correct it early.Lay the coin down flat on the vise. Bend down to the coin's level and check for space between the coin and the surface. You can correct very minor warping with sanding later, or you can try corrective tapping to amend the warp if it is a bit bigger.
 Use your calipers to measure the inside diameter of the coin, but before you go too far with tapping down the edges, be sure you know what ring size you want the coin to become.14.1 mm = size 3
14.5 mm = size 3 ½
14.9 mm = size 4
15.3 mm = size 4 ½
15.7 mm = size 5
16.1 mm = size 5 ½
16.5 mm = size 6
16.9 mm = size 6 ½
17.3 mm = size 7
17.7 mm = size 7 ½
18.1 mm = size 8
18.5 mm = size 8 ½

, This refers to the outer edges of the band curving down slightly.Stand the coin on the flat surface of the vise again and lean it at about a 75-degree angle. Lightly tap the edges as you did before, except this time, tap them down toward the center of the ring. Remember to rotate as you tap to avoid tapping the same spot consecutively.
Flip the coin to its other side and repeat.
Check that the curvature is uniform by holding the holding the coin upright and rotating it in your fingers, focusing on the curvature all the way around.
 Before moving any further in the development, it is important to stop and smooth the outer edges of the coin from any waviness or warping.Use a 200-220 grit sandpaper, and lay it on a flat surface. Then, lay the coin flat on one side on the sandpaper, and gently move it in a circular motion to soften the edges. Avoid taking too much off the edges because you will start to lose some of the text and other features of the coin. Then, flip the coin to its other side and repeat.
 The towel protects the edges of the ring from the vise. The coin should be flat, as if it is laid on its side, not standing up.Take care to grip the vise tight enough to hold the coin in place but not so tight as to cause warping.
 Be sure to push all the way through the ring, taking care not to push so hard that the coin slips out of the vise.Use a drill bit size that is compatible with your carbide cutting bit. The suggested sizes are listed in Step 2.
 Run the rotary tool at a high speed so that it cuts out the middle smoothly and cleanly.Be very careful with this step and pay much attention while you are doing it. If the cutting bit slips out, it could damage the inside of the ring in the process, causing you to lose some of the coin face and text that make it so unique.
 As you get close to the edges of the ring, slow the rotary tool a bit.Rotate the ring inside the vise to ensure an even circular diameter inside the ring.
Occasionally take out the ring and check its size on the ring-sizing mandrel. If you do not have a mandrel, then try it on your own finger.
 By now, there is likely a sharp edge at the transition where the half round starts, so take time to sand it down.Slip the ring over the tip of your index finger and begin sanding the transition at the half round. Start out with 200-220 grit sandpaper and work your way up to about 600 grit sandpaper.
The more sanding you do now, with finer grit sandpaper, the less polishing that needs to be done on the band of the ring.
Do not sand inside the ring, as you will lose the details of the coin face and text.
 This frees up an edge of the ring for polishing without having to hold it.Rub polishing compound on the ring with a paper towel. This prepares you to polish it with the polishing tip.
 Hold the rotary tool so that the sides of the felt polishing tip rub against the ring.Rotate the ring occasionally so that you polish all the way around it. You will have to continue to apply polishing compound as you reach new sections of the ring.
Polish until you remove all of the sanding lines and the ring is extremely shiny.
 Now you can polish the inside of the ring.Apply polishing compound inside the ring, and then polish it with the rotary tool and felt polishing tip.
Remember to put the grip tight enough to hold the ring but not so tight as to warp it.
 DIY rings are a bit more susceptible to scratches, so taking the time to polish it every couple of months will keep it in good shape.

