 This appointment should be 1 to 3 months before your departure, but after you have bought your plane tickets and made travel arrangements. Your visa may not be accepted if you plan to depart less than 3 weeks after your appointment.


Allow extra time if you are apply from 1 of the following countries: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Burundi, Guinea, Iraq, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Palestine, Rwanda, Sudan, Tunisia, Yemen, Algeria, Belarus, Congo, Indonesia, Jordan, Libya, Niger, Oman, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Suriname, United Arab Emirates, Zimbabwe, Bahrain, Burma, Egypt, Iran, Kuwait, Mali, Nigeria, Pakistan, Qatar, Somalia, Syria, Vietnam, or US Refugees.
 These free forms are available online under the "Getting a Visa" Section of the Diplomatie.gouv.fr website. The extra copy is required by most, but not all, countries.


Both applications include sections for personal, address, traveling, passport, insurance and return information. Fill it out completely and legibly. Print in black ink or use a typewriter.
 The date must be valid for at least 90 days after your departure date from France. Your passport must also have 2 blank pages, be issued within the last 10 years, be in good condition and match your profile.


Make 2 copies of all of the identification pages in your passport.



3 1.4 by 1.7 inch (3.5 by 4.5 cm) passport photographs. Your face must take up approximately 80 percent of the picture and it must show your ears and hairline.
Your hotel or tour reservations and your departure and return flight information. These should be separate and detailed documents.
Proof of medical insurance coverage while you are traveling in France. The minimum coverage for medical expenses shall be EUR 30 000.
Original bank statements from the last 3 months, to show proof of funds while you are traveling in France.
Proof of residence in the region where you are applying. A utility bill and an identification card with that address listed may work as proof of residence.
 The application fee for a short term visa is currently $83 (60 euros, 53 pounds). The application fee for a long term visa is $138 (99 euros, 87 pounds).
, Waiting times may be longer.

