 Drinking hot tea, coffee, and soup activates heat sensors along your digestive tract, which gives a warming sensation.Tea and coffee have many health benefits, so as long as you skip heavy creams, sugars, and marshmallows, you are putting good antioxidants into your body as you heat it. Soup has the added benefit of being low in calories.


Drinking hot beverages also can warm your hands. Wrapping your cold hands around a mug of hot tea can warm you up in minutes.
 Ginger is a natural way to get warm, with tons of beneficial side effects. Ginger works as a stimulant, which gets the blood circulating and makes your body temperature rise. It warms you from the inside. Try drinking ginger in tea, eating gingerbread or gingersnap cookies, or sprinkling it into other dishes.Try putting ginger powder in shoes, slippers, or socks if you cannot get your feet warm.
 Using the oven and crock pot helps warm up the kitchen by cooking at lower temperatures for a longer period of time. Casseroles, stews, and soups all warm the body when they are eaten., Soaking in a hot tub raises your body temperature.If you are cold, try soaking in hot water, or take a hot shower if you prefer. After you take the shower, dry off as quickly as possible and put on long sleeves and pants to trap the heat on your body, helping to keep you warm.


Try saunas and steam rooms to warm up, if you have access to them.
 One reason for poor body temperature regulation is a low body fat ratio. Fat is needed to insulate your body. Eat a diet with monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, found in foods such as nuts, salmon, avocados, and olive oil., Doing chores around the house gets you moving, which gets your blood pumping. When your blood starts circulating, your core temperature rises. Vacuum, dust, and sweep to warm yourself.Washing dishes can help warm you significantly. Fill the sink with warm water. Leaving your hands in the warmth while you wash and rinse the dishes will help raise your body temperature.
Doing laundry can also help you fight the cold. The warmth from the dryer can help warm your cold hands and arms. Taking clothes right out of the dryer and putting them on can warm you.
 Exercise gets your blood pumping, which helps warm you up. Run, lift weights, do yoga, or any kind of movement that gets you to work up a sweat.


If you are unable to do large scale exercise, do a much smaller form of physical exertion like jostling your legs or moving your arms.
Practice Ashtanga yoga to warm yourself up. This form of yoga takes you through poses and breathing exercises that generate internal body heat.Cold right now with no time for yoga classes? Try this simple yoga warming pose: the cobra. Lie face down on the floor. Place your palms near your chest. Push up, lifting your head, shoulders, and chest. Pull your shoulder blades down and together. Hold for a few seconds, then lower. Do a few reps to feel warmer., When you breathe through your nose, the air is warmed, which helps raise your body temperature. Try breathing in and holding for four seconds before exhaling. Repeat a few times to warm yourself., According to a study done at the University of Toronto, people who are lonely or excluded feel colder. Spending time with people makes you feel warmer. Instead of staying alone in front of the television, get together with a friend or family member.