 When you have finished all of your dye applications to your fabric and rinsed each part individually, rinse the whole thing one more time thoroughly under cool, running water. To ensure you've done this completely, you should:


Continue rinsing the fabric until the water runs clear. Be thorough; you don't want dye to spread to other clothing.
This process could take several minutes., Use a pair of scissors to carefully cut the string or rubber bands from the fabric. You should cut carefully to avoid damaging your newly tie dyed fabric. After that, you can unravel the fabric to reveal the pattern.









Alternatively, you could save your fasteners for later use by untying your string or unwrap the rubber bands.
 Use warm water and a mild, dye-free detergent to wash the fabric. You could do this in your washing machine or you could hand wash it in a tub or bucket. Once you are finished washing, rinse the fabric will cool water.If you decide on using a washing machine, you may want to run your tie dyed fabric through a cycle alone. This way, dye you might have missed won't transfer to other clothes., Wring any extra water from your fabric, but be careful not to wring too hard, as this can stretch out and deform your fabric. To prevent your fabric from deforming from excess wringing, you can:









Lay your dyed fabric flat in an old towel that is larger than it. Roll up your fabric inside the towel, and then wring out the towel along with the fabric inside.
 You can machine dry or hang dry the fabric. The best method for drying will depend on the kind of fabric you have dyed. Follow the tag instructions on the tag for best results, or, if there is no tag, allow your shirt to hang dry.
 You might want to try each of the three kinds of dye, plant, berry, and chemical, to find which you like best. Additionally, there are many differences depending on which plant/berry/chemical you choose to dye your fabric. You may find you enjoy some natural methods more than chemical, but other instances might be best suited for chemical dye.

