 "Cardio" is exercise where you raise your heart-rate during a consistent activity like running, biking, or swimming. While pornstars come in a variety of shapes, colors, and looks, they are usually trim, fit, and in shape. In order to burn away unwanted fat and highlight a healthy figure, you should do a cardio workout at least 3-5 times a week.


Dancing, spinning, and rowing all count as cardio -- anything that raises your heat-rate for at least 20 minutes at a time is a good start.
Studies suggest that interval training will help you increase conditioning and burn calories faster. Interval training combines short bursts of energy with longer periods of lower exertion. For example, you might jog three laps of a track but sprint the 4th.;
, Most pornstars have bodies that would make an action star blush, but they didn't come naturally. Lean, sexy muscles only come from hard work. While you should focus on toning your entire body, there are a few muscles that are essential for the pornstar look. For each exercise, start with 3-4 sets of 10-15 repetitions (ie. do 10 sit-ups, three times a day), and try to work out each muscle at least 3 times a week.



Abs: Do sit-ups, crunches, and planks to develop a killer six pack and a flat stomach.

Pectorals: Push-ups, bench press, and flyes (curling weights horizontally towards your chest) will all help you develop a rock-hard chest. Women looking for a large bust should focus less on pecs.

Arms: Push-ups, bicep curls, shoulder shrugs and shoulder flyes will tone and tighten your arms.

Thighs: Squats, box jumps, wall sits and leg presses will all develop solid, sexy quadriceps and butt muscles.
 A tan makes you seem outdoorsy and active and masks fat and imperfections. Tanner people have even proven to be more attractive on average.That said, spending too much time in the sun can lead to skin cancer and skin damage, so bronzing creams are often the best way to get a safe, even tan.


If you choose to tan, wear sunscreen, drink plenty of water, and never use tanning salons. When outside, reapply sunscreen ever 30 minutes, and limit sun exposure to an hour or less.Not everyone needs to be tan to be attractive -- naturally fair skin is beautiful whether you want to look like a pornstar or not.
 In order to get a pornstar body, and keep it, you have to eat a balanced diet that limits fats and processed sugars. Limit your calorie consumption by eating slowly, stopping when you are full, and drinking 6-7 glasses of water a day.Complex carbohydrates, like whole wheat, oatmeal, and brown rice are far healthier than simple carbs like white bread and sugar.
Substitute sugary snacks and junk food with vegetables and hummus, yogurt, or fruit.
Cut soda, candy, and fried foods completely from your diet for the best results.

