 Listen to everything she says. Make note of things like important people, sentimental things or places, or hobbies. It can even be as simple as learning what her favorite soda or candy is. Some of these things you can pick up on by just listening, and some things you will have to observe. Examples of common things to notice include:


Best friend(s). Does she hang out with one person or a group of people all the time? Learn about these people, how your special person met them, and what they do when they hang out.
Close family members. Is she close with any siblings, or is she closer to parents or grandparents? If she always mentions doing things with her dad, that’s a good sign that her and her dad are very close. Make a note.
Favorite soda. Does she prefer Pepsi or Coke? Does she like regular or does she prefer diet? Simpler things like this can still prove to be valuable.
Favorite food. Maybe she loves Indian food, or maybe there’s one specific dish that’s her absolute favorite. Try to notice if she always eats the same thing, or if she frequently suggests the same type of restaurant.
Sports and hobbies. Is your friend always at practice or taking lessons? Maybe she plays a sport, but doesn’t take it too seriously and just does it for fun. Try to pay attention not only to what her hobbies are, but how involved she is in them.
 Take what you’ve learned about her and get something special. It doesn’t have to be expensive or crazy, just something you know she likes to let her know you’re thinking about her. If she’s having a tough day and seems stressed, giving her something simple like her favorite candy will make her feel special and ease her mind. Examples of some good gifts include:


A favorite food or drink. This one is super easy but will still make the person feel loved.
Something from your friend's favorite sports team. A team jersey, a t-shirt, or even tickets to a game are just a few good places to start.
A collectible item. Lots of people collect things like coffee mugs, cards, and plenty of other objects. Adding something to your friend's collection is a perfect way to show you care.
Another option is to make something for her. Have her over and cook her favorite meal for her, or draw her a picture of her. Use your talents to create something that shows you care about her.
 Giving a compliment can be more difficult than a physical gift, but be an even better gesture to show her she's special. The most important ideas for giving a good compliment are:


Be genuine. Think about things your friend is proud of and reinforce that idea. A genuine complement is more meaningful and is way easier to deliver.
Pay attention. If your friend is trying something new, like a new outfit or accessory, that is a great opportunity to say something nice.
Complement the person's personality. If your friend does something nice for you, thank them and use an extra sentence or two to let them know you think they're a genuinely kind person. Make sure to smile while you deliver your compliment.
 Maybe there’s a place in the woods that she used to go when she was a kid, or her favorite artist is coming to your city next month. Not only is this a good opportunity to see her, but it will also let her know that you care about her.


Some other examples of good places to go include restaurants, vacation destinations, and sporting events.

