 Cydia is a package manager for jailbroken iPhones. It relies on access granted to your iPhone's system by the jailbreak process. Without a jailbreak, Cydia is completely useless. There is no way to actually install Cydia on your iPhone without jailbreaking. Any site or guide that claims to allows Cydia to be installed is a scam or will result in a fake Cydia icon. This guide will walk you through the basic jailbreaking process for iOS 8 and 9 if you absolutely need Cydia., Jailbreaking is usually only recommended for advanced users. It allows you to install apps and tweaks that aren't available from the App Store. Jailbreak apps and tweaks don't go through Apple's review process, and can cause your iPhone to stop functioning. A jailbroken iPhone is also more susceptible to malware, but your risk of infection has a lot to do with your personal internet browsing habits. The jailbreak process may render your phone inoperable if you don't follow the instructions exactly. Jailbreaking will void your warranty, but you can easily remove the jailbreak before sending it in for warranty service.
 The jailbreaking tool you'll need will depend on what version of iOS you have. You can find your version by opening the Settings app and tapping "General". Tap "About" and then find the "Version" entry.
 Different iOS versions require different utilities to jailbreak. These utilities will work on both Windows and Mac. You'll also need iTunes installed.


iOS 8.0 - 8.1: Pangu 8 (en.8.pangu.io/)
iOS 8.1.3 - 8.4: TaiG (taig.com/en/)
iOS 8.4.1: There is currently no jailbreak available for this version.
iOS 9 - 9.1: Pangu 9 (en.pangu.io/)
iOS 9.1.1: There is currently no jailbreak available for this version.
 Connect your iPhone to your computer via USB to jailbreak it.
 This backup will allow you to restore your iPhone to its current state in case something goes wrong.


Open iTunes and select your iPhone from the row of buttons along the top.
Click the "Back Up Now" button and wait for your backup to be created.
 These two features will need to be disabled before you begin the jailbreak.


Open the Settings app, select "iCloud," and then toggle "Find My iPhone" off.
You can disable your passcode in the "Passcode" section of the Settings app.
 This is an essential step before you start jailbreaking. Swipe up from the bottom of the screen and tap the Airplane Mode icon. You can also turn it on from your Settings app.
 The jailbreak utility should display your device in the main window. Click the "Jailbreak" button to begin jailbreaking.


If you're using TaiG, uncheck "3K Assistant". Make sure that you keep "Cydia" checked.
If the jailbreak utility is not recognizing your device, you may have to downgrade your version of iTunes. Uninstall the version that you currently have, then download the version that works here. See How to Uninstall a Program for a guide on uninstalling a program like iTunes.
 This can take 20-30 minutes. Your iPhone will reboot several times during the process. The jailbreak utility window will display the progress. Don't worry if it hangs on a percentage for a while. Do not disconnect the iPhone during the jailbreak process, or it may become unbootable.
 After the jailbreak is finished, you'll need to launch Cydia to build the jailbreak file system. You'll find Cydia on one of your Home screens. Cydia will reboot your device after it finishes setting things up., You'll want to turn on Find My iPhone again in case you lose your iPhone. You'll also want to turn your passcode back on for security.

