 It's an obvious rule, but one that's easy to forget when you're enjoying a delicious meal.
 If you are a child or teenage, then ask an elder "if you may be excused to (insert reason here)".
 Never reach across a dish or someone else's plate to reach something; instead, politely ask the person sitting next to you to "please pass the sauce."

, It's an old standby to admonish people for putting elbows on the table during a meal. If the meal has yet to begin or is over, however, putting your elbows on the table is acceptable.


Elbows on the table are mostly considered acceptable in French culture.
 One of the most intimidating parts about dining can be not knowing which utensils or plates to use. Here's a quick primer:


If you forget the particulars, remember: "work from the outside in". This basically means that if there are utensils on both the right and left sides of the plate, you'll start with what's furthest right and furthest left, and gradually work closer to the plate.
If all else fails, just watch what everyone else is doing.
For an informal place setting, you should have a dinner plate in the center.

Immediately to the left of the plate will be two forks -- the one closest to the plate is the "dinner fork," to be used for the main course; the one furthest from the plate is meant for a salad or appetizer.
A dinner knife will be directly to the right of the plate, with the blade facing toward it; next to that will be two spoons. The soup spoon is furthest to the right; the dessert spoon (or teaspoon) is between the soup spoon and the knife.
Your glass should be positioned directly above the dinner knife. Subsequent glasses should be placed to the right.
You might have a small salad plate to the left of the forks.
You might have a small bread plate to the upper-left of the dinner plate, with a small butter knife. Use the butter knife to take a pat of butter and put it on your plate; then use the knife to spread "your" butter onto the bread.
A dessert spoon or fork might be placed horizontally above the dinner plate.
A cup and saucer (if you're drinking coffee or tea) should be placed just above and to the right of the knife and spoons.


Know how to manage a formal place setting. A formal place setting should be mostly similar to an informal place setting, with a few key exceptions:

You might have a small fish fork between the dinner fork and the plate, if a fish course is being served.
You might have a fish knife between the dinner knife and the soup spoon, if you require one for a fish course.
You might have a small oyster fork on the far right side of the utensils to the right of the plate, if you'll be eating an oyster course.
Glasses are placed according to type in a formal place setting. The one directly above your dinner knife is your water glass; to the right of that is a red or white wine glass, and then a sherry glass to the far right.
 How you hold your utensils probably depends on where you come from. Both are perfectly appropriate. In general, there are two styles:


American style: If you're cutting food, you'll transfer the fork to your non-dominant hand and put the knife in your dominant hand. After the food is cut, you'll lay down the blade of the knife on the edge of the plate, and switch the fork back to your dominant hand to move the food to your mouth.
Continental style: The fork remains in the left hand, while you use the right hand to hold the knife and cut your food. Once you're done cutting, you might lay the blade of the knife on the edge of the plate, or just keep the knife in your hand.
 How you put your utensils on your plate communicates to the service staff whether you're finished eating or you still plan to continue. For the purpose of these instructions, imagine the dinner plate like it's the face of a clock.


If you're finished eating, lay your fork and knife side-by side so that the prongs and blade are slightly above the center of the plate, and so that the handles are pointing between 3 and 4 o'clock.
If you plan to continue eating, lay down your fork and knife so that the prongs and blade are near the center, with the handle of one utensil pointing at 8 o'clock and the handle of the other pointing at 4 o'clock.

