 Suggested school supply lists can be found online. Your school or local store may also hand them out or email them. Next, go through your school supplies at home, and see if you already have some items. You will need to go shopping for the remaining ones.


It can be helpful to store all your unused or reusable school supplies in a box.;
, Try the early morning or late evening, when the store might be less crowded. Weekdays, when most adults are at work, may also be quieter. This will help you avoid sensory overload in the store.


It can be tempting to pick out new types of everything: new stapler, new erasers, new rubber bands, new pencil grips. To save money, ask yourself if you are actually going to use this, and if you have enough at home.
 You may have it already, or you might have to wait until shortly before school starts.


If you get your schedule before school starts, see if you can visit the school before classes begin. That way you can find each room you'll be going to. You probably won't be able to go in, but you can see where it is.
 Think about what you got last year (if anything), and try researching possibilities online. If you can think of something that would lift a burden from your shoulders, bring it up.


There are lists of potential accommodations online for autism and other disabilities (anxiety, dyslexia, etc.).
If you have an IEP from previous years, ask to see a copy. What goals might you have for yourself? Are there any goals you want changed?

, If you're receiving accommodations, then they will know that you are disabled. Due to negative stereotypes about autism, some autistic people prefer not to share the name of their disability. Others like to be more clear. Choose what you feel most comfortable with. Your options are...


Say that you are autistic.
Say that you have a developmental disability that causes some special needs and behavior differences (e.g. stimming in class)
Say that you have a disability
Say nothing
Remember, you can always choose to share more at a later point if it becomes necessary. However, if you will or might need accommodations, it's best to disclose that you are disabled early on, so the teacher is not surprised.
 Generating spontaneous speech can be difficult for some people, so you may find it easier to write an email or hand them a note. Talking after class is also a possibility, if you have enough passing time and feel comfortable doing so.


Deciding how you will handle this beforehand can make it easier when the time comes.
You may find it helpful to share with your teachers some articles about autism, such as what autism is or how to teach autistic students. Feel free to search wikiHow for articles that could help.
 Change can be stressful, especially for autistic people. This is also crucial if you have an anxiety disorder. If you notice yourself getting stressed, use coping mechanisms (like stimming) and tell someone how you feel.


If you envision a horrible scenario in your head, pause. Ask yourself: how likely is it that this will actually happen? Worst-case scenarios usually do not happen. Remind yourself this.

