 Put two to three teaspoons of high-quality instant coffee into a shaker.


The original frappé from 1957 used Nescafe,and most recipes for the drink call for the use of Nescafe Classic.If you can get the Greek version of Nescafe Classic, it is said to produce the best foam.;
, Depending on your personal preference, you can add anywhere from one to four teaspoons of sugar, or none at all.In Greece, a frappé with no sugar is described as "sketo," one with a moderate amount of sugar (one or two teaspoons) is referred to as "metrio" and one that is very sweet is called "glyko.", Next, add a small amount of water. Recipes vary with respect to how much water to add, with some calling for as little as two to three teaspoons (10-15ml),and others as much as three tablespoons.You may need to experiment with this some to get it right. It's important that your coffee and sugar be covered with water, but too much water will decrease the foaminess of the drink., If you wish, add two ice cubes in the shaker and close tight.


While some recipes suggest adding a couple of ice cubes to the shaker,others indicate the water should not even be chilled.Again, you may wish to experiment with this to get the consistency you like best.
 Close the shaker tightly and shake aggressively and quickly to create a thick, creamy foam.


You should shake the coffee for at least 15 seconds.Many recipes call for a shake of 30 seconds or more.Instead of shaking, you can also use an immersion blender to mix up the coffee. Some prefer this shaking, both for ease and quality of foam., Open the shaker and pour its contents into a tall glass., Add some ice cubes to the glass, filling it up half to two-thirds of the way.Some recipes suggest a smaller amount of ice, some as few as three to four ice cubes.Once again, you can experiment with this and find the amount that's right for you.
 Some people like milk in their frappé, while others find it more refreshing without.If you want milk in your frappé, you can either add one to two tablespoons of chilled milk,or add two tablespoons of evaporated milk.In Greece, when ordering a frappé with milk, you order it "me gala.", Add cold water to fill the glass. Again, different recipes call for different amounts, with some calling for as little as two ounces,and others as much as eight.Experiment and find the amount that you like best.
 Always serve with a straw, as the drink will need to be stirred periodically during consumption to combine the froth with the liquid.Don't stir too much or too vigorously, or you will break up the froth.

