 The search box is where the Cortana virtual assistant can be activated and used.


A tab will pop up and explain how the Cortana voice assistant works, why you need it, and what it can do for you. Once you have read the information on Cortana, click on “I’m In!”;
, The next page will take you to the privacy terms page where you can read the information and select “I Agree,” if you are satisfied with the terms of use of Cortana. Read these terms carefully so that you know what Microsoft is using your data for.
 The prompt screen will now ask you whether you wish to enable the “Hey, Cortana” voice command feature. Click “Yes, please” to enable this feature and continue.


This feature allows you to speak your commands, without having to click the Cortana search box first.
 Cortana will call you and interact with you by the name you enter here. Enter your chosen name or nickname, and click “Use that” to confirm it.
 Clicking the search box after setting up Cortana will display a vertical window with different options, with “Home” as the default window. The Home window will display the recent news stories related to your previous searches. As you use the Windows 10 OS more frequently, Cortana will “learn” about your search preferences, creating a news feed that would generally interest you.


If you have "Hey, Cortana" enabled and a microphone connected, you can say the phrase instead of clicking the search bar.
 You can start using Cortana and ask questions, such as “What is the time in New York?” or “What’s the weather going to be tomorrow?”You can ask these questions by either typing in the question in the search box or clicking the microphone icon next to the search box to activate voice command.
 You can use the search box to look up for applications that have been installed on the system. Similarly, you can click the microphone or just say “Hey, Cortana” and ask Cortana to open the app.


You can use Cortana within the Microsoft Edge browser to make online searches, bookmark pages, and more. You can also use Cortana to change settings on the computer with just a voice command.
 A vertical window with different options will appear. Click the Notebook window, which has a square icon and use it to add personal information in Cortana.


To make the best use of Cortana, it is useful to add more information about yourself in the system. The Notebook window is where Cortana takes note of all your interests, likes, and favorite activities, helping Cortana return more relevant results each time.
 There are several categories in the Notebook window that allows you to add your favorite activities and interests in Cortana.


You can add your personal information and connect your social media accounts with Cortana to present you with the latest updates.
Each of the categories has several subcategories that ask you to make your choice according to your preferences. For instance, if you a supporter of a certain football club, you can add that to Cortana, and it will remember your preference when asked for “the latest scores.”, You can add more details such as meetings, reminders, birthdays, and a lot more. You can either dictate the calendar entries or enter them manually into the Reminders window under Notebook.


Similar to Shazam, Cortana also offers an built-in music identification feature. Click the search box and select the Music icon in the window to make Cortana identify the music and bring back the results.

