 Caffeine blocks neurotransmitters in your brain that make you sleepy. When you start to feel drowsy, reach for a cup of coffee or a soda.Remember that caffeine loses its effectiveness with overuse. Try to save it for when you really need it.


Caffeine will cause a crash in energy after a couple of hours.
Stop drinking caffeine about four hours before your bedtime or it could affect your sleep cycle.
If coffee makes you feel jittery, try green tea. Green tea has a third of the caffeine found in coffee and lasts almost as long. Green tea also has L-theanine, an amino acid that helps you feel relaxed and focused.;
, Peppermint and cinnamon essential oils have been found to increase wakefulness. Smelling essential oils is a natural and safe way to fight tiredness. The smells have even been known to mitigate anxious feelings.


Essential oils are very potent so you may want to hold them a little ways away from your face when smelling them.
If your job includes driving, you can put a few drops of essential oil on a tissue and put the end of the tissue in the air conditioner vent. The vent will cause the aroma to circle throughout the car.Stay away from smells like lavender. Certain smells can actually relax you to sleep.
 Get up and get moving to wake yourself up. Even a light twenty-minute walk can give you more energy and get your blood pumping. You can also do a few stretches every once in awhile to release tension from your body that can drain your energy.


A lot of tension rests in your shoulders. You can do a few shoulder shrugs to release this tension. Roll your shoulders up as high as they can go. Squeeze them for a second. Then roll them back down and relax.
Avoid strenuous exercise. If you exhaust yourself, it will be harder to stay awake.
 A hot stuffy environment can drain your energy and make it really easy for you to fall asleep. A sudden drop in temperature will instantly shock your body into alertness.Splash some cold water on your face.
Have a cold shower.
Open a window and let the cold air hit you.
Drink a cold glass of water.
 As the hours pass, your body could burn all the calories you consumed during the day. Make sure to give your metabolism some fuel to turn into energy. Don’t just eat junk food. Eat foods that are high in protein and healthy fats for a quick jolt of energy. Food high in protein also stimulates orexin, a neurotransmitter that regulates wakefulness.Try eating:


Eggs
Lean meats
Avocadoes
Beans

