 In a small percentage of cases, the megaesophagus is a symptom of another health issue such as an underactive thyroid, or myasthenia gravis. Treatment of this underlying condition can help maximize esophageal motility. However, in the majority of cases no predisposing factor is found and it is a case of management rather than cure.


Sadly, there is no effective drug treatment that promotes muscular contraction in the gullet. A medication called metoclopramide is sometimes used for its prokinetic properties on the stomach and end part of the gullet. However, the drawback is that this drug also increases the tone of the gastric sphincter, so although the esophagus may work harder, it is effectively pushing against the closed door of the gastric sphincter, so you are back to square one.
 In extreme cases of this condition, the lumen of the esophagus is so severely affected that even fluid struggles to pass down into the stomach. These dogs are at risk of dehydration, in addition to being very thin. In these cases a surgical procedure to place a tube directly into the stomach is the dog's best option. This tube bypasses the esophagus so that you can put food directly into the stomach via the gastronomy tube.However, gastrostomy tubes require constant care and rigorous hygiene in order to prevent infection around the stoma site, and it is a huge commitment on the part of the owner.
Food needs to be liquidized in order for it to pass through the gastrostomy tube. After each feeding session, the tube needs to be flushed with water to remove food contamination which could harbor bacteria. Because the tube empties into the stomach, this cannot be done with disinfectants, but must rely on copious flushing with water.
Despite this, tube infections, or infections where the tube is inserted into the skin are common. Should this happen then antibiotics are required, and should the infection be severe the tube has to be removed until the infection is brought under control, and then a new tube needs to be fitted under general anesthetic.
 In the first instance, if the megaesophagus is caused by a correctable problem then an ideal management strategy is surgical correction of that issue. Dogs with a vascular ring anomaly have a persistent right aortic arch that traps the esophagus. This can be identified by barium studies that identify the megaesophagus, and then a specialist tests to identify the abnormal vascular ring. These include endoscopy and/or angiography.


Endoscopy involves passing an endoscope down the esophagus to determine if the gullet is being restricted externally. For angiography the dog is given an intravenous contrast agent and then special x-rays are taken which follow the circulation of the contrast through the circulatory system. If the contrast passes through an extra blood vessel around the esophagus, then the condition is confirmed.
Surgical ligation of this blood vessel means undergoing a general anesthetic and the chest is opened at the level of the fourth intercostal space (the gap between the ribs). The vessel is identified and tied off, which frees the esophagus from restriction.
 However, even with successful surgery the esophagus may remain baggy (much like a balloon that has been repeatedly inflated and deflated, it loses the ability to bounce back into shape).


If this is the case then the dog may still have signs associated with mega oesophagus  such as regurgitation, and may require management as discussed in the previous section.

