 If you need help getting motivation to maintain a strategy for dealing with your angry, then get a sense of how your anger can negatively impact your life. Anger can become a big problem if it causes you to act aggressively towards other people. When anger is a constant reaction to everyday events and to the people around you, even your loved ones, you may have trouble finding enjoyment in life.


Anger can interfere with your job, your relationships with the ones you love, and your social life. You might even get incarcerated if you assault another person., When you’re frequently angry, your physical health can take a hit. Out-of-control anger or suppressed anger can cause:Physical difficulties: These might include an aching back or head, high blood pressure, sleeplessness, indigestion, skin disorders, or irritable bowel syndrome.

Anger and hostility also put people at higher risk for heart disease.Anger and hostility are better predictors of heart disease, even over other factors such as smoking and obesity.


Mental health issues: Anger can contribute to an increased likelihood of depression, anorexia or bulimia, alcohol or drug addiction, self-harming (cutting), low self-worth, and quickly cycling mood states (happy one minute, unhappy the next). Your anger won't necessarily cause these issues, but it can contribute to them.

Irritability, which is on the spectrum of anger-related feelings, is a symptom of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The connection between anger and GAD is not fully understood. But some experts think that when people have GAD, they tend to be passive in their way of dealing with anger (for example, having anger but not showing it).Immune system difficulties: Anger constantly bombards the immune system, since the body’s stress response shuts down our immune system. Illnesses such as colds and flus are higher for people who have higher levels of anger., If your anger is causing you to bully other people, you might be inflicting potentially long-lasting emotional pain on them. If you are venting your anger by bullying others, you may look back on your teenage years with deep regret. To avoid this possibility of regret from inflicted emotional pain, try venting your anger in other ways. To vent your frustrations, try hitting a pillow or going for a long run. Types of bullying include:Verbal bullying: teasing, name-calling, inappropriate comments, taunting.
Social bullying: leaving someone out, spreading rumors, embarrassing someone in public.
Physical bullying: hitting, punching, spitting, tripping, taking someone's things, breaking someone's things.

