 The best sample for parasite testing for a cat is a stool sample, preferably from that day. If possible, take fresh stool from your cat’s litter box on the day you are going to the vet. Wear gloves when you handle the stool and place it in a plastic bag with a seal. If there is litter in the stool, that’s okay. Try to get a sample that has as little litter on it as possible.Seal the stool sample in a plastic bag and carry it with you to the vet. Try to get the sample to the vet as soon as possible, as it is best to test it fresh.;
, If you cannot get a stool sample from your cat on the same day as your vet appointment, you can take a sample the night before. Use gloves to pick the stool out of your cat’s litter box. Then, place it in a sealed plastic bag and refrigerate it. Make sure you do not put the stool sample next to any open food containers or fresh foods.If you want to be extra careful, double bag the stool sample and put it on its own shelf in the refrigerator.
Make sure you label the bag “stool sample for vet” so anyone who finds it in the refrigerator knows what it is.
 Bring the stool sample in a plastic bag to your vet’s office for testing. Try not to keep the sample out of the refrigerator or in a warm car for too long as this can make it more difficult to test the sample properly.You may schedule a vet appointment in advance and collect the sample the night before or the same day as your appointment. Then, transport it to the vet’s office.
 Once you have transported the sample to the vet, allow the vet to take the sample for testing. Your vet may do a direct smear, where they smear some of the sample on a glass slide and examine it in a microscope. They may also do a flotation test, where they float the sample in a solution to determine if there are parasites present.Your vet may be able to do the testing in their office in a matter of a few minutes.
Sometimes, samples need to be sent to a laboratory for more elaborate screening for parasites. This could take days to weeks.
 The testing of your cat’s stool sample will help your vet determine if your cat has any parasites. The most common parasites found in cats are roundworms, hookworms, and whipworms. They live in your cat’s small or large intestine.Your vet may also notice giardia and coccidia, which are parasites that are found in water that is contaminated with bacteria. Your vet may require further testing on your cat if giardia is detected.
Your vet will also tell you if your cat’s sample came back negative, with no parasites or abnormal organisms found.
 If your cat tests positive for parasites, your vet will prescribe the appropriate treatment. Often parasites can be treated with a course of medication and lifestyle changes.Common medications given to cats for parasites include piperazine, fenbendazole, and pyrantel pamoate.
Your vet may also require a second sample for testing after your cat has been treated to make sure the parasite is gone. Schedule a follow up appointment with your vet to check that the medication worked and your cat is parasite free.
 To prevent your cat from contracting parasites, keep its litter box clean. Do a weekly cleaning of your cat’s litter box and replace the litter often. Remove any stool in their litter as soon as you can and dispose of it. Always wear gloves when touching your cat’s stool.Pay attention to how often your cat uses its litter box. Often, if the litter box becomes too dirty, cats may be less likely to use it. It may be time to clean the litter box if your cat is not using it often.
 To ensure your cat does not get exposed to parasites, try to keep it indoors as much as possible. Cats can contract parasites like giardia and coccidia from drinking contaminated water outdoors. They can also get roundworms or hookworms from coming in contact with objects that have these parasites or from other animals who have these parasites.If you are going to let your cat outside, supervise them at all times.
Keep your yard clean so it does not become a spot for parasites. Mow the lawn, trim all plants, and remove any clutter before you let your cat out into your yard.
 Have your vet perform tests on your cat’s stool several times a year to ensure it does not have any parasites. Schedule regular tests on your cat so any parasites are caught early and treated right away. Your vet may be able to recommend a testing schedule for your cat to ensure they remain healthy and parasite-free.

