 Everyone has something in their life that interests them, whether it be sports, reading, music, video games, writing, or some form of art. Finding that interest is a key tool in dealing with your emotions. If you are uncertain of what interests you, start exploring!


Start searching online for different hobbies or topics of interest--you can start by selecting a base or broad topic like the outdoors. Once you have selected that, you can examine all the hobbies related to that topic.
Place yourself in new situations. You'll meet plenty of new people and possibly discover a potential interest.
Join some clubs--schools and community centers offer countless organizations with a broad variety of interests.
Ask your friends. Most people become friends based on a common interest--ask your friends what they like to do for fun. You can even ask if you can tag along the next time they perform their hobby.
 Whenever you start to feel upset with life or a problem your facing, use your hobby or interest to your advantage.


Your hobby is a creative outlet for your emotions. Use it to make peace with your feelings. Whatever you are feeling, it's legitimate -- otherwise you wouldn't be feeling them.
Keeping yourself busy will leave little time to dwell on your problems.
 Much like emotions, problems don't go away overnight. Slowly but surely, though, they'll fade.


Keep a journal. Writing your feelings will help you come to terms with them and hopefully bring some closure. Keeping your emotions bottled up is not healthy and will lead to frustration and stress.
Try thought switching. When you start to think about what is upsetting you, stop! Divert your thoughts to anything else -- what was that funny thing Sasha said in class? Who's that cute new student in third period? Will they start serving cookies with lunch? Is global warming real and if so will it destroy the world as I know it?
Count your blessings. I know that you are probably fed up with this by now but I swear it works. There are people in the world who have it much worse than you do, chances are you may even know some of them. Focus on the positives in your life--you have food to eat whenever you are hungry. You have a roof over your head. Clothes and shoes are not something you have to worry about. You have indoor plumbing which a good portion of the worlds doesn't have. Often, there are much bigger issues at hand.
Above all, Remember that You are your own worst enemy. Only you have the power to let problems impact your emotions.

