 Skin cancer can be divided into non-melanoma and melanoma skin cancers. Melanoma skin cancer is the dangerous kind. Your skin grows normally to naturally replace cells that die off. With cancerous cells, however, there is an uncontrolled growth of cells to form a solid tumor. These can be benign, which are not cancerous, or malignant, which are cancerous and can spread the cancer.Different types of melanoma skin cancer include:

Atypical moles, also known as dysplastic nevi, which are larger than normal moles (greater than ⅓ inch or greater than 8 mm), have irregular or non-smooth edges, and are often darker than normal brown moles
Actinic (solar) keratosis, which is a rough and scaly patch of skin that has often been exposed to the sun, most commonly found on the face, ears, lips, scalp, neck, back of your hands, and forearms, and that get bigger over time, Non-melanoma skin cancers are the most common forms of skin cancer. Almost all of these forms of skin cancer can be cured, with better chances of a cure arising if you spot them early. The different forms of non-melanoma skin cancer are:


Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC), which is commonly found on the head, face, arms, neck, and hands, looks like raised, small, pearly bumps, grows slowly and rarely spreads
Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC), which is found on the neck, face, arms, head, and hands, is scaly and rough, reddish in color, and rarely spreads to other parts of the body
Merkel Cell Carcinoma (MCC), which is a less common and very fast growing skin cancer, shows up as firm, shiny lumps on the skin with a reddish, pinkish, or bluish color, and do not hurt but may be tender to the touch
Cutaneous T cell Lymphoma, which starts in the blood, appears as scaly or bumpy patches on the skin, and is very slow growing
Kaposi’s Sarcoma, which is usually associated with HIV/AIDs, is purplish in color, and appears as a flat patch of skin or inside the mouth, nose, or throat, There are certain situations that make you more at risk for skin cancer. These will make you more susceptible to skin cancer, which means you need to be more careful with your skin and try as many of the preventative methods as possible. These risks include:


10 or more atypical moles, causing a higher risk of melanomaExcessive sun exposure
Blond or red hair
Blue or green eyes
Fair complexion
Family or personal history of melanoma
Excessive ordinary moles (more than 50) or having many freckles
Immunosuppressive disorders
Early childhood sunburns
Inability to tan
History of tanning bed useAdvanced age, There are a few causes of skin cancer, and some situations where the cause is unknown. The most common cause is excessive sun exposure, which is ultraviolet or UV radiation.

In other cases of skin cancer, the exact cause is unknown but is typically caused by a combination of factors that may include diet, genetic factors, lifestyle choices, viral infections, and environmental carcinogens.

The root of cancer is a genetic defect or mutation in the DNA that causes the cancer cell to lose control over its growth.