 In a large resealable plastic bag, add the apple cider vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper.


If you are concerned about the bag leaking, you could place it on top of a plate or in a small baking dish after adding the pork.
If you do not have a large enough or thick enough plastic bag, you could skip it altogether and mix the marinade together in a small glass baking dish.
 Seal the bag and toss gently to coat all sides of the pork.


If using a glass baking dish, place the pork inside the dish and flip several times to soak each side of each chop. Cover with plastic wrap or aluminum foil.
 Turn the bag or flip the chops every few hours to ensure that all sides get equal exposure to the marinade.


As a general rule, a longer marinating time will create juicier, more tender pork chops. If you marinate the meat for too long, though, it can actually become tough. Try to avoid letting the pork chops sit in the marinade for much longer than 8 hours to half a day.
 Place the butter or vegetable oil in a large skillet and heat over medium-high heat until the butter melts or the oil becomes smooth enough to easily spread over the entire surface of the pan.
 Add the garlic and cook, stirring continuously, for about 1 minute. It should become fragrant and lightly browned.


You will need to stir the garlic constantly as it cooks. Garlic burns pretty quickly, and if you take your eyes off of it for more than a few seconds, it could easily blacken. If this happens, remove the pan from the heat, wait for it to cool, then wipe out the oil and the burnt garlic before trying again with fresh oil and fresh garlic.
 Cook for roughly 5 to 8 minutes on each side.


To accurately determine whether or not the pork chops are safe to eat, check the center of the thickest chop with a meat thermometer. The internal temperature of pork chops must reach at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius) before the pork is safe to eat.
If you do not have a meat thermometer, you can determine if the pork chops are done by cutting into the center of the thickest cut. If the meat is white, it is likely safe to eat.
Note that if you use a different marinade that has some color to it, the color of the marinade can tint the meat, so it may not look white even when done. As long as the inside of the pork does not look pink and “rubbery,” however, it should be safe to eat.
 Let the pork chops rest for roughly 3 minutes before placing on individual serving plates and enjoying.

