 Most email-to-fax services support PDF, .DOC, or .DOCX files types.Since PDF is a widely support file format, go to the Play Store and search for a "PDF file converter." Download and install whichever converter you prefer.
 Now that you have a file converter on your Android device, open the app and select the file you wish to be converted to PDF. This process will be unique to the app you have downloaded, but most will require you to select your file for conversion from the downloaded or saved files on your phone.If your file is located on the hard drive of your PC or tablet, it may be easier to do a quick Internet search for a free PDF file converter. Then you can use that website to convert your file and send it to your Android device via email.
 Many online faxing services offer free trials that you can utilize for a one time fax, though if you are planning on faxing more regularly, you may want to find an affordable online faxing site that suits your purposes. You can find various online faxing services by doing an online search for "online faxing services" or "email to fax."


Many free email-to-fax services put stipulations on their "free" fax requirements, like including a promotional cover page, limiting the number of pages faxed, or limiting the number of faxes you can send per day.Most sites will require you fill out your name and provide a legitimate email before you are able to fax. Some may also require a valid phone number, or provide you with your own fax number., You will also need the fax number to which you are sending your document. After filling in all the necessary fields for your chosen online fax service, click the Browse or Upload button. This should open a directory with a list of files on your device. Navigate to and select your converted PDF document.</ref>

, You may have to confirm your fax, enter captcha text to prove you are not a robot or program, or reply to a prompt before your fax is finally sent. After you have completed the prompts and verification process, your fax will be sent.

