 Being overwhelmed with too much stress and responsibility in your life can make your recovery from a breakdown hard. If there are obligations in your life that cause you stress and anxiety, try to cut these out. If overextended yourself with too many obligations, get out of as many as you can so you feel more comfortable with doing your daily activities.


Make sure you give yourself permission to do less without feeling like a failure., A good way to move towards recovery is to be more active and find new interests. Try new active hobbies, such as bike riding, hiking, running, gardening, or dancing.


This will give your mind something to focus on instead of your recovery and release tension., A good way to express your feelings is through creative arts. This give you a channel for you to let things out that you might not feel comfortable getting out other ways. Try painting, photography, writing, or other creative endeavors that you are passionate about.


If you aren't very creative, still try something new to help you get your feelings out., Stress is a major cause in mental breakdowns. In order to avoid the possibility of slowing down your recovery, reduce the amount of stress in your life. Practice breathing techniques, try yoga or other calming exercise, sleep enough, and take breaks throughout the day.


This will help you feel better as you move forward in your recovery because you won't be worried about every little thing.Also learn to structure your time. This will help you not feel overwhelmed or stressed while you are recovering., When you are recovering from a breakdown, you do not need to make huge decisions about your life. Avoid moving across the country, quitting your job (unless it contributed to your breakdown), breaking up with your partner, or other large decisions that might impact your while life.


You want to make sure you are in a proper place to make those decisions, one where you are stable enough to think through all the alternative and repercussions of your actions., You can help improve your mood and mind by improving your nutrition. Eat more natural foods, such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and other healthy ingredients. Avoid fatty foods, take out, processed foods, and other unhealthy foods.


You want to make sure you feel your best inside and out so you can devote energy to your recovery.
Also increase your water intake to improve your health.