 Combine 3/4 cup (180 ml) of the balsamic vinegar with the olive oil. Whisk until well combined.Note that you should still have 1/2 cup (125 ml) of balsamic vinegar left after completing this step.;
, Stir the garlic and rosemary into the vinegar-oil mixture. Pour the entire marinade into a large resealable plastic bag.
 Sprinkle the salt over the ribs, then use your hands to massage the salt into the meat as evenly as possible.
 Place the ribs in the bag of marinade. Seal the bag, then refrigerate it for at least six hours.


To further intensify the flavor, massage the marinade into the meat through the plastic bag after sealing it and before refrigerating it.
You can marinade the lamb spare ribs overnight for a stronger flavor, as well.



To minimize the mess, spray the rack with nonstick cooking spray before placing the ribs on top. Doing so will help prevent the meat from sticking to the metal.
Discard the leftover marinade after removing the ribs from the bag. Do not attempt to reuse it.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining 1/2 cup (125 ml) balsamic vinegar with the honey to form a glaze.


Loosely cover the glaze mixture with a paper towel, lid, or piece of plastic wrap after combining the two ingredients. Set it aside for later use.
 Place the roasting pan in the oven, uncovered, and roast the lamb spare ribs for a full 2 hours and 30 minutes.


Since lamb spare ribs have a lot of fat, they won't dry out in the oven as easily as many other cuts of meat do. The meat is also fairly tough, so it benefits from slow cooking done at a low temperature.
Turn the ribs once after about 1 hour and 15 minutes, or halfway through the full cooking time.
 Remove the ribs from the oven and brush the reserved honey glaze over all sides, using as much of the glaze as possible.
 Return the ribs to the oven and cook for another 30 minutes, or until done.


If you still have glaze left over, you can continue basting the ribs in 10-minute intervals during this last 30 minutes of cooking.
At this point, the ribs should be thoroughly browned and the meat should be tender, yet not quite falling off the bone.
If you want the ribs to be a bit more tender, you can continue roasting them for another 30 minutes or so after this set, but you should keep a close eye on them to make sure that they do not burn or become too dry.
 Remove the lamb spare ribs from the oven and let them rest for 5 minutes before serving.


To serve, cut the ribs into 2 or 3 rib portions.

