 There's no "right" amount of salt to use here — just use more or less depending on how much glue you need to remove. Regular table salt works great, but you can try this method with sea salt, kosher salt, or another type of fine-grain salt as well. Avoid harsh, coarse salts like rock salt, which can cut up your hands.


If you're unsure how much to use, start with two tablespoons and add more as needed.;
, Adding about half as much water as you added salt should make a loose, salty paste. Stir the salt and water together in your hand (or a separate container) to get it uniform.


Warm water works best. Warmer temperatures speed up the reactions that help break down glue at a chemical level.For a particularly tough job, try adding lemon juice instead of water. The acid in the juice helps dissolve the glue., Use one hand to rub it into the glue-covered area on the other hand. If both hands have glue on them, rub them together with the paste in between. Use constant, gentle pressure to work the salt into the glue. As you rub, it will gradually cause the glue to break up and peel away.


After about a minute, rinse some of the salt off and see whether the glue seems to be coming off. If the glue has all washed away, you're already done! However, it will usually take a few more applications before you make significant progress.
 As you continue rubbing, you'll gradually lose the paste (which can make it a good idea to do this over the sink. Continue adding salt and water to keep the paste's loose but abrasive consistency. Depending on how thick the glue is, you may want to have several applications of salt measured out ahead of time.
 Keep rubbing the salt paste in, rinsing bits of glue away, and applying more salt paste. Eventually, you'll be able to remove much of the glue. You may not be able to get all of it off the first time you try, but repeated applications will definitely speed up the process.


Even if the glue doesn't come off right away, don't worry — it will eventually fall off on its own. The natural oils in your hands will loosen the glue over time and it will fall off through your normal daily actions. It's rare for super glue to stick to the skin for more than about two days.