 Read up on autism online or at the library. Look for pieces written by autistic people, because they have first-hand experience and can correct misconceptions. Many issues arise from innocent misunderstandings between autistic and non-autistic people. The most important things for you to know from the beginning are:


That autistic people may not understand social nuances, and might accidentally make people uncomfortable or angry by invading personal space, being overly blunt, accidentally sending the wrong signals, or doing things seen by others as inappropriate.
That autistic people process things differently. Some autistic people need hearing aids; others will break down crying because they can clearly hear every conversation going on, in a cafeteria for example, and are overwhelmed. Some need to flap their hands to verify that their body is still "connected,"; others will have a meltdown if cotton touches their body, because to them, it feels like broken glass.
That autistic people often have trouble with their emotions. Many autistic people bottle up their feelings and have uncontrollable breakdowns when they can't hold it in anymore. Some might not recognize that they are experiencing an emotion.
That autistic people are thoughtful and worthwhile human beings, including nonverbal people, people who stim a lot, and people who are dismissed as "low-functioning.";
, This means treating them as a thoughtful, capable human being, even if you aren't sure. Talk to them the same way you would talk to their non-disabled peers.


Don't assume that someone doesn't understand much because they look stereotypically autistic. Someone who waves their arms, rocks, and stares into space could be a very thoughtful and interesting person. Don't assume they are less human because they act differently.
Assume that they are of average intelligence. Some autistic people are intellectually disabled, some are gifted, and some are in between, like other groups of people. Start the same way you'd address their peers. Then, if it turns out they're intellectually disabled, tone it down until you meet them at their level.
 Speak to this person as your equal, not as a child. An autistic teenager is still a teenager, and an autistic adult is still an adult. Most autistic people know when they are being talked down to and treated badly, and it hurts them.


Use complete sentences, the same way you'd talk to any other person.
Don't bend down to them or use an artificial high-pitched tone of voice (the way you'd speak to a small child or cute animal).
Talk to them, not about them. Address the autistic person, not their parent or caregiver.
 Nonverbal autistic people may use a number of ways to communicate: typing, sign language, picture cards, and more. They may prefer to answer you this way while you speak to them, or they may prefer that you use the same method.
 Be kind and treat them well. Ask them about their day, tell them something interesting, and/or listen patiently to what they have to say (write/type). Find out what they like and tell them things you've learned about their interest, or show them pictures.
 If they don't understand idioms, be willing to explain the ones you use. If they don't like hugs, don't hug them. Apologize if you accidentally offend or hurt them.
 Try not to take it personally if they say (write/type) something that seems rude. If they walk a little slowly or get long-winded, let it be or suggest a change of pace.

