 You can save money by making your own sugar or coffee scrub to rub off any dead skin cells and freshen up your skin. Using a mixture of natural ingredients such as sugar, canola oil, and essential oils is better for your skin than a commercial brand as well as cheaper.An easy, repeatable recipe combines 1 cup of sugar, about 1/3 of a cup of oil, and 20 drops of essential oil. These measurements can be tweaked depending on your preference for fragrance or oil content.
Apply the mixture anywhere on your body such as your hands, feet, elbows, and face.
You can substitute coffee grounds for sugar and coconut oil is another good moisturizer instead of canola oil. Citrus zest is a cheaper and equally potent ingredient to substitute for essential oils. Be cautious though because these ingredients can be abrasive if you have sensitive skin or pores.For a fun, personalized scrub, add edible food coloring or body glitter to your mixture.;
, If you have a bathtub, fill it up with water that’s as hot as you can handle it. Add 1/4 cup of epsom salts and drop in anywhere from 10-20 drops of essential oils while you fill up the tub for a homemade soak. For a complete spa effect, apply a face and hair mask before you soak so that you can rinse everything off in the shower.

Another affordable method is to add a can of coconut milk, a tablespoon of almond oil, and 20 drops of lavender oil to your bath water afterwards.Make your own bubble bath with 4 ounces of liquid or castile soap mixed into 4 cups of water, 3 ounces of pure vegetable glycerin, and a few drops of a liquid scent. Stir them together in a sealable container and add them to the tub while it's filling., Take a washcloth or hand towel and soak it in water, ringing out the excess. Pop it in the microwave for a minute and wrap it around your face, hands, feet, or anywhere you feel sore or tense. Steaming will open up your pores to prepare for a face mask and the warmth will make you feel like you’re at a real spa., Taking care of your skin will help you feel like a million bucks. Pick your own recipe from at-home spa books or use some of these example for a face mask or hair treatment.

Mash up anywhere from 5 to 7 strawberries, 1 tablespoon of honey, and a cup of plain yogurt for a quick paste to pat onto your face for a fresh glow.An easy hair mask you can make combines four tablespoons of honey and 6 tablespoons of olive oil. Let it sit in your hair for 15 to 30 minutes for rejuvenation.Wrap your hair up in a towel after applying a hair mask to let it set and then rinse off in the shower.To make a quick face mask, wrap half a cup of oats in a washcloth, tie it off with a rubber band, and place it in a sink filled with warm water. Squeeze it to release the foam from the oats and splash the foamy water on your face.
 Exfoliate your skin and take off any old nail polish. Use an emery board to shape your nails and then push back your cuticles. Pick out a fun new color or use an old favorite and take your time painting your nails and toenails.

If you don’t have time or a bathtub to soak in, fill a large bowl or bucket with warm water to soak your hands and feet while watching TV or reading. You’ll begin to relax and it will be easier to exfoliate afterwards.
After the polish dries, massage your hands and feet with lotion.
 You don’t have to go all out and buy expensive champagne and truffles to treat yourself. Pick your favorite dessert and pair it with an herbal tea or coffee to settle down with. Don’t forget to stay hydrated with lots of water too.