 Always remember the band might break up because of moving schools.;
, Most pop punk bands consist of 3-7 people. This may be hard if you go to certain music lessons, guitar etc. then ask people there if they are interested. Ask all of your friends if they play an instrument or own one! If they do not know how to play that instrument then who cares, just make sure they can read the tabs and write music! Or if you are clever enough, teach them! Good pop punk bands have a lead guitarist a lead singer (or the singer might play lead guitar as well!) Rhythm Guitar, Bass and drums. A backing vocalist is additional but that could be the bassist or rhythm guitar or so... Hold auditions for band members, put up posters saying you need a band member who can play (an instrument!)Don't give up this task is VERY hard!

, The school music room, your classroom at break time, a garage, your home or you could even ask your parents if you can rent a small place somewhere for a cheap amount! Even ask a local pub if when the pub is closed you could practise there! Stretch your limits!

, Most good bands start out playing covers to songs. For a warm-up at every practise pick one song you all know and play it once! You could do that for a warm up for every practise. Practise daily at the LEAST once a week is fine but i would say twice a week but practise as much as you can!

, If you can't play a certain song then make your own version of it! See what you can come up with!

, Normally a band would have one or two people writing the songs! Pop punk song topics are lots of things. Sad things, good things, being excited, feeling lonely! Most pop punk songs are about bad things though.
 You could look in the dictionary and find random words that sound cool!

, Make posters, hand made or made on the computer anyway would do, and in addition to this make a band logo too! Put posters up every where, in school, on the streets, on buildings' walls, around your neighbour hood! Anywhere popular and visible would do!

, Get a simple small job that is suitable for kids like walking dogs, giving out newspapers, help some people cut their grass, or even help old people across the road! This will earn you simple reasonable amounts of money! If this doesn't work then make a deal with the band that every body has to give a tiny amount of pocket money every week for the band. Make it fair for every one like if somebody gets £1 a week then they should try to give in 20p or so.
 These do not have to be your first music videos these are just getting ready! Show these music videos to your friends maybe ask a few people on the street to watch it.
 Now try to get gigs! Maybe ask shopping malls if you can do small performances their for a fair price, maybe do a few songs on the street. Or even do a small gig in your neighbourhood! etc!

, Try to get the best sound quality as possible. Get blank CD's and put your recorded songs on their, next sell them to the public for fair cheap amounts of money, do NOT make albums yet. Just put 2 or 3 songs on the c-d at the most. Good prices to sell at is £1.00 but at the most £1.30!

, If they don't take you yet then who cares? You have a long time ahead of you and don't worry! It doesn't mean you can't sell cheap CD's, go to band practise, do gigs or make posters! But yet do NOT give up!

, If not then don't give up! If you are popular then start making songs, recording them, making music videos and making albums!

