 There are a number of websites that you can use to do freelance data entry work from home for money. These websites offer jobs by project and are not always great sources for steady income, but can provide you with experience that would be valuable when applying for full time positions. Fiverr.com offers small projects that pay five dollars each.
Flexjobs.com and Freelancer.com both offer data entry projects that you can do from home that pay a varying rate.;
, There are many scams online that try to take advantage of people that are looking for work that they can do from home. Make sure that you confirm that the company you do work for is legitimate, as you will probably need to provide them with personal information in order to receive payments.It's important that you research companies to make sure that they are not part of a scam.

Look up the company on the Better Business Bureau's website to see if it is legitimate at www.bbb.org.
Websites like ConsumerFraudReporting.org can also help you identify potential scams.
 While websites that offer projects to freelancers can be a great way to supplement your income, it can be difficult to earn a living through them, and even more difficult to secure benefits. You may want to seek a full time position with a company that permits you to do the data entry from home.


Use websites like Monster.com and Indeed.com to look for data entry positions that allow the employee to telecommute.
Websites like Craigslist.org can be a great resource, but be aware of how to avoid scams on Craigslist.
 Social media platforms like LinkedIn can be a great way to look for open positions as well as to network with people already working the field you want to find a position in. Make sure to include the terms “telecommute” or “work from home” in your search.


Start by creating a LinkedIn Account.
Search for open positions and reach out to others in the field you are interested in to help you identify open data entry positions that you may be able to apply for.
 A phone screening is often the first stage of the interview process. A human resources professional will contact you to conduct a brief interview over the phone to determine if you meet the requirements to be interviewed by a hiring manager. Treat a phone screening like any other interview: don’t be late for the call, be courteous and professional, and speak to your strengths as a data entry employee as well as your ability to work without direct supervision.
Make sure to put your best foot forward when conducting a phone screening.
 If you do well on the phone screening, you will likely receive a call to schedule a follow up interview. Because you will be working from home, there is a likelihood that you may need to conduct the interview through a teleconferencing website that allows you to see and speak to your interviewer from the comfort of your own home.


Although you may be conducting the interview from home, treat it as though it is an in person interview regarding what to wear and how to interact. Follow the common practices necessary to do well in a job interview.

You may also be required to conduct the interview in person. Be sure that you arrive on time and with a few copies of your résumé.
 The software and hardware required to do data entry from home may vary based on the company you work for and the type of data entry you are doing. Before you can begin working, ensure that your work space and computer are prepared for the task.


Install any necessary software you may need to complete your data entry tasks. Many companies may use web portals instead of software on your computer, so ensure you have the necessary login information and receive training on how to properly use it.
You may need to create a PayPal account or establish a different method of receiving payment from your employer like direct deposit. Make sure you speak to your supervisor or manager about how payments are made and what you need to do in order to receive them.
Make sure you have a telephone, printer or any other devices that are required to complete your data entry work.
 Working from home has a number of perks, one of them being that you may be able to set your own schedule. Although this offers a significant amount of freedom, it can also make it difficult to get yourself going in the morning.Set a start time to begin working every morning to avoid procrastinating.
Set a time that you finish work each day. It may be tempting to work longer hours than necessary when working from home because you never really leave your place of work, but it’s important that you allow yourself time to rest and take care your obligations at home.
 Although it’s important that you stick to a schedule, it’s equally important that you allow yourself breaks when you need them. The freedom provided by working from home allows you to take breaks when necessary.In most work environments, you get two fifteen minute breaks and a thirty-minute break per eight-hour work day. Try providing yourself breaks in a similar fashion.
Breaks are important to keeping you refreshed and to stave off fatigue. You will likely be more productive during working hours if you take breaks.
 It may be tempting to knock out some housework or take care of your children during working hours because you’re home. It’s a bad habit to get into, as it can dramatically reduce your productivity during your work day, as well as add to your stress by feeling as though you should be doing both professional and housework in the same amount of time.Treat your working hours as though you are in the office; you need to devote yourself to your work while “at” work.
Consider using daycare or a babysitter for your children if you have any so you can focus on getting your work done.
 It’s important that your management knows that you are staying on task and being productive. In most office environments, you will see your supervisor or manager regularly throughout the day, so when working from home make sure you keep open lines of communication with them throughout your work day.If you communicate via e-mail, make sure to keep your e-mail window or software open so you can be aware when receiving communications from your management.
If you miss a call or message from your supervisor, make sure to get back to them as quickly as you can.
 Data entry, like any job, has specific requirements that you will need to meet in order to be considered for the position. Before you can locate a data entry position to apply to, you’ll need to ensure you have the appropriate skill set.Data entry requires the ability to type quickly and accurately.
Basic computer skills are a requirement for all telecommuting data entry jobs.
It is often expected that you have experience working with word processing, database or presentation software like PowerPoint to be considered for data entry positions.
 Working from home requires that you are able to keep yourself well organized and on track. The best way to do so is to create an office space in your home that you use for nothing else other than work.Your office space should permit you enough room to keep all of your work related materials in one place and well organized.
It helps if your office space provides you privacy from distractions or interruptions.
 Applying for data entry positions that allow you to work from home still requires a professional looking résumé. Your résumé is often what makes the difference between getting to the next level of the interview process or not.


Ensure that you highlight the skills required for data entry on your résumé.
Ensure that your résumé is well organized and looks professional.
 Working from home usually requires that you provide the equipment necessary to do the job. Depending on the nature of the position you apply for, the equipment requirements may vary, but the common requirements are as follows: A reliable computer with access to a high speed internet connection.
A dedicated telephone line that you can use for work specific phone calls.
An office software suite such as Microsoft Office or Apache Open Office.

