 While it may be tempting to force a nervous cat to come out of hiding, this will not build a better relationship with the cat. Instead, if you can tempt the cat out of hiding, you are putting the ball in the cat's court so to speak, basically having it make the decision to interact. If the cat has places it feels safe, then perhaps it will feel less stressed and it will make the cat feel more secure when it does venture out.While you want to make sure the cat can hide itself a bit, you also need to make sure that there are no hazards around it.Be especially sure that the cat cannot escape!;
, Don't force your affection onto a high strung cat. It can be totally frustrating to care for a cat that doesn't trust you or care to hang out with you, but you need to keep focused on developing your long-term relationship with the cat. Forcing the cat to do something it doesn't want to do will only make it more distrustful of you.
 Provide the cat with toys and equipment, such as a cat tower, that will make it happier and more fulfilled.While a skittish cat may be a little afraid of you, it may overcome that fearfulness to play with you or to receive a treat. Contentment will only make it more likely that the cat will overcome its shyness and become comfortable with you.
 Some cats are naturally reserved or have experienced trauma that makes them fearful. While it's important to try to make your cat happy and content, it may not be able to overcome all neuroses. Make a concerted effort to socialize your cat but don't think of it as a personal failure if your cat doesn't want to snuggle with you all the time.
 Food is a powerful motivator for a cat, so if it knows that you are the source of its food it may be more inclined to show you affection. If the cat is severely high strung, feeding time may be the only time you can get near it. Hang out near the cat's food dish, making sure that you are far enough from the dish that the cat will actually eat but that your presence is acknowledged by the cat.

