 If you are a healthy person, have no cardiovascular disease (hypertension, coronary artery disease, heart failure, valvular heart disease etc) or diabetes, no treatment is required for occasional PVCs. In fact, many athletic people often experience PVCs, without any cause for medical concern.;
, If you experience frequent episodes of PVCs, it's important to try to identify what activity is related to the symptoms, so you can cut back on it.


A good way to track your episodes of PVC is to make a chart of your activities and symptoms in relation to time. Draw a table with 24 columns representing 24 hours of the day. Note down your activities in each column under the respective hours of the day. Then put a tick mark under the hours when you feel symptoms.
Just a few days of charting your symptoms will give you an idea about which activity is causing PVCs. Once you have identified the activity, try to avoid it as much as possible.
 Caffeine (found in coffee, tea), alcohol, tobacco, amphetamines, cocaine etc are well known to cause PVC. These substances stimulate the sympathetic system of the body causing hyper-excitability, increased heart rate and contraction.


Try to avoid these substances or at least reduce the amount of intake. It may not be possible to give up all at once. Therefore, you should aim to reduce consumption by 5-10% every week.
 You may be taking medications that cause PVC without actually being aware of it.


These include anti-asthma medications (salbutamol, theophylline), nasal decongestants (pseudoephedrine), thyroxine and other sympathomimetic drugs. These substances excite the heart and make people more prone to developing PVCs.
Some herbal medications and supplements also contain ingredients responsible for rapid heartbeat and PVC.
You should visit your GP with a list of all prescription and non-prescription drugs to check if any of them could be causing the symptoms of PVC. Your doctor will be able to adjust the dose or prescribe heart-friendly drugs.
 Feelings of anxiety and stress trigger the release of sympathetic hormones and chemical mediators, leading to hyper-excitability of the heart. Anxiety is also a known cause of palpitation.


Therefore, you should try to avoid these negative feelings using any means possible, including self-help techniques.
Try meditation, yoga and biofeedback techniques to get rid of anxiety. You can also take help of professional therapist to choose appropriate technique.
 PVC may be the result of some underlying medical conditions like heart attack, electrolyte imbalance etc, as discussed above. In this situation, you need to correct these underlying conditions in order to get rid of PVC symptoms. Some cases can be treated at home but most require hospital care.



Hypoxia can be corrected by oxygen administration and giving medications for the underlying lung disease.

Electrolyte imbalance is usually corrected intravenously at first and then orally. The correction should be slow and strict monitoring is essential because rapid correction may lead to cardiac arrest and death (particularly applicable for potassium).

Drug toxicity is overcome by giving an antidote. It is also hospital supervised.

Heart attack is a medical emergency and must be treated in a coronary care unit (CCU). Treatment options depend on the type, severity and duration of attack.
 Beta blockers such as propranolol can be used to suppress premature ventricular contractions. They are also used for the treatment of hypertension, anxiety and a variety of other medical condition. Beta blockers are comparatively safer than other drugs used for the treatment of PVC and arrhythmia.


Tab propranolol 10-40mg 3-4 times daily will be required to treat PVCs. You should start with low dose and gradually increase the dose until satisfactory result is obtained.
Other drugs are used in more severe conditions. They are actually anti-arrhythmic group of drugs such as amiodarone, flecainide, propafenone etc. These drugs must not be taken without doctor’s advice because inappropriate use may induce serious arrhythmia instead of correcting it.
 This option is reserved for those who remain unresponsive to optimal medical therapy. The area from which ectopic beats arise or abnormal impulse generate is destroyed by radio frequency energy.
 Occasional premature ventricular contractions usually produce no symptom. It is because the person remains unaware during the very short period when it occurs. In those cases PVC is identified in ECG (electrocardiogram) during a routine health check-up.
 After each contraction of ventricles, they need some time to dilate and be filled up with blood. If they contract prematurely, there is a brief pause in signal conduction. During this period the ventricles are overfilled.


When normal signal conduction starts, the ventricles contract more forcefully to eject the accumulated blood. As a result, more blood is pumped and you feel a pounding, jumping sensation or flip-flops in the heart.
 These precede the pounding or jumping sensation. When ventricles contract prematurely, small amount of blood is ejected for which you have no feeling. After that period, the ventricles stop working briefly to restore normal rhythm. This brief pause is perceived as a skipped or missed beat because you would otherwise have a normal beat during this time.
 It is subjective awareness of heartbeat. Palpitation occurs if you have PVCs more frequently for example every 10-20 seconds or so. More frequent premature contraction may lead to a feeling of fluttering.


Under normal conditions, we do not feel our heartbeats because we are adapted to it. Irregular or abnormal beats disrupts this adaptation which is felt as palpitation.
 Sometimes premature contraction can occur in a row. As already mentioned, there is little amount of blood pumped during a premature contraction. If PVC occurs three or more times in a row, there will be continuously low cardiac output during this time.


Low cardiac output means low blood pressure and reduced blood supply to the body. If brain is depleted from blood supply for more than a few seconds, you will lose consciousness transiently (syncope or fainting).
 PVCs may occur in apparently healthy individual without any cause. Signals for rhythmic contraction of the heart originate in sinoatrial node (SA node) located in the right atrium. It is also called pacemaker of the heart. The signal then travels through specialized conducting tissue to the ventricles, causing them to contract.


However, ventricular muscle cells are also excitatory and can initiate self-contraction without any signal form SA node. In normal and healthy subjects there may be occasional self-contraction causing PVCs.
 It is medically known as myocardial infarction. There is damage of heart muscle due to impairment of blood supply. Coronary arteries provide blood supply to heart muscles. If one or more of them are blocked by a blood clot or plaque, the area supplied by them undergoes ischemic necrosis or death.


The damaged heart muscle cannot contract properly and synchronously with the remaining area. As a result, there may be initiation of contraction signal anywhere in the ventricles that spreads to other parts causing a premature beat.
The risk of PVCs is greatest in the hours following heart attack. It should be managed appropriately because it may be the early sign of life threatening arrhythmia.
 It may be dilated or hypertrophic type. Cardiomyopathy occurs as a consequence of long term cardiac disease.


Common causes are hypertension, heart attack, heart valve disease, alcohol, obesity, diabetes, thyroid disease, vitamin B1 deficiency etc. The heart chambers are dilated, muscle wall becomes thick or thin.
The normal architecture of the heart muscle is deranged. It leads to alteration of excitatory pattern of the muscle. There may also be fibrosis in different areas of the heart. All these contribute to abnormal signal transmission and PVC.
 Most common is mitral valve prolapse. Mitral valve is located between left atrium and left ventricle that controls one way blood flow. The cusps or leaflets are directed towards left ventricle.


Long standing heart disease of the valve particularly rheumatic fever may cause damage to the valve which may prolapse into the atrium.
 Chronic hypertension puts extra workload to the heart. It needs to contract more forcefully to eject the blood through resistant blood vessels. As a result, the ventricular walls are thickened in the same way as in a bodybuilder.


The hypertrophied ventricles are likely to produce frequent PVCs.
 Main electrolytes necessary for heart muscle action are potassium, magnesium and calcium. Normal levels of these electrolytes are necessary for excitability and rhythmic contraction of muscle fibers. A shift from normal levels also alters excitability and leads to generation of PVCs.


Low level of potassium (hypokalemia) as in metabolic acidosis, excessive use of diuretics (water pills), vomiting, diarrhea, Cushing’s syndrome, Liddle’s syndrome may lead to PVC and serious arrhythmia.
Low level of magnesium (hypomagnesemia) and high level of calcium (hypercalcemia) also cause abnormal heart rhythm and PVCs.
 It means low level of oxygen in blood. Hypoxia occurs when your lungs cannot work effectively to deliver oxygen to blood or there is reduced hemoglobin in blood to carry that oxygen to body tissue.


Hypoxia causes reduced oxygen delivery to heart muscles as well as other body tissues. As a result, they cannot work properly. This may cause ectopic beats and arrhythmia.
 Some medications cause altered excitability of the SA node and heart muscles. There if usually hyper-excitability resulting in generation of contraction signals in ventricular muscle before actual signal from SA node can arrive.


Common drugs causing PVCs are digoxin, aminophylline, caffeine and sympathetic agonists.
 Alcohol, tobacco etc are natural stimulants to the body and also to the heart. Excessive intake may cause rapid heartbeats and asynchronous beats in between them.

