 Cooking ribs in the oven is very similar to a grill. The oven allows for the slow-cooking environment needed for juicy, tender ribs. Either kind of ribs work well for the oven, so this is up to you. You can adapt just about any recipe for the grill into the oven; just be aware that the ribs will not have the smoky flavor they do from the grill.


There are two different kinds of ribs: baby back (or loin-back) and spare ribs. Baby back ribs are smaller, usually 2-2.5 pounds per rack, more tender, and more expensive. Spare ribs are larger, usually 4-5 pounds per rack, less expensive, meatier, fattier, and more flavorful.When choosing a spare rib, look for evenly spaced fat. Don't choose a spare rib that has a large fat deposit in one place. Even marbling yields better flavor. For baby back ribs, it should be the same size along the bone with a even marbling of fat.Some people prefer the taste of baby back ribs, especially since they are more tender. You can also buy boneless baby back ribs. For spare ribs, most people prepare them St. Louis, which are just spare ribs with the ends and other gristly bits chopped off.When you buy spare ribs, you can ask your butcher to make them St. Louis style for you.
 Before you begin cooking, turn the ribs over. Slide a dull knife or your fingers under the membrane and pull it back where it connects to the bone. Lift and loosen it until it tears. Pull the membrane away from the bones until it is completely removed. Trim the fat away from both sides.Removing the membrane will allow the ribs to tenderize., Use your hands to press the spice rub into the meat on both sides. Cover in a generous layer, but make sure you can still see the meat through the spice rub. Wrap the ribs in plastic wrap, and place them in the refrigerator on a cookie sheet overnight.


Spice rubs contain a mixture of flavors that are easily adapted for your tastes. Make spice rubs using paprika, chili powder, red pepper flakes, brown sugar, cinnamon, cumin, garlic powder, onion powder, black pepper, salt, or any other spice you'd like. Mix your desired spices together in a small bowl beforehand.
Make sure you use some brown sugar to get a caramelized flavor.
If you'd like to get a bit of the smoky flavor, add smoked pimentón, chipotle pepper, cloves, cinnamon and vanilla to the spice rub. These flavors are used in hardwood smoked flavors., Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. Place a cooling rack on top of them. Remove the ribs from the refrigerator and place them on top of the cooling rack with meaty side up. Place the baking sheet on the middle rack. Broil for 5 minutes, until the outside starts to brown.Allow the broiler to pre-heat for a few minutes before placing the ribs underneath.
 Remove the ribs while the oven heats. When the oven has reached the temperature, place the ribs back in the oven. Allow them to cook for 1.5 to 2 hours if they are baby back ribs and 2.5 to 3 hours if they are spare ribs.


Place a layer of aluminum foil over the top of the baking sheet halfway through the cooking time. This will keep them from burning.
Some cooks suggest wrapping the ribs in foil the entire time they cook. This is an optional way of cooking that you can try.Another way to cook ribs in the oven is to place them in a baking dish, meat side down. Thirty minutes before they should be taken out of the oven, flip them over and apply barbecue sauce, then place back into the oven.Slather the ribs with barbecue sauce 30 minutes before they are done cooking, if you desire. Recover with aluminum foil.
 Let them set for 10 minute before serving. Take a knife and separate the meat between the bones. Serve immediately.

