 You can write a synopsis before you write your novel, although be prepared for it to change and you to have to rewrite the synopsis. However, the synopsis can be helpful to avoiding plot holes and making sure the story flows.


If you find, as you're writing your synopsis, that your story has plot holes and things that don't make sense, you may need to go back and do some rewriting for your story.;
, You have to think of the synopsis as a distinct thing, separate from the novel or query letter. It's the summary of a novel's narrative structure, that has a clear beginning, middle, and end. It describes the main characters and the main conflicts.


Different agents and publishers will detail different page lengths for a synopsis, although rarely over 3 pages. A good rule of thumb is to keep your synopsis as short as possible while still covering important plot and character developments.
 Before you get writing your synopsis, go back through your novel and note down the most important plot points in each chapter. You're not going to write a chapter by chapter plot summary, but this will help you when you're detailing the over-arcing plot.


Give each chapter a couple sentences. For example (if you had written Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone) for Chapter 1 you might say: Harry Potter, whose parents, Lily and James Potter, are murdered by the evil wizard Voldemort, is sent by Professor Dumbledore to live with his estranged aunt and uncle. Although a baby, Harry managed to defeat Voldemort when he tried to kill him.
You'll want to give more space and attention to the first chapter and the chapter with the climax of the story, as these chapters will have more background information on characters and plot, as well as an emphasis on plot resolution.
Make sure that you include the ending. The point of the synopsis is to explain the story in a clear manner so that an editor or literary will know that they can market it. If they don't know how the story ends (along with the character development that takes place), they won't know if they want to sell the story.
 You need the editor or literary agent to know what happens in your story in the most succinct way possible. This means, you have to focus on the main plot and the important points that drive the story. Since you'll have to leave out a lot of things, you'll need to make sure that the main plot has enough of the plot points to make sense.Use a because/then type structure. Picture each sentence beginning with "because/then" as you write. For example (using Pride and Prejudice): Elizabeth is overcome with worry for her sister Lydia's elopement with Mr. Wickham, which she tells to Mr. Darcy. (Because Elizabeth is overcome...then she tells Mr. Darcy).
Focus on character arc, or rather focus on the evolution of the main character from the start of the book to the end. How are they different at the end of the book as opposed to the beginning? What has caused these changes?

, You don't want to start naming every single character that appears in your novel, because otherwise your synopsis is going to balloon out at an alarming rate. Instead, only discuss the most important characters (like the main character(s) and the antagonist(s), etc).


Bold the first mention of each characters name, so that it makes it easier to see.
Give each of these important characters a quick character sketch, which can even be as simple as a few descriptive words. To use the Harry Potter example again: you would name Harry Potter (11-year old wizard, Harry Potter), Ron Weasley (Harry's best friend, who feels overshadowed by his large wizarding family), Hermione Granger (Harry's other best friend, a know-it-all witch, who strives to be the best in every class). Then you would name Lord Voldemort, Professor Dumbledore, Professor Snape, and Hagrid. You would probably include Malfoy, as well.
 There is a specific writing style that is necessary for writing a proper synopsis. If you don't follow along with it, your writing will come off as unprofessional and will make the editor or agent less likely to consider your work.Use active voice and third person, present tense. For example: Harry catches the snitch in his mouth, thus winning the Quidditch game for Gryffindor.
Strive for clarity. You have to make sure that you're presenting a clear and concise picture of your novel's main plot and character development. Don't get sidetracked into side plots and minor characters.
 There are four basic things that you need to make sure that you've gotten across in your synopsis. These are core conflict, main characters, what's at stake for the main character, how the conflict is resolved.


For Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, the core conflict is keeping Voldemort from rising again. Everything else (Quidditch, Snape's hatred of Harry, Harry and Malfoy's hatred of one another) is side plot.
To use Harry again: what's at stake is him confronting the person who tried to kill him and who killed his parents, as well as saving the wizarding world from Voldemort.
The conflict is resolved (spoiler) by keeping the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort.
 Wordiness is one of the biggest problems that can make your synopsis look unprofessional and bad. Really work to cut down your descriptors and your descriptions of scenes so that only the most pertinent information is there.


For a too wordy example (using Pride and Prejudice): After sitting in silence for a while and making awkward conversation, Mr. Darcy proposes marriage in the worst way possible to Elizabeth, who rejects him by telling him that he couldn't propose to her in a way that would make her want to marry him. They have a big argument, involving slander against Elizabeth's family, Mr. Darcy's treatment of Mr. Wickham and his taking Mr. Bingley away from Jane.
For a more concise example: When Mr. Darcy proposes marriage to Elizabeth, she rejects him, by bringing up his bad treatment of Mr. Wickham, as well as her sister, Jane.
 Just like you want the first paragraph of your novel to hook your reader into the story, you want the first sentence of your synopsis to hook your reader into continuing. A good way to do this is to start with your main character in the beginning.


For example (using Lord of the Rings): When Frodo's guardian passes along a magic ring, he is drawn into the ultimate conflict between good and evil and the conflict's outcome rests in his hands.
 The beginning is incredibly important because it is where you set up things like character, background for the story, where it is set, what are the problems that the main character is facing. The beginning of the novel is the foundation and you have to make sure you include enough of that to explain what is going on in the story.For example: The arrival of a new eligible bachelor in town changes Elizabeth Bennet of Longbourn's life. Elizabeth, the second eldest of five daughters, comes from a family of moderate income and little sense, which makes her unlikely to ever marry well.
The who is Elizabeth, the background is her town and family, the problem is that her family is ridiculous and she's unlikely to marry in a time when that was incredibly important for a woman.
 Take your chapter by chapter summary and condense this down so that only the most important points, the ones detailing main character or main plot development, remain. You'll need to make sure that everything flows into one another.Each paragraph has to segue logically into the next paragraph. If you need switch ideas, make sure that you transition appropriately. For example: if you talk about Elizabeth's refusal of Mr. Darcy, and the revelations about Mr. Wickham, you can transition into what is happening at home in Longbourn and Elizabeth's sadness about her sister's missing Mr. Bingley.
 Once you've written it all out, read your synopsis multiple times. Check over the flow of your plot and make sure that everything makes sense and leads in a logical direction. Read over with an eye towards character development and whether everything follows logically there.


Have a trusted friend or family member look it over, preferably someone who has also read your novel. They can let you know of anything you're missing in the synopsis.
Cut any extraneous word choices and try as best you can to further condense everything, while still maintaining clarity.

