 While baldness can sometimes be difficult to combat, adopting a flatting hairstyle that draws attention away from the hair loss can help.


In general, strive to keep your hair short. Especially for men, relatively short hair makes baldness less apparent. As bald patches are more apparent when hair is grown out, a short style can conceal hair loss.Simply shaving your head can be stylish and saves on the cost of shampoo and conditioner. If your bald spots are becoming particularly noticeable, consider shaving the remaining hair off. While baldness in men is somewhat more accepted than baldness in women, a growing number of female celebrities are keeping their hair very short. This means a shaven head is sometimes considered a fashion statement for women.A buzz cut is similar to going clean shaven, but leaves a light line of hair. A caesar cut is another option, where bangs are cut in a horizontal fringe and styled forward.If you still have some hair on the top of your hair, get that head cut short but leave enough to comb the remainder over a bald spot. Keep the sides tight and short. This hair style is similar to the one used by the character Roger Sterling and Mad Men.;
, Many people find directing attention away from their hair loss is a helpful way to deal with baldness.


Wearing colorful clothing, jewelry, and make-up can help direct attention to your attire rather than your hair.You can also buy tasteful scarves or hats to put over your head when out in public.If you are male, dressing up in suits and ties or nice dress clothes might make you feel positive about yourself and take attention away from your hair loss.
Many men combat baldness by growing facial hair. If you're able to grow hair on your face, growing a beard, mustache, or other kind of facial hair can help draw attention away from your baldness., Many people opt to buy a wig when they begin losing their hair. Selecting a wig can be an exciting, fun experience during a difficult time.


As wigs can be pricey, you might want to see if any organizations or companies will provide you with a wig at a free or discounted cost. There are a variety of charities that help cancer patients secure authentic looking wigs to wear for the duration of their treatment.
Many cancer patients find buying a wig to be an exciting experience. You can choose a hair color or style that was not possible with your natural hair. You can bring family members and friends alone to help you choose your wig and make it into a fun event.Remember, you should never buy a wig without trying it on. You want to make sure any wig is flattering to your specific face type.

