 Medical credit cards are frequently offered as an option for people looking into plastic surgery. A relatively new trend, medical credit cards function much like regular credit cards but can only be used to for medicinal purposes.


Medical credit cards are mainly appealing because they are easy to obtain and come with a 0% promotions and fairly low interest rates. As you can only use medical credit cards for medical purposes, the money you're able to spend is somewhat limited. This can act to prevent overspending.
Make sure you pay for procedures as you go along if you're using a medical credit card. You might be tempted, given the freedom the card provides, to pay for a series of surgeries upfront. However, there's no guarantee you'll want to continue having work done if you're happy with an initial procedure. Only pay for what you can reasonably afford to eventually pay off and only pay for procedures as they are scheduled.;
, If you do not want to apply for another credit card, you can simply use an existing card to pay for the procedure. This can be simpler than undergoing the application process for a medical credit card.


The main pro to using your existing credit card is that it's a quick, uncomplicated way to pay for a procedure and can help build your credit. However, make sure your card comes with a low interest rate as plastic surgery is expensive. It might take you a few months to pay off what you owe.
If you do use your credit card to pay for the procedure, do not add more charges to the card. Do not use a card that carries more than a 10% interest rate. Make sure your credit line is large enough to cover the procedure.
 Using credit cards to pay for plastic surgery comes with certain risks. Make sure you're familiar with drawbacks before making a decision to charge your plastic surgery to a card.


Be very careful you're working with a reputable company when taking out a medical credit card. There are predatory lenders in the medical world and oftentimes an interest rate not initially agreed upon is applied retroactively. Also, medical credit cards can be very strict about payments. If you miss a payment, the APR can rise to as much as 30%.
If you put a major purchase on your existing credit card, you can easily max it out. This could potentially hurt your credit rating if you're unable to make payments in a timely fashion. You should also be sure to account for follow up procedures. Face lifts, for example, often require multiple surgeries before the procedure is considered complete. You do not want to be in a position where you need a second facelift before you've paid off the cost for the first one.

