 One of the best ways to treat CAD is to reduce exposure to environmental allergens. For example, if your Golden Retriever is allergic to pollen, keep your dog inside more often, especially when pollen counts are high. When your Golden Retriever does need to go outside, wipe it down with a wet cloth afterwards to remove the pollen from its fur and skin.Pay special attention to wiping off your Golden Retriever’s paws.Your dog could lick its paws or touch another part of its body with the paws and trigger an allergic reaction.
Reducing exposure can be effective if your vet identified the specific ‘culprit’ allergen. Without knowing the specific allergen, reducing exposure would be very difficult.;
, If your Golden Retriever is allergic to dust or dust mites, several avoidance strategies are available. For example, dust and vacuum your home frequently (at least once a week). In addition, wash your Golden Retriever’s bedding in hot water regularly. Changing your air filters regularly, according to product instructions, will also help keep dust out of the air in your home.Other strategies to reduce exposure to dust and dust mites are:Placing a plastic cover over your dog’s bed
Using the air conditioner when it’s hot outside
Keeping your Golden Retriever in non-carpeted rooms, such as the kitchen
Keeping your Golden Retriever out of recently vacuumed areas
Not giving your Golden Retriever stuffed toys to play with, since they could accumulate dust

, Mold is another common allergen associated with CAD. If your Golden Retriever is allergic to mold, consider using dehumidifiers, which reduce humidity in the air. Dehumidifiers are available at home supply stores. Also, avoid having houseplants, since the soil of potted plants can get moldy.Keeping your Golden Retriever out of the basement and avoiding dusty pet foods can also reduce mold exposure.If you do have house plants, put activated charcoal on the soil to prevent mold development.Look for activated charcoal at your local gardening store.
Clean your dehumidifiers according to the product’s instructions. Cleaning them will help them work more effectively.

