 Always follow your doctor’s advice. As long as you are in good health with no pregnancy complications, your doctor will likely give you the go ahead.


If you have lower back problems or have a history of miscarriages, then prenatal yoga might not be for you. If your physician does not think that prenatal yoga is a safe activity for the both of you, you can inquire about safe, alternative methods that may have a similar effect as prenatal yoga.;
, If you are new to yoga, it’s probably not a good idea to start the exercises on your own, without proper instruction. Although yoga exercises are generally considered safe and are beginner-friendly, performing the moves improperly during pregnancy may put both you and your pregnancy at risk. Starting out under the instruction of a trained yoga instructor will significantly cut the risk of injury.


Your local prenatal yoga class will have a trained instructor who will guide you through the steps. This will help you set realistic goals, especially if you are just beginning. Because yoga can be a strenuous activity, you don’t want to take on too much. Your prenatal yoga class should help you calm your mind and relax your body. When you are relaxed, so is your baby.
Try to find a yoga studio that has instructors who are trained in prenatal yoga techniques or offer prenatal yoga classes. Some studios offer prenatal yoga classes designed specifically for expectant mothers. Although you can attend a general yoga class and modify the movements for pregnancy, attending a class that is full of other expectant mothers will likely help you feel more relaxed and at ease. It also allows you to focus on the instructions and pay attention to your body without having to worry about modifying the moves or whether or not they are safe for you and your baby.
 Do not feel like you have to attend every class or practice yoga every day. This should be a therapeutic experience, helping you relieve stress.
 While most instructors will understand this basic fact, it is a smart idea to also stay informed about your limitations to keep you and your baby safe.


Keep from overexerting your back and spine.
Refrain from doing stretches and postures that put too much pressure on your lower lumbar and abdomen.
Consider using props such as pillows and padded yoga equipment to keep you balanced.
Monitor the amount of sweat your body is excreting. While working up a light sweat is fine, make sure you do not overdo it. Remember that it is important for you to stay hydrated during pregnancy. Excess sweating causes you to lose liquids quickly. Stick to a light sweat at the most, and make sure you replenish lost fluids with plenty of water after the class.
 There are more risks involved with overexertion than with doing too little. Always err on the side of caution. If you think you can push yourself just a little bit harder, it may be best to back off. Take it easy and pay attention to your body during workouts. Save the heavy stuff for after the baby is born.
 Breathing is one of the most important parts of both yoga and childbirth. Proper breathing techniques will not only help you manage your stress, but also keep necessary oxygen in your lungs.


One of the most prevalent breathing practices in prenatal yoga is breathing in and out slowly through your nose. This is one of the most calming breathing techniques because it allows you to pace your mind and body.
 Cooling down will keep you from cramping, it will help you unwind and it will allow you to recap your latest prenatal yoga experience. Keeping your muscles loose now will pay off during labor and delivery.
 One of the reasons why prenatal yoga is an excellent option is because it teaches you to relax while under stress. Nothing is worse for a pregnancy than stress and anxiety. If you are experiencing a difficult day, then use the breathing techniques that you learned in prenatal yoga, and help ease the tension away.

