 This could be a family member or friend that enjoys cooking, a colleague known for baking, a nutritionist, etc.
 If you want to gain weight, you will need to consume more calories each day. Slow, gradual weight gain is the safest and healthiest method of increasing your body weight.


In general, health experts recommend consuming an extra 250-500 calories daily for safe weight gain. This results in about a 1/2 to 1 pound weight gain each week.
The exact number of calories you'll need to eat each day can vary depending on how underweight you are, your age, your gender, and your overall health. Work with a doctor or nutritionist to determine the exact number you should be striving for.
Look for calorie-dense foods, rather than trying to eat a lot of food that may not contain as many calories. For example, an ounce of nuts has between 160-190 calories, whereas an ounce of pretzels may have just 100 calories., Even though you need more calories to gain weight, you also need to make sure that the foods you eat contain nutrients that will keep the rest of your body functioning well.Higher calorie foods are good, but empty calories from foods low in nutrients are still not healthy when consumed in excess.Avoid eating multiple servings of or large quantities of foods like sweets or desserts, beverages with added sugars, fried foods, fast food or processed meats.
The occasional greasy or sugary food may help you gain weight and can usually be consumed as a treat, but you should not rely on these foods since they have little nutritional value.
 Fat has more calories per gram than either protein or carbohydrates. Increasing the amount of healthy fat in your day can increase your total calories and help you gain weight.


Healthy fats are a great option to add extra calories. Try healthy fats like nuts, seeds, avocados, olives, olive oil, and fatty fish.
In addition to helping increase your overall caloric intake, they've also been shown to support a healthy heart., Protein is an essential nutrient in any diet. However, if you need to gain weight or are struggling to keep weight on, ensuring you're consuming adequate protein is essential.


Protein helps support your metabolism and your lean muscle mass. When you're underweight or losing weight, you may be losing some lean muscle mass. Eating adequate protein can help minimize this.Try to consume at least 3-4 ounces of lean protein at each meal. This will help make sure you're meeting your recommended daily amount.Choose both lean protein and protein foods that have a moderate amount of fat. For example, choose full-fat dairy, eggs, fatty fish or dark meat of poultry items.
Do not consume fried or fatty cuts of meat or processed meats. These generally have more health risks associated with them and it's not worth the extra calories you'd be consuming from them.
Protein increases your feeling of satiety, or that satisfied "full" feeling.If your goal is to eat more food, rather than just increase your calories, be aware that increasing your protein intake may make you feel less hungry.
 Although grains do not contain a lot of calories, they're still essential to a healthy diet.


Try to choose whole grains. These grains contain the bran or hull, germ and endosperm parts of the grain.Whole grains can add calories while providing plenty of fiber and other health benefits.
Try whole grains like barley, quinoa, brown rice, oats and 100% wheat bread and pasta.
Add higher-calorie items to your whole grains to increase the calories. For example, top your brown rice with a drizzle of olive oil or put a dollop of peanut butter in your oatmeal.
 Both of these food groups do not offer you a lot of calories. However, they do contain a large variety of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that are essential to your diet.


It's recommended to consume about 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables daily. You may choose to eat fewer servings so you can focus on other higher calorie foods.One serving of vegetables is 1 cup or 2 cups of salad greens.Aim for 1/2 cup of chopped fruit or 1 small piece for one serving of fruit.Again, try to increase the calories of these foods by adding higher calories foods to them. For example, drizzle olive oil over steamed vegetables or add a full fat dressing to salads.
 Another good way to eat more and gain weight is to eat more snacks and frequent meals. Eating frequently may actually make you feel hungrier.


This is especially helpful if you have little to no appetite, since it may be easier for you to consume smaller portions of food than larger ones.
Schedule anywhere from 2-3 snack throughout the day, in addition to your three major meals.
Three to six of your meals and snacks should contain a protein, starch, vegetable, and healthy fat to maximize your overall nutrition in the day.
Although it's popularly believed that eating more frequently "boosts" your metabolism, studies have not shown support for this idea., If you do not have the appetite to eat more, you can get more calories into your system by consuming high-calorie drinks.As with high-calorie food, drinks that are high in both calories and nutrients are better than those containing empty calories (like regular sodas or fruit juice cocktails).
A good drink option might be a smoothie containing fruits, full-fat yogurt, whole milk and peanut butter.
You can further enrich the smoothie by sprinkling in a little wheat germ, flax seed meal or chia seeds.
 Some types of foods produce more gas when they're eaten. This could impede your ability to eat more foods.Typical gas producing foods include broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, prunes and beans.
When you eat these foods you may notice you feel more bloated and full. This could cause you to have a decrease in appetite or make you feel prematurely full.
 If you're having trouble stimulating your appetite or desire to eat, try going for a short walk prior to your meals.


A little physical activity may stimulate your appetite and help you feel hungrier for your meals.
Your walk doesn't need to be long or of a high intensity. A short 15-minute walk at a moderate pace may help.
 If you don't have an appetite it's recommended to not drink any fluids about 30 minutes prior to your meals and do not drink during your meal.When you drink fluids right before a meal, your stomach may be more full of liquid which can signal your brain you're not hungry resulting in a decrease appetite.
Drinking and eating at the same time can produce a similar effect. You might feel fuller sooner as you're sharing your stomach space with fluids.
 If you're not up for eating, try preparing or purchasing some of your favorite comfort foods.


Many times comfort foods are a bit higher in fat and calories (although not always). Indulge in some of these favorites to help get your daily calorie levels up.
You could also try new recipes. If you're not interested in your typical go-to meals and snacks try new recipes to get your appetite inspired.
Look up a recipe you've been wanting to make for awhile. Even if it's not the healthiest choice, it may help you increase your daily calories.
 Cardiovascular exercise helps you burn more calories, which may cause you to lose more weight.


You can perform light cardiovascular exercise to keep your heart healthy. Lower intensity activities still provide some cardiovascular benefits but do not burn as many calories.
Try activities like walking, bike riding, swimming or yoga.
You do not and should not cut exercise out of your routine altogether, but mild aerobics are better than vigorous ones.
 Many times stress is associated with unhealthy weight gain. However, some people lose their appetite when they're stressed.If you're the type of person who loses their appetite when they're stressed, try to manage chronic stress and practice some de-stressing techniques.
You can try to relax and unwind by: listening to music, taking a walk, talking to a friend or journaling.
If stress is having a significant affect on your appetite and weight, consider seeking the help of a behavioral specialist or therapist.
 If you don't have an appetite or are eating poorly, considering taking a daily multivitamin. Starting with a healthy base of vitamins, minerals, and healthy fats is essential when trying to achieve a body composition goal.Although a multivitamin shouldn't be used in place of foods, it can be used to help you reach your daily minimum of a variety of nutrients.
Take a multivitamin that is appropriate to your age group. There are some designed for children, adolescents, adults and senior citizens.

