 Face oil helps your fingers slide easily across your face, preventing them from dragging and stretching your skin. Scented oil can also improve your mood and enhance the stress-busting properties of your massage. Apply a light layer according to the following guide:









For dry skin: use coconut or argan oil. Consider adding 2 to 3 drops of lavender essential oil.
For medium skin: almond or jojoba oil. Consider adding 2 to 3 drops of lavender essential oil.
For oily skin: jojoba oil or your favorite moisturizer. Consider adding 2 to 3 drops of lavender essential oil.
 Tension often builds up in the jaw and neck area, and massaging here will help loosen your muscles. Using the tips of your fingers, massage the area in a circular motion for one minute.









Use wide circles, sweeping from under your ears, down toward your throat, and up along your jaw line.
Press more firmly in areas where the muscles feel tight.
 Using the same wide circular strokes, massage along the sides of your jaw, past the corners of your mouth, next to your nostrils, an over your cheekbones. Close your eyes and focus on the relaxing motion of your hands on your face.
 Tension in this area can often lead to headaches, so spend some extra time here. Use a corkscrew motion to massage both temples at the same time. Move gradually in toward the middle of your forehead, then back out to the sides. Continue for one minute.
 Position your fingers at the arch of your brows. Sweep them around the outside corners of your eyes, gently move them under your eyes, and end with your fingers at the inside corners of your eyes. Continue along up the sides of your nose and along your brow lines. Repeat the motion for one minute.









Massaging here will make you feel better after a long day of straining your eyes.
Use extra oil if necessary to prevent your fingers from dragging the delicate skin around your eyes.
 If you have sinus tension, massaging your nose will help relieve it. Gently pinch the area at the top of your nose. Slide your fingers down to your nostrils. Repeat this motion for one minute.
 Gently massage each part of your face again to end your massage. By the end, you should feel relaxed and calm.
