 It’s important to have fun with your writing, especially when you’re just starting a notebook. Write some of your old story ideas, start a chapter of your novel, write dialogue, write down a funny conversation you heard at the store, etc.Don’t worry whether or not your writing is “polished.” Just focus on writing something that’s interesting to you and that you can keep coming back to day after day.
 Although it’s exciting to start a new notebook, that excitement can quickly fade away. Set a schedule so that you remember to write—try writing every day, for example. If once a day is too often, plan to write two or three times during the week, or at least once a week. To get in the habit of writing frequently:


Plan to sit down and write after you get home from school or work.
Write first thing in the morning, before you tackle responsibilities for the day.
Write in bed at night, before you go to sleep.
 Even if you already have a good idea of what you’d like to write, it’s still fun to try different types of writing. And who knows, maybe you’ll find a new style of writing that becomes your favorite. If you usually write fiction, try writing science fiction, fantasy, a detective story, or a comedic story.

Try writing poetry. In poems, you don’t need to have characters or plots; you can write about your feelings or observations of the world around you.
Read a variety of works for ideas and inspiration. When deciding what to read, plan to focus on different genres so that you can see how well-known writers

, No writer has a perfect first draft; it’s important to realize that writing is a process that often takes many drafts to perfect. Let your writing sit for a day or two, then return to it and re-read your own work. Figure out what the best parts of what you’ve written are, and then fix the parts that don’t seem to be as good.

Always revise your work after you’ve finished a draft, a poem, or an essay. If you don’t like what you’ve written or think it could be better, add or remove a section, change the genre or style, or change the point of view., It can be tiring or feel pointless to write alone day after day; see if any of your friends or family members would like to read your work, and ask for their opinion. Although receiving helpful criticism can be tough, it will help you improve as a writer.

You’ll also receive compliments on your writing, which are encouraging and can motivate you to continue writing or to try a new style of writing.
However, if you would prefer your notebook and its contents to remain private—especially if you’ve written sensitive or personal information inside—that’s fine too. If someone asks to read your notebook, you can just say, “No thank you, I’d prefer that other people not read what I’m writing in my notebook.”

