 Many government programs can help you with paying for your groceries, heating your home and even paying your rent. Use the U.S. government’s benefits finder to help you find out what types of benefits you might be able to receive.


One program you might apply for is the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which is available to low-income families and individuals who need help paying for groceries.The Trade Adjustment Assistance Program helps out workers in manufacturing, farming, and production who have lost jobs to overseas competition. It provides up to 104 weeks of paid occupational training, literacy training, and weekly cash payments for up to one year after unemployment benefits run out. The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act helps people who have been part of mass layoffs in industries not covered by the program. They can get free training workshops, college courses, or professional development classes.;
, If you quit, got fired or were laid off from your job, you might qualify for unemployment benefits which would provide you with some money to help you survive. Each state has different rules for who can receive unemployment. Check with your state to see if you qualify.Don't be embarrassed to apply for unemployment. You have worked towards your unemployment, so take advantage of this option., Your family and friends may be able to help you through this difficult time. Talk to your family or friends about what you are having trouble affording and ask them if they can do anything to help. Make sure to let them know what you are doing, such as looking for a job, to make your situation better.


Sites like Gofundme, Youcaring, and Indiegogo allow you to set up a fundraiser website. You can post these fundraisers on social media, like Facebook, so you can ask friends and family to contribute to you during your time in need.
 Most credit card companies and loan providers have special economic hardship programs for when someone becomes unemployed and can't pay his/her bills, or at least not the full amount of the monthly bill. To make sure that you don't get charged late fees or default on a loan, contact your credit card company and loan providers right away.When you call, keep it simple and say something along these lines: “I am unemployed, and I can't afford my credit card/loan payment right now. What options do you have available for someone in my situation?”
Answer the questions that the credit card company or loan representative asks you. The representative will advise you on the best options available to you, based on your situation and the type of credit card or loan you have.

