 Diabetes is a serious condition that requires medical treatment. If you already have diabetes, make sure that you seek treatment. If you are concerned about your blood sugar levels because diabetes runs in your family, talk to your doctor. It is also important to let your physician know if you have changed your diet or added any supplements to help improve blood sugar control.


Make sure to get regular checkups, including blood tests as advised by your physician.
 There are many different medications available that may help you to control your blood sugar levels.Talk to your doctor to determine if there is a medication that will work well for you.



Sulfonylureas. Sulfonylureas stimulate insulin secretion. Examples include Glibenclamide (Micronase®), Glimepiride (Amaryl®) and Glipizide (Glucotrol®).

Alpha-Glucosidase Inhibitors. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors delay glucose absorption after a meal. An example is Acarbose (Precose®)

Glinides. Glinides stimulate the secretion of insulin and include Repaglinide (NovoNorm®, Prandin®, GlucoNorm®).

Biguanides. Biguanides make the cells less insulin resistant. These include metformin formulations such as Glucophage®, Glucophage XR®, Riomet®, Fortamet®, Glumetza®, Obimet®, Dianben®, Diabex® and Diaformin®.

Dipeptidyl Peptidase-IV Inhibitors. Dipeptidyl Peptidase-IV Inhibitors prevent the breakdown of certain proteins that improve glucose tolerance. Sitagliptin (Januvia®) and Linagliptin (Tradjenta®) are dipeptidyl peptidase-IV inhibitors.
 If your doctor prescribes a medication for you, it is important to take them exactly as instructed. Do not change your dosage or stop taking the medication without talking to your doctor first.
 The medications prescribed to help treat diabetes may have some side effects. Ask your doctor about the potential side effects of any drug before you decide to try it.


Keep in mind that you will still have to monitor your blood sugar levels while taking these medications as well as follow diet and exercise recommendations.

