 If you don't know how to spell a difficult word, take a few moments and look it up. Spelling a word wrong will only reinforce the incorrect spelling. It's important that you practice spelling your words with the correct spelling. This will help you remember how to spell the word the right way and pass your spelling test., The simplest way to prepare for your spelling test is to get in regular practice. If you aren't using and spelling the words you need to study, you may begin to forget exactly how to spell them. By regularly studying, using, and spelling the words on the test, you can make recalling the correct spelling much easier.Try to practice your spelling words at least once a day.
Using your study words on other projects can be a good way to get in extra practice.
Don't leave practicing your words until the last minute. Always avoid cramming before your spelling tests.
 Although you may have a long list of words that you need to study, overdoing it can actually cause problems. It's much easier for you to study a smaller section of your word list and retain that information, than it is to study all the words at once. If you have a lot of words to study, try breaking them down into smaller groups to make them easier to manage and remember., Even if you feel that you've gotten in some good practice and that you know how to spell at word, taking some time to review them can be a good idea. Reviewing the word after practice and study can help show you just how well you actually remember the spelling. A good review session can also count as extra practice and will help you do your best on the spelling test., It can be helpful to say any words you are studying out-loud. This can help give you a sound to associate with the spelling of the word. You should try to say the word, the sounds, and the letters aloud whenever you are practicing the spelling of a word. If you are unsure of how to say a word, ask someone to read it out to you.Imagine you are studying the word “cough”. Try to say the word out loud as it is normally pronounced when you are learning to spell it.
It can help to stretch the word out. Try saying something like “cawwwfff” while writing it the word “cough” down.
 Beyond getting in regular practice, using the words in everyday writing or speaking can be helpful. Try to write sentences using the words on your study list or working them into conversations. The more exposure you have to these new words, the more likely you will be to remember them during the test. You'll also be able to build a bigger vocabulary that you can put to use after your test.Try to think of some different phrases that you can use to help you recall the spelling of a word.
Knowing the meaning of the words can help you recall how they are spelled.

