 Severe pain during your menstrual period is known as dysmenorrhea. It’s normal to experience cramps for a few days before and during your period, but if these cramps are so painful that they interfere with your life, schedule an appointment with your primary care physician or gynecologist.


For many women with endometriosis, these cramps get progressively worse over time.;
, Some women with endometriosis experience pain in the lower back, abdomen, and pelvic area throughout the month, not just during their menstrual cycles.


If you are dealing with chronic pain, see a doctor as soon as possible. Whether your pain is caused by endometriosis or another condition, you need to get a diagnosis and formulate a treatment plan.
 Persistent pain during sexual intercourse is not normal. Make an appointment with your physician to discuss the issue, as it could be a sign of endometriosis or another serious condition.
 If you experience pain when you urinate or defecate, you need to see a doctor. Endometriosis can sometimes produce these symptoms, especially if they seem to get worse around your menstrual period.
 Women with endometriosis sometimes experience very heavy periods (this is called menorrhagia) or bleeding between their menstrual periods (this is known as menometrorrhagia). If you experience abnormal bleeding during or between your periods, schedule an appointment with your primary care physician or gynecologist.


It can be difficult to know whether your heavy periods are within the normal range or qualify as menorrhagia. In general, if you need to use a new sanitary pad or tampon every hour for several hours in a row, if you bleed for more than a week, or if you pass very large blood clots with your menstrual flow, you may have menorrhagia. This may be accompanied by symptoms of anemia, such as fatigue and shortness of breath.
 If you notice that you are experiencing diarrhea, constipation, bloating, or nausea more often than usual, see your doctor. Endometriosis can cause these problems, especially around the time of your menstrual period.
 If you have been having regular, unprotected sexual intercourse for a year and have not been able to get pregnant, talk to your doctor about scheduling a fertility check. You should be examined for conditions that can interfere with your fertility, including endometriosis.
 A symptom chart allows you to view the overall symptom patterns you are experiencing, and can help you to compare those symptoms to other symptoms you have had over the last couple of months.
 Take a long sheet of paper (letter size) or tape together two A4 sized sheets of paper. Put the sheet diagonally on a table. Now draw a row of blocks corresponding to your cycle.


For example if you have a cycle of 28 days, draw a row of 28 blocks. Mark each block with numbers staring from 1 to 28 (if you have a cycle of 28 days).
 For most women, the main symptoms to monitor are bleeding during period, pain, bowel movements, sleep pattern and general feelings of well being; this is a total of five symptoms that you will monitor.


Draw five additional rows under the main row (if you want to monitor five symptoms). Each row will be used for a particular symptom. For example, the 2nd row is for pain, 3rd row is for bowel movement etc. Now the chart will have 28 columns and 6 rows. For each column, the top block will indicate the ‘day of cycle’ and the remaining 5 blocks will indicate 5 different symptoms.
Write the symptom at the left of each row. For example, write ‘pain’ at the left of 2nd row, ‘bowel movement’ at the left of 3rd row etc.
 At the end of each day of your cycle, fill in the corresponding column. Use a different color for each symptom. For example, use a red pencil for bleeding, yellow for bowel movement, blue for pain, green for well being and brown for sleep pattern. Use different shades according to the severity of each symptom.


Bleeding: Color the block completely if you have normal or heavy bleeding. Color in half or one-fourth the block if you have mild bleeding or spotting.
Bowel movement: Leave the block empty if you do not have a bowel movement. Color in partially or fully if you have incomplete or complete bowel movements, respectively.
Pain: Color in the block partially or fully according to the severity of the pain.
Sleep pattern: If you have a sound night of sleep, color in the whole block. For light sleep or bad sleep, color in only half the block. Leave the block empty if you did not sleep at all. Notice that you will have to fill today’s sleep in the next day. For example, you will fill the sleep pattern of the 10th day on the 11th day. Thus you will fill all blocks except that sleep on the 10th day.
Well being- Color in the whole block if you feel very well all the day. Color in partially according to the severity of your bad feeling.
 It may be an unusual event such as vomiting, abdominal fullness, headache or an appointment with your doctor.
 It may be convenient to keep the chart near your bed so that you can remember to fill it in before sleeping.


You can fix the chart on the bedroom wall or keep it on the wardrobe or closet along with the box of pencils.
 Store the chart for each month carefully and organize them serially. You can now compare the symptoms of different months simply by looking at the charts. It will be easy for you to assess whether the condition is improving or worsening, based on the color patterns you have before you.


You may also take the charts to your doctor for a quick review that will help you to design your treatment plan.
 You should take any of the above symptoms especially seriously if you have any of the risk factors for endometriosis. The first of these is having no children.
 It’s considered normal to have menstrual periods ranging in length from two to seven days. If, however, your periods tend to be on the longer side of that healthy range, you may have an increased risk for endometriosis.
 Normal menstrual cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days. If yours are on the shorter side (27 days or fewer), though, you may be more likely to develop endometriosis.
 If you have a mother, aunt, sister, or other female relative with endometriosis, you are more likely to develop the condition yourself.
 If you have uterine abnormalities or a history of pelvic infections, or if you have a health condition that prevents normal menstruation, your risk of endometriosis is higher.
 If you have any of the symptoms above, make an appointment with your primary care physician or gynecologist. Describe your symptoms completely, and mention any relevant risk factors.
 Your doctor will perform a routine pelvic exam to check for any palpable abnormalities, including cysts and scars.
 Ultrasound examinations use high-frequency sound waves to create images of the inside of your body. Although an ultrasound cannot diagnose endometriosis definitely, it has reveal the presence of cysts or other problems associated with the condition.


Ultrasounds can be either abdominal (done with a transducer held over your abdomen) or transvaginal (done with a narrow transducer inserted into your vagina). In order to get a full view of your reproductive organs, your doctor may order both.
 In order to confirm the presence of endometriosis, your doctor may suggest a laparoscopy: a surgical procedure in which a laparoscope (a small medical instrument for viewing the inside of the body) is inserted through an abdominal incision. At the same time, a biopsy may be done so that samples of your tissue can be examined.


Laparoscopies are done under general anesthesia, and they carry the risks of any such surgical procedure. Therefore, if your symptoms are mild, your doctor may suggest that you try various treatments before submitting to surgery.
 If your doctor thinks you have endometriosis, discuss the extent of the condition. Decide together what tests need to be done, and work together to formulate a treatment plan.

