 You’ll need to go to an office during regular business hours and bring with you all of your application documents. You’ll need to show a completed application, a photocopy of your lease agreement and TM30 form from your landlord, two passport photos, and your actual passport. You may also need multiple copies of your passport pages.The application requirements can change, so be sure to check the immigration website before heading to the office to submit everything. Your local ministry office also has blank application copies available.
Once you’ve dropped everything off, you will receive a receipt. Make sure to hold onto this as it will allow you to pick up your residency certificate after the processing period., You will most likely be asked to sit for an interview with immigration officers. These officers will try to gauge your understanding of the Thai language. They will ask questions to verify the information provided in your application documents.Make sure that you are on-time for your scheduled interview or it can negatively impact your application. Most interviews are scheduled when you drop off your application materials.
You can also request that the officers provide a printed transcript of your answers at the end of the interview., You will also be asked to complete a short test composed of questions written in Thai. Be aware that you can ask for a question translation as well from a Thai immigration officer., When the testing phase is completed, you will be asked to step into a separate area. You will then stand in front of a camera and record a brief introductory statement in Thai., It is important that all of your foreign language documents are certified by your national embassy. They will also need to be translated into Thai as well. Make sure to leave plenty of time to complete these processes as they make take months, depending on the embassy workload., To increase the odds of your application being accepted, you are allowed to submit additional documents supporting your character. You could add in reference letters from Thai citizens. You could also include membership papers for charitable or non-profit organizations. Be creative here and try to show the best side of your personality., You will need to pay a non-refundable fee with your application. This amount varies somewhere around 7,600 baht ($220). Then, you will need to pay another fee once your permit is granted. This fee is often around 191,400 baht ($5,500). The fees vary yearly, so make sure to check before applying.