 It is important to discuss your plans with your doctor before you begin an exercise regimen. Your doctor can help you to decide what exercises will be best for you based on your age, weight, and any medical conditions that you have. Your doctor may refer you to a physical therapist if you have significant progress to make before you can safely exercise on your own., Weight bearing exercises help your body to build more bone mass and maintain the bone density that you already have. Any exercise that forces you to work against gravity would be considered a weight bearing exercise. Exercises like swimming and biking are not considered weight bearing exercises because you are not bearing your full body weight on the ground. Aim for 30 minutes of exercise per day. If you find that it is too hard to do 30 minutes at once, try exercising for 10 minutes three times per day. Some examples of weight bearing exercises include:Walking
Running
Dancing
Playing soccer
Playing basketball
Playing tennis

, If you are more focused on finding exercises that will not aggravate your joints, go for low impact exercises such as walking, swimming, and biking. These exercises will give you a good cardiovascular workout without causing too much stress on your joints. Aim for 30 minutes of exercise per day. If you find that it is too hard to do 30 minutes at once, try exercising for 10 minutes three times per day., Building strength in your muscles can also help to protect your bones and joints. Having strong muscles can actually help prevent osteoporosis. Make sure that you build strength in all of your major muscle groups, especially your core (back and stomach). Having a strong core will help prevent posture problems later on. Aim to do some strength training every other day., Your joints can get injured while you exercise, so it is important to protect them if there is a chance they might get injured. Common activities that can result in injured joints include rollerblading, skateboarding, and ice skating. Make sure that you wear elbow pads, knee pads, wrist guards, and a helmet when doing any exercise that might cause a joint injury., You can also help to keep your bones and joints healthy by incorporating balance and stretching exercises into your exercise regimen. Yoga is a great option to incorporate balance and stretching exercises because of the many different types of poses. Look for a beginner’s yoga class if you have never tried it before., Vibration machines are shown to increase in bone density in some cases. There is more research that needs to be done, but for now, there is favorable research showing that it may have some benefit for those that can’t engage in strenuous exercise or require something less stressful to their bones.The main type of vibration therapy is called Whole Body Vibration (WBV). The person stands on a machine with a vibrating platform, using a railing for support. The intensity of the vibration can be adjusted; beginners should start with a low intensity vibration and work up to higher intensities.You should not use vibration therapy if you are prone to blood clots, have a pacemaker, are pregnant, or have inner ear problems.
 Try to give yourself a day to rest each week so that you do not injure yourself. Your body needs time to repair itself after you have exercised, so listen to your body and do not push yourself too far in the beginning. Designate one day per week as your rest day or do something easy on that day like taking a leisurely walk or taking a short bike ride., Make sure that you care for your body immediately after your workouts as well. If your joints become inflamed, you can use ice to dull the pain and reduce swelling. Wrap a paper towel around an ice pack or a plastic bag filled with ice and apply the ice pack to your sore joints.Over exercising can cause injuries and that may affect your progress. Talk to your doctor right away if you think you may have injured yourself while exercising.

