 If you have a Pepsi logo in the middle of your scenes, you will actually hurt your chances at getting into film festivals. Why? Because you would owe Pepsi money if the film was purchased, since they have the trademark. This includes music as well, meaning you can't use your favorite Red Hot Chili Peppers song unless you can pay for it.


In a pinch, tape and permanent markers are a great way to cover up logos on objects you can't move, like an oven or fridge.
 On a long movie, you could lose weeks of work if an essential cast member ups and leaves midway through. Contracts may feel impersonal, but they are quite the obvious -- a contract allows you to stay friends by always knowing where each other stand. There is too much to do on a movie set as it is -- don't add bickering or worrying about payment and schedules, too., B-roll is generally considered any shots that don't have any spoken lines and non-essential shots that help transition through scenes. Watch a few movies and notice the little, 1-2 clips, usually between scenes, and note how they visually move the story along. Think of it like the shots outside the car in a road trip movie, the sleek shots of James Bond's new car, and any other purely visual embellishment or scene.


Be creative with B-roll, this is you and the DP's chance to be artful with much less stress.
Make sure your b-roll fits the tone or tenor of the movie. Punch Drunk Love uses bright, abstract colors to indicate mood swings. Horror movies use slow, dark shots. Action movies use stark, extreme, and dramatic landscapes, etc., Movies get expensive, quickly, but the worst thing that can happen is a to run out of essential funds with only 10 pages left to shoot. You need to budget everything out considerably once you've finished pre-production, including:


Cast and crew wages and food
Rights to music our sounds
Transportation
Props and Costumes
Filming equipment, There are a lot of people who don't believe and director should edit their own work. Why? Because editing is about ruthlessly cutting the movie down to only the very best parts, and most directors are too attached to the material to cut it objectively. You will, of course, give guidance, and watch rough cuts and provide notes, but you should look online for another editor to help wade through the 100's of hours of footage you have.


Be ready to watch the movie hundreds of times. It can help to bring in a trusted friend or two as well to notice things you and your editor might miss.
Depending on your editor's skill set, you may need a sound designer as well to create sound effects and find and place music.
 This usually costs around a $1,000-$5,000 for a full-length movie. Mastering will take the audio volumes and balance them into a cohesive track, making sure everything is easy to here and there are no jarring transitions. Color correction simply ensures that every shot looks the same, fixing small issues and creating an eye-popping final image.


Color-correction is not simply a technical aspect-- it can be used to create the whole visual mood and motif of the scene by making it brighter or darker, more vibrant or more somber.
 Throw them a wrap party. Buy them coffee and donuts every now and then. Many of these people will never be well known, and they will be putting in just as many backbreaking and tiring hours as you are. It is easy to remember to pamper your actors, but the crew is just as important and just as worth your attention.


Always be one of the first people on set. There will always be something for you to do, and it sets a good example.

