 There are a variety of pets to pick from.


Dog
Cat
Bird
Wombat
Fish

There are many ways to do this. If you want a cat or dog, you have a choice. You can either make a family with a pet, or adopt one from a pet store. If you want a bird or wombat, you can find one in the buy catalog. If you want a fish, they can also be found in the buy catalog. Give your pet a name (except for fish). For cats and dogs you can customize the type and color and other things like that.

;
, Cats and dogs are the only pets that need items, since fish, wombats, and birds already come in a cage/tank. Here is a recommended list of items to buy for cats and dogs:


Food Bowl
Bone (dogs) or scratching post (cats)
Pillow
Bed/Doghouse
Litterbox (cats)

, Play with it constantly, and give it love. Even birds and wombats can be a great friend. Loving your pet is definitely part of its care.
 Dogs and cats can be selected, so it's easy to tell when they need food and other things. Pets cannot be told to do actions (without cheats); they usually just do their own thing. If they're hungry, they automatically eat. Birds and wombats have think bubbles with signs of hunger when they need food. Just click on them to feed them. With fish, it's much different. Just feed them every day or so.
 Have the owner click on the pet and click, "teach command". These pets can learn "come here", "sit", "play dead", "speak", "shake", and "roll over". Cats can also learn "use toilet". Have fun teaching your pet new commands (my personal favorite is play dead). Birds can learn to talk, but wombats and fish can't, of course.
 There are 7 good behaviors, each with an opposite. These are the behaviors:


Housebroken/Yardbroken-teaches pets where to use the restroom.
Eat Pet/Sim Food-teaches pets where to get their food.
Playful/Hostile-teaches pets to be more outgoing and fun.
Clean/Filthy-teaches pets to be clean.
Respectful/Destructive-teaches pets to not destroy furniture.
Stays off/Goes on Furniture-teaches pets to stay off furniture.
Calm/Disruptive-teaches pets to be kind to other pets and Sims.
 For example, if your dog decides to chew on its bone and not a sofa, praise them. Do the opposite for bad behavior.
 There are three career tracks for pets-Security, Showbiz, and Service. Go on the computer or look in the newspaper for job openings for your cat or dog. Your pet may need to learn commands before being promoted. There are still Career Chance Cards for the pets, and every day your pet works, they will get money added to your household.
