 So, get inspired! Take note of things and people around you that inspire you or make you think deeply. Use these things and people as inspiration for your art.
 There is an exhaustive list of things that are considered art, some mainstream, most not. Try your hand at any of them that you are interested in., You could be multi-talented, and with practice anyone can become great at what they do. A lot of the time though, someone will have a "niche," one specific way of creating art that they're good with and tend to stick with. For some it's drawing, for some it's painting, for some it's sculpture, for some it's photography. Some of us do more modern takes on art like collage or even graffiti. You can figure out your niche by experimenting with different areas of art that you're interested in and finding out which ones you're naturally talented with., Other art may inspire you, but the main point of this exercise is to get an idea of just how vast of an area the simple word "art" covers., Art can also mean the performing arts - music, dance, theatre, etc. Art can even mean cooking, as in culinary arts! Technology is your friend. If you find you have some abilities with graphic design, that can be your art. As I said, art can be just about anything, as long as it means something. Experiment with them ALL!

You can make art out of just about anything. You don't have to spend a lot of money to create good art. A pencil and a sheet of paper can yield a fantastic poem, story, or drawing. A cheap set of watercolors and a cheap watercolor pad can make a beautiful painting. Opening up your mouth and singing something a cappella can lead to a wonderful song. Buy a can of spray paint and try your hand at graffiti. Print pictures off of the Internet, cut pictures out of magazines, and get a stick of glue and a piece of cardboard and try making a collage. Grab your digital camera and snap some pictures, it may lead to a great piece of photography. Do anything, as long as you are giving it some sort of meaning.
The most important thing to realize when you're trying to be artistic is that art is making something tangible out of the intangible, and it is not always easy. You're trying to take yourself, your own feelings, another person, their feelings, etc., and create something that can be seen, heard, touched, smelled, tasted - something that can be experienced on a whole other level.

