 A good photographer will offer feedback and hopefully be quite frank, telling you what to do so they can get the shot they want. Be cooperative and gracious (and graceful!). Don't allow yourself to get nervous, or else you will tense up and look stiff. Relax into each pose and connect with the camera.


Take into consideration the type of shoot you're doing. If it's fashion modeling, you'll probably be asked to take on those angular, avant-garde poses that look a little strange and forced. If it's commercial modeling, you'll want to look casual and everyday. Think a Jean Paul Gaultier ad versus an ad for Aveeno.
 Sometimes when we concentrate, or when we're nervous, we slow or speed up our breathing dramatically. You might even find yourself holding your breath for a shot. Remain conscious of your breathing; keep it normal and relaxed.


This step is super important. Your breathing can actually determine your mood, thus determining your poses. If you breathe quickly, that cues your body that you're ready for fight or flight -- imagine what you'll pose like when those thoughts are racing through your subconscious!

, Some designers have pretty ridiculous visions that may leave you thinking something along the lines of, "I look like Lucille Ball just rolled out of bed and got attacked by a reindeer." Well, that's what they were going for apparently, so you've no choice but to rock it. Put it aside. You're still you. You've still got it.


Remember how we said before that you are one part of an image? The photo is about you, sure, but it's also about the clothes you're wearing, the backdrop, and the feel of the photo. If you don't like your makeup, hair, or outfit, model through it. You've still got the smile, the poses, and the techniques.
 This may help you capture the emotion that you need for a shot. If the photographer is looking for a melancholic shot, for example, imagine a melancholic episode from your life. You may find that you're better able to channel your "inner melancholia" that way.


If visiting your own past hits a little too close to home, think of the plot of an applicable movie and put yourself into the actress' shoes. The thought process should take over your face and body, creating an intensity for the photo.

