 Moving her could increase the damage and even cause her to be paralyzed. If you are unsure if the person has a spinal injury, then you should proceed as if she does. Signs of a spinal injury include:Having a head injury, particularly one that involved a blow to the head or neck.
Showing changes in the state of consciousness, for example, being unconscious or confused.
Experiencing pain in the neck or back.
Not moving the neck.
Experiencing weakness, numbness, or paralysis in the limbs.
Losing control of the bladder or bowels.
The head or neck is twisted in a strange position.
Reacts to painful stimulus (trapezius pinch or sternal rub) by flexing all her limbs inward or by extending all her limbs out (referred to as posturing).;
, If the person’s head or body moves, it may increase the damage to the spine. You can prevent this by:Putting towels or pillows on both sides of the person’s head to prevent it from rolling or slipping.
Providing first aid, like CPR, without moving the head. This means that you should not tilt the person’s head back to open the airway. Instead, use the jaw-thrust method.
Not taking the person’s helmet off if he was wearing one. For example if he had a bike or motorcycle helmet on, leave it so you don’t move the spine.
 This should only be done if the person is in immediate danger, for example if she is vomiting or choking on blood. Under these circumstances, you may have to roll the person onto her side. It is important to do this with at least one other person so that you can prevent the person’s body from twisting.One person should be positioned at the head and the other at the injured person’s side. The two of you must coordinate so that the spine remains aligned while the person is rolled. Twisting can cause additional damage to the spine.
While rolling, wait for the lead person's cue. Roll by grabbing the opposite shoulder and hip, rolling the patient toward you. While the person is in this position, check her back and neck quickly for obvious injuries.

