 While you're planning your trip, research the infectious diseases endemic to the area you want to visit. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) offers a useful webpage that allows you to easily identify illnesses by country. Knowing the diseases you may encounter will allow you to prepare properly!;
, Visit your doctor 4-6 weeks before you leave for your trip. Ensure you are up-to-date on general vaccinations like Measles, Mumps, Pertussis, and Tetanus, and receive any vaccinations you need to for your trip. Some vaccines are recommended, but in other cases, you will not be allowed to enter a country without proof of vaccination.



Vaccination: If you're traveling to an area where Diphtheria, Hepatitis A, B, C, or E, Influenza, Viral Meningitis, Japanese Encephalitis, Polio, Rabies, Rubella, Typhoid, or Yellow Fever rates are high, consider vaccination to protect yourself.

Medication: If you are traveling to an area where malaria is present, talk to your doctor about anti-malaria medication.

Insect Repellant: Many infections are caused by bug bites including malaria, dengue, trypanosomaisis, chikungunya, yellow fever, and West Nile virus. There are no known cures to these ailments, so protect yourself from exposure by using insect repellent. Look for strong active ingredients like DEET, Picaridin, oil of lemon, eucalyptus, and IR3535, and wear permithrin-treated clothing.
 In some instances, you may choose to cancel, reschedule, or postpone your trip. For example, the CDC strongly recommends that pregnant women avoid locations endemic with malaria. If you are pregnant and must travel to a country where malaria is present, talk to your doctor about your anti-malaria medication options.
 The CDC offers valuable infectious disease travel information by country, and updates the travel warning regularly.
 You can contract various types of infection by drinking contaminated water or eating contaminated food. Areas with poor water sanitation or inadequate sewage systems can lead to infection.


In these locations, avoid contaminated water by only drinking unopened canned or bottled drinks and avoiding ice. Beverages involving boiled water like coffee and tea are okay.
Avoid possible contaminated foods like meat that has been allowed to cool (street vendors), raw vegetables including salads, raw fruit unless it is washed with clean water and peeled, and unpasteurized dairy.
 Travelers commonly experience diarrhea which can often be cured with rest and hydration.


If diarrhea persists, contact your doctor.
If you experience fever at all, inform your doctor upon your return.
If you become very ill, contact the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate.They can help you find a doctor near your current travel location.
For more information regarding illness abroad, look to the CDC's research on Obtaining Health Care Abroad.