 If you are going for a casual or everyday look, you have a little more leeway with how you want to style and accessorize your outfit! If you are wearing a traditionally colored neutral faux fur coat, you can either stick to neutrals, a mix of neutrals and muted tones, or neutrals and one bold color.


For instance, if you are planning a casual neutral outfit, you may decide to pair a tan faux fur jacket with a white sweater, dark jeans, and a stylish pair of black and white sneakers.
If you want to wear an outfit that includes a bold color, you may choose to wear a light brown faux fur coat with a bright red dress and dark brown low-heeled booties.
 One great thing about faux fur is that it can come in all sorts of fun colors! Brightly colored fur coats are very trendy and fun, but it can be difficult to know how to wear them. The best rule of thumb is to wear neutral or muted tones with a bright coat so that your outfit isn’t doing too much.


For instance, if you have an emerald green shaggy coat, you may choose to pair it with a simple white T-shirt, black skinny jeans, a brown purse and white trendy sneakers.If you have a colored faux fur coat in a muted color, you can get away with wearing one bright color along with neutral or muted tones. For instance, if you have a light pink faux fur coat, you can wear it with light blue jeans, a black top, a bright red beanie and gray sneakers.
 Accessorizing a faux fur coat for a casual look is fun because you can wear bold or even tomboy-ish accessories for a funky look.For a causal, feminine look, wear a chunky rose-gold watch with your coat along with a pair of hoop earrings.
For more of a tomboy look, wear a dark beanie and a large pair of sunglasses.
 Just as with accessories, you have more shoe options if you are wearing a faux fur coat casually. Take cues from your coat and the rest of your outfit when choosing what kind and color of shoes to wear.If you are already wearing one or two bright colors, wear neutral-colored shoes. For instance, if you are wearing a white faux fur coat with dark red pants, wear neutral colored shoes like tan boots or black sneakers.
Wear sneakers for a more causal outfit. If you are running errands or going for a funky look, wear a pair of sneakers along with your faux fur coat. Go for a trendy pair of sneakers rather than tennis shoes.
Wear heels for a combination of casual and chic. Create an outfit that falls in between casual and dressy look by wearing an outfit like a shaggy tan fur coat, leather leggings and black stilettos.

