 Even though Siberian cats have thick coats, grooming is easier than with most longer-haired cats. Siberian coats don't tend to mat or tangle too quickly, so grooming once or twice a week is enough to keep it healthy. Brush gently with a slick, soft brush.


Siberians molt twice a year, shedding fur in large clumps. During these times, daily brushing is the easiest way to keep the coat from matting and tangling.
Brushing reduces the likelihood of hairballs.
 Do not keep Siberian cats in temperatures above 33ºC (91ºF). They are adapted to cold climates, and they can overheat easily in their thick coats. Take the following precautions during summer months:


Put ice in the cat's food or water. At the very least, use cold water instead of warm or room-temperature water.
Take the cat to a professional groomer and have her shave away most of the fur. The fur will grow back by the winter, but it may make your cat much more comfortable through the summer months.
Visit a veterinarian if your cat seems uncomfortable. You may notice it going to great lengths to keep cool, such as rubbing against the refrigerator or spending time in cold spaces. If the cat makes painful yowling noises, and it doesn't seem particularly hungry, it might be uncomfortable.
 Siberian cats have a water-resistant, triple-layered coat. Many of them enjoy water and may try to jump into the bath or shower. Even if your cat doesn't like water, bathe him whenever the coat gets dirty. Bathing can also reduce allergens, if someone in the house is allergic to cats. If necessary, use a mild, conditioning, oatmeal-based cat shampoo.


Your Siberian cat has a somewhat oily coat that keeps the skin healthy and manages the cat's temperature. Bathing too frequently can strip away these protective oils.
Because of the thick coat, it can take up to 45 minutes to fully soak the cat's fur.
 If you have a kitten, start these care habits early so your kitten gets use to it. If you have any trouble with these procedures, ask a veterinarian to show you how to do them:


Trim nails once a week or as needed. Use nail trimmer scissors.
Check the cat's ears about once a week. If they look dirty, cleanse using a cotton ball dampened with vet-recommended, mild cat ear cleanser. If the ears are red or have a bad smell, take the cat to a veterinarian.
Brush your cat's teeth regularly with vet-approved animal toothpaste for overall good health and fresh breath.
Siberian cats can quite easily get ticks or fleas. Check outdoor cats regularly, and remove ticks and fleas if you find them.
 Siberian cats have a chance of getting stomach issues such as IBS or Lymphoma. Make regular vet visits to keep an eye on their stomachs.


Siberians are also susceptible to at least one hereditary health issue: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Siberians that will be bred should be screened for HCM, and cats identified with HCM should be removed from breeding programs. Do not buy a kitten whose parents have not been tested for this disease.
 Foods can actually cause higher or lower allergen levels. A high-quality food can prevent many health issues in the cat as well. Feed vet-recommended amounts only, taking into account treat consumption as well. Keeping a Siberian at an appropriate weight is one of the easiest ways to protect his overall health. If your cat becomes overweight, you may need to put him or her on a diet.

