 Particularly if you're restarting a business in the same general industry, a new name can avoid confusion with your old business. This can help you work with creditors and customers after your bankruptcy without carrying the baggage of the old business.Going with a different name can be a difficult decision to make, particularly if you had emotional attachment to your original business name.
It can help to think of a new name as a fresh start, just like bankruptcy.
Before you've settled on your business's name, don't forget to check the business name registry with your state's secretary of state to make sure the name is available.
You also want to make sure your new name isn't going to violate anyone else's trademarks. You can run a quick search for your business name on the database located at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) website.
When searching trademarks, watch out for names that are similar to yours as well – especially if they belong to businesses or individuals operating in the same field.
 You can organize your new business as an LLC or a corporation. You also may choose to run it as a general partnership or a sole proprietorship. However, understand if you go that route it will be next to impossible to separate your new business from your bankruptcy.Keep in mind that businesses cannot file Chapter 7 bankruptcy. However, if you operated an old business as a sole proprietorship, your business is not treated as separate from your personal finances.
This time around, you want to make sure you keep your business separate. The easiest way to do this is by forming an LLC. They offer the limited personal liability of a corporation, but with fewer formalities. They also are generally cheaper to create.
If you decide to stick with what you know and start another sole proprietorship (or a general partnership, which is treated the same), your bankruptcy is going to have a much greater impact on your ability to do business with creditors.
Before you make a final decision, you may want to talk to an experienced business attorney and get their advice on which business structure would be best for you. They also can assist you in getting it set up legally so you can do business in your state.
 To operate your business separately from your personal finances, you must request an employer identification number (EIN) from the IRS. If you had one for your old business, you should get a new one after bankruptcy.If you operated your old business as a sole proprietorship and didn't have any employees, you may have never gotten an EIN before. However, the process is very simple.
You can get an EIN online by visiting the IRS's website. Keep in mind that the application service is only available Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Eastern time.
On the website, all you have to do is answer a few quick questions about yourself and your business. Once you submit the information, an EIN will be generated for your business automatically.
You can use this EIN to set up bank accounts, apply for credit cards and loans, and start establishing a credit history for your business.
 Especially if you ran your previous business on your own, adding a partner (or two) with a strong credit history can lessen the impact of your bankruptcy when you start looking for financing.If you're thinking about adding a partner, be careful and make sure you look into their business and financial background thoroughly.
Given the precarious state of your finances, this is not the time to bring in a partner just because they are a close friend and family member who you like. They may end up doing you more harm than good.
Someone with a solid track record in the industry your small business will be a part of is essential.
You also want to verify that they have a virtually unblemished credit report – both personally and with any businesses they've previously owned.
 If you're trying to rebuild your business's credit after a bankruptcy so you can do business with creditors again, the last thing you want to do is over-extend yourself. Keep any income projections as conservative as possible, and tightly manage your business's revenues.One thing to do when you sit down to work on your budget is look back at your past finances – before you filed for bankruptcy – and how you managed then.
The key to developing a responsible budget is to identify where you went wrong before and come up with new practices to replace the old ones that got you into trouble. With time, those new practices will become habit.
This process can be beneficial with your personal finances as well as with any small business you're trying to start after going bankrupt.
If you're having difficulty with any of the aspects of budget creation, you might want to try searching online for resources that are available for new businesses in your particular industry or field.
There also are many resources available on the website of the Small Business Association (SBA). If you're still having trouble, you might want to try talking to an accountant or finance expert – but attempting to do it yourself first can save you some money.
 A business credit card can be used as an important tool to help build your business's credit. Shop around, but realize that you may not be able to get the best interest rate with your credit history.Once you've got your business's bank account set up with your new EIN, the first place you might want to try is the bank where you set up the bank account.
Banks often are more willing to give credit cards to customers, but keep in mind you typically will need to have operated that account for at least several months and maintain a healthy balance.
Search online for banks and credit card companies that market to new businesses or people with poor or damaged credit.
Learn how to use your credit card in a way that will improve your credit score. Try to avoid carrying a balance, instead paying it off every month.

