 Apple has various paths for you to choose from, based on your professional field or certain Apple products or system areas you can get expertise in.


The Professional (Pro) Applications certification focuses on Apple's application programs for professionals, such as Aperture, DVD Studio Pro, Final Cut Pro, Soundtrack Pro, and more. This certification program is well-suited for those working in a creative field, such as film, sound design, special effects, editing or teaching.
Getting a Mac OS X certification allows you to provide troubleshooting and support for IT issues concerning the Mac OS X operating system. Multiple certification levels exist under this category, from the initial Apple Certified Associate - Mac Integration to the most advanced Apple Certified System Administrator (ACSA). Mac OS X certifications are geared toward system administrators and other IT or technical support professionals.
Certification in Xsan Administration indicates your depth of knowledge about Xsan, the storage area network (SAN) file system created for the Mac OS X. Becoming certified in Apple Certified Media Administration (ACMA) lets others know you have the ability to perform system installations and configurations, troubleshooting, network maintenance, and integrate Mac OS X programs or technologies in an Xsan installation.
The Apple Certified Mac Technician (ACMT) certification is for professionals who wish to develop and prove their understanding of Apple's hardware. This certification is especially suited for potential or current service technicians, help desk personnel or consultants who work with Apple's Macintosh computers, other hardware or systems.
If you currently use or will be using Apple's iWork suite of products often, you may want to get certified as an Apple Certified Associate for iWork. This certification is aimed at teachers and students as well as professionals looking to certify their digital authoring skills in iWork, which can be used to create presentations, spreadsheets and word processing documents.
Consider getting certified as an Apple Certified Trainer if you wish to share your knowledge and expertise in Apple technology with others. Industry experts, training professionals, or those who are simply passionate about Apple products and technology can become certified to teach curriculum concerning Apple's Pro Applications or the Mac OS X and train others at Apple Authorized Training Centers (AATCs).;
, Read the required Apple Training Series or Apple Pro Training Series book(s) for your certification and study any other course materials or resources being used. The training book(s) may be in digital or print format.


Learn by attending classes in-person at a local Apple Authorized Training Center if you prefer. You can search for AATCs in your area on Apple's website.
Prepare for the exam(s) by studying any exam preparation guides provided by Apple. Use the Test Yourself applications (apps) if desired.
 The Apple Authorized Training Centers offer all the certification exams.


Certain certification exams can be also be taken through Prometric Testing Centers or online. You can find a local Prometric Testing Center through the Prometric website.
 Contact your local AATC or use the Prometric website to register for an exam(s) with the respective testing center. Pay the required exam fee(s) and take the exam(s).

