 Sky services all come with minimum term contract periods, typically of 12 months or 18 months. That means that once you sign up, you are committing to stay with Sky until the end of this minimum term. You can get out of the contract early, but there are charges levied against you if you choose to do this.


Check your contract to see what the minimum term is, and see how far along it you are.
You should also check your contract for any conditions in which you can leave the contract early., Early termination charges will be based on how much of your minimum term is left to run, the products that you subscribe to, and the period which you have already been billed for. Sky will determine a specific cost for each customer who chooses to cancel his contract early, and it will vary from customer to customer. Here is one given example of how the costs are determined:


A Sky Broadband Unlimited customer paying £10 per month, on a 12 month minimum term beginning on 1 August 2016, who decides to end the subscription on 15 April 2017, will be charged £44.25.
The calculations behind this figure are:
Broadband Unlimited - £6.91 x 3 (for May, June and July) + ((£6.91 / 30) x 15) (for 16 - 30 April) = £24.18 (£24.25 rounded up to nearest 25p)
Line Rental - £5.71 x 3 (for May, June and July) + ((£5.71 / 30) x 15) (for 16 - 30 April) = £19.99 (£20.00 rounded up to nearest 25p).There is a table online with information that will help you make the calculations for your own contract here: http://www.sky.com/help/articles/charges-for-ending-your-sky-contract-early


, Once you have worked out a rough estimate of the costs and decided whether or not you still wish to cancel the account, you can call up customer services and go through the options until up reach an operator. Explain that you want to end the contract and ask for confirmation of any early termination charges before you complete the cancellation.
 You will need to consult your contract to find out all the circumstances in which you may be able to leave your deal with Sky before you reach the minimum term. There is one rule that should apply to all customers, however. If Sky increase the prices of your deal during your contract, they have to inform you of this in writing and you will have 30 days in which you can cancel your contract without early cancellation charges.


If a supplier increases the price they have to offer you a new contract to reflect this, so you get the 30 days cooling off period in which you can cancel.
This is enforced by the regulator Ofcom and applies equally to all suppliers.You may also cancel your account without charges if you do so during the initial cooling of period of 14 days after opening the account.