 It's a common misconception that you need to keep your stomach empty if you want to eat more, and in fact this can't be further from the truth. Starting your day with fruits, whole grains, or lean protein is an excellent way to kick your metabolism into gear, meaning you'll be hungrier later in the day, meaning you'll be ready to eat more later in the day.


A recent study found that the morbidly obese are more likely to skip meals earlier in the day. There's no connection between skipping meals earlier in the day and weight loss. Don't ever starve yourself.;
, Competitive eaters eat standing up for a reason. When you eat sitting down, pressure is put on your stomach by your other organs, and it won't expand as much as when you're standing. It's also uncomfortable. The stomach can hold quite a bit of food when you stretch your torso out to it's longest, which happens in the standing position.
 Those sweatpants you get out on holidays? Smart move. Wearing comfortable clothes is an essential part of eating more and remaining comfortable while you do it. Your stomach does, in fact, expand as you eat, and tight shirts and slacks restrict its ability to do some comfortably. If you want to eat more, wear the clothes that will allow it.
 Monosodium glutamate is a naturally-occurring compound that's artificially added to many foods to give it flavor. One side effect of MSG is that it stimulates insulin response, effectively lowering your blood-sugar levels and making your body think that it needs to eat more to bring those levels back up.


MSG is found in lots of packaged and prepared foods, like ramen noodles, potato and tortilla chips, canned vegetables and soups, and processed meats.
MSG is a controversial ingredient, often derided for its connection to obesity and linked by some people to health effects as diverse as chest pains and facial numbness.While studies report that there's no actual connection between the additive and these symptoms, it's still a controversial substance.
 Aside from the fact that sugary sodas and alcoholic beverages complement meals quite well, the sugars in sodas and boozes of all sorts cause insulin spikes that trick your body into thinking that you want to eat more food.


Commercial sodas contain lots of refined sugar, and the body needs to produce more insulin to process refined white sugars, resulting in a similar insulin response to that of MSG. Your body will think you need to eat more food. Diet soda, which contains aspartame, likewise results in a similar effect.Aside from the inhibition-lowering effects of alcohol, which can cause you to eat calorie-rich foods you may normally avoid, the sugars in alcohol can have a similar effect, lowering serotonin levels and increasing your insulin response, causing hunger.
Carbonated beverages are filling, which means that if you drink a lot of beer or soda with a meal, you'll get more full faster, leaving less room for food. Aim for about half a soda, to get the same insulin spike, without the filling effect.
 If you're trying to eat a lot of food, it's important to avoid consuming certain condiments, the contents of which can irritate your stomach and esophagus, making it more difficult to eat a larger quantity of food. Mustard is made of ground mustard seed, a potent member of the brassica family, and vinegar, both of which will slow your hunger and metabolism.


It's also good to avoid any other vinegar-based, spicy condiments, like bbq sauce, hot sauce, Sriracha, and other peppery dips or toppings.

