 The plunger can unclog your sink just as easily as it can unclog your toilet. Be sure to clean the plunger before using it on the sink, though, or purchase a new plunger for use in the sink.Cover the drain opening completely with the plunger.
Pump the plunger up and down several times to loosen the clog.
Remove the plunger after a minute or so of work to see if water will flow down the sink. If the sink is still clogged, continue to plunge to further loosen the blockage.;
, Bend a wire coat hanger into a straight line, with the curved hook at one end. Slide the wire hook-first down your clogged drain and see if you can hook and remove or otherwise break apart any portions of the blockage.








Push the hanger down until you feel some resistance. Then, wiggle the hanger up and down and side to side to try to get it to latch onto the block.
Once you believe you have hooked the block, pull the hanger up to clear out whatever you have caught.
If you do not feel resistance as you push the hanger down, chances are your clog is lower and you need a specialty tool.
 A drain snake is a long metal cable with a coil or auger on the end that helps manually remove blockages from drains. Purchase a drain snake appropriately sized for your sink at your local hardware or home improvement store to help you clear stubborn blocks.








Feed the snake into the drain and push downward until you feel some resistance from the clog.
Once you’ve hit the clog, turn the cable clockwise for three to four full rotations, then pull up somewhat. If you feel some resistance, you have likely hooked on the clogged matter.
Continue to rotate the drain snake until you have pushed through the entirety of the clog and started to break it into smaller pieces.
When you feel resistance start to lessen, pull the snake out slowly and remove what’s left of the clog from the end of the auger.
Check to make sure your drain is unclogged. If water still won’t flow down it properly, repeat the snake process.

