 These foods will improve the appearance and texture of your skin. Avoid foods high in fat and sugar which cause oily skin.


For antioxidants, eat foods like blueberries, beans, cranberries, apples, whole grains, spinach, and peppers. In general, bright colored fruits and vegetables are high in antioxidants.
For omega-3 fatty acids, eat foods like salmon, tuna, walnuts, and flaxseed. Especially if you don't eat fish, consider taking fish oil as a supplement.
Avoid oily, greasy foods which aggravate oily skin conditions. Cut out unhealthy fats like in butter, beef, and fried food. Replace them with healthy fats found in foods like nuts, seeds, avocados, and fish.
Eat natural foods and fresh fruits and vegetables as much as possible. Some vegetables known to be especially good for the skin include spinach, tomatoes, and carrots.
In small amounts, chocolate is also proven to be good for your skin!

, Physical activity has been shown to provide a range of benefits to your skin, including preventing oil.Regular exercise will help keep your skin healthy and smooth.


Ease the stress in your life by exercising regularly. Aim to get physical activity four times a week. Go to the gym, go for a bike ride, or play a game of basketball with friends. Whatever you choose, make sure you're getting regular exercise.
Make sure to always shower after exercise to wash away the sweat and bacteria. If you let it build up, it can lead to more skin problems.
Physical stress on the body may also trigger higher levels of androgens causing the same chain reaction on oil production. People with a genetic predisposition to oily skin may have increased symptoms during menstruation or when suffering from allergies, colds and other conditions. Be prepared for this and counteract it with stress-reducing activities.
 There is a strong link between mental health and skin health. Stress is a frequent cause of acne and oily skin. Work on keeping a positive mindset by cutting out stress in you life, and your skin will thank you!


The connection between stress and acne has been noticed by people for many years. Research has found that the body produces higher levels of androgens and cortisol during times of high stress. In turn, this stimulates the sebaceous glands causing them to increase oil production.
Practice meditation and calming breathing. Focus on deep, slow breathing through your nose, and cut out all distractions. Feel the stress slip away.
Yoga is an excellent stress reducer too. Try out a local yoga course!

, Sleep seven to nine hours every night. Your body renews and revives you skin while you sleep. A lack of sleep interrupts your body's ability to maintain healthy skin.


Sleep is also connected to stress, which can cause oily skin and acne. Get a good night's sleep to stay happy and healthy!
A lack of sleep can also cause wrinkles, baggy eyes, and lackluster skin.
Oversleep can also cause your skin cells to break down. Oversleeping is anything ten hours and above.
 Hydration is key to maintaining healthy skin. Water stops breakouts by giving your skin the right water to oil ratio.


Doctors recommend eight to ten glasses of water a day.
Inadequate water can cause wrinkles, dull skin, and more prominent pores. Likewise, dehydration and acne breakouts are frequently linked together.
Dehydration triggers changes in the oil glands in your skin, causing oil to build up on your skin. Staying hydrated keeps the oil on your skin at healthier levels.
Drinking lemon water is great too. It keeps you hydrated and it's rich in antioxidants and vitamin C. Lemon water is also effective for curing acne. Drink it in the morning on an empty stomach for healthy skin!

