 You don't want to be tired all day long, you won't enjoy the concerts as much and chances are, you're going to get crabby out in the heat.;
, This is very important. The temperature is going to be extremely high, all day. Warped tour is crowded, there's sweaty people everywhere. The best thing you can do is shower. If your hair is long, it'd be a good idea to put it in a ponytail, otherwise it'll stick to your neck, forehead, and back all day. Another good plan, is wear sunblock! You're under direct sunlight all day long, you don't want to look like a lobster.
 Think about the weather, it's almost always going to be over 90 degrees. It's probably not the best idea to wear pants or a long sleeve shirt. If you're a girl, dresses and skirts aren't a good plan unless you wear shorts underneath, especially if you're going to mosh. Flip flops and sandals, also not a good idea. Even if you don't mosh, crowded shows are going to be packed, people will step on your feet. Earrings, necklaces, or any loose jewelry shouldn't be worn. It could get pulled at or broken.
 Consider not only the drive, but also if you have to stop for gas. You'll have to wait in line to get into the parking lot, the earlier you're in that line, the closer parking spot you'll get. The parking lot opens around 8. Then you wait in line at the gates, which open at 11. You want to be pretty far up in line to have time to check out where everything is.
 Get a basic idea of where all the stages are, bathrooms, places to get waters, etc. Also, check out the schedule, it should be right near the gates on a big wall of some sort with all the band names and times they'll play. Write down when everyone's playing or buy a printed schedule for a couple dollars near the gate.
 If they're a bigger band, you'll want to be up closer, so get there a few minutes earlier than they start playing. Realize that you'll have to sacrifice seeing some bands, to see others play. Make sure that when you have spare time, you map out which bands you want to see more than others.
 If you want to mosh, know what you're doing. If you don't want to, be assertive and get out. Stay near edges and away from the mosh. If you feel dizzy, lightheaded, or crushed, push your way out of the mosh pit.
 It's better to go with at least one other person, so you don't have to waste time meeting up with everybody when you're there. It's a good idea to stay with at least one person all day, in case you're feeling sick, get hurt, etc.
 Some booths give out free things like stickers, pins, CDs, sunglasses, bracelets, etc. They're always nice and sometimes give you discounts on different things, or give you free items for buying something. Some booths have contests to win free things, and some let you listen to their band so it's a good chance to hear new bands that aren't that big yet.
 It's a lot easier than it sounds. Sometimes you can see different members of bands walking around, seeing bands, or at the booths. You can also see them at the front at the gate, normally whenever they're done playing. A couple bands normally do signings, and if they do, you want to be one of the first people in line, so try to get there fast. You can get something signed and a chance to meet them. If they look busy, don't bother them much. Ask for a quick picture or signing. If they're busy, don't try to converse with them way too much, you'll annoy them. If they want to stay and talk, don't ask for them to give you something, don't ask overly personal questions, don't ask for kisses or anything like that. You can give them a gift or ask nicely for a hug. Do not cry or freak out, it's going to freak them out. Act nice and casual, and they'll be nice back.

