 Is she your friend, or are you total strangers? If it's the latter, try to strike up a conversation! The best way to start a conversation is to find common interests. If this girl is emo, then you can almost guarantee that her interests will be music related, like listening to, writing or composing lyrics, maybe even art related pass-times.


It's even better if she has band merchandises on or has lyrics written over her stuffs. Find out what bands she likes and talk to her about them. Ask about her favorite bands or those bands members, how they look, act, or sound and what she thinks on the topics.;
, You might be able to suggest them to her. These can include anything from hardcore, post-hardcore, metal, metalcore, heavy metal, emo, punk rock, pop rock or even alternative.
 Don't pretend to know things just because she's interested in them.
, Be yourself and talk as yourself but remain quiet and try to be personal.
 Don't make inappropriate gestures or try ridiculous schemes to gain her attention. Don't try to impress her with skills you do or don't posses, but instead try to be a friendly, warm person who she can relate to.
 That means talking with her and also becoming friends with her friends and trying to be accepted into their friendship group. Try to talk to her about everything, not just music or school. Show her that her opinion matters and that you understand where she is coming from.However, if she tells you to stop talking to her, respect her wishes.
,


Go to a concert of a band you both like. It is a great experience that you can treasure but may be slightly expensive.
Local Shows- Seeing a small band in your town is an even better idea because you can be close whilst still being around others. This experience is much more special and you can find other like-minded people at these events while helping home grown talent.
Going To A Small CD Store- Not many of these exist anymore, so if you do have one near you utilize it! They are great places to get music advice from other people whilst being in a beautifully quaint location that is probably relatively unknown.



Go To a Park- Sometimes you don't want to go too far away and a local park is just what you want. Set up a cute picnic or watch a local team play. You can go for a walk. Bring down a ball to kick around or even better, an instrument and play her a song.
Stay Home- And sometimes you don't want to leave the house. Try watching a scary movie or a horrible one.
Cook. Try new recipes! Explore your tastes together.
Craft. Artisan crafts make great bonding experiences.



Try to get her something she has wanted for a long time.
Be careful with clothes though. Ask a friend of hers to go shopping with you so you can get her size. Or try to buy something else like a necklace or a hat

,