 Family is very important in the Chinese culture, so make sure to include your parents in all of the planning and proceedings. Before you begin planning your Chinese wedding, talk to your parents and grandparents about what Chinese wedding traditions you should include in your wedding.;
, Do this with what's called "bridal cakes." This serves as your wedding announcement. Your bridal cakes should be sent to the friends and relatives you intend to invite to your wedding. Traditionally, the groom's family pays for these cakes, but the bride's family distributes them.
 Once you send out your wedding announcements, or bridal cakes, that is a signal for your friends and family to begin sending congratulatory gifts. The bride and her family are responsible for receiving the gifts.
 The bride should wear a red wedding dress at a Chinese wedding. This symbolizes love and joy. If you don't want a dress that is completely red, buy a traditional white wedding dress and add red embellishments.
 There are a couple of rituals that you can perform for a traditional Chinese wedding experience.


Bathe the bride. The bride's family should prepare a luxurious bath for the bride on the night before the wedding. Put pomelo in the water, which is a type of grapefruit. The pomelo is said to get rid of evil spirits.
Perform the hair combing ceremony. After the bride bathes, she should sit in a candlelit room so her mother can comb her hair 4 times. Each combing symbolizes something different. The first is for beginning to end; the second is for harmony from youth to old age; the third is for the hopes of many grandchildren; and the fourth is a wish for wealth for the couple and the hope that the marriage lasts many years.



The bride, according to custom, should serve tea to her parents on the morning of the wedding. This should be done in her home before the groom arrives.
Perform a tea ceremony at the wedding ceremony, in front of the guests. The couple should serve the tea to their parents as a sign of respect.
 The meal will last a long time (possibly 3 hours or more). Serve foods like fish and suckling pig.
 Hire a team of dancers to perform the lion dance. This may cost quite a bit of money, depending on how many dancers you hire and how much experience the dancers have.
 Time the firecrackers to coincide with the lion dance. In Chinese culture, people shoot firecrackers at a wedding as a wish of good luck for the newlywed couple.

