 Your husband will not have the opportunity to miss you if you are constantly seeing each other or talking to each other. Give him the chance to see what life would really be like without you by leaving him alone for a while.One of you will have to move out for this to work. If you have a friend or relative you can stay with, spend some time there. You can let your husband know that you hope the separation will only be temporary.
Try this for about a month. This will give both of you adequate time to think about your relationship, and it will give him the time he needs to start missing you.
It will be much easier to not contact your husband if you avoid checking up on him. You may want to unfollow him on social media so you won't be tempted to comment on his status updates. Don't ask mutual friends about how he is doing either.
 Use your time apart to work on becoming the best version of yourself as you can. You may want to try to become more physically fit, work on your emotional stability, or expand your intellectual horizons. When you and your husband reunite, he will notice the difference and find it very attractive!In addition to making yourself more attractive to your husband, this will help you feel better about yourself. If the marriage doesn't end up working out, you will be in a much better position to get through it.
 You husband will be more likely to miss you if he sees that you are happy and fun to be around. Try socializing with friends and doing activities that you enjoy. When you and your husband begin communicating again, your happiness will be very enticing.Don't go out of your way to show him that you don't need him. Your goal should be to make him want to share in your happiness, not to make him resent you for it.
 Once you do start talking to your husband again, give him a reason to miss the happy times that you had together. Instead of focusing on the negatives of your relationship, try bringing up some of your favorite memories.There are many ways that you can remind him of happy memories. You could send him a photo from your honeymoon or reminisce about an adventure you had together, for example.
You may want to consider talking to your husband about your desire to make more happy memories like the ones you have had in the past. If it feels right, have a conversation about the changes you can make to your relationship to help make that happen.

