 If you get a Hummer, pay close attention to your gas gauge, because the last thing you want to happen is to run out of gas when you're just yards away from a tornado. Make sure that the vehicle is as fast or as heavy as possible; fast so that you can escape quickly, or heavy so that in the event that you do come in close contact with the tornado, your vehicle may be able to withstand the winds. The most ideal storm chasing vehicle in the world is the T.I.V (Tornado intercept vehicle), but this vehicle was hand built by an IMAX film maker and costs tens of thousands of dollars to make. You may choose to create such a vehicle if you decide you want to make a career out of storm chasing.;
, The emergency lighting can be useful not only to warn people that you are speeding toward the storm. It will serve as a beacon for rescue parties to help locate you and your vehicle in the debris after the storm has passed. You may need to armor your vehicle with at least 1/4" thick steel plating or at the very least steel mesh netting. Remember, you might be spending a lot of time in this vehicle and you want to be comfortable. Also, be sure to get the appropriate SKYWARN training class and then get the stickers so that you will be an official storm observer.
 You need to establish yourself and make a name so that when you are out in the field people will know who you are and give you room to do your work.
 Don't let your nerves get the best of you, keep filming unless it's time to retreat.
 An empty tank just yards away from a tornado is game over in the storm chasing world.
 The jobs can be interchangeable but be dedicated to your job during the chase.
, If the tornado is going away from you film it until you cannot see it. If the tornado is approaching you, once you can feel the winds begin to blow you away get in your car and retreat. You may choose to film the tornado during your retreat.
, Get to know the pros, ask questions, and share stories.
 Don't let this intimidate you. It takes years of experience. Sometimes even the experts who have done this for years make mistakes and get hurt. If you want to chase storms, look for a reputable storm chasing tour company and book a tour.

