 One simple way to save a little money during a recession is to reign in how much you are spending on food. Begin by eating out less and cooking more of your food at home. Restaurants, in particular, can suck up a lot of your income. You can also buy more affordable groceries. Try buying things in bulk and limiting purchases of more expensive or non-necessary items like alcohol and junk food.If you have the space, try growing your own produce in a garden.Consider a food co-op to save on groceries.
When dining out, share entrees, order appetizers, going to happy hour, etc.
 Instead of throwing out your old things, try to repurpose or recycle them. It may be as simple as cleaning or putting a patch on it. Get creative and see if it is possible to use something again. It could save you a little money in the long run.


Reuse plastic and glass containers for storage or as drinkware.
Dryer sheets, besides removing static and making clothes soft, can be used to deodorize just about anything. They can even clean a pan.If you have a garden, try creating a compost and avoid buying fertilizer., During a recession, paying others to provide you with services can be expensive. The expenses for things like car maintenance, haircuts, and home projects can add up. However, if you are willing to take some time, you can do many basic things on your own. Watch a few Youtube tutorials to guide you through the project you want to accomplish. Figure out what you feel comfortable with and give it a shot.You can learn how to change your own oil and do other basic maintenance instead of paying a mechanic to do it.Perform your own yard maintenance instead of hiring a landscaper.
If you are okay with the outcome, you might consider cutting your own hair., Avoid buying anything at its retail price. Instead, use a coupon or wait for an item to go on sale. Many stores will have seasonal sales where you can buy goods at significantly marked down prices. For example, many clothing stores will have major sales at the end of a season to make room for new inventory. Keep an eye open and, if you have to buy something, do it when there’s a sale.Many stores have sales on certain holidays, like Memorial Day or Labor Day, or following them, like on Black Friday.
 If your income is tight but you have to buy something, purchase it second hand. Get your clothes at a thrift store or Goodwill. Buy refurbished electronic equipment, like computers and phones, from places like Newegg for a fraction of the price. Although it can be intimidating, buying a used car can save you thousands of dollars.Visit websites like Craigslist to find people looking to sell or give away their used things. Make sure you take steps to protect against theft and fraud when using these sites.
 Try saving a little cash by limiting how much you spend for cable and your cellphone. With cable, try purchasing a less expensive package or cutting the cord altogether and opt for a cheaper streaming service like Netflix or Hulu. If your cellphone bill is too big, pick a smaller data package.