 Most barns with lesson programs know that the internet is the best way for them to get the word out about what they can offer. Check out local barns’ websites to see pictures of their facilities and animals. Get ready to be excited about all the cute ponies! Be sure to also read user reviews to find out about other riders’ experiences at the barn.Choose a barn with a longstanding lesson program for your first ride. This will help you avoid any injuries or bad experiences as you get started with this new sport.;
, Once you’ve picked your spot, drive over and take a peek. This will help you get comfortable with the barn and the riding arenas. Call ahead to schedule a meeting with your instructor so you can chat about both of your expectations for the lesson.

Your instructor may also tell you which horse they’re planning to have you ride. Ask if the instructor would be willing to introduce you to the horse so you can start getting to know each other.
 During your in-person meeting or the phone call you use to schedule your lesson, ask about equipment. Riding gear is extremely expensive, and you don’t want to buy it unless you’ve fully committed to the sport. Most barns will have helmets available for lesson-ers, and they may also keep pairs of boots and half-chaps.If your barn doesn’t have helmets available, ask if they can put you in touch with a rider who’d be willing to let you borrow theirs. The helmet is the only absolutely necessary piece of equipment you’ll need for your first lesson, so if you can find one, you’re set. Avoid buying gear until you’ve ridden for at least two months.
 Most barns will require you (or, if you’re under 18, your parent or guardian) to sign release forms legally protecting them in case you’re injured. Don’t be alarmed by this form, as it’s standard procedure and doesn’t mean the barn thinks you’re in danger! Make a payment for the lesson when you sign these forms to help you and the barn keep your records straight., It’s important to protect your legs from friction when you ride. If it’s a hot day, you may be tempted to wear shorts or capris, but resist the urge! Stick with beat-up jeans that you don’t mind getting dirty., When you ride, you put your feet in what are called stirrups. A heel of no less than one inch (2.54 cm) will keep your feet from sliding in and out of the stirrups. This will help you keep your balance, which is especially important for your first ride., Just like any other sport, horseback riding will make you sweaty and thirsty. You’ll probably be riding outside if the weather is warm and dry. Make sure you’re hydrated and protected from the sun before you ride.Bring a water bottle along and ask your instructor if they’d be willing to keep it safe for you while you ride. If you get thirsty during the lesson, politely ask your instructor if they can grab your water bottle for you to take a quick water break.
 Before you ride, your instructor or a groom will need to groom and tack up your horse. It’s important for you to be there for this so you can get to know your horse and learn how to care for them yourself. This prep work generally takes about 15-20 minutes for experienced riders, so a half hour will give you some wiggle room.