 Your dog will need time to adjust to his new environment. He will want to examine your house and smell everything. Take him on a tour of the house while his leash is still on. Allow him to take in his new environment.Your dog may pant, pace, have an upset stomach, or chew or drink more than usual at first. This is completely normal. He is just excited and nervous.
 Depending on his past, your dog may be shy and has not been housetrained or socialized. Because of this, your dog may be afraid of new things or engage in unpleasant behaviors like eating his own feces or marking his territory.Pay attention to how your dog responds and adjust your behavior. For example, if you are trying to teach a new command and your dog becomes tense or starts looking out of the corner of his eye, you need to give your dog some space and stop what you are doing.
Dogs like to run away when they are scared. Keep the crate door open so your dog can always retreat when he feels overwhelmed.
 Do not punish your dog for misbehaving at first. Your dog will not make the connection between punishment and bad behavior. Instead, your dog will be scared of you. If your dog misbehaves, stop the behavior and then give your dog a treat for stopping.For example, if your dog is biting shoes or trying to pee in the wrong area, tell your dog, “No, don’t do that” in a firm voice. Once your dog stops, give him a treat and give him some praise.
 Do not yell or make loud, sudden noises around your dog. You do not want to scare him. Use a soothing tone anytime you are speaking to or around your dog. Introduce new noises like the television or vacuum slowly. Try to keep the house quiet for the first couple of weeks. For example, after a couple of weeks, you may start watching TV when the dog is in the room. Once the dog is used to the TV, you may vacuum around him. Always judge his reaction. If he looks scared, reassure him that everything is fine and allow him to retreat into his crate.
Make sure that everyone else in the home keeps it relatively quiet as well.
 Living in a new environment often triggers separation anxiety. Your dog may become anxious when you leave him home alone and act out. Dogs typically do not do these behaviors in front of their owner. Common signs of separation anxiety include:Urinating and defecating when you leave him alone
Barking, crying, or howling when left alone
Destroying objects (e.g. door frames, doors, household items) when left alone
Trying to escape from a confined area
Eating feces when left alone
Pacing in straight line or in a circular motion.
 Do not spend all of your time around your dog when you first bring him home. If you are home all day, go to another room for 5-10 minutes to give your dog space. Before you go to work, go through your normal routine so your dog learns the signs that you will be leaving soon.Give your dog a treat or a toy when you leave so that he associates your absence with something positive.
Have brief absences before you leave your dog home alone while you are at work.
Start with 5-10 minute absences and build up to 40 minutes. Most of your dog’s anxious behavior happens in the first 40 minutes he is alone.
If the anxiety is not getting any better, talk to your veterinarian about your dog’s behavior.
 Your dog should sleep in the same room as you or other housemates. This helps your dog understand that he is a member of the group. Your dog should have his own bed or sleep in his crate. Make sure your dog can see you from where he is sleeping.Do not allow your dog to sleep in the bed with you. Your dog may take this as a sign that he is in charge.

