 Some herbs are harvested not just for their leaves but also their seeds and/or flowers. You will need to adjust when you harvest depending on what part of the herb you want. For example, cilantro's coriander (that is, the "fruit" or seed portion of the plant) only becomes available after the flowers form seed pods, but by then it will have very few leaves.If you're growing for seeds (ex: dill, fennel, coriander, or caraway) harvest around the time the seed pods change color.
If you’re growing for leaves, harvest before the plant starts to bloom. Some herbs like basil take on a bitter taste once they begin to flower.
For the flowers of herbs like lavender, borage, and chamomile, harvest before the flowers fully open.
Wait until the end of summer or early fall to uproot plants like ginseng and goldenseal.;
, If your plant is looking damaged, overgrown, or diseased, do not attempt to harvest from it. The likelihood that you will end up with a subpar product that tastes off or will mold is significantly higher. Instead, prune and care for your herbs until they are back in good health and harvest them after they have had sufficient time to recover their growth., Herbs lose much of their flavor and have a tendency to become bitter after they have flowered.In order to ensure that your herbs will taste right, harvest before they start to flower.


Timing can be key: oregano, thyme, and mint become their most flavorful just before they begin to bloom., Some herbs are very predictable for the earliest time you can start harvesting. However, it may depend on whether or not you've planted them as seeds or if you transplanted them. Use the following as guidelines for harvesting common herbs:


Parsley: 70-90 days after plantingRosemary: 6 weeks after plantingSage: 75 days after transplantingLemonbalm, peppermint (and mint), tarragon, and thyme can be harvested at any time once the herb has sprouted and leaves appear.Use your own judgment, too. It’s best to harvest based on how the plant looks – and whether it seems ready – rather than on days.
 It can be difficult to tell exactly when your herbs may bloom because herbs' growth cycles can be impeded or encouraged by the weather. Additionally, maturity varies from plant to plant. One accurate way to be sure you can start harvesting your herbs is to measure their height. If your herbs meet the minimum requirement listed below, you can start harvesting:Basil: 6-8" tall
Cilantro: 6-12" long
Oregano: 3-4" tall

, Herbs are used for both their fragrance and taste, both of which are derived from the oils they naturally produce. Logically you should pick your herbs when they have the highest concentration of oil. This happens to be in the early morning hours, around the time the morning dew is evaporating. Be sure that you pick your herbs before the heat of the day sets in. The sun's heat will dry up the plants, reducing the amount of oil.
Do not wash the dew from the leaves or you will lose the herbs' fragrant oils.
 In addition to starting early, you should harvest often. This promotes new growth. In general you can continue to harvest until the first frost. However, perennial herbs (that is, herbs that live for three or more growing years) should not be harvested after August so that you don't accidentally encourage the plant to grow when it is too cold for it to survive.