 If the numbers indicated on the holes or, mostly even numbers, this is most likely a tougher version of the game. The better & easier version of the game where big tickets are won more easily is the one where various numbers (1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 25, 50, 75, 100, JACKPOT , and 2 Bonus Plays)., Basically this is best done by testing it out yourself with a couple of practice tries. What you'll want to do is hit the button when the shining light (where the ball will drop from) shines right on top of the 9 hole (it is to the right of a hole labelled "JACKPOT" with an elevated yellow ring surrounding it & the 9 hole is separated from the Jackpot hole by a 1 hole in between both of them)., That means the drop was too early, and the button should be pressed AFTER the 9 hole passes under the shining light. If the ball drops & bounces off the left side of the yellow ring, that means the drop was too late, therefore, the button should be pressed BEFORE the 9 hole passes under the shining light. If the ball "appears" to have landed right on top of the Jackpot hole, however, bounced right out, that means you got the timing correct, but just need to stick to that timing & keep trying. If a proper ball dropping speed is not kept at a constant with each ball drop, it my become tougher to land the ball in a desire hole, For example, the ball may land in the 3 hole (Dark blue) that is to the right of a green hole, surrounded by a yellow ring, known as the 100 hole. However, when the ball eventually reaches the sensor hole, and awards you the amount of tickets indicated on the hole the ball dropped in, if the sensor that keeps track of the turntable's position becomes misaligned, the sensor may accidentally award you 100 Tickets, instead of the 3 that the ball landed. This displacement of the sensors could be good (landing in a hole next to a big number, and being awarded the big number) or bad (you could get the ball perfectly in the Jackpot hole, but if the sensor is displaced, it could ruin your luck by awarding you something else). Why this happens, or how this happens isn't really clear, and is most likely a random, accidental event of chance and luck., Also, the Jackpot number usually starts out at 25, 100, or 125, depending on the machine. It usually goes up to a certain number, 750 by default setting on the machine. Whenever the Jackpot is won, the Jackpot number is reset to the lowest number that the Jackpot is set to., Once you are capable of landing the ball in the Jackpot hole very easily, without much or any difficulty, the best trick to getting yourself better Jackpots, is to stop playing, and wait for others to play, and let the Jackpot build up, with each time people insert credits (tokens or quarters normally), until you feel that the Jackpot is high enough for your desire. However, DON'T wait too long, because if you do, other people may end up nabbing that big Jackpot, instead of you.

To ensure that you got the Jackpot awarded to you, usually an announcer announces, "Jackpot!" (On the Xtreme version it would announce "Whoa, you won a big prize!"). If you get the ball in the 100 hole, it'll announce, "Winner". If you get the ball in the 2 Bonus Plays hole, it'll say, "Big Bonus". It is advised that you listen for these announcements in the game, to make sure that it is working correctly.

