 They can help you deal with specific skin issues like acne and blotchiness, and also monitor your skin for signs of cancer.Avoid ones that try to sell you their own skincare products or one brand they “recommend.” Most dermatologists learn about skin care from cosmetics companies, not from school.
People with fairer skin often have a genetic predisposition to developing moles, regardless of how well they protect their skin from the sun. Sun exposure will create more or bigger moles, but in addition to wearing sunscreen every day, see a dermatologist to help keep track of any you already have., Picking out colors and shades of makeup for pale skin is easy if you follow a few general rules. Only accentuate one feature at a time: either your eyes or your lips; not both! Beware of dark or very brightly colored eye shadows since they may overshadow your gorgeous skin or wash you out. Always make sure your foundation, if you wear one, matches your skin.Stick with metallic or shimmery shades for eye shadow: bronze or earth tones if your skin has warm undertones, and gold, silvery, or jewel shades for cool undertones. Determining your skin tone is easy.
Wear brown eyeliner instead of black. It may be too drastic for light skin.
Wear pink or rose colored blush, and be careful if adding bronzer not to overdo it. These should accentuate your natural face, not look like you added makeup.
If your eyes are very neutral, consider a bright red lipstick (bluish red for cool undertones, orange-red for warm undertones). If you are accentuating your eyes, stick with a more neutral tone like pink, peach or rose.
 Many people with pale skin also have lots of freckles, whether born with them or gaining them yearly from sun exposure.The only way to really get rid of freckles is laser treatments, which can be expensive. Instead of trying to work around your freckles, work with them by choosing makeup that accentuates them.Never leave the house without sunscreen to prevent getting more freckles, even if you have had them removed previously.
Avoid thick foundation and use tinted moisturizer instead.
Stick with peachy or coral blush to accentuate your freckles.
 If you do, quit. Smoking accelerates aging, causing wrinkles in women as young as 20. It also dries and thickens your skin, leading to a leathery texture and appearance.