 Be sure to address exactly what it is that your teacher wants out of this report. That is the key step to getting good marks.;
, There is a lot of information out there on dinosaurs. The key to preparing a good report is to choose a distinctive topic within the subject of dinosaurs and to investigate deeply within the narrow confines of that topic. For example, ideas that might be suitable for exacting research include:


Methods of finding dinosaur fossils or methods for preserving them
A study of the eating habits of herbivore dinosaurs or carnivore dinosaurs
Examination of the changes in thinking of paleontologists about the coloring and textures of dinosaurs
A study of how dinosaurs are displayed in museums
Research into the perils of being a young dinosaur

, Good research takes account of competing ideas. This means that you can discuss both arguments while still preferring one side over the other, but you must provide reasons for why you think your ideas are preferable. For example, you might write something like:


Dinosaur display methods are generally able to convey to the public what dinosaurs looked like. However, Hobson says that some museums are not doing a very good job at displaying the larger dinosaur exhibits because they don't have high enough roofs. I disagree with this because I have visited 8 museums and only one of the eight had a roof problem and even then I would propose the following solution to fix that.
 Explain what you looked at, the issues you are raising and your conclusion. Write clearly in the report and avoid making sweeping statements. Try to keep your theme flowing throughout the report and make a sensible conclusion based on the things written in your report.
 A good report will show that you have done the research and not just made up everything off the top of your head. Acknowledge quotes and ideas properly and create a bibliography detailing the books, online resources, museum visits, interviews, etc., that you have used to inform your report.
 With modern printing methods and computing, there is little excuse for not producing wonderful illustrations of dinosaurs to spruce up your report. You can still draw your own illustrations, of course, just be sure to scan them in and include them in your printed report.
 Use hard card, images and fancy fonts to make the front cover. Join the report together with staples, binding, or twine. You might even like to consider making the cover in the shape of a dinosaur.

