 Sometimes, the IRS rewards whistleblowers where their information results in the collection of substantial taxes, penalties, and interest. For example, you might qualify for an award in one of the following situations:If the amount in dispute exceeds $2 million, and a few other conditions are satisfied, then you may get 15-30% of the amount the IRS collects. Furthermore, if the case involves an individual, their income must exceed $200,000.
The IRS also has discretion to give awards in other cases. The maximum amount of the award is 15% of the amount collected, up to $10 million.
 The IRS won’t rely on your speculation that someone has broken the law. Instead, it wants solid leads.Analyze what documented information you have that someone is a tax cheat.


Supporting evidence can include contracts, emails, bank records, ledger sheets, receipts, and books or records.You don’t need to have supporting evidence in your possession. However, you should describe them and identify their location with as much detail as possible., You must submit this form if you want to claim an award. You can download it from the IRS website here: https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f211.pdf. Provide the following information:


name of the taxpayer you are reporting, including any aliases
last four digits of their Social Security Number or Employer Identification Number
taxpayer’s address
taxpayer’s date of birth or estimated age
information about whether you have already reported the taxpayer to the IRS
alleged violation
short description of when and how you uncovered the violation
your relationship to the taxpayer
amount owed by the taxpayer
your identifying information
your signature under penalty of perjury

, Make a copy for your records and submit the form along with all supporting evidence to the IRS. Don’t withhold information or evidence, since doing so could be held against you. If you have a question about what to submit, call the Whistleblower’s office.Mail to: Internal Revenue Service, Whistleblower Office—ICE, 1973 N. Rulon White Blvd., M/S 4110, Ogden, UT 84404.
 Your information will be sent to a subject matter expert, who might contact you to ask questions. If the IRS doesn’t use the information, you’ll be sent a denial letter.A claim with merit gets forwarded to an investigator. Generally, it can take five to seven years to complete an investigation.
Because it can take so long to decide, you should make sure the IRS has your current contact information. If you move, send your new contact information as soon as possible to Internal Revenue Service, Initial Claims Evaluation Team, 1973 N. Rulon White Blvd., M/S 4110, Ogden, UT 84404.
 In some situations, you can appeal to the tax court if the IRS turns down your claim for a reward. In order to appeal, the amount in dispute must have exceeded $2 million.It usually takes three to ten years to go through the court process.Because so much money is at stake, you should hire a tax lawyer to help you make the strongest case that you can. You can find a qualified tax lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.