 You can find this in your app drawer by tapping the grid at the bottom of your Home screen. You can also typically access settings from the Notification Panel.;
,, This will display all of the apps installed on your device.
 Apps that you know longer use may be taking up space and running in the background, slowing your device down. You'll see the amount of space each app takes next to the entry in the list.


Some versions of Android allow you to sort by size by tapping the ⋮ button.
, If this button is not available, the app likely came preinstalled and cannot be completely removed.
 You may have to tap "Uninstall updates" first.
 The more apps you can remove, the more space your phone will have. This will lead to better performance., This is the grid at the bottom of your Home screen.
, The layout of this screen will vary depending on your device, but there's usually a trashcan button or a Delete button you can tap at the top of the screen.
 Each file you want to delete will have a checkmark next to it.
,,, You'll find this in the list of all of your apps.
 It may just be labeled Storage.
, This will clear all of the app cache data on your device. You'll have to sign into your apps again when you next launch them.,


If you have a Mac, see Transferring and Removing Pictures (Mac).
,,, You can click the folder or Computer button in the Start menu, or press ⊞ Win+E.
,,,,,,, The photos will begin copying to your computer, and will then be deleted from your device.
,,,,,,,,,,,, The pictures on your Android device will be transferred to your computer's hard drive, and will then be deleted automatically from your Android's storage.
 If you are signed in with a Google account on your Android, your contacts should automatically be synced with your Google account. You can check your Google contacts at contacts.google.com. If you have contacts you need to back up manually, see Back Up Your Contacts with an Android Phone, Gmail or Moborobo.
 When you factory reset, all of your data will be wiped. If you have files on your Android that you need to keep, connect your Android to your computer and transfer the files for safekeeping. See Transfer Data Between a Cell Phone and Computer for detailed instructions.
 Once your data is safely backed up, you can start the reset process.
 Some Android devices, notably Samsung devices, will require you to switch to the Personal section to find the reset options.
,,,,, This will restore your contacts and settings, as well as your Google Play Store app purchases and downloads.

