 Ringworm is also known as dermatophytosis. It is not a worm but an infection of the skin, hair or claws of the dog, caused by a fungus. The fungus spreads easily through contact with an infected dog, its broken hairs or objects that the dog has come into contact with; it can also infect humans.Dogs are very susceptible to getting ringworm, especially if they are puppies, immuno-suppressed, taking corticosteroids, infested with fleas or mites, have a genetic proclivity or they are in a place with many dogs.;
, Look for lesions on the dog's skin. Infection is most common on the dog's head, ears, tail and front paws, but any part of the body can be infected by ringworm.The following signs indicate that the dog might have ringworm:An early infection will appear pinkish in color and you'll likely notice scaly skin pieces around the area and across the dog's body. Hair around the lesion turns brittle and breaks off easily.
A well-established infection will show round lesions, and the skin will cover the lesion and look scaly and grey.
Consider other possible signs. These standard signs tend to vary. You may also see patches on the skin that look as if someone has shaved the dog. Or, you may see bumpiness, pustules, inflammation, a poor coat, or crustiness., You can use a hairbrush on the dog's hair. Place the dog over white paper, then brush the dog. If the dog has ringworm, fungal particles will be obvious on the white paper.


It is recommended that you take your dog to the vet for professional advice and prescription medicine (topical and oral therapies)., If you know that a dog, cat or other pet has ringworm, separate any infected animal from the dog or dogs that do not have it. This quarantine will need to be maintained strictly, along with strictly regular cleaning and hygiene, and treatment of the infected pet(s).


If your neighbor's pets have ringworm, talk to your neighbor about preventing contact with your pets.
 This includes:


Regularly disinfecting the kennel, crate or other housing arrangement for the dog. However, be careful about the type of disinfectant you use, as some do not kill the fungal spores. Ones that do work include benzalkonium chloride, diluted (1:10) bleach and strong detergents.Washing bedding on at least a weekly basis. Use hot water if possible, and line dry in direct sunshine or a hot setting of the dryer.
Vacuum all areas likely to be affected by a ringworm infection, both during and after an infection, and as a precautionary measure. Dispose of the vacuumed contents in the outside trash can, in an enclosed bag.
Keep food and water bowls clean.
Giving consideration to keeping the dog only in rooms that are easy to clean. This will minimize environmental contamination if an infection does start., If your dog has been infected, keep it quarantined from other dogs for about six weeks.This includes doggy daycare, dog shows and spending time with the neighbor's dogs. This works the other way around; if your neighbor's dogs have been infected, keep your dog well away for six weeks after treatment.
 Wash your dog regularly with an appropriate dog shampoo and ensure that the dog dries properly.


If you don't like cleaning the dog, invest in regular dog grooming sessions.
 A healthy dog is less likely to get ringworm.

