 You can only file a judgment lien after you've won a court judgment in a case in civil court. The judgment lien allows you to sell the real or personal property subject to the lien and use that money to satisfy the debt owed to you.A judgment lien does not ensure payment of a judgment. The lien attaches to the debtor's real or personal property, informing potential buyers that the title of the property is not clear. If you place a judgment lien on someone's property, there's a chance you won't receive your money until that person decides to sell that property., Different states have different procedures for getting judgment liens and for maintaining them. If you aren't familiar with those rules you could cause your lien to expire.


Generally, you can only place a lien on personal property located in the state where the judgment was obtained.The lien is only good for a certain period of time. For example, in states such as California and Arizona, your lien is good for five years, but may be renewed if you haven't been paid within that time.If the debtor sells or transfers the property while the lien is in effect, the judgment lien remains on the property until the creditor has been paid in full., If you're eligible to file a judgment lien, find out what documents you need to file, where you need to file them, and what fees will be charged.


Some states have a form you can fill out. For example, if you want to file a lien in California on personal property such as a car or a boat, you would fill out a "Notice of Judgment Lien, Form JL-1" and file it with the California secretary of state.If you wanted to place a lien on real property, on the other hand, you would fill out and record an "Abstract of Judgment for Civil and Small Claims" form at the county recorder's office.In some states, such as Arizona, your lien must be accompanied by a certified copy of your court judgment. You can get a certified copy for a fee from the clerk's office in the court where you were awarded the judgment., Where you file your documents depends on where the property is located and whether you're attaching your lien to real or personal property. Each state has different filing rules, and the same state may have separate offices and procedures for real and personal property.Typically you can mail your documents to the correct office along with the fee to file them, but as with the mechanic's lien it may be in your best interest to file them in person so you know the lien is recorded and you can correct any defects in your forms immediately., A judgement lien does not guarantee payment of the debt. Rather, you have to wait until the debtor sells the property. If the buyer wants a clear title, she will insist the debtor satisfy the judgment before she completes her purchase.While there's no law that requires liens to be cleared before property is sold, in most cases potential buyers want a clear title, not a property that's encumbered with someone else's debts.In some states such as California, if the debtor pays the judgment, you must remove the lien by filing a form with the court that acknowledges satisfaction of the judgment., If the debtor still doesn't pay, there are other legal options at your disposal to collect the debt, such as wage garnishments or bank levies. Speak to a collections attorney to get a better idea of the options available in your state.

