 Giving back to your local community as a family also influences your child’s outlook. Helping others in need allows your family to make a positive impact. It can also help your child to develop empathy and see that everyone struggles sometimes. Plus, it boosts optimism because your child sees that they can make a difference in the world, no matter how small.Work at a soup kitchen, host a foreign exchange student, or pitch in at the community cleanup event.
 You can short-circuit your brain to look on the bright side when you develop an attitude of gratitude. As a family, spend time each day focusing on your good fortune. Make it a ritual, such as going around the table every evening at dinner and having each person share something.For example, you could share that you are grateful for the chance to talk on the phone with an old friend and for the great cup of coffee you had this morning.
You can also teach your child about positive affirmations, which is when you say positive things about yourself. For example, you could say something like, “I really like the way my hair looks today!” or “I am a very organized person.”

, If your child doesn’t have chances to prove themselves, they will have a harder time cultivating a “can-do” attitude in life. Offer your child opportunities to take on new challenges or complete demanding tasks. If they need your support, be there. But give them the chance to try on their own, if they want.For example, your child has been riding their bike with training wheels for years. Suggest that they remove them. You might say, “You’ve done so well with the training wheels. What do you think about taking them off and trying on your own? I’ll be right here if you need me.”

, If your child makes a mistake or encounters a setback, refuse to let them dwell on the negative consequences. Instead, go on an adventure to locate the silver linings. Most negative events also include lessons, if you get into the habit of searching for them.Say your child is behind in math class. You might remind them “I, too, had difficulty in math. I had to study it harder and because of that it became one of my favorite subjects. Things that challenge you are only forcing you to give your very best.”

