 Before you talk to an insurance adjustor, take a moment to write out the events that led to your injury, along with a brief timeline of how you've handled the injury to the present.


Continue updating your timeline as events continue to unfold. For example, if you're still seeing a doctor to treat your injury, write down the date and time of each appointment on your timeline, as well as the doctor's name and what happened during the appointment.
Keep in mind that you know your claim better than anyone else, and if you don't tell the adjustor about something, he or she won't know.Your outline also may be helpful if you want to tell your doctors or therapists about any recurring problems or symptoms you're having as a result of either your injury or any medication.
It's important to write everything down as soon as possible, while it's still fresh in your mind. Memories fade, and you want the most accurate and detailed account of the events possible.;
, You will need proof of medical expenses and other costs so the insurance company can reimburse you.


You generally will need any medical records, including bills and receipts from pharmacies or for other injury-related expenses.If you lost work or had to cash in vacation time as a result of the injury, you also need to collect pay stubs and a statement from your boss or someone in human resources that details the extent of your lost wages as a result of the accident.You also are entitled to damages for pain and suffering and emotional distress, although these sorts of damages can be hard to quantify. If you missed any planned events for which you'd already purchased tickets, these are the sorts of things that also should be collected to support your claim., If you're filing a claim on your own insurance policy, read your documents carefully so you understand your coverage and how the company processes claims.


Keep in mind that an adjustor is never going to pay you more than the limits of the policy that was in effect at the time of your accident.For example, if your insurance is limited to $25,000 of bodily injury coverage, the most you can get is $25,000 – even if your medical bills and expenses far exceed that.
 Insurance adjustors use a basic formula to compute how much your injury is worth, although the figures will vary depending on your circumstances.


If the insurance company accepts your claim, it must pay for your medical expenses, lost income, emotional damages, and damaged property. You may also receive additional compensation if you are permanently disabled or disfigured.This compensation is roughly intended to put you in the same place, financially, that you would have been had the injury never happened. Of course, future earnings can be highly speculative, and it's difficult for an adjustor – even for you – to predict what you might make in the future had you not been injured.For example, suppose you are in a car accident and lose the use of one of your legs. If your job depended on your ability to use both legs, you would have to find a different line of work or move to a desk job processing paperwork rather than being out in the field. The insurance company's settlement offer should account for the fact that you're no longer able to do the same job you were before the accident, and compensate you accordingly.
Because there's no real way to account for lost opportunities or experiences, adjustors use a formula in which the amount of medical expenses you've accrued is multiplied by a number between 1.5 and 5 depending on how severe your injury is.For example, if you merely had cuts and bruises and fractured your wrist, the insurance company might multiply your medical expenses by 1.5 or 2 to come up with a settlement offer.
The percentage of fault also will figure into the adjustor's calculations. If you were considered to be 10 percent at fault, your recovery would be reduced by that amount.However, keep in mind that fault percentages also are difficult to determine. At best, the adjustor can make a rough estimate. The difficulty means you have room to negotiate with the adjustor regarding the percentage, if any, to which you were at fault for the accident., While you may be able to begin the process online or using a mobile app, in most cases you must call the insurance company's claims department to file your claim.


If you are filing a claim with the insurance company of another person or business who is liable for your injuries, an adjustor may contact you first. Make sure you take down that person's name as well as the name of the insurance company and any claim numbers associated with your case.
If you're filing your claim with your own insurance company, check through your paperwork for a claims number you should call to begin filing a claim. There may be a 24-hour number you can call, in which case you probably will speak to a customer service representative first, and then receive a follow-up call from the adjustor assigned to your case.
Keep in mind that the adjustor works for the insurance company and will look after the best interests of the company. Even if it's your insurance company, the adjustor wants to get the best deal for the company – which may not necessarily be the best deal for you., The adjustor with whom you speak will ask questions regarding the incident that gave rise to your injury, and typically will ask you to forward certain documents.


The adjustor may record the phone call so it can be transcribed or referenced later.You might want to ask the adjustor if you can have a copy of this recording or any transcript for your own records.
The adjustor will expect documentation for all of your medical expenses and any other expenses related to your claim that you want the insurance company to cover.You may be asked to sign an authorization form which allows the insurance company to request records from your medical providers to assess your claim. If you receive such a form, make sure you read it carefully and understand the information to which the form grants the insurance company access before you sign.While you should answer the adjustor's questions completely and honestly, be careful how you word your statements and avoid saying anything that sounds like you're admitting fault., Although the adjustor may call you with an offer over the phone, make sure you have it in writing before you agree to anything.


When you get the written copy of the offer, scrutinize it carefully. You want to make sure it doesn't include any clauses that relate to terms or conditions you didn't discuss with the adjustor.
Try to write out the offer in your own words. When you talk to the adjustor again, read your account and ask him or her if your understanding is accurate.
If there are any terms you don't understand, or if it's not clear from the face of the document how the adjustor valued your claim, call the adjustor for clarification.
 The offer is not the end, but the start point to negotiations. If there's anything in the offer that makes you uneasy, you don't have to agree to it.


You also shouldn't be afraid to ask for more money. An insurance adjustor typically has a range he or she can approve, and the first offer probably represented the bottom end of that range.If you're willing to take the lower amount, it makes the adjustor look good to the insurance company, but it may not do you any favors. Consider asking for an amount around 50% more than what the adjustor first offered you., When you and the adjustor reach an agreement, read over the final terms and make sure you understand everything being offered.


If something doesn't make sense to you, or if you don't remember talking about it, you can always call and ask for additional clarification. Keep in mind that nothing written in the agreement is meaningless – every clause potentially affects your rights.
 If you don't understand some of the terms of the offer or still feel uncomfortable with it, an experienced personal injury attorney can ascertain whether the settlement is in your best interests.


Keep in mind that although most personal injury attorneys don't charge any fees up front, they typically take a percentage of your settlement as compensation for their work, plus any costs they accrued. If you've already done the bulk of the work in negotiating with the insurance company and just have a few questions or concerns about a settlement you're already inclined to take, don't work with an attorney whose compensation consists of a large percentage of your settlement.
Typically an attorney will charge between 33% and 40% of your settlement, and he or she may do little to nothing to increase the settlement beyond the amount to which you'd already agreed.If you would feel more comfortable talking to an attorney before you sign, find out what he or she charges before hand, and don't be afraid to attempt to negotiate that fee down.
You also might check with your local bar association to see if there are personal injury attorneys who are willing to look over a settlement for a reduced rate or a flat fee.
On the other hand, if your claim is extremely complex, or if your injuries are severe and have potentially long-term consequences, it probably is in your best interest to consult an attorney.Although he or she may not be able to do much to change the dollar amount you receive, there may be other clauses in the agreement that limit the insurance company's liability if your injury causes you problems in the future. An experienced personal injury attorney is trained to look for those types of clauses and negotiate with the adjustor to have them removed.
 Once you've decided you want to take the settlement offer, you must sign the written agreement to formally accept it.


In some situations, the adjustor may want you to sign the agreement in front of a notary public. If this is required, find a notary near you and take the agreement there. You typically can find a notary in banks or at your local courthouse.
Keep in mind the notary will charge you a small fee for his or her services. You must have a valid, government-issued form of identification so the notary can verify that it is you who is signing the document., Many states require court approval of insurance settlements in certain types of cases, or if a lawsuit has already been filed.


You typically must get court approval of the settlement if it involves pay out to a minor or disabled person under somebody else's care.If, for example, you were involved in a car accident with your minor son and both of you were injured, the settlement would have to be approved by a judge.
If you're receiving an injury settlement on behalf of someone who died as a result of his or her injuries, typically you must get the settlement approved by a judge., The insurance company will send you the check when the paperwork is completed.


Make sure the insurance company has your correct mailing address before the check is sent. Once you receive it, deposit it promptly.

