 If you feel that your device has been stolen, do not try to retrieve it yourself. Instead, report it to the police and let them take care of the problem for you. Trying to retrieve your phone yourself could land you in serious trouble, and may even cost you your life.
 The speed with which you need to do this and the extent of it will depend on how much you use your phone for online interaction. For some, this may be very little, while for others, it could be a huge task. You may also want to cancel any credit/debit cards that were registered to any online stores through that device (like the App store, for example).


If you're worried that the phone is in someone else's hands, the sooner you do this the better, as identity theft is a serious and widespread issue.
It's better to take the time to reset your passwords and logins before physically hunting further for your phone. This will minimize the potential damage someone could do with access to your information, and if you do find your phone then using new passwords is only a minor inconvenience.
Start with your most important passwords. This typically includes email, bank accounts, Facebook, and online storage. Deal with financial and personal information first. After you have changed your major passwords, you can reset passwords for less important services.
 Have your account details handy, so that your account can be closed down. You may need a password or passcode, if you designated one for your account. Having your service provider cancel the phone will help keep someone (whether a thief or someone who finds your phone) from making unauthorized calls with your SIM card.


If you have a phone that is paid by usage rather than prepaid, and you cannot find it within 2 hours, it usually is a better idea to call your phone company immediately and tell them to deactivate your phone.
 Visit the police station. Smartphone insurance providers will often want a police report, if you intend to file a claim through your pre-paid insurance option. Some phone companies may also require a police report just to deactivate your account.


Lost phones are often turned in and left unclaimed because people assume that nobody would have been kind enough to have handed them in.

