 Generally speaking, the more blades a fan has, the quieter it will be, (five blades are better that four). Each blade does less work and creates a smoother and more even sound, as opposed to fewer blades where the sound becomes choppy and irritating.


Running on low speed also creates less wear and tear on the fan and needs less electricity (less consumption it means is working better on cloudy days or days with low level of isolation.);
, It is important that the fan uses marine grade materials for a lasting presence on the roof. This will protect against UV and high temperatures. Many manufacturers of solar attic fans offer aircraft grade aluminum hood used for housing of the fan (this lowers the weight tearing of the roof and has a high resistance to direct mechanical impact).
 Look for efficiency and money well spent. Things to keep in mind:


Too small a fan will do very little to lower the temperature.
Too big a fan will be a heating drag for the wintertime or during the cold days when you want the attic fan still functioning, extracting humidity out of that place. (Humidity is generating mold and affects the whole house isolation!).
 Any roof 2 ½ -12 pitch or less should be treated as a flat roof installation.
The solar attic fan will be mounted as a light pitched to the shingle roof for fans mounted on the north side of the roof in any of the setups with a remote panel mounted on the south or west side of the roof.
The solar attic fan will be tall pitched for zones with snow.
The attic fan has to be installed 2 feet (0.6 m) away from the roof’s ridge.
The attic fan has to be mounted between roof tresses.
The attic fan has to be positioned in the center of the roof, where the most amount of heat accumulates.
The roof has to be provided with a lot of natural vents in order to ensure the right ventilation.
The solar panel for a remote powered attic fan has to be placed away from shades and away from chemises.
 Use pressure-treated lumber secured at all four corners with wood screws or galvanized nails (use 2” x 6” or larger lumber - adhere to local building codes).
Locate an area that is between the trusses to install the solar attic fan (southern exposure is recommended). Mount the curb to the deck centering the curb over the space between the trusses.
Using a reciprocating saw cut out an opening. Do not cut structural framing.
Place curb over opening and toe-nail into existing roofing using galvanized nails. If necessary, building blocking to ensure the curb is secure. Wrap the curb with roofing material to prevent leaking.
Attach the solar attic fan to the curb using (4) screws provided through the pre-drilled holes on the solar attic fan curb lip.
Adjust angle of the solar panel to position it will gather the most amount of sunlight (panel facing due south is recommended). To adjust, remove the center screw on solar panel bracket and swinging arm up to your desired position. Re-attach screw.

