 There are a few different types of eyelid tape on the market. You can buy it in rolls, which you will have to cut yourself, or you can buy it in pre-cut strips.Eyelid tape is a specialty product and may be difficult to find in some stores, depending on where you live. However, you can always buy it online.
An alternative to buying specialty eyelid tape is to buy athletic tape and cut it yourself. To cut your own eyelid tape, cut strips of athletic tape into small rectangles and round the corners off. You should now have small ovals of tape. Cut the ovals in half and round off any sharp edges.;
, Before applying the tape, make sure your eyelids are clean. You can apply make-up after you tape your eyelids.Some brands of eyelid tape may hold up better if you apply a small amount of eye-shadow first. Experiment with different brands and find what works for you., Look in the mirror and find where your eyelid naturally creases. Most brands of eyelid tape will come with an applicator that you can use to help you find your eyelid crease.Gently place the back end of the applicator on your eyelid and blink to find where your eyelid creases. This is where you will apply the tape., If you are using pre-cut strips, remove the tape from its backing using the applicator. Peel off one end of the tape backing and place the applicator to a corner of the tape. Pull off the rest of the tape backing until the eyelid tape is completely on the applicator.You should be able to bend the eyelid tape in an arch by squeezing the applicator together.Depending on what brand of tape you use, you may be dealing with pre-cut strips, or tape you cut yourself. In any case, you should have a pair of applicators to apply the tape to your eyelid.If you do not have an eyelid tape applicator, you can apply it with your fingers, but it may be a little more difficult., Close your eye and gently place the tape on your eyelid where you want to see your crease. Blink a few times to make sure the tape is secure.You shouldn't be able to see the tape, and your eyelid should now have a "double" crease.
Repeat with the other eye.

