 Utilize these buttons to adjust gameplay. You can adjust the controls, the number of bots, the difficulty of the bots, your gender, what you look like, number of kills, and the time limit. There are many other things you can do; simply play around with the buttons.;
, You will then return to the main menu.
 You should spawn in one of many places, such as outside on grass, inside on rafters, etc. The world is rather large and there are over 10 spawn points. You will spawn with one of the 4 weapons: Machine Gun, Sniper Rifle, Rocket Launcher, or the Pulse Gun. You spawn with 100 Health and 0 Armor.


Gameplay is rather simple. Click to shoot, and use the controls you set to move and strafe. The next thing we will cover is weaponry, which is obviously vital to gameplay.
The machine gun is a good weapon. You spawn with 80/200 ammo. It has the fastest reload in the game. Although it only hits around 1-10 per bullet, it accumulates very quickly and can do plenty of damage when used in excess.
The Sniper Rifle is an iffy weapon. You spawn with 20/50 ammo. It is slow, but inflicts 45 damage per hit, not to mention that its bullets travel the fastest in the game. You can right click with your mouse to zoom in a bit with this weapon, emulating a scope. The Sniper Rifle is a good finisher, as you can machine gun someone to around 45 and then finish them off with it.
The Rocket Launcher is a dangerous weapon. You spawn with 15/50 ammo. A direct hit from one of these deals 75 damage to you, which is three quarters of your maximum health. Even if it misses, the explosion it causes, or 'splash' damage can hurt you. For example, someone can miss with the rocket launcher by around 5 feet (1.5 m) and still deal 25-30 damage to you. Be careful not to shoot this at close-ranged things, as the explosion will hurt you as well. The rocket launcher is good for sending bots flying, as one hit bounces you back a good distance.
The Pulse Gun has never been one of the good weapons. You spawn with 60/200 ammo. It does 20 damage per hit, but it is rather inaccurate and not as fast as the machine gun. It can kill a newly spawned bot in 5 hits, but it is not a good weapon in general.
Armor can be found only inside, in a large room with rafters on top of a few boxes. It is a yellow floating shield. You have to jump off the rafters to get it. It immediately provides you with 100 armor, therefore increasing your vitality.

