 Mold is a moisture problem. If you clean up your mold but don't solve your moisture problem, you're just inviting mold to come back at a later date. Clean and dry water-logged or water-damaged areas within 24 hours to prevent mold from growing.Mold often presents itself in bathrooms (because of showers) and kitchens (because of sinks). Be sure to wipe away excess water on your sink and open windows in a bathroom after showering.;
, If you're dealing with some serious mold — over 10 square feet worth — it's best to call a professional for removal and cleanup.Professionals will be able to use highly-effective cleaning agents and will have the proper protection against spore inhalation.
 Absorbent or porous materials, such as drywall or ceiling tiles, may need to be discarded if the mold damage is severe enough. Because mold can fill the tiny cracks and pores of these materials, it may be difficult to remove the mold completely. Cleaning, in this instance, will only temporarily inhibit mold growth; unless you remove the surface from your home completely, mold will keep coming back.
 This is a band-aid treatment, and an ineffective one at that. Surfaces such as walls or tiles that have been painted or caulked over won't take paint or caulk very well; paint or caulk will simply peel off because it doesn't have a clean surface to adhere to.









Make sure you clean and disinfect a moldy area completely before painting or caulking. Wipe away excess moisture and wait a day or two before painting of caulking, just to be sure.
 Because mold contains spores, which are air-borne particles, it's very important to wear proper protection when cleaning moldy surfaces. In most cases, mold is harmless, but there are many different types of mold, some of which can become a health hazard in intense cases. Be sure to wear:









An N-95 respirator. These are available at hardware stores across the country for relatively cheap.
Goggles, to protect your eyes from spore interaction.
Gloves.

