 Part of the trick to delivering a good monologue is to find one that is a good fit for you. Finding a character similar to yourself is often easier to portray than someone with whom you find it hard to really connect or understand. Here are some ways to connect well:


If you have a certain disposition, such as shy, or outgoing, try to find a good "fit" in a character that aligns with your personality traits.
If you have a strong accent, find a monologue that may portray a character who has an accent.
Several websites are handy for finding a good monologue, and you may even be able to find a reputable fellow actor or a director to give you suggestions.;
, Make sure you have memorized it, and know it by heart before you go up on stage. Memorizing the monologue makes a big difference between getting the lead, and getting a smaller role. Also, proving that you can memorize a monologue shows the director you're auditioning for that you're prepared to memorize whatever lines you'll have in the actual performance as your character. Oftentimes, it helps to just simply memorize the monologue before getting filled up with emotion over it. Then, you will know the whole monologue before you polish it up.
 Imagine italicizing the words verbally for further emotion. Find places for inflections, pauses, sounds (like a cough, a cry, a muttering or a gasp), as well as facial expressions and bodily gestures. The whole body performs emotion. Just as someone would not only raise their voice when they become angry, you will want to add these small but important factors. An angry person might also make menacing gestures, grunt, turn red, as well as pace and stomp. They might also raise their voice or make their voice sound strained or upset. These kinds of "body language" and sounds add a whole lot of depth and emotion to your monologue.
 Envision how they would react to situations that you face. Think of the way they walk, the way they talk, and the way they interact with others. Think of how mature they would be at their age.


Try to think during certain moments of the day, "What would my character do, or how would he or she react at this moment?" Try to place yourself in the feeling and characteristics of the person whom you will portray. The more you envision yourself as your character, the more believable you will be.
Imagine your character's characteristics. Is he or she reclusive? What does he or she do for fun or in his or her free time? Is he or she proud? Is he or she heroic? Is he or she selfish? How does he or she walk? How does he or she talk? The more you know about your character (which may include making up things about him or her), the better you will be able to fill your monologue with emotion.
 Even though you might get stage fright, it is very important that you can be comfortable practicing your monologue in front of people. If you really feel uncomfortable at first, read it to your pets, your reflection in the mirror, or to yourself in an open space. Eventually, you should really try to practice for real people besides the director. Ask family and friends to listen initially.
 You should try to include people to make it seem more real and vivid to them. After all, you will be trying to make an impression on them, and not speak to yourself or into the distance.
 If you find your monologue becoming dull, either change it up (but keeping the same feeling) or take a little break from practicing. If you believe it, the audience believes it.
 You have your monologue memorized by heart, have practiced using emotion both with your speech and your body, and should be comfortable performing it for people. Remember, the more people you are comfortable with watching you, the better you will probably be able to perform for your audition or actual performance. Good luck!

