 Making matches in the center of the board will force any ingredients at the top drop zones cascade and fall toward the center of the playing board, which is positioned directly above the three-column pathway. Level 117 features four different drop zones -- two of which will drop ingredients directly into “stuck zones,” or corners that don’t lead to the ingredient pathways.;
, For example, if you need to move the cherry to the left, and the cherry is centered between one green candy on the left, and two green candies on the right, swap the cherry with the candy on the left to match the three green candies, and to move the cherry left toward the pathway.
 The chocolate will spread for every move if you fail to clear at least one chocolate square, and blocks the ingredient pathways, preventing you from bringing down the cherry and hazelnuts., Vertical striped candies are effective at clearing entire columns of candies leading down to the ingredient pathways.


Create vertical striped candies by matching four candies of the same color in a row, and moving the fourth candy into the match upward or downward in a vertical direction. When matched with other candies of the same color, vertical striped candies will wipe all existing chocolate, single-layer icing, and candies from the same column., In level 117, color bombs will be most effective at helping you pass the level if you can use them to clear chocolate squares, especially those leading to the ingredient pathways.Create color bombs by matching five of the same-colored candies in a row, then match the color bomb with another candy. A color bomb will wipe out all candies of the same color as the candy you match it with.
Try to match the color bomb with the color of candies adjacent to chocolate. For example, if there are three purple candies and one red candy adjacent to chocolate, match the color bomb with a purple candy to wipe out multiple squares of chocolate in one move.
 Striped + wrapped, color bomb + wrapped, wrapped + wrapped, color bomb + striped, and color bomb + color bomb combinations will be most effective at helping you beat level 117.


Make wrapped candies by matching five candies of the same color in an L shape, + shape, or T shape.

