 Your coworkers provide an easily accessible means of distraction. You can talk and socialize with them, and in many cases even claim the distraction as being “work-related.” Socializing with your coworkers can also give you the opportunity to build your network, which will help when seeking a promotion or another job.Keep in mind that your coworkers are there to work as well. They may enjoy their job, or have a family that depends on their income. When someone is busy with work, avoid interrupting them. Constantly interrupting coworkers will annoy them and is inappropriate.
 If the work day seems to drag on, then doing little things to break up the day and make work less stressful can help. Try getting up for frequent breaks if you spend a lot of time sitting at a desk, or do some exercises at your work station to help break up your day and reduce stress.


Head to the water cooler often for a drink of water.
Stand up and stretch or walk around to get your blood flowing.
Take a walk around the neighborhood during your lunch break.
Do some deep breathing or meditate for a few minutes.
 People often get bored at work because the work itself is dull or monotonous. If this is the case, try making a game out of it. Create rules and challenges that force you to do your work in a more creative and interesting way.


For example, if your job is to enter data into Excel, then try timing yourself for 15 minutes to see how many entries you can make in that time frame. Then, after timer is up, reset it and try to break your previous record.
 Since you have a job that you do not like, you may find it easy to identify what you want from a job. Try keeping a piece of paper handy and, as you go through your day, jot down what features you hope your dream job will have.


For example, you might jot down things like, “better cash incentives for sales,” “a supportive boss who treats me with respect,” “a pleasant workplace,” “flexible hours,” “weekends off,” etc.
 If you are unhappy in the job you currently hold, it is time to start considering the next step. You can make your days at work go by considerably faster if you spend any free time (or make free time) to look for jobs you’d rather have. Most jobs will require some sort of application and/or resume, and you can polish these things up at your current job to distract yourself.
 Being inspired can distract you from how much you hate your work. Read quotes or blogs that motivate you, talk to your coworkers about their accomplishments or desires, or write your own inspiring pieces. Doing so will help you get through the day to day job that you hate.You should be cautious while doing this. If your boss and/or coworkers see you, they may feel that you are not doing your job and be upset with you.

