 Drink plenty of fluids when you have kidney pain. If the pain is due to infection, the water may help flush out bacteria. Staying hydrated can also help to prevent kidney stones.In general, men should drink around 13 cups of water and other fluids daily (about 3 liters), and women should aim for 9 cups (2.2 liters).Water, juice, and tea count towards your fluids. Drinking cranberry juice may be a natural way to flush out your kidneys.


Limit your caffeine and alcohol intake. These shouldn’t make up a big portion of your daily fluids.;
, Use a heating pad on your back, flank, or abdomen to minimize pain.This will not cure the underlying cause of your kidney pain, but can make you more comfortable. You can also soak in a hot bath or shower.
 OTC pain medication can help to alleviate kidney pain. Take the right kind of pain medicine – use products that contain the ingredient acetaminophen, like Tylenol. Other OTC pain medications can cause harm to your kidneys. When in doubt, ask your doctor or a pharmacist if a medication is safe to take.Stay away from aspirin products.
Most pain medications are meant for short-term use. If your pain is chronic (long-lasting) discuss pain management with your doctor. OTC acetaminophen products may still be appropriate.
OTC pain medications can often be used to treat mild pain caused by polycystic kidney disease, an inherited disorder that causes chronic kidney pain as well as high blood pressure., Some people find lemon juice to help ease kidney pain associated with kidney stones, and it has even been show to work well as a preventative for kidney stones. This is because lemon contain citric acid, which helps to coat the stones and prevents them from getting any bigger. You can get the benefits of citric acid by drinking four ounces of lemon juice per day (diluted in water) or by drinking 32 ounces of lemonade per day., You should see your doctor any time you have kidney pain, but drinking coffee or tea may help to prevent the recurrence of kidney stones.One study showed that drinking caffeinated beverages like regular coffee and black tea may help to reduce your risk of kidney stones.However, do not dramatically increase your intake of caffeinated beverages. Caffeine is a diuretic, so it can dehydrate you if you get too much of it. Try to stick to one or two cups of coffee or tea per day., Use lab grade Chanca Piedra, an herbal remedy, to alleviate pain from kidney stones. This herb may also prevent recurrence of kidney stones. Purchase this supplement from a reputable source – get only Chanca Piedra grown in the United States that’s classified as “lab grade.” This supplement has not been scientifically studied, so check with your doctor before using it.Taking chanca piedra has not been shown to get rid of kidney stones on its own, but there is some evidence that taking chanca piedra over the course of three or more months after having shockwave therapy can help your body pass stones located in the lower urinary tract.Lithium and anti-diabetic medications interact with chanca piedra, so avoid taking chanca piedra if you are on these types of medications.
Disolvatol and Parcel Chanca-Piedra are two brands that may be purer than others. These may be available at your pharmacy, or you can purchase them online. Use it only as directed on the bottle.

