 If you want to feel good about your body, you will need to surround yourself with positivity. This can help you feel better about yourself, and feeling at ease when naked can help you look and feel better. Try to seek out positive people on your quest to look good naked.You are likely bombarded every day with negativity in regards to your body. A lot of media is centered around how and why you need to change your body. To drown out this pressure, hang out with people who are genuinely positive. Seek out friends, family members, and co-workers who have high self-esteem and are encouraging and appreciative of others.
Avoid people who bring you down. You may want to skip out on getting cocktails with your friend who is always dieting. Negativity is contagious. If your friend feels bad about her body, you may become more critical of yourself.;
, It can help to learn how to appreciate all types of different bodies. You will come to see things like confidence and personality can make someone sexy just as much as natural good looks. Look for positive female role models who embrace their bodies.Seek out celebrities and women you know who are accepting of their bodies. For example, maybe your Aunt Joan is comfortable with her aging body, and does not worry about developing wrinkles. Maybe there's a plus-size model you love who encourages women to appreciate bodies of all shapes and sizes.
Have body positive role models can help you see the connection between one's mind and body. People who have other positive traits, such as creativity and intelligence, can become more attractive due to their personality. Having confidence in yourself can improve the way you look, as it changes other's perceptions of you.
 You're unlikely to feel confident and sexy naked if you have a harsh inner-critic. Work on stopping negative thoughts when you begin experiencing them. Try to replace negative thoughts with positive ones, as this can help you look and feel better.Pay attention to how you think about yourself throughout the day. Be on the lookout for negative thoughts so you can stop them as they occur. When you feel negativity creeping in, find a positive thought or affirmation to think instead.
For example, you find yourself frustrated you can't fit into a pair of jeans at a department store. You may find yourself thinking, "I can't believe how big I am." Instead, try to replace this with a positive thought. Cut yourself some slack. Think something like, "There is no such thing as a perfect body. I can still be beautiful even if I don't fit into these jeans."

, You want to like your body to look good naked. One way to like your body is learn to appreciate it. Find things to do that focus on physical pleasure. This will allow you to embrace and enjoy your body.Take a nice, warm bath. Have a massage. Go dancing. Be physically intimate with your boyfriend or girlfriend.
Be aware of the sensations your body feels. Really appreciate the feeling of your sheets against your skin. Eat slowly and enjoy the taste of your food.

