 Nobody likes freaks that barge in and scare them and knock all their stuff down. This move will help your first impression on the people you spot and want to make friends with. Don't make your walk too dramatic though, people find that kind of creepy.;
, Not too much but just right to make your day more pleasant and maybe a special somebody might just find your smile very attractive. Smiling also helps acne go away (if you have acne). It makes you look like a happy, clean and friendly person. Remember, nobody likes a dirty, lazy, or grumpy person.
 Go up to a person or a group and start talking. Say hi first then start. Make sure your breath smells good. Chew some gum (make sure you get rid of it before you approach them), anything that makes your breath smell better. Don't use breath spray though. It makes it smell even worse. When you talk, make the conversation about evenly balanced-talk about you and them. You want to find out lots about them so you know if they are your type of friends. Be careful what you talk about, and don't lie. If you do it'll come back to you. If they don't find you interesting just move on. There's a lot more people in the school that want to be your friend than them.
 Use it, and if you need to, fix your hair, put on more make up (if you're a girl) whatever you think will make you look better do it. Just don't spend more than your time limit in the bathroom. You'll miss out on the first few minutes of first period and teachers DO NOT like this.
 Maybe you're goth, popular(if you think so),a nerd (no offense), or your old friends from last year (if you have some) or wherever you think you'll fit in.Just sit down at a table. Chances are that those people you sit with will be your first friends for the year.
 Just follow your schedule and you'll be fine. Whenever you're between breaks and you feel like there's a chance of making more friends or a friend, then talk to him/her/them. It's okay to be shy. Everybody feels like that on the first day. Just try to calm yourself down and hopefully it'll work.
 Even if it's just one friend you made it's better than nothing. Maybe he/she will become your new best friend.

