 To adequately prevent the infringement of copyrights and trademarks, you must be well-versed at identifying material used in posts that potentially is protected by copyright or trademark.Proofread any post copy thoroughly to make sure trademarks aren't being used generically. For example, Google is a trademark, despite the fact that many people use the word as a generic term to mean "search for something online." If your copy says "Just Google Cayleigh's Cupcakes," the word "Google" should be capitalized.
Style guides such as The Associated Press Stylebook have lists of trademarked words that should be capitalized. When in doubt, you can look up a word there.
U.S. law no longer requires a copyright notice for copyright protection, so don't assume something isn't protected by copyright just because you don't see a "©" anywhere.
When it comes to copyright, the best way to avoid legal risk is to assume that everything you find on the internet is protected intellectual property.
 The easiest way to avoid copyright or trademark infringement claims is to seek permission from the owner of the material before you use it on your company's website or social media accounts.To get permission, find out who originally created the image or other material you want to use, and send them a letter. Typically you can do this using email if it's more convenient. Let them know how you want to use their creative work and ask for their permission.
In your initial letter, don't offer any payment up front. Just ask for permission and tell them you will provide proper attribution. If they insist on being paid for your use, you can negotiate an amount with them.
Images and videos typically are protected intellectual property that shouldn't be used without permission from the copyright holder. Just because something is found on the internet doesn't mean it's free for you to use.
Likewise, if material posted on someone's blog, the copyright belongs to them, not the website that hosts the blog. If you do get permission to use an image you found online, attribute that image to the creator of the image, not to the blogging service.
 If you share information gathered from somewhere else, indicate clearly that it came from and outside source, and correctly identify the source of that information.On social networks, use the button provided by the network to share or reblog the post – never copy it and post it directly from your account.
Using the provided buttons is the approved way to share posts from other accounts with your followers that leaves the original source intact.
Most websites also have buttons that allow you to share content through your social media account by clicking a button to create a post. If you see an article that conveys news about your company that you want to share, either use this method or copy and paste a direct link to the source.
When writing original copy for a text post, cite quoted or paraphrased material within the text and provide a link if the material can be found online. For example, you might write "According to the Anytown Crier, Cayleigh's Cupcakes are the best in the state." The "x" in brackets can be hyperlinked to the article in the local newspaper.
 Any time you have a contest or promotion that allows customers or social media users to create content, you must obtain a release from the individual who created the material before you use it on your website or otherwise distribute it.The release also protects you from being held liable for any copyright or trademark infringement on the part of the user who created the content for you.
A click-through release that displays before the user can submit the content may work, but your best bet to avoid legal risk is to get a separate written release signed by any customers whose user-generated content you decide to use.
 Your posts typically will get more attention if they contain images or graphic elements, but stock photos aren't free. Make sure your company has an active subscription or license to use photos before placing them in your posts.Don't use stock photos that have the company's watermark on them – these aren't images approved for distribution.
You must have a license to use stock photos commercially. Stock photo services typically have different levels of licensing, and charge more for commercial than for non-commercial use.
However, if you're using a stock photo in conjunction with a company news post, this is considered a commercial use.

