 Developing strategy is built on a foundation of understanding. In order to create a method by which you can succeed in your given area, you must recognize and accept the shortcomings. When you understand what needs work, you can build a strong action plan for overcoming those obstacles. Here's how to spot those shortcomings.Look for the activities or responsibilities you constantly put off. People often avoid what they feel less competent in.
Pay attention to the feedback of those around you. If your partner and your boss give similar constructive criticism, the common ground may be an area of weakness for you.
Ask the opinion of a trusted friend. Find someone who will speak candidly with you and ask him what areas you can refine.
Look closely at previous setbacks. When you failed at a task in the past, what were the major barriers to your success?;
, The next step toward identifying your given objectives is to assess what resources you have at hand. Do you have everything you need to reach your goals? Are you maximizing these resources by using them most effectively?For example, oftentimes, a leader may have a team of people there to help on a project, but only employ a few of the players. Make use of every person available to you for optimal success.
 Now is the time to dream. Close your eyes and envision what you would like to see happening in your life over a set period of time. Think about your career. Your relationships. Your finances. Your passions. Your health. Ask yourself the following questions:


What is missing from my life right now that I would like to incorporate?
Am I moving towards the person I want to be?
Where do I see myself in 5 years? 10 years? 20 years?

, Once you have pinpointed a few goals that you would like to move towards, it's time to create an action plan to reach them. In order to ensure that these goals come into fruition, they need to meet certain qualifications. The most effective goals are SMART goals.S is for specific. Your goals should outline who is involved, what you want to accomplish, where this will take place, when you expect to reach the goal, which requirement or resources are needed, and why you want to achieve it (i.e. the purpose).
M is for measurable. Your goals should include a concrete and clear way to track progress.
A is for attainable. You should be able to see yourself reaching these goals and know that you have the skills, resources, and willpower to achieve them.
R is for realistic. Your goals must be feasible based on your unique circumstances and the resources you have available to you. Set the bar high, but not so high that it's nearly impossible for you to achieve it.
T is for timely. Your goals must include time constraints. If there is no time frame, there is no urgency. Allot yourself a reasonable amount of time to reach the goal while still challenging yourself.

