 Financial aid is determined in balance with the amount that you or your family is expected to contribute (known as your Expected Family Contribution, or EFC). This amount is standardized nationally, but individual circumstances might warrant a change in your EFC, if it is higher than you can reasonably afford. Only certain factors will qualify for such a change, such as:An involuntary loss of employment (being laid off, terminated, or fired)
An involuntary reduction of other earned income, such as child support or unemployment benefits
A loss of income due to a disability, illness, injury, divorce, or the death of a family member that supported you financially;
, You will need to write a letter telling your financial aid office that you need to adjust your EFC.Contact your school’s financial aid office before beginning your letter, however, as it may have specific forms that you need to include with your letter. Your school may also have a financial aid counselor who can offer advice on writing the letter and adjusting your financial aid.
 Write your letter in a formal, business format. It should be typed, dated, and signed, and use a formal tone.Start by giving thanks for any aid you have already received. This is courteous, and lets your school know that you appreciate the aid and would value any more that you can receive.


Try writing something like: “I am a student at , currently receiving financial aid. I deeply appreciate the financial aid I currently receive, which is helping me to succeed in . However, I have experienced financial hardship, and would like to appeal my financial aid status.”

, Write that you have a gap between your EFC and the amount you can actually contribute, based on a qualified change in financial status.


Begin by writing something like: “Because of circumstances beyond our control, my family has experienced a significant change in financial status, making it impossible to meet my previous expected family contribution. I am requesting that my EFC and financial aid award be reviewed in the light of these circumstances."
Next, explain the cause of the financial hardship. Be specific about what has changed. For example, if your parent experienced a significant change in income, list the previous income, the current income, and the reason for the change.
Be honest about the change, and about the amount you can contribute to your education-related expenses. Explain exactly what has happened, but do not exaggerate or lie. If you are dishonest, it will backfire and likely disqualify you from receiving any financial aid.
Provide as much documentation of your need for financial aid as you can, according to what your school requests. For example, your financial aid office may advise you to include copies of tax forms or income records for you or your parents.
 Close your letter by thanking your school for its consideration of your request, and assure the financial aid office that you will continue to succeed in your educational program.


Try writing something like: “I appreciate the Office of Financial Aid taking the time to review my appeal. An increase in my financial aid award will provide the support I absolutely need to continue my academic program. I am proud to be a member of the community at , value the education it provides, and look forward to completing my program in .
 Once you have written your letter, you should deliver it to the address you have been instructed to, such as your school’s financial aid office (in hard copy or electronically, according to its specification).

