 Chickens are not as skilled at interpreting human sounds as dogs are, so it’s important that you choose one distinct sound as your chicken call. Using a consistent sound of any sort may work, but by using a tool instead of your voice, others can call the chickens for you if you aren’t present to call them.A whistle or bell are both excellent options to use as a chicken call. You could also try banging a bowl or cup on the side of the coop.
If you choose to use your voice, make sure it is a distinct sound that you do not make regularly when not calling your chickens.
 You will need to train your chickens to associate the sound of your chicken call with getting a treat in order to get them to come whenever you call. Choose a treat that your chickens do not normally eat otherwise they may grow tired of the treat.Bird seed mixed with meal worms serves as an excellent treat that you can spread around inside the coop each time you sound the chicken call.
Watermelon wedges also serve as good chicken treats, but because they are hard to scatter the less dominant chickens may not be able to get to the treats.
 As you train your chickens to respond to your chicken call, make sure they can see the bag or box of treats as you approach and make the sound. Your chickens do not necessarily need to see the treats for the training to work, but it will often go faster if they see the treats during the early stages of training.Let the chickens see you approach their coop with the treats as you prepare to sound your chicken call.
Chickens will come to associate your behavior with getting treats as well as the call itself.
 By scattering treats into the coop while you use your chicken call, you will help the chickens begin to associate the sound with both treats and returning to their coop.Repeat this process two to three times per day for about a week to establish the pattern in the chicken’s minds.
If your chickens aren’t interested in the treats you are using, try switching to bits of corn.
 Your chickens may not understand the process quickly. You may need to sound the chicken call and make sure they see you distributing the feed a number of times before they start to understand. Early on, the noise will not attract chickens, only the smell and sight of the treats will.Once one chicken figures out the process, it will begin to respond more quickly. Other chickens will follow suit soon after to ensure they get a share of the treats.
Chickens are less likely to respond to this training if they have eaten recently or have only left the coop a short time ago.
 Once your chickens are starting to respond well to the chicken call, start approaching the coop without keeping the treats visible. Once you sound the call, remove the treats from where you’ve hidden them and distribute them like normal.Hiding the treats will help ensure the chickens respond to the call and not the visual que of the treats.
If your chickens become accustomed to coming without seeing treats, that is one step closer to simply coming when they’re called.
Continue to repeat this process until the chickens return to the coop reliably each time they are called.

