 To avoid using passive voice, to use active voice, start by figuring out the verb in the sentence. This will make it a lot easier to spot passive voice in your own writing and avoid it.


The verb is the action word in the sentence. It’s not passive. It’s not sitting around being acted upon; it’s active. It’s the catalyst for movement in the sentence.For example, the sentence: Mark kicked the ball. The verb in the sentence is kicked. In this sentence it’s past tense. It’s the action. The act of kicking. The ball is passive because it’s not doing anything; it’s just being kicked.;
, The next step is to isolate the subject in your sentence. Start by figuring out the verb, the action, because this will make it easier to find the subject.The subject of the sentence is the who or what did the action. Let’s go back to our example sentence: Mark kicked the ball. Kicked, as we have already established, is the verb. Ask yourself, who or what did the kicking? Answer: Mark. That’s how you determine the subject.
Recognize that sometimes the subject is not a person. Example: The plane stopped the traffic. The action, and thus, the verb, is the act of stopping. Who or what did the stopping? The plane. Thus, the plane is the subject of the sentence.
 Not all sentences have direct objects. When they do, you should understand that the direct object is passive. It’s not the action. It’s not doing the action. It’s being acted upon.


In the example, Mark kicked the ball, the word ball is the direct object. The ball isn’t active. It’s not the catalyst for movement. It’s being acted upon. It’s the direct object.
Sometimes, people eliminate the direct object and just write something like, Mark kicked. Sometimes they eliminate the subject: The ball was kicked.
 In order to create active voice, you need to make sure that the subject is positioned in front of the verb.


We’ve established that the verb is the action word in the sentence. Make sure the “who or what did the action” comes before the action.The dog wagged its tail is active voice. That’s because the act of wagging is the verb. Who or what did the wagging? The dog. The dog is positioned in the sentence before the verb. Thus, the sentence is in active voice.
 The reverse is true. A sentence is in passive voice if the subject comes after the verb or is eliminated.For example, The tail was wagged by the dog is passive voice. This is because the tail, the direct object, comes before the verb.
Sometimes people eliminate the subject and write a sentence like: The tail was wagged. This is often done to eliminate responsibility or when people don’t know who did the action.
 There can be rare exceptions where you would want to use passive voice; passive voice is not a grammatical error.However, this is the bottom line: It should not be the default choice. It should only be used when there is a logical reason to use it.


Let’s say you’re a news writer. The mayor was arrested by the police. Active voice would be: The police arrested the mayor. The more important point in the sentence is to announce that the mayor, a very prominent person, was arrested! Thus, in this case, it’s logical to write instead: The mayor was arrested by police.
Similarly, in science, it might make more sense to put the object first, not the process. Instead of writing, I poured the hydrogen into the beaker, you might write, the hydrogen was poured into the beaker. Generally speaking, though, active voice is better because it’s tighter and punchier writing. It’s more dramatic, and it puts responsibility where it belongs.
 If you are using Microsoft Word, the spelling and grammar checking device, if set to check grammar, will notify you if the sentence is passive and correct it for you.


Get in the habit of re-reading and checking over all your work. Look at each sentence individually.
Don't be afraid to ask for help. Ask an English teacher or professor to explain the difference between the active and passive voices. Get a grammatically-adept friend to help you look over your work. Don't be afraid to let others help you!

, Sometimes people get confused because the sentence’s tense varies. The papers were graded by the teachers is passive voice (technically it’s just called past tense.) The papers had been graded by the teachers is also passive (it’s called past perfect).


The papers will be graded by the teachers is passive (it’s future tense). The papers will have been graded by the teachers is also passive (it’s future perfect). The papers are being graded by the teachers is present progressive tense and also passive.
Again, the key point is that all of these sentences are passive because the direct object (papers) is in front of the verb, and the subject (who did the action) is located after the verb. The active voice version of this sentence is: The teachers graded the papers.

