 Whole grains are those that include all of the original kernel, foods like oatmeal, quinoa, barley, and farro. They are naturally low in fat and an excellent source of fiber. Try cooking a new kind of whole grain for yourself, topped with some steamed vegetables and some baked meat for a nutritious and satisfying meal.The United Stated Department of Agriculture (USDA) recommends that women 19- to 50-years-old eat 6 "ounce equivalents" of grains a day, with at least half of those being whole grains. If you're over 50, the recommendation is 5 ounce equivalents.
An "ounce equivalent" means 1 miniature bagel, 1 small biscuit, 1 piece of bread or toast, 1/2 cup of cooked oatmeal, cooked brown rice, or other grain, or 1 small tortilla.;
, Lean meats are low in fat, and they provide a good source of protein. Some lean meats are fish, white meat chicken or turkey (without the skin), loin cuts of beef and pork, and game such as venison, rabbit, or elk. However, not all lean proteins are meat. Other lean proteins include beans, tofu, and egg whites.The USDA recommends that women 19- to 30-years old eat 5 1/2 ounce equivalents every day, while those over 30 eat 5 ounce equivalents.
An ounce equivalent is 1 ounce of meat, 1 egg, 1/2 an ounce of seeds or nuts, 1 tablespoon of a nut butter, 1/4 cup of cooked beans, or a 1/4 cup of tofu., If you’re trying to lose weight, focusing on fruits and vegetables is a great way to go, since they fill you up on fewer calories. Look in particular for dark leafy greens (kale, spinach), broccoli, beets, berries, apples, and citrus. All of these are full of vitamins and nutrients.Women 19- to 50-years old should eat 2 1/2 cups of vegetables every day, while women over 50 should eat 2 cups.Of course, these vegetables are mostly measured in cups, with some exceptions. For instance, when eating raw, leafy greens, 2 cups count as 1 cup. Also, you can count 1 large tomato as a cup, as well as 1 large sweet potato. You can also count 2 stalks of celery as 1 cup. However, if you're going to overindulge in any category, choosing non-starchy vegetables is a good idea. Starchy vegetables include things like carrots, potatoes, peas, and corn.
Women 19- to 30-years old should eat 2 cups of fruit each day, and women over 30-years old should eat 1 1/2 cups of fruit each day.Often, 1 piece of fruit equals a cup, such as a small apple, a medium grapefruit, a large orange, a large peach, or a large banana. When eating dried fruit, half a cup counts as a cup serving., You don't want to cut fat out of your diet completely. However, you do want to limit fats and focus in on healthy ones. Vegetable-based oils and fats are generally healthier for you, such as canola oil, olive oil, nuts, avocados, and olives, though oily fish is relatively healthy, too.If you're a women, you're allowed 6 tablespoons of oils in the 19- to 30-year-old range, and 5 tablespoons in the 30 and over range. If you're trying to lose weight, you may want to cut back by a tablespoon or two.
Remember, you'll be getting some fat from your diet. Fat is in meat, butter, milk, and other dairy, as well as mayonnaise and salad dressings. For instance, here are some equivalents of 1 tablespoon of oil: 1 tablespoon of mayonnaise, 2 tablespoons of peanut butter, 1/2 avocado (medium), 2 ounces of Italian dressing, 1 ounce of nuts, and 1 ounce of sunflower seeds.
 Both sugar and alcohol add empty calories to your diet, and you don’t need that. Be careful when figuring out what in your diet might have sugar. Corn syrup appears in many common processed foods, so check what you’re eating thoroughly. Drink water, not fruit juice or soda, which cuts a large amount of sugar from your diet, if you drink these beverages often.
 If you’re eating right and you're still not getting to the weight you want, eat smaller meals. By consuming fewer calories, your body will typically start shedding the pounds. Be sure to eat enough that you are not feeling faint or unwell. Do not starve yourself because you think it will get you the body size you’re looking for. It’s not worth it.


Try a weight loss calculator to figure out what how many calories you should be eating to lose weight. You input information such as your weight, height, and activity level, as well as the goal you want to reach, and it tells you how many calories you should eat a day to reach your goal in a specified amount of time.
Make sure you don't consume less than 1200 calories a day, as that can be unhealthy.