 Gather a group of friends or familyand decide on all possible ideas for themes. Some choices you need to make include:


Scary, adult, family-friendly or just for kids.
Home made from scratch with items you have or home made from shop bought items
Improvised or carefully hand crafted;
, It would be fun to dress up as Henry the Eighth and his six wives or replicate the Gryffindor Quidditch team complete with flying brooms, but, you probably don't have the resources for that (however, it's not impossible!). Pick a group costume you can feasibly create. Try:


TV show/movie characters - such as The Munsters, the Friends Gang, Snow White and the Seven Dwarves, etc.
Classics: vampires, werewolves, mummies, prisoners, zombies, aliens or pirates.
The costume doesn't necessarily have to be a cosplay, it can be food! Decide if you'd like to be a vegetable, fruit or dessert or any fun food you can come up with!
Animals are nice to dress up as too. You are your friends can be a litter of kittens, a pack of dogs, a herd of cows, anything you like. Onsies might be handy here.
Consider being something scientific like atoms, the solar system, the stages of the evolution of man - get smart!
Be inspired by toys. Create Lego costumes, be dolls, toy soldiers, Tetris pieces, a jigsaw, etc.
Try thinking about what's popular or just go with matching costumes. , You'll need to balance time to finish your project and don't wait until the last minute. Estimate the required time that you need to finish the costumes. Some costumes have small and complicated parts, requiring more work and more time. Other costumes require large pieces that are not complicated to do. Give yourself reasonable time. Try at least four weeks to finish the costume. If four weeks isn't enough, feel free to extend the time given.
 Supplies are often very cheap, though large parts are expensive, but make sure you know you can pay for the supplies. Spend around $15-$30 on the supplies you need for a decent costume.
 The saying goes that if you have a better costume, the more treats you earn. This is true! Combine the wings of a fairy's dress with a pirate's hat so you have a pirate fairy! Instead of wearing a lion costume, cut the head of the lion and turn the lion into a hat, similar to Luna Lovegood's hat in Harry Potter.
 You can shape masks, werewolf ears, oddly shaped costumes (fruits, vegetables, toys, etc.), and more with this.
 You will also need to try it out to know if it's decent, wearable, and safe. After that, you're ready to go out trick-or-treating or partying!

