 Turn off the printer and unplug it. Pop off the top cover for top-loaded printers, or the front cover for front-loaded printers.

If it's a laser printer, wait 10-30 minutes before reaching inside (or up to an hour for some models). Parts inside can get dangerously hot.
 Shine a flashlight into the inner workings, near the input tray. You should see a long cylindrical rubber object, or a rod with small rubber objects attached to it. These rubber parts are the rollers that feed the paper into the machine.

If you do not see the rollers, try turning the paper upside down, or opening a back or side panel. You may need to check the manual to figure out how to remove these panels.
If your roller is clearly broken, that's the source of your problem. Refer to your printer manual or contact the manufacturer to find out whether your roller is replaceable.
 If your printer displays a "paper jam" error message when there's no paper stuck inside, there's probably some other blockage. Inspect the length of this roller for objects that have fallen into the printer. Remove these with tweezers or by turning the printer upside down., Dust and stuck debris on the rollers can cause a paper jam error. Cleaning can help, but the type of cleaning supplies you need depends on your printer type:

Laser printers contain toner particles that can irritate lungs. Wear a mask that filters fine particles, and buy a special toner cloth that picks up most of these particles. Moisten it with 99% isopropyl alcohol.(Some rollers crack when exposed to alcohol. You may want to check your printer manual for advice, or use distilled water instead.)Inkjets printers are easier to clean. Use any lint-free cloth (such as microfiber) and moisten it slightly with isopropyl alcohol, or distilled water if you don't want to risk damage.
For extremely dirty feed rollers, use a special rubber rejuvenator product. Read all safety instructions first. These products can cause serious skin and eye damage, and corrode plastic parts of the printer., Swab the feed rollers with your slightly damp cloth. If your rollers don't rotate, snap out the clips holding them in and remove them so you can clean every side.Toner cloth tears easily. Move slowly to avoid leaving shreds behind that can clog your printer.
 Jams can also happen at other parts of the printer. Remove the printer tray and any other removable covers. All laser printers and some inkjets have a second pair of rollers near the output tray.A paper jam error could mean an object has fallen against these.


Warning: The "output rollers" on the laser printers get hot enough to cause burns. These are actually "fusers" which bake the ink onto the paper.

Warning: These rollers are close to delicate machinery, and on laser printers they require special treatment. It's best to refer to your printer manual for precise cleaning instructions.

