 Concealer is a base foundation that can offset the color of a dark circle under your eye. Choose a color of concealer that has opposite tones of color from the tones that are in your dark circles. For example, if your dark circles have yellow tones, use a concealer with a purple tone. This will help neutralize the dark color under your eyes. Alternately, you can choose a concealer that is one skin tone lighter than your own skin tone. Gently dab the concealer under your eyes and tap at it with your finger, blending it across the skin under your eyes to make sure it is not noticeable. If you aren't able to buy concealer you can make your own by mixing equal parts of lotion and a powder that suits your skin colour then apply it.





;
, Using a dark eyeliner, draw a line about halfway or two-thirds across both the bottom and top of the eye, right along the lash line. Drawing all the way across your eye to the inner corner will make your eye look smaller. Eyeliner that is applied about halfway across will help make the eye look elongated. Draw back and forth across the lash line with your eyeliner pencil a few times.








Try a light-colored eyeliner. By using a light eyeliner or even white eyeliner, your eyes will attract and reflect light, which will help make it seem like your eyes are larger. Line the bottom lash line with a white or silver eyeliner. Your eyes will reflect more light, and your eyes will give the illusion of being brighter and wider.You can also use a white eyeliner pencil to line the inner corner of your eye on the top and bottom lids. This will help make your eyes look further apart., You can accomplish this by using three different shades of eye shadow: light, medium and dark. Use the light colored shadow on the lid and brow bone, and apply medium colored shadow in the crease of your eye. Use a dark shadow or eyeliner along your lash line. Then add a shimmery colored shadow in the corners of your eyes, which will attract and reflect light.








If you wear glasses, think about how your glasses look with your eye makeup. A general rule of thumb is to wear bolder, brighter eye colors with lightweight, transparent frames. If you wear heavier frames, think about toning down your eye makeup., Your eyebrows are frames for your eyes, and their shape can make your eyes appear to be certain shapes as well. Pluck, thread or wax your eyebrows to give them shape.Remove stray hairs regularly, but be careful not to overpluck your brows. Or, you can use an eyebrow pencil to fill in your eyebrows, especially if they are thin, light, or irregularly shaped.Use an eyebrow gel in your natural color to seal your eyebrows so they don’t smudge.
 An eyelash curler, which is readily available at drug stores and grocery stores for about $5 to $6, will clamp your eyelashes and bend them upwards in a curl. Curling your lashes upward will make your eyes appear to be bigger and more open. They can also draw attention to your eyes by making your eyelashes appear longer., 







, Use a thick mascara that coats your lashes thoroughly. There are many different kinds of mascara, from thickening to lengthening to waterproof. Try out a few different kinds to see how they look with your eyes. Get close to the roots of your lashes, applying mascara at the lash line. Try a fan brushor a brush that is curved, which will apply the mascara closer to the roots on all of your lashes. Or, try holding a business card above your lashes as you apply and brush the mascara into your lashes against the card. 







, If your eyelashes are short or you would like an especially dramatic look, attach fake eyelashes. Also known as “falsies,” these are available in various lengths, colors and textures, and can transform your eyes into something spectacular. Try different types to see how they look with your eyes.







