 Spoon several teaspoons of baking soda into the sole and seal shoes in a plastic ziplock bag. Place in the freezer overnight. Remove the next morning and dump backing soda into garbage.Pack wet shoes (especially sneakers or cleats) with crumpled newspaper. Replace newspaper when it becomes soaked through. This will help the shoe dry faster and prevent wet shows from developing musty or bad odors.
 Leave the item outside in the sunshine for a few days. Heat and light help kill mildew and bacteria.


Place several dryer sheets in your suitcase or backpack or fill fabric packets with cat litter that contains baking soda.
Keep suitcases and backpacks fresh when not in use with wrapped bars of soap. Place several throughout the main compartment as well as any large pockets., Set-up the tent in your backyard on a sunny day. You may never get rid of the mold stains but you should be able to get rid of the odor with a good scrub (read the tent manufacturer's instructions for appropriate products) and some sunny days.


After camping, make sure the tent is completely dry before rolling-up and storing.
 Sprinkle baking soda or carpet cleaner on upholstery and floors and then vacuum.Leave an open container of coffee grounds or a pan of cat litter in your trunk overnight to absorb odors.
Spray mats with a diluted bleach solution (1/2 cup bleach to 1 gallon water) and then hose down with water. Do this on a warm, sunny day so you can leave the mats outside to air dry., Neutralize unpleasant or musty odors in books with crushed volcanic rock (purchased in mesh bags from a hardware store). Find a clean plastic bin that can be sealed with a lid. Lay a mesh bag with crushed volcanic rock (purchased from a hardware store) on the floor of the bin. Set a clean milk crate directly on top of the volcanic rock, and lay books vertically in the crate. Cover the bin and leave sealed for several days.Weave paper towels throughout the pages of a book and then place it the freezer overnight.
Open a book and leave it outside on a hot, bright day to air out.

