 Going without showering and deodorant causes you to smell bad, but it also affects your appearance. Oil, sweat, and skin cells build up, particularly around your hair and armpits. This causes ugly stains on your clothes and leaves your hair looking limp. Wash your entire body and use shampoo and conditioner on your hair., Many boys think of skin care as a girl activity, but your skin also becomes dried out. To prevent your skin from feeling too rough and cracking, get in the habit of applying moisturizer at least once a day. Wash yourself in the shower with a gentle soap first and then apply a mild face wash product. Apply a small amount, about a teaspoon, and use your hands to spread it.Try to choose a moisturizer that matches your skin type. Oily-skinned people should avoid oil-based moisturizers and those with sensitive skin should avoid alcohol-based or fragrant moisturizers.
Other skin treatment products can be added, such as acne treatments.
 Everyone knows the worry that comes along with blemishes. Stress, oil, and stray hairs cause it. Make sure to gently wash your face with soap and water every day and after sweating. Keep away from any oil-based moisturizers. Seek out treatment products that have benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid on the label.Benzoyl peroxide kills bacteria while salicylic acid unclogs pores. Some products will have both.
Speak to a doctor about acne problems that can’t be controlled by hygiene and store-bought products.
 Tanning exposes your skin to harmful sun rays, which damages your skin and causes it to age and droop. Girls may go to tanning salons, but avoid following them. The burnt orange look isn’t attractive. Instead, wear sunscreen when you go out to keep your skin fresh.
 A good smile always will improve your look. Brush your teeth at least two to three times a day, particularly after meals or after consuming something acidic. Whitening strips can also be bought at the store to combat yellowed teeth.Ideally, visit your dentist for a cleaning every six months and get braces to correct misaligned teeth.
 Other people also notice your nails. Make sure you keep them clipped with no sharp edges. Clean out any leftover grime with soap, water, and a nail brush. , Now that you’re clean, choose a hairstyle that fits your face and personality. Usually, a symmetrical cut with a square hairline looks best. Browse magazines or ask a stylist for ideas. It can take some experimentation to find the one that works for you.For example, if your forehead is tall and exposed, choose a style that covers it.
Use pomade, clay, or another natural styling product to maintain your look.
 The unibrow has become the source of Internet jokes. If your eyebrows touch or are too thick, consider using a tweezer to pluck them or trim them slightly. Remove the middle part, but don’t let the eyebrows look too thin or circular. Also pluck noticeable ear and nose hair., Look to others to find out what looks good. Steer away from embellished jeans and graphic tees when you want to look your best. Rather, sparingly use bright colors. Opt for more khakis, polos, dress pants, and plain-colored shoes, especially before you develop your own style. Keep your clothing choices simple., Let go of clothing that has holes in it or is too loose or tight. Instead, find what rests well on your body. For example, your jeans and t-shirt should not be baggy. Your shirt hem should fall on your hips and your jeans should end at your ankles.A tailor may be able to refit good clothing you want to keep.
 Bad posture makes you look rounder and weaker. Practice holding your head up and your back straight. Don’t let your shoulders roll forward. Remember not to slouch when you sit as well. You’ll feel better and more confident., Processed foods require no effort to eat and are everywhere in flashy packages and fast food restaurants. These make you tired and turn your body flabby. While you don’t have to swear off pizza and soda entirely, limit your portions and substitute in lean meats, fruits, vegetables, and healthier options when possible.The exception is if you’re naturally thin. You need to intake more calories, and this can be done healthily through fish, potatoes, dairy, protein drinks, and other foods., Lifting weights is useful for building muscle, but simply staying active helps tone your body. Turn off the computer and go outside. Playing sports helps, but you can also run around the neighborhood or do yoga to slim down.


A current guideline is 30 minutes of physical activity every day., Lack of sleep is noticeable. Your skin looks older, sagging and wrinkling. You’ll develop bags under your eyes. In addition to this, lack of sleep affects your brain’s ability to function. Many people tend to eat poorly when deprived of sleep, gaining weight.