 Games rarely turn on steady execution. Instead, the result is usually governed by plays that gain or lose lots of yards at once. Look to make plays on both offense and defense that will open up big holes or allow you to gain big chunks of yardage. Aggressive teams that try to force their opponents out of a comfort zone and set up big plays are usually more successful.Your average yards per play can be important too, especially if you like to run a lot of plays. That being said, a few big plays that turn into touchdowns can make up for a lot of little plays that end up leading to punts. It is very difficult to maintain long drives of small gains, especially with any real consistency.
 If your returner takes a knee, your offense gets the ball at the 20 or 25 yard line (depending on the rules). While running it out of the end zone means you may start slightly further back, it also increases the chances of a big play. The average return out to the 15 yard line does not significantly decrease your chance of scoring on the drive., Where drives begin has a huge impact on how successfully they end. Consistently making the plays to drive down the field is difficult, and the longer your opponents have to go, the less success they are likely to have.


The most common way to impact field position is through special teams, particularly punts and kick-offs. You need a good kicker who can hit the ball deep, and coverage that teams know their responsibilities in order to prevent big returns.
You can impact field position while on offense or defense as well. Not only does picking up good yardage on 1st and 2nd down make 3rd down attempts easier, but it also gives you a few extra yards of field position if you fail. Those yards add up, and forcing your opponent to consistently need 5-7 more yards for a touchdown adds up over a game., This is a great way to be aggressive during the game. Rather than giving up after three plays and punting, have the confidence that your offense can pick up the yardage needed to get another first down. Extending drives gives you more plays and improves your overall field position.This is especially true on 4th and short. You probably have many plays in the playbook that can are designed to pick up 2 to 3 yards, and do so regularly. Go with the odds and run them, instead of just giving the ball back to the other team.
This is a risky step, and not one that coaches commonly use. This is especially true if you are deep in your own territory, or facing a long way to go before picking up the 1st down (5 or more yards). If you are looking at a 4th and long, or are already pinned deep on your side of the field, you are better off punting to help change field position.
 While this seems simple, many coaches and play-callers become more conservative as their offenses get closer to the end zone. They are worried about losing the three points from field goal if there is a turnover or a bad play. Instead, get aggressive as you get closer. The additional points you get from a touchdown are going to be more helpful for winning the game.Be sure to consider the situation. There are some cases where a field goal is helpful or necessary to shape the game situation, such as kicking a field goal to extend a 1-score lead into a 2-score lead (6 points to 9 points). This is especially important late in the game when there is less time remaining. If it is early in the game, you can afford to take more risks because there will be time to make up for mistakes.
Similarly, there can be a big advantage to going for 2 after a touchdown instead of kicking the extra point. Unless the single point is more important (taking the full game situation into account), you should have a good shot at picking up the 2 yards needed for the extra point.