 If you do not happen to have a World Lock, you can place a Small, Big, or Huge Lock around the White Door and cover it up so people cannot escape the area.
 The blocks you use do not matter; even Dirt blocks are fine. This is where you will farm your farm tables to later sell them.

The structure of a good farm usually has a small room that covers the White Door so visitors cannot escape, which has a storage room near it so you can store your items, and many platforms in a line style so you can place things. Blocks you cannot jump through are not a good idea; try to use blocks you can jump through such as Wooden Platforms.
 Do this by entering worlds that have no protection and have never been entered before.

To easily find unprotected, unused worlds, type in random names by spamming your keyboard with random letters.
For extra World Locks, you can clear a world with a good name and sell it along with any seeds that you do not need.
 Then go to your farm and splice them all together to create Grass trees.,,,

If you have under 200 Grass seeds after breaking it all, plant all your current Grass seeds, wait for it to grow, and break it all again until you have 200 Grass seeds.
 You can do this by broadcasting about your sale or going to a Trade world and saying that you're selling 200 Grass seeds per World Lock., Once you have one World Lock, you can use it to buy six Chandeliers in a Vending Machine shop world. You can also buy the seeds if you'd like to have a chance of getting more than six upon being broken (you'll have to wait for them to grow though)., If you end up getting no Chandelier seeds in the end, you'll have to repeat Part 2 (or buy a World Lock from the Store if you have enough gems).,

About 200 Chandeliers (not the seeds) would be a good time to start selling them.
 Instead, sell only half of them.

You can also lower the prices to get faster sales (e.g. Selling 8 Chandeliers for one World Lock).
If you don't feel like constantly having to be there to sell them to buyers manually, you can get a Vending Machine in the Store for 8,000 Gems.
