 A shy person who doesn't tend to read social cues easily (as these two are not the same) is sometimes just as unable to receive advances as they are to make them, and their nerves will tell on them in one way or another.;
, One good conversation won't be enough to earn their trust. You may find that after having a great interaction, the person will seemingly avoid you. They might be testing your interest, or might not be sure of what to do. Unless you see a really persistent negative trend, just continue to make slow, respectful advances.
 Just be friendly and calm. Speak in a low tone, as if you only intend for them to hear the story. Giving them a little information about you might make them less nervous about sharing information about themselves - a "you show me yours and I'll show you mine" sort of deal.
 Avoid questions with "yes" or "no" answers; try to get the person to talk a little. The reaction will vary, depending on the person. Some introverted, shy, or otherwise distant people are animated with people that they know, while others are consistently aloof.
 This is possible with both introverts and extroverts.
 Even if it seems like a half-hearted or thoughtless statement, this is often just a shyness or uneasiness in attempting to express what they actually feel. It's selfish to see their awkwardness at revealing feelings as a barrier; you care about this person, so make the effort instead of placing up your own barrier by turning that person into a challenge.
 Introverts will not always say what they are thinking. You have to be especially observant in order to figure out what they are thinking. For example, a small, coy smile is a positive indicator. A small, forced smile could be a sign to back off a bit.
 It can take a lot of courage for an introvert to approach someone they like, and the opportunity might not come again for a while, or at all-- be there or be square!

, Realize when you are getting frustrated or projecting your own assumptions onto an introvert. Try to recognize your frustration as a reaction within yourself without judgement and convert that energy into compassion for the individual and their unique experience of this world.
 Realize we are all human with complex and unique communication styles. We can not communicate or understand each other perfectly 100% of the time. We all make mistakes and have misunderstandings. Leave room for people to be human and take risks in expressing themselves, leave room for forgiveness.

