 Since kids look to their parents and guardians as models for health and exercise, you should make fitness a priority in your daily life. If you do not already integrate exercise into your daily life, consider joining a gym or going for a daily run.


Ask friends and family members for a gym recommendation.Try out a local gym to see if you like it. Most gyms offer test passes to prospective members, so you should take advantage of free passes and try out a few gyms in your area before signing up.;
, Your kids will model their behavior and physical activity level on your everyday behaviors and those of other adult family members, so the first step is to integrate exercise into your family lifestyle. By modeling the benefits of physical activity in your life and in your family, your children will watch, learn, and develop healthy exercise habits. You can model both moderate exercise such as taking a walk around the block or walking to school with your child, as well as more vigorous activity such as playing sports, running, or cycling.


Go to the park on Sundays for a game of Frisbee. If you normally stay inside on the weekends, try going to the park for a Sunday afternoon to enjoy a game of Frisbee.
Go for a family bicycle ride. On the weekend, go for a family bicycle ride. Plan your route so that you can visit some local attractions and enjoy a mix of scenery.
 It is important to tailor exercise routines to the age of your children, since younger kids need a lot of activity during the day and older kids should be getting some form of vigorous exercise. In addition, kids five years and older should engage in forms of exercise that help strengthen muscles and bones three days per week. You want to ensure a good mix of everyday, moderate activity and more energetic forms of exercise:


If your kids are five years or under and are able to walk, they should be getting at least three hours of exercise per day including light activities like walking and more energetic activities like playing tag with friends.If your kids are between five and eighteen years old, they should be getting sixty minutes of exercise per day including moderate activities like riding a scooter and vigorous exercise such as swimming, running, football, or dancing.Adults typically need at least thirty minutes of exercise a day, including a mix of aerobic activity and strength training., If your school is within reasonable walking distance, try making the time in your day to walk to school with your kids. By walking together, you can practice healthy exercise habits with your children. Although walking to school is a moderate form of exercise, both younger and older kids need to integrate moderate activity into their daily exercise habits.It is better for the health of your children and for the planet., Organize a family bicycle ride to the park. You could ride together from your house to the park and back for a fun family outing. If you live far from a park, you could also put the bikes on the back of your car and do a ride within the park itself. Introduce cycling to your kids so they can enjoy some freedom, fun, and fresh air in their lives.If your child is five or under and able to walk, you should make sure they get some vigorous exercise as part of their three hours per day of exercise. Cycling is one form of vigorous exercise that can benefit your child.
If your kids are between five and eighteen years old, they should be getting some vigorous exercise such as cycling fast or cycling up a hill.Kids bicycles can be purchased for around $100 at bike stores or for $50 from discount stores. It is best to avoid the really cheap bikes, which can be prone to mechanical difficulties.If you buy a used bike, have it checked and tuned up by a professional.
Make sure the bike fits your child. Their legs should be slightly bent at the end of each pedalling revolution. They should be able to touch the ground with both feet when the seat is at the lowest position., If you are planning a family vacation, plan your itinerary to include both moderate and vigorous forms of physical activity. For example, you could plan a family canoe trip, a family cycle touring trip, or a family hiking trip. Alongside such fitness focused vacations, you could plan a vacation at a health and wellness resort that includes spas, restaurants, and numerous fitness options.If you are planning a family canoe trip, it is best to plan your itinerary based on your prior canoeing experience. If you have a lot of outdoors experience, you will be more comfortable taking your family on a canoe trip. If you have less experience, you might want to try car camping first or a short canoe trip on a familiar lake.If you like the idea of a family cycle tour, you will have to choose between a self-guided and guided bicycle tour. A self-guided tour has the advantage of being very cheap but depends on your knowledge of cycling and the region or country you are exploring. If you want more assistance with safety, cycling mechanics, and the local region, you should look into available guided bicycle tours that include a support van and bicycle tour guide.If you are visiting a new place on your family vacation, you could look into local walks or hikes in the area. Take a break from visiting tourist sites and enjoy a family hike or walk.

