 To determine whether you are experiencing symptoms of oral allergy syndrome, check to see if you are experiencing symptoms immediately after ingestion of fresh fruits and vegetables. Typically, symptoms will subside once the fresh fruit or vegetable is either swallowed or removed from the mouth.If you experience any of the following symptoms when a fresh fruit or vegetable is in your mouth, you may have oral allergy syndrome:Scratchy throat.
Swollen lips.
Itchy mouth.
Swollen mouth.
Swollen tongue.
Swollen throat.
Itchy ears.;
, It is very rare for oral food allergy to cause anaphylaxis, but it can happen. One study found anaphylactic shock in 1.7% of oral allergy syndrome patients.You should make sure you are not experiencing any severe reactions to fresh fruits and vegetables and see a doctor immediately if you experience severe symptoms.In particular, get yourself to a hospital if you experience any of the following symptoms after eating fresh fruits or vegetables:Vomiting.
Dizziness.
Hives.
Nausea.
A tight feeling in the throat.
Trouble breathing or shortness of breath.
 If you react only to fresh fruits and vegetables, you may be experiencing oral allergy syndrome. However, if you experience a reaction in response to both fresh and cooked versions of a fruit or vegetable, you may have a food allergy. In contrast to conventional food allergies, oral allergy syndrome only happens in response to fresh fruit and vegetables.Some reactions may also result from pesticides on fresh fruits and vegetables. If your reaction to fresh fruits and vegetables is mild, then you might try washing the fruits and vegetables thoroughly, such as with a vegetable brush, some white vinegar, or baking soda. You can also try switching to organic produce to see if that helps.
 Keep a food diary in a notebook or on a computer. In your food diary, record your allergic reactions to particular foods. If you experience an unpleasant reaction to eating fresh apples, write down your symptoms in the food diary. You can then use this information when talking to your doctor. You can also look for any patterns in your allergy experience. For instance, you can see if your experience of a specific pollen allergy is associated with reacting to a particular fresh fruit or vegetable:If you have a birch pollen allergy, record any unpleasant reactions to almonds, apples, carrots, cherries, kiwis, hazelnuts, peaches, pears, or plums. It is common but not necessary for people with a birch pollen allergy to experience oral allergy syndrome in response to eating fresh versions of these foods.
Record any unpleasant symptoms in response to eating fresh melons, celery, oranges, peaches, and tomatoes. If you have a grass pollen allergy, you may be more susceptible to oral allergy syndrome in response to eating these fresh foods.
Record any unpleasant reactions to fresh bananas, cucumbers, melons, zucchini, or sunflower seeds. If you have a ragweed pollen allergy, you may be especially likely to experience oral allergy syndrome in response to fresh versions of these foods.

