 Locate the main valve of the system and turn the water supply off from there. Doing so prevents more water from entering the system, so all you need to do is drain the water already inside.


The shut off valve for your sprinkler system should be located in an area that is not prone to freezing. Oftentimes, it will be located inside, like in a basement, garage, or utility closet.
The valve will either be a gate/globe valve, ball valve, or stop waste valve.
In some cases, a stop and waste valve will be located underground. It can be as deep as 5 feet (1.5 m) down, so you may need a long key to turn it.
 Turn one of the systems or sprinkler heads along the mainline. This will relieve the pressure within the system, thereby preventing any pipes from bursting or cracking.


Note that this method is used when automatic drain valves are located at the end points and low points of your system's piping. These valves automatically open and drain water once pressure in the piping is less than 10 PSI. As such, you need to prompt the pressure to drop before the valves will open, which is another reason for activating one of the systems along the mainline.
 When the mainline finishes draining, you will need to open either the boiler drain valve or the drain cap on the stop and waste valve. Open all the test cocks on the backflow device, too.


Your system will either have a boiler drain valve or a drain cap on a stop and waste valve, depending on the type usually installed in your area. It will not have both. Check with neighbors or a local sprinkler installation professional to find out which you can expect to find.
 The sprinklers in your system may have check valves, and if they do, you will need to pull up on the sprinklers so that the water can drain out of the bottom of the sprinkler body.


Most sprinklers will have check valves. If yours does not, however, you will need to hope that the water can completely drain out of the other valves along the system instead.
 If the location of your drain valves are not positioned well, there could be some water remaining in the backflow, piping, or sprinklers even after you complete this method.


If you want to get at any remaining, trace amounts of water, you could try to suck the water out with a wet/dry shop vac.

