 The first step in getting someone to love you is to get to know the person better and allowing the person to get to know you. Getting to know someone takes time and energy because you will have to ask the right questions and listen well.


Ask about what your love interest wanted to be as a child and what he or she wants to do now. This will tell you about the person’s hopes and dreams, as well as other things that he or she wants to get out of life.
Ask about likes, dislikes, interests, hobbies, and goals.
 Show an interest in the things that your love interest loves and learn to appreciate the things that make him or her happy. Don’t fake your interest because people can often tell when you are not really interested in something. Try to experience the person’s interests through his or her eyes and share in that passion. This will give you something to bond over and put you on the path towards love.


For example, if the person is a big fan of a sport that you don’t know much (or anything) about, ask him or her to tell you more about it or teach you how to play. Or, if the person is really into a certain kind of music, listen to a lot of that music and find some songs that you like too.
 Make your significant other feel like your hero/heroine when they’re around you. Let him or her help you with schoolwork (to make him or her feel smart), ask for personal advice (to make him or her feel wise), and ask for help or advice on subjects that are particularly important to the person (to give him or her a chance to demonstrate expertise). Asking for clothing advice or help reaching or opening containers are also ways that you can make your significant other feel useful and capable., Trust is an essential component in a healthy, long-lasting relationship. Learn to trust your significant other and show that you trust him or her with your words and actions. Make sure that you show your significant other that you are trustworthy as well.If your significant other tells you a secret, keep it. If you find out something that embarrasses him or her, don’t bring it up or tease him or her about it.
Share your secrets with your significant other and reveal parts of yourself that no one else sees. Allow yourself to be vulnerable with your significant other and let him or her comfort you.
 Offering support is very important to creating true love between two people. Most people want to be in relationships to begin with because they like having someone to support them. If you can be supportive and caring to your significant other, this will go a long way towards getting the person to fall in love with you.Sometimes you can support someone by offering to just listen and provide physical comfort. But other times, you may need to do something more. For example, if your significant other is struggling in school, you may need to help him or her study.

