 You may get lucky and find the best deal as soon as you set out, but odds are, it will take some shopping around before you locate the best bargain. While shopping around, run through the checklist and find out whether the store has a solid local reputation; whether its staff possesses sound knowledge; which warranties and guarantees it offers; if the shop has a busy repairs service (which stands for the indication of customers trust). Some shops are of the same owner, however prices can be higher at one place and lower at another.
 Chain retailers may offer specialty cuts and may help you along through the process, but online retailers often offer a better price. As well, pay your attention that in person you pay the price and get a ring at once, but online retailers offer you to wait some days or weeks from the date of the order.
 Such stores usually offer a variety of jewelry (valuable and estate pieces). Antique diamonds are usually hand-cut, so there are no other rings that look alike. Such diamonds are often cut in the way to show off the best qualities they possess. This means that one can buy a lesser quality stone, but it’ll give the appearance of an expensive diamond. Factor into that the price of an antique ring may be times higher as the price of the diamond is added to the oldness and fame of the ring.
 Stick with reputable, certified sellers to prevent yourself from getting ripped off.
 This will allow you to find the best bargain in the least amount of time. Some popular shops can have their offices in your town and the online selling in the Internet as well. The prices can be different in both cases, so check it out.
 Monitor local jewelers and wait to see when they run their sales. Keep watch year round, but pay special attention during late November, December, January, and early February. Many jewelers run sales from late November through December due to Christmas. Many also run sales throughout January and early February for Valentine's Day. You may get a discount from 5% to 50%, what will decrease your budget for an engagement ring by a pleasant cut.
 Some wholesale purchasers sell loose diamonds to customers at near wholesale prices. This cuts out the extra retail cost, providing you with a cheaper, more customizable stone.

