 The historical Jesus Christ (the Messiah), is the Son of God. And the only way to become a Christian is to believe in Jesus, obey his Word, and receive by faith his righteousness and follow His steps.


"For He made Him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him."(2 Corinthians 5:21) Three days after Jesus was put to death, He rose from the dead and was seen by over 500 people.
"For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life."(John 3:16) believing in Jesus includes the need to be born of water and the Spirit (the breath of God). (John3:5)
"Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;" Titus3:5

, (2 Peter 3:9), individually, and be saved (be born again).
 When Jesus the Messiah died, He died willingly, according to the plan of His Father, who is God of all of The Universe and those in it.
 As a Christian you must accept the free gift of God's grace (His Holy Spirit), and then He accepts you through faith as if you always do "love God with all your heart, soul, strength and mind"--even though everyone has already "fallen short of the glory of God:" including you. And, God's gift of His Love is "by grace--through faith" including grace for Jesus Christ's commandment to love one another --"as I have loved you."


God grants grace to us in Christ though we love one another, imperfectly:

"This is my commandment, That you love one another, as I have loved you."(John 15:12)



,


"3 Do you not know, that as many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into His death? 4 Therefore we are buried with Him by baptism into death: that as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. 5 For if we have been planted together (in baptism) in the likeness of His death, we shall be also be in the likeness of His resurrection: 6 Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with Him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. 7 For he that is dead is freed from sin."(Rom 6:3-7)

As a side-note to the statement about being baptised, baptism by immersion is a practice primarily of the Bible and bible believing denominations, immersion or being baptized at all is deemed unnecessary to be saved by many denominations, ie: some denominations merely sprinkle (anoint) believers with water as a symbol of baptism. This however is contradictory to the Bible example of fully covering with and under water, momentarily.
 You may actually be what is considered non-denominational or independent and still be a true Christian.
"(Acts 26:18)
"But the natural man" "can not discern" "the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned."(1 Corinthians 2:14) and you know the source of faith:

"So then faith by hearing, and hearing by the word of God."(Romans 10:17)



