 To draw the figure on whom the saree will be drawn understand the length and breath of a human body. Depending upon the subject (lady) the object (saree) will be drawn. You may draw three boxes vertically to fit the head, the torso and the legs respectively. You may also make boxes or guiding lines in the shape of a plus '--|--'. These lines help you make a rough image which develops as you continue. These lines are erased as you end the drawing or as you finish each portion.


The top will be the shortest as it will have the head and the neck.
The medium sized center will have the shoulder and the stomach.
The last box will be the longest one to accommodate the legs.;
, Draw the face. The face can be drawn as a simple 'U' or round. You may keep the hair loose or tie it up in a bun. The hair can have a side or a center partition if it is loose. Draw the neck to the face by making two small parallel lines. The neck stars closely below the ears. You may or may not show the ears as it may hie behind the hair. Make shoulders and draw the shoulder of the blouse on one side - the right side, as the saree ends with an extended bit left falling from one shoulder. So the blouse on the left side does not show. The blouse could be shaped as you like. It can have sleeves or be sleeveless. You may also experiment with the neck line by choosing from round neck, rectangular neck, oval neck, boat neck etc.
 Start with the second box to make the stomach. Here, on the right side of the figure, you may show the curve of the stomach. Draw some lines extending from around the waist to the shoulder to show creases and folds of the saree.


You must note that the right side of a saree clad lady shows her silhouette well till the waist.
The left side of the wearer is mostly covered with the last part of the saree which hangs or extends loosely from the shoulders.
 The lower end resembles the look of a long skirt. Draw lines for pleats which are tucked inside. Show the splendid pleats which starts looking narrow at the waist and goes elaborate as it unfolds towards the feet.
 You may make an elaborate saree with intricate design or just a plain one or add borders to the edge. You may then add colors as per your choice and then outline it. The colors could be crayons, pencil colors, water color etc.


Try to start coloring from the top.
Use a blend of two colors for the hair as one shade may make it look like a wig. For that you may fully color it in one color say brown and then color it with red or black or other colors of your choice. The blended effect looks more realistic.
You may use a peach color for the skin. Since the body is not like a log or just linear, you may find it difficult to color it uniformly. To make the coloring presentable, move the color in the direction of the part or object you are coloring. Because the overlapping horizontal and vertical strokes of color may look untidy. Leave the ends or difficult corner for last when you are done with the easy portion. In the end, you may just fill the white or uncolored portion wherever you see it. This keeps the color look neat.
You may outline the drawing either before the coloring or after the coloring. You may outline it after all the coloring if you can't color well within the outline.
The benefit of outlining in the end is you can hide any extra smudged color smartly by covering it with the black outline. But you must be careful because it may be difficult to color over and around the colors with a sketch pen or marker. As markers need a clean page to show. It doesn't show over crayons while water color sticks to the sketch pen. In this case you may use a thin brush to outline your drawing with water color or just outline it before coloring.

