 Aerobic activities elevate your heart rate and are key to getting the most out of your exercise routine. They help you to better regulate your breathing and feel more awake as well as improving your endurance in day-to-day life and activities.Aerobic activities include swimming, jogging, riding a bike, dancing, and tennis.
You should try to do 150 minutes of aerobic activity per week, preferably in 30 minute blocks most days of the week.
Aerobic activity can help to decrease your risk of heart disease and obesity, as well as lowering your chances of developing type 2 diabetes. If you already have diabetes, aerobic exercise can help keep your glucose levels under control. Moderate aerobic exercise also promotes bone strength and can reduce joint problems like arthritis.Try to do two to three days of resistance training each week. This may involve using Nautilus machines or doing some isometric exercises against a wall or chair.
 Strength training builds up your muscles and bone mass through repetitive motion using weights or resistance. They can help you keep your balance better and avoid falls and help you maintain your ability to do simple, everyday activities like sitting, standing, and lifting things.You can strength train with exercise bands or small weights. Cans of food work in place of weights. You can also engage more in everyday activities like carrying moderately heavy loads around the house or grocery store.As you become more comfortable with weight-lifting, build the amount of weight you lift or the number of reps (times you lift the weight). This will increase your strength over time and improve the benefits of your strength training.You should do your strength training in addition to your 150 weekly minutes of aerobic exercise.Don’t replace aerobic activity with strength training, because they help your body in different ways.
 Improving flexibility helps you to be able to use your joints and muscles more fully and with less pain or risk of injury. This is useful for day-to-day activities like playing with grandchildren and tying shoes.


Yoga is an excellent way to improve your flexibility. Sign up for a yoga class aimed at seniors or, if there aren’t any in your area, find yoga videos for seniors online and follow along carefully.Do this in addition to your other exercise, not in replacement of any of it.
Do some gentle stretches in the morning when you first get up. This will help wake your body up and prepare it for the day as well as helping to increase your overall flexibility.
 This is one of the best and easiest ways to keep your body in good working order.Working on your balance will help you to maintain your ability to sit and stand with ease, in addition to helping you avoid falls.Work on your balance at least three times a week. You can do this by sitting and standing without using any support and by practicing standing on one foot.Yoga and Tai Chi are also good ways to improve your balance.Sign up for a class for seniors or follow along with a video online.
 If you hurt yourself or start to feel achy, it’s okay to take a day or two off. Don’t keep exercising on a swollen joint or injured limb. If you’re not sure whether or how to continue, talk to your doctor.\


If you don’t have time to do your full workout, try to at least do something. Even ten minutes of exercise a day is better than nothing. And don’t give up if you’ve gone a couple of days without exercising. Your body will forgive you!