 If you want labels on your chart, make sure your data has header columns and/or rows.


An example of a column header: If you have a column of numbers that should show up in a chart as Daily Earnings, the first cell in that column should say “Daily Earnings.”
An example of a row header: If you have a row of city names that should appear in your chart with the label Cities, the first cell in that row should say “Cities.”;
, Open the Insert menu at the top of the screen and select “Chart.”

, You are now in Chart Editor, which contains three tabs. In the Start tab, you’ll see the option to select one of four recommended charts. Clicking each chart once will show a preview of your data in that chart format. Chose one of these charts or click to the Charts tab for other options.


Different charts formats work best for different purposes. For example, if you’re interested in tracking a change in data over time, try a line, sparkline or motion chart. If you want to view one or more categories of data, experiment with bar or column charts. If you’re looking for an option that combines both of these concepts, try a combo chart. Hold your mouse over the picture of the chart to see the name of each chart.
If you are unable to see a preview of a chart format, try placing a checkmark in the box that says “Switch rows / columns.” If that doesn’t help, you may need to select a different data set or try a different chart format.
 This tab provides a number of different options you can modify to make your chart look fantastic. As you adjust these options, you’ll see a live preview on the right side of the screen.
 Type a title for your chart into the box. Use the font size and color options to make the title stand out.
 A legend gives a quick visual explanation of the colors and shapes in your chart. Click “Right” to see a list of places to place the legend on the chart. Modify the color and size of the legend’s text just as you did the title.
 The next area on this tab allows you to change the font face and background color for the entire chart. Choose a background color that makes your font color stand out. This will ensure that your chart is easy to read.
 This where you can change how your data appears in the chart. Clicking the box next to each option will give you an idea of how each option will display your data.
 Depending on the type of chart you’re using, you may want to adjust the options in the axis area. Here you can give the axis a title, switch it from horizontal to vertical, and change the color and its labels.
 Scroll down to the Series area. If you want to change the colors and size of lines, bars and points, you can do so here.
 You will now see your chart in the spreadsheet, front and center.
 If you want to move the chart to a different place on the sheet, click once in a blank area of the chart. Holding down the mouse button, drag the chart to an area of the sheet where it won’t be in your way.
 If your chart looks different than how you thought it would, you can edit it by switching it to Quick Edit Mode.Click once in a blank area of the chart to enter Quick Edit Mode. Now you can click items in the chart and view available options to modify.


If you want to change the basic looks of the chart, such as colors or font size, you can do this in Quick Edit Mode. Click on the item you wish to change for a list of color, font and size options.
If you need to change more advanced actions, such as changing which rows and columns are included in your data, you’ll need to return to the Chart Editor. Click in a blank area in the chart to get back into Quick Edit Mode. Click the down arrow at the top right corner of the chart and select “Advanced edit mode.” When you’re done with Chart Editor, click “Update” to save your changes.
 Click in a blank area of the chart to activate Quick Edit Mode. Click the arrow at the top right corner of the chart. In addition to Advanced Edit Mode (and a Delete option), you’ll find options to save or publish your chart.
 Click “Save Image” in the arrow menu and select a location that you’ll remember.
 You’ll have the option to select which parts of your chart to publish, as well as the option to publish it in different formats (a web page, PDF, Excel document and many more). Click the “Publish” button once you’ve adjusted the options.


Select the icon for Google Plus, Gmail, Facebook or Twitter if you want to share with any of these services. If not, simply copy the URL in the box and share it in a way that works for you.
To stop publishing the chart, return to this screen and click “Stop Publishing.” Nobody will be able to use the previous link after this is done.

