 If you have a large waistline, it can be a risk factor for metabolic syndrome. While a large waistline may often depend upon your height, there are some measurements which will usually tell you if you are at risk for metabolic syndrome.For men, a waistline over 40 inches (100 cm) can be a risk factor for metabolic syndrome. A waistline over 35 inches (88.9 cm) is a risk for women.
Waist circumference does have a number of problems a predictor of metabolic syndrome, including ethnic differences and height. While it can be a risk factor, it should not be the only one to pay attention to for metabolic syndrome.;
, High blood pressure is another risk factor for metabolic syndrome. If you’re blood pressure is consistently at a high level, you may be at risk.Systolic blood over 130 mm Hg or more puts you at risk for metabolic syndrome. This is the top number if you are taking your own blood pressure or using a blood pressure machine.
Diastolic blood pressure over 85 mm HG or more is also a risk for metabolic syndrome. This is the bottom number when you are taking your blood pressure.
 Cholesterol levels are important indicators of potentially health difficulties, including metabolic syndrome. Too much bad cholesterol, as well as not enough good cholesterol, can both be bad for your health.The good cholesterol in your blood is high-density lipoprotein or HDL cholesterol. If this level is low, which generally means under 40 mg/Dl, then it can be a potential risk factor.
Bad cholesterol, or low-density lipoprotein (LDL), can cause plaque build-up in your blood and heart. LDL levels from 160-190 mg/Dl are usually a sign of high cholesterol levels., If your blood sugar is often too high or too low, this can be a sign of metabolic syndrome. It can also be a sign of pre-diabetes or even diabetes itself.High blood sugar is called hyperglycemia. If it’s over 240, then your blood sugar is very high. An ideal range is usually 150 at the most after meals.
Low blood sugar is called hypoglycemia. Blood sugar levels under 70 are too low and can be a problem.
 Triglycerides are fats that are in your blood left over after you’ve converted calories into energy. Testing is usually included in standard cholesterol testing, also called a lipid panel.Triglyceride levels can vary throughout the day. However, less than 150 mg/Dl is the normal level for triglycerides.
If your triglyceride is over 150 and up to 500, then you may have an issue with your triglyceride level. This can lead to serious health problems, including heart disease and stroke.

