 Write headers for all the rooms in your new home (i.e. Kitchen, bedroom, bathroom). Then fill in the list with all the items you need for each room. Separate the list into Essentials (e.g. set of knives, frying pan) and Extras (e.g. china tea set). If it helps, take a walk around your parents' house or a friend's house and list the things they have in each room that you think you will need.;
, This is hugely important in order to avoid overspending. Think about how much money you can spend to furnish your house, and then allocate portions for each room or type of object. Allow the largest portion of your budget, around 50%, to major appliances or "white goods" (refrigerator, washing machine, etc.) and large furniture (bed, sofa). Devote at least half of the rest of your budget to other, smaller essentials (microwave, vacuum cleaner), and allow the last section for smaller things like cushions, rugs, etc.


When making a budget, realize that while buying cheap furniture may save you money now, it won't necessarily help in the long run, as these items will be less durable and you will have to replace them. Decide whether you can afford to make a significant investment in your long-term future.
 Especially for larger items and appliances like a washing machine or a refrigerator, there are a lot of options out there with a huge range of price and functionality. Do plenty of research to figure out what your options are and what best suits your needs. Look online for specs, comparisons, and reviews, or talk to a salesman to discuss what would best fit your own unique needs. Carefully consider all the available options before deciding what to buy, and then shop around for deals on that make or model before purchasing it.
 Think about ordering bigger things online and have them delivered to your new home. This allows you a wider range of options than any one store could provide, and you may be able to find better deals so that you can buy these items at lower prices or with free shipping.
 Look for each item at several different stores to get an idea of price ranges. You can always compare prices and models and then order your favorites online, if you can find a better deal. Or, head to a cheaper store near you that sells all sorts of things. Large department stores sell almost all the cheap essentials for your home, from washing up bowls, floor mops and clothes hangers to bin liners, cleaning products and picture frames. This is a good way of acquiring the initial items - you can always replace them with more luxurious or high-quality items at a later date. The key thing is to ensure you have everything you need at first within your budget.
 Large kitchen essentials include a refrigerator, freezer, and washing machine, while a dishwasher and clothes dryer are optional. Smaller essentials include a toaster and microwave, plates and mugs, cutlery, pots and pans, knives and other cooking utensils, and a dish drainer. Extras can include tea towels, baking trays, a can opener and other utensils, an electric mixer, wine glasses and vases, blenders or juicers, etc.
 Essentials include a dining table and at least four chairs. Other items can include tablecloths and place mats, hot pads, centerpieces or candles, and other decorations.
 You'll need a sofa, coffee table, and at least one armchair. Items like a TV, DVD player, and video gaming equipment may or may not be essential, while side tables, curtains, cushions, coasters, floor lamps, and other decorations will make the space more comfortable.
 You'll need a bed and mattress, bedside tables, a chest of drawers or wardrobe, and sheets and blankets. You may also want clothes hangers, and extra set of bedding, cushions, rugs, a mirror, chairs, and other decorations.
 This will depend on what's already installed, so make sure you'll have a functioning shower unit, toilet, and sink before you proceed. Then you'll need a shower curtain, bath mat, and mirror, and you'll also likely want towel racks, hooks for the door, shelves or drawers, and toiletry accessories like a soap dish and toothbrush holder.
 This will depend on your individual preferences and needs, but consider items like a shoe rack and welcome mat, armchairs, bookshelves, storage shelves, a dog bed, and any other decorative items that will make your house feel more comfortable.

