 Washing your face regularly will help get rid of excess oil, dirt, and makeup, all of which can clog your pores. Face washes that contain salicylic acid are ideal for skin that is prone to blackheads, as they help to exfoliate your skin, kill bacteria, and reduce inflammation.Take some extra time to massage the face wash into areas where you have the most blackheads.
Hair care products may clog your pores, so try washing your face after you wash your hair.
Don't use products that contain salicylic acid if you are allergic to aspirin.
 Facial exfoliating scrubs help fight blackheads by unclogging your pores and removing dead skin cells. Most of these products are designed to be used approximately once a week.


Do not use exfoliating facial scrub more often than recommended because it may irritate your face and cause redness.
 There are a variety of masks you can buy to help keep your pores clear and reduce inflammation. Clay masks and facial peeling masks are especially helpful for individuals suffering from oily skin and blackheads.Apply the mask once a week, or as often as recommended by the manufacturer. Applying a mask too often may dry out your skin.
 Look for products that contain benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, retinoids, or azelaic acid as active ingredients. There are many over-the-counter options available, but if these do not work for you, your doctor may be able to prescribe a stronger medication.These products may cause skin irritation, especially if you use more than one of them. If you experience irritation, try using the product less often or using a different product each day instead of using all of them every day.
 If you want to avoid using harsh chemicals on your face, you may be able to fight your blackheads with ingredients you already have in your kitchen. Try massaging lemon juice, slightly diluted with water, into your face for an effect similar to that of a salicylic acid wash.
Mix baking soda and water together to create a paste. Then scrub your face with the solution to gently exfoliate.
 Do your best to keep your hair off of your face, especially if you tend to get blackheads and pimples in areas that typically come in contact with your hair. Avoid touching your face. Your pillowcase is another source of unwanted oil, so change it often.Not all skin care products are created equal. Products that contain oil can clog your pores, leading to worse problems with blackheads and other types of acne, so be sure to look for oil-free moisturizers and makeups.

