 This is the official website for the US House of Representatives. It lists all of the House members, as well as various committees and legislative activity., Look to the upper right-hand corner of your screen. There will be a map of the United States with the words “Find Your Representative” above it. You’ll see a box with the words “Enter your zip code” above it. Enter your zip code into the box and click “Go.”You can also search for representatives by name. Click on “Representatives” in the upper left-hand corner of the www.house.gov screen. Two tabs will show up. One lists representatives by state; the other lists representatives by last name.
 On the new screen you should see a list of your state representatives on the left-hand side of your screen. Most states are broken into several congressional districts, each with their own representative. To find your district’s representative look the right hand of the screen for the words “Enter Street Address.” Enter your street address, city, and state in the boxes and click “Find Your Rep By Address.”If your district only has one representative, you won’t need to enter your street address. Instead, when you enter your zip code on the main www.house.gov screen, a picture of your representative will show up on the left side of your screen.
 On the new screen you will see your representative’s picture and name on the left-hand side of the screen. The right-hand side of the screen will display a map of your district. Move your cursor over your representative’s name and click.At this stage, you can also click on the small letter icon next to your representative’s name. This will take your directly to their contact page.
 Each representative maintains their own website. As such, there is no uniform place where the “Contact” link will be located. However, each representative will have a “Contact” link prominently displayed somewhere on the homepage of their website. Click on the “Contact” link., Once you’ve reached the “Contact” screen, you will find listings of several ways to contact your representative. Each representative’s website will be slightly different. However, you will find a “Email” link prominently displayed somewhere on the “Contract” screen.Some representatives have an “Email” box on their websites where you can type and message and click “Send” without having to open your email client.
Other representatives have a “Email” link that, when clicked, will open your email client. In that case, you will write an email and click “Send” from within your email client.
Your email be go directly to your representative of their staff.

