 If you know what kind of healthcare setting you want to work in, speak with someone in Human Resources about what they look for when hiring medical billing and coding professionals.This is the best way to begin to decide what degree you need to pursue, and to start thinking about what certification you may want.


Say something like, “I’m pursuing a certification in medical billing and coding, and I’m interested in applying for a job at your hospital once I’m certified. Can you please tell me what level of degree, type of certification, or other qualifications you look for in your candidates?”;
, Every certification for medical billing and coding requires a high school diploma or equivalent. Complete high school, obtain a GED, or get a high school diploma equivalent as the first step towards your certification., If you have finished high school, you can consider a billing and coding Diploma Program. This usually takes 6-9 months and gives the most basic medical and billing training. It’s low cost (usually only several hundred dollars) and is taught at medical billing schools, community colleges, career schools, or even online.Consider, however, that many certifications require or strongly suggest an Associate’s Degree. The Diploma Program may be a good jumping off point, or helpful if you’re highly motivated in teaching yourself content – but for many, it may not get you where you want to go.
If you intend to go to a 4-year college, start with an Associate’s degree rather than a Diploma program.
Be wary of programs or classes offered online, because there are many scams out there. If a website promises you a huge salary, a really short certification course, extremely low fees, or requires lots of money up front, it’s probably not a legitimate program., A 2-year Associate’s Degree provides more in depth training than the Diploma Program, and can start you off towards a 4-year degree. It can cost several thousand dollars, but is probably available at many community colleges at reasonable cost. Some professional organizations, like AHIMA, require this level of degree at a minimum, as do many employers., A Bachelor of Arts in Health Information and Management is another, more extensive way to approach a medical billing and coding career. It’s a 4 year program, but the perk is that in 2010 those with a BA earned $10,000 per year more in salary than someone with an Associate’s degree., As long as you choose an accredited program, what school you attend is a personal choice. Speak to students of different programs to get feedback and opinions. Ask employers in your field if they recommend anywhere in particular. Research what each school requires to apply, what it costs, what their pass rate is for certification exams, and what resources are offered after school to help with job searches.

