 Go down on your hands and knees; your palms should be directly under your shoulders. Stretch both legs out behind you. This should be similar to the beginning of a push-up, but instead of lowering yourself, you will hold this position for at least 30 seconds.Keep your abdominal muscles pulled in to help stability.
This exercise will build strength throughout your body, including your shoulders and back.
If this move is too easy for you, try doing it while resting on your forearms.
 Sit with your legs extended straight in front of you and your feet together. Put your hands behind your back, fingers pointing forward. Lift your body up, straightening out your back and spine as you do so. Keep your shoulders square as you do this. Do not allow them to pull forward or up towards your ears. Your body should form a straight line leading down between your head and your toes.Hold this pose for up to ten seconds, before slowly returning to the starting position.
Your feet should be pointed as you raise your body.
 Start with your back against the ground. Hold an exercise ball between your knees and elbows. Stretch out your right leg and your left arm while the left leg and right arm hold the exercise ball. Bring the arm and leg back in so that they are holding the exercise ball, and stretch out the other leg and arm.Do eight to ten reps on each leg.
 Lie down with a foam roller under your shoulders. The roller should be placed perpendicular to your spine, i.e., widthwise from shoulder to shoulder. Bend your legs with both feet flat on the ground. With your hands behind your head, pull in your elbows towards one another, and lean your head back against the floor. Push through your legs to move your back, causing the foam roller to roll up or down your spine. Roll the foam up or down until you reach a sensitive, tense, or sore spot. Slowly lift your head ten times before returning to the starting position.Once you have done one set, roll the foam to a new position, and repeat until you have worked your entire spine.

