 The skin on your face is more delicate than the rest of your body, so make sure the box specifically says the kit is safe to use on your face.If you don't want to deal with the messy wax, look for roll-on wax or kits that come with pre-waxed strips.Most home waxing kits are microwavable so you can easily heat them up in your kitchen.
 The last thing you want is to get wax in the rest of your hair, so make sure it is entirely off your face. Gather it back in a ponytail, and use an elastic or fabric headband to secure all of the hair behind your hairline. Remember to pin back your bangs, too. The only hair that should be free from the headband is the hair you plan to remove.If you don't have a headband, you can use bobby pins to secure your hair.
 Make sure you have removed all of your makeup, and cleansed your skin of oil, dirt, and other debris. Waxing can leave your skin prone to bacteria, so it’s important that the skin around your sideburns is completely clean.If you have sensitive or oily skin, apply a dusting of talc or baby powder to the area where you will be waxing.
Don't wax if you've used a prescription retinoid or over-the-counter retinol in the last 10 days, or the waxing may rip your skin off along with your hair.
Wait to wax if your skin is sunburned, peeling, or broken.
 For the most effective results, your hair must be the right length prior to waxing. Typically, you want it to be 1/4- to 1/2-inch long. Use a pair of small scissors to trim your sideburns until all of the hair is the appropriate length. Keep in mind that if there are any hairs shorter than 1/4-inch, the wax likely won't remove them., Make sure to follow the heating directions on the kit carefully. It’s especially important not to overheat the wax because you may burn yourself. You can test a little on the inside of your wrist to make sure the temperature is correct. The skin there is thin and should be a good gauge as to whether or not the wax is too hot to use on your face., Most waxing kits come with an applicator that you can use to carefully trace along the hairline. You should apply the wax in the same direction as hair growth. Try to cover the roots of the hair that you want to remove so you can be sure to get rid of all of it. Keep in mind that you can’t wax the same area twice without causing major irritation to your skin.To make it easier for the wax to capture the individual hairs, place your free hand on your cheekbone, and pull your skin taut and away from your temple as you apply.
 Make sure the wax is still warm, and wait approximately 10 seconds. Use your fingers to stroke along the length of the cloth to ensure that it attaches to the wax., For the best results, pull your skin taut with one hand and use the other hand to rip the cloth diagonally upwards, against the direction of hair growth. If you do not pull the skin tight, you may bruise your face. Pulling against in the opposite direction of growth will keep hairs from breaking during the process., The skin around your sideburns will be red and possibly swollen after waxing, so it can help to press a paper towel dampened with a mixture of one part skim milk and one part cold water for 10 minutes. The lactic acid in the milk will help soothe your skin. You can apply the compress every few hours. Instead of the milk-water mixture, you can also use a hydrating salve, an over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream, or aloe vera gel.
Make sure to avoid using anything harsh, such as alpha hydroxy acid, retinol, or benzoyl peroxide, for at least a day while your skin recovers.
Be sure to apply sunscreen to the area around your sideburns because freshly waxed skin is more sensitive to the sun.
 Because you can’t wax the area again, use a pair of clean tweezers to gently remove any hair that has been left behind. If there is still wax left on your skin, a moisturizing product such as baby oil can help clean up the area. You shouldn’t have to wax your sideburns again for two to six weeks.