 You can protect the injured eye by putting a fly mask on the horse so dust and debris cannot get into the eye. A fly mask is a mask made for horses with two round protective patches, one for each eye. You can find fly masks at horse supply stores or online.To put the fly mask on the horse, have your horse to lower their head a few feet from the ground. Speak softly to your horse as you slide the fly mask onto their head, making sure the straps are secure around their chin.Make sure that the mask fits well, so that the horse can’t rub it off or get a hoof caught in it.
Fly masks will keep bugs and dust out of an injured eye, but they won’t stop the horse from rubbing its eye against things, which can make the injury worse.;
, You can also protect the injured eye by putting a protective patch on your horse’s eye. You may look for a protective eye patch made for horses at your local horse supply store or online.When you put on the eye patch, make sure it sits right above your horse’s injured eye. It should be flush to the area, as you do not want dust or debris to get into your horse’s injured eye.
 When you put on any protective masks or patches on your horse’s injured eye, make sure you do not touch the eye directly with your hand or any other objects. This can irritate the injury and make it worse. Do not put anything in the eye, such as medications or eye drops, without consulting with your vet first.Even if you think the eye injury is minor, it is a good idea to do home care on it and then take your horse to the vet for a check up. Getting a diagnosis from the vet will ensure your horse is not in any serious medical danger and that the eye is treated properly.
Be very careful with steroids. Putting steroids into an eye that has a defect or ulcer can cause the eye to get much worse, requiring many weeks of medication.
Applying anti-inflammatories to the eye before seeing the vet may mask some of the pain, but it will also prevent the vet from getting a clear view of the injury.
 You should consider an eye injury a true emergency and get the horse to a vet as soon as possible. An eye injury in a horse can get worse very quickly and you do not want to put your horse at risk of blindness or losing the eye. You may bring your horse to the vet or have your vet do a house call. Try to have your horse examined by your vet as soon as you notice the eye injury.During the exam, the vet may sedate your horse so they can get a better look at your horse’s injured eye. They may also perform nerve blocks around your horse’s eye so the eye stays open during the exam. Your vet may look for an obvious obstructions in your horse’s eye, from splinters to ulcers.
Try to find a dark, clean area with minimal draft before the vet arrives and where he can work. The darker the area, the better – this will help the vet see clearly into the injured eye.
 Your vet may be able to provide a clear diagnosis of your horse’s issue just by doing a physical exam of the eye. They may also need to run additional tests on the eye. You should discuss the diagnosis with your vet to determine how you can treat the issue.Common eye injuries in horses include a foreign body in the eye, a corneal ulcer, an eyelid laceration, or orbital fractures, often caused by getting kicked by another horse.
The position of horses’ eyes – on the upper outside portion of the head – means that eye injuries are very common, as they are not well protected and vulnerable.
 Your vet should outline the treatment options available for your horse’s injury. Follow your vet’s instruction and allow your horse to be treated right away so the eye issue does not get worse.Most eye injuries can be treated with a saline solution flush and anti-inflammatory medication. If your horse has an eyelid laceration, your vet may suture it up and apply antibiotics to prevent an infection.
Your horse may need medication applied every 2 to 3 hours through a lavage system. This can be a lot of work for owners and your vet may recommend that the horse stay in a hospital, where the injury can be monitored and treated on time.
In rare cases, your horse may require eye surgery. This is often the case if a corneal ulcer becomes severe or if an orbital fracture is very severe.
 To prevent eye injuries from developing, you should get in the habit of checking your horse’s eyes on a regular basis. You may do a quick eye exam every morning, being careful not to touch or irritate your horse’s eyes.Make sure your horse’s eyes do not appear to red, inflamed, or runny, as these could all be signs of an eye issue.
 You can also prevent eye injuries by getting your horse used to wearing protective head gear, such as a fly mask. Having your horse wear a fly mask can ensure dirt, debris, and other objects do not get into their eyes.You may also make sure your horse wears a fly mask in situations that could lead to eye injuries, such as dusty or dirty areas or aggressive horses that could end up kicking or hitting your horse’s head.
You can also find foam padding for your horse to wear while traveling in a trailer. This will protect its head and eyes.
 To keep your horse healthy and safe from eye issues, you should have regular check-ups with your horse’s vet. You may have monthly check ups with your vet or a check-up scheduled for every few months. As part of the exam, you vet should examine your horse’s eyes to confirm there are no issues or injuries.