 Before you begin to cut your hair, it should be washed so it's nice and clean and ready to transform. Your hair should also be reasonably long -- it should fall over your eyes, and when it hangs down, it should fall below your ears.;
, It should lie as straight as possible around your head. Run a comb through the strands until you've worked out all the kinks.
 To make the perimeter cut, brush your hair over to the right side by parting it a few inches above your left ear. Then, trim the hair below the left part to create curved lines that frame your face and just brush along the bottoms of your earlobes on the left side of your face. Then brush your hair over to the left and do the same with the hair that frames the right side of your face. You can worry about the hair in the middle of your hair later.








Start with half-inch sections of hair. You can cut them with scissors or by using a razor comb for a bit more texture.
It's best if you have an experienced hairdresser cut your hair for you, or at least a talented and trusted friend, instead of attempting to cut your own hair.
 Continue the cut line along the nape area in a smooth curve to keep up the outline of the hair and serve as an end-point for the interior layer. The nape of the hair should be long enough to lie along the neck. This will leave some room for the texturing stage which will be necessary later. You cannot cut your nap yourself.









Tilt your head down to make it easier to cut along the neckline., Comb the hair in the middle of your head forward, so it falls over your eyes. This will help you cut the hair and add texture to your layers.
 Comb your hair forward over your forehead -- this hair will create the bangs. Justin Bieber's bangs are exaggerated and take up more of his haircut than normal bangs. Pick up the left side of the hair -- just enough to fall comfortably between your index and middle finger, and trim half an inch off at a time with a razor comb, which both trims the hair and creates layers.









Hold the hair straight up the air move the comb up and down the hair quickly. Then pick up the middle of the hair, and then the right side, and repeat these steps.
Depending on the length of your hair, you can stop after 1/2 an inch (1.2 cm), or you can repeat the process until you have your desired length.
Remember to cut a bit longer than you want the cut to be because you'll go back over the layers to add texture, which will remove length.
 Now, go through the back of your hair, lifting up 1/2-inch (1.2 cm) chunks at a time, and cutting them to frame them around your face. Remember to leave the parts that you combed forward a bit longer, since the hair that falls over your forehead will be longer than the hair on the sides that frame your face. Just keep going through the strands of hair, and evening out anything that's too long.









The hair over your forehead should be 1/2 - 1 inch (1.2 cm - 2.5 cm) longer than the hair on your sides, depending on how dramatic you want the Bieber look to be.
 The fringe will be formed over the bangs. To create it, just brush the hair over the forehead again, and hold out the hair in half-inch bits, and then cut it with the razor comb so it falls over the frame created by the hair on the sides of the bangs. Don't pull the hair of the bangs too tightly, or you'll make them shorter than necessary. When you're done, you'll have a layered fringe area.
 If you'd like to create a more feathered look, you can use scissors to point cut the ends of the layers of the hair. To point cut your hair, hold a small chunk of hair between your fingers, and hold the scissors perpendicular to your fingers and parallel to your hair. Then, gently open and close the scissors over the hair -- you may not see a big change.








Take thin, vertical slices of the hair and point cut the ends of the layers. Make sure the point-cutting is evenly-spaced and gives the hair a fine texture instead of a choppy look.
 Once you've cut and textured your hair, work styling mousse evenly through your hair. Dry your hair using a round brush with medium-sized bristles and a blow dryer to create the curved direction of the strands of hair. Place a chunk of hair in the brush and angle it toward your face as you blow-dry it, so the hair is framed nicely around your face.









Your hair should look soft, feathery, and smooth.
Place a dab of pomade (styling wax) on your fingertips and rake them through your hair to give more definition to the layers.

