 Your cat might meow when the litter box is too dirty to use. Scoop out solid waste every day, and replace all the litter once or twice a week as needed.Sticking to a regular maintenance schedule increases your cat's comfort and prevents the meowing habit from getting out of control., Moving to a new residence, changing your work schedule, rearranging the furniture, and adding a new pet to your household are all factors that can make a cat meow. Speed up the adjustment period by sticking to a routine, playing active games with your cat daily, and providing quiet hiding places for your cat to relax., Some cats meow to let you know they miss you, or that they need more affection. Try spending more time petting or playing with the cat to alleviate these feelings.Try to start the play sessions when the cat isn't meowing. Responding to the meows reinforces the behavior.
If you don't have enough time to play with your cat, consider hiring a pet sitter to visit while you're out of the house.
 If your indoor/outdoor cat makes endless requests to be let in and out, install a cat door. Measure your cat's height and width first, then install a cat door of the appropriate size.Former outdoor cats confined indoors will inevitably protest for a while. You could build an outdoor enclosure so the cat has a safer way to spend time outside.
 If your cat is meowing excessively, it's possible that she has hurt herself, or that she is feeling ill. Try a quick physical examination of your cat, or take her in for a check-up at the vet.


Examine your cat's eyes and nose for any discharge.Use one or both hands to gently examine your cat's abdomen, beginning at the spine and moving toward the belly. Look for signs of pain or discomfort as you gently palpate the abdomen.Use one or both hands to gently examine your cat's limbs and paws. Do not overextend your cat's limbs. Gently bend the joints as your cat would do if she were walking and moving. Note any pain or discomfort as you examine her limbs, joints, and paws., Sometimes cats that desire a mate and have not been spayed or neutered will meow excessively during the breeding season, which typically extends from February through September in most places located in the Northern Hemisphere. Talk to your veterinarian about whether your cat is in her breeding season, and whether a spaying/neutering procedure might alleviate the problem., Older cats often develop a louder or more insistent meow. Visit a vet promptly if the cat also develops any of the following symptoms:


Difficulty finding its way around, not using the litterbox, or a disrupted sleeping or eating schedule. These signs could point to feline cognitive dysfunction, or the normal effects of age such as reduced mobility.Any change in appetite or thirst, weight loss, hyperactivity, lethargy, increased urination, or vomiting. These are potential signs of hyperthyroidism or kidney disease, two very common problems.Hearing loss can lead to a lack of "volume control," leading to a louder meow. The cat may fail to respond to noises, act startled when you approach from behind, or scratch its ears more than usual.,