 The very first thing to practice with your new instrument is making a note. Pick a hole or a set of holes on the mouthpiece and blow gently into them. Neighboring holes are typically designed to harmonize with each other automatically, so try blowing into three holes at once to make a pleasing sound. Practice switching between only playing one hole, and playing chords on multiple holes.









This type of playing is called “straight-harp” or “first position.”
As you might suspect, the number of holes you blow through is partly controlled by your lips. To allow greater control over the notes you play, you'll eventually learn to use the blade of your tongue to block holes as well. This is covered later.
 Remembering to pull air across the reeds gently, breathe in to bring each note up a step. By breathing in and out through the mouthpiece, you can gain access to all the notes your harp is tuned for.









This type of playing is called “cross-harp” or “second position.” Cross-harp notes are often well-suited to blues riffs.
If you have a chromatic harmonica, practice pushing and holding the slide button to further control the notes you produce.
 On a C-tuned diatonic harmonica, the C scale starts with (up) 4 and climbs to (up) 7. The standard out, in pattern is repeated except for on the 7th hole, where it is switched (draw in first, then out). This scale is the only complete scale on a C-tuned harp, but you can sometimes play songs on other scales, provided they don't require the missing note(s) of the scale.
 Keep practicing playing scales and individual notes until you're comfortable with playing just one note at a time. Once you can exert that level of control over your instrument, pick out some simple songs and practice them as well. Tablature for songs like “Mary Had a Little Lamb” and “Oh, Susanna” is easy to find online, if you get stuck.









Try adding texture by playing multiple notes at once. The next step in your practice is to slightly relax your control and add two-note and three-note chords to the songs you practice by playing two or three adjacent holes at once. This will help you develop more control over your mouth and your breathing, and make the songs more interesting to listen to.

Don't play everything in chords! Try adding a chord at the end of a verse or phrase. The important thing is to get comfortable switching between single notes and multiple notes.



