 Writing your asthma plan is only the first step. Once you have it written, you need use the plan every day to keep up with your asthma. Be aware of what zone you are in every day and make sure you follow the instructions laid out by your doctor and respiratory therapist.


You can track the pattern of your asthma with you action plan, which can help you pinpoint new triggers or if your asthma is getting worse, despite following your plan., You may want to give your asthma action plan to those you work with in case you have an attack at work. This way, those around you will know what to look for and have all the relevant emergency contact information in case you have a severe attack. You may want to also provide a copy to your partner or any individuals living in your home with you.


If you child has asthma, share his asthma action plan with his school, daycare center, or other institution that he spends large amounts of time., Once you have finalized the action plan with your doctor, you should keep a copy on your person and a copy in a place in your home that is safe and accessible. , You should review your action plan during every doctor’s visit to ensure the plan is up to date with your asthma symptoms and your asthma treatment. If there are changes made to your asthma treatment, such as new medications, or if you develop another asthma trigger, add it to the action plan. Keeping the action plan as current as possible will ensure it is effective and relative to your condition.Reviewing the action plan with your doctor regularly will also ensure you are taking the right dosage of your medication and your action plan is reflective of your doctor’s instructions.
 If you are using an asthma plan but your asthma is not under control, you may require a treatment change. This will help you get the best treatment possible for your asthma.


The inverse of this is also true. If your asthma seems well controlled for a long period of time, your doctor may reduce the amount of medication you take on a daily basis.