 You might have a favorite river that you already know is home to a good crop of flatheads, but you'll have to decide if you want to cast your line from shore or troll for catfish in a boat. Either can be productive for catfishing, though you'll want to be careful of causing too much noise in the water.Flathead catfish have poor vision, but are sensitive to disturbances in the water.
 Choosing your location can be difficult, especially for beginners. You can make use of maps that track flathead spawning patterns and populations, which can be found through an online search for "flathead catfish maps.", Before you grab your tackle box and pole and rush off to catch some flatheads, you'll want to make sure your equipment is up to the task. Flatheads can be fierce; you'll want 80 – 100 pound test fishing line if you plan on fishing for moderate to large catfish. You'll also need your bait and a dependable fishing pole.


Flathead catfish have numerous, fine teeth that can wear down and weaken your line over time.
Have sinker weights on hand to ensure your bait reaches the bottom of the water in which you are fishing, where the flatheads live.
Larger sized bait should be used to fish for larger flatheads.
 Since flatheads prefer to live at the bottom of bodies of water, hiding in cracks, crevices, and caves, don't forget to put some sinkers on your line. Then bait your hook with your choice of bait., Your goal is to place your bait slightly above or just about level with likely flathead "beds." It can take minutes or hours before you get a bite on your line, so a bite indicator, like a bobber, bait clicker, or bell, can help you notice when you finally have one on the line., Flathead catfish can grow to incredible sizes, with some prize catches weighing in at over 100 pounds. Don't be taken by surprise when you have a flathead on the line. Give a yank when you feel the catfish bite to set the hook, then keep your rod pointed upward and begin reeling in the fish., Sometimes, the fish just aren't biting, and when that happens it can help to change location. Wait at least 20 minutes or so before reeling in your line and moving to a different location.