 Many people are Unitarian Universalists. You may have heard of "Unitarian" but not "Universalist." They used to be two separate religions but merged into one denomination in the early 1960s. Thomas Jefferson was a Unitarian (which later became Unitarian Universalism) and there are many more examples of famous reformers who came from one side or the other of the faith.;
, In this religion, you are free to explore, refine, and change your religious beliefs. If you don't believe that others are similarly allowed to explore and express their own beliefs, you will probably find yourself uncomfortable in a UU congregation. "The worth and dignity of every person" is a common theme among UUs, who tend to support liberal causes. Although it is entirely possible to be a religious liberal and a political conservative, it can be a challenge to be a UU because the members generally hold very liberal views on such issues as economic fairness, gay rights, immigration reform, etc. Political conservatives may need to insist on their right to hold their own views and remind other UUs what it means to accept diversity.
 This could be done by using Google Maps or visiting the website of the Unitarian Universalist Association (www.uua.org). There are many UU churches around the world. Most congregations will accept you and are used to people visiting just to learn about their religion.
 UUs love questions and the questioning spirit! That's why most of them came to this faith. After your first service, you will most likely have many questions. If the congregation has a minister, she or he will be glad to talk with you or make an appointment. If not, find someone to talk with at the social hour. They say, however, that "if you've seen one UU service, you've seen one UU service." Services can vary widely from week to week, even within one congregation, so find out the upcoming service topics, pick a few interesting ones, and attend more than once.
 Once you decide that you want to make a commitment to the congregation, find out from the minister or one of your new UU acquaintances what you would need to do to become a member. There may be an orientation class to attend, or it may be as simple as signing your name to a membership book.

