 Faith is the origin of all good Christian acts, but also realize that faith doesn't only produce good acts.


Faith is believing in something unseen, that there is evidence of
Faith produces action; but action isn't always faith;
,--good, mediocre or bad. So, if you cheat versus help someone -- you do it to He Himself says the Master of Super Heroes of all time. So be sure yours is a purpose (vision or mission) such that it is possible to help people to understand life's challenges in a special way, and then live that vision; do the good plan; walk in the path.Know about conflict: "For ours is not a conflict with mere flesh and blood, but with the despots, the empires, the forces that control and govern this dark world--the spiritual hosts of evil arrayed against us in the heavenly warfare."(Ephesians 6:12)Seek and find the light of the Good News and you can help friends to see the light and to escape condemnation and to escape "imprisonment" in darkness like dungeons of the second death., You can help people to find the light and to be saved from that "second death" through the plan of God, by grace through faith in Jesus. Tell people how to avoid the quicksand like the "Slough of Despond" in their progress through the darkness of night. The Slough of Despond is a deep bog in John Bunyan's allegory The Pilgrim's Progress, into which the character "Christian" sinks under the burdens and weight of his sins and his sense of a guilty conscience, like into a bog of sludge, but is saved by God's plan.
 You may know that "If I had the wings of an angel, over these prison walls I would fly" were the words of an old spiritual which inspired the author of I'll Fly Away to speak of flying "like a bird from prison bars has flown." in the song "I'll Fly Away." That song saying that I will fly away has been called the most recorded gospel music song of all time.,"(1 John 5:7) Realize that Jesus is called the Word, Way, Truth and Life in the Gospel.
 Your talents and abilities are shown by what you do and how and why you do those activities in which you participate like volunteering as a singer in a singing group or choir, or in a group or team at school, work or church. Or if you want to do something really amazing, go out and be a miracle worker and heal the sick and get people baptised in the Holy Spirit just like they did in the Bible. Don't wait to be asked or begged to join, as that is the wrong approach for a "Superhero" as a Christian.
 Bragging often seems like lack of confidence, but if you "bury" your talents (as if you are embarrassed or ashamed), then they are not serving their best uses.
 Would you like to live without being afraid of the authorities? Then do what is right, and you will receive their approval."(Romans 13:3))

, Professing the knowledge of the Truth through faith:



Be covered by protection: "Put on the full armour of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil."(Ephesians 6:11)Stand as victor: "Therefore put on the complete armor of God, so that you may be able to stand your ground on the day of battle, and--having fought to the end--to remain victors on the field."(Ephesians 6:13),, "But as for what was sown on good soil, this is the person who hears the word, understands it, and produces a crop that yields 100, 60, or 30 times what was planted."(Matthew 13:23).
,, Tell the wanderer your name (alias or nickname) then ask, "What is your name?" while shaking hands or offering a high five, upon his/her responding to you that way. (If you go to other cultures, greet the person according to the particular culture, e.g. in Spain greet by saying Como esta? with an extended hand).
 Register any worthwhile conversation piece in your eye. Point out something unusual about it--zingy!--you've got a starting place for diving into the swirl of conversation.
 Don't lie and say you love someone's grunge hair when you think it's a mistake, but if you like his or her skates or shoes, or a noteworthy shirt or blouse because..., say so and explain what you like about it.
 But be careful not to say something so personal that you scare the person off or make him or her feel uncomfortable. It is best not to compliment a person's looks or body. It might even seem like criticism in a sense or as a challenge.
 Most people love to talk about themselves--to get them going. "What classes are you taking this year?" "Have you seen/heard (Insert-Something-Here)? What did you think of it?" Again, keep the questions light and not invasive. Don't ask too many questions, if he or she is not seeming responsive to them.
 Agree, disagree, ask a question about it, or offer an opinion, just don't let it go by without saying anything.
, "Oh, yeah, Jodie, what do you think about Jesus Christ?", and as it draws the person's attention to what you're saying, continue to seek a statement of belief in God, Jesus. "Well, Jodie, would you like to have a quick prayer together about ____ (salvation, healing, daily-life, school, or such)?

, If not, ask "Would you do that? If so, say repeat after me": "Father, I come to you to accept your plan of saving me from sin and death. I repent of my sin and my need to be saved. I accept your death, burial and I'm willing to be baptised to identify with that and resurrection to new life that you will share with me so that I can experience the miracle of spiritual salvation. I ask you to accept me as your own child. I thank you. You are worthy of all praise. Let me be a blessing to others. In Jesus Christ name I pray. Amen!"

