 Make sure that the computer you use is designated for word processing instead of being a catalog computer. Oftentimes, especially at a public library, this will be made obvious through the use of signs. In some instances, a catalog computer may not even have a word processor or Internet browser on it.
 At small colleges, reserving the computer is not usually required. At a public library, however, reservations are almost always required. This is also true at some larger universities.


Reservations usually have a time limit, but this limit may get lifted or extended if no one else is waiting for the computer.
Access is typically on a first-come-first-serve basis. If no one is presently on the computer, you can take the current time slot. If all the computers are in use, your name will go down on a waiting list.
 If you have a student ID and are using a university computer, or if you have a library card and are using the computers at a public library, you do not need a guest pass. Some libraries offer guest passes to those who are not actual patrons, though.
 You will almost always need to log onto a library computer before you can use a word processor or Internet browser. Type in your student ID, library card number and PIN, or guest pass information.
 Under most circumstances, the word processing and browser icons will be visible on the desktop. Otherwise, go to the "Start" button on the taskbar and find the program from the program list located there.
 The rules are generally posted near the computer area or next to the keyboard. Specific rules can vary, but there are some standard rules that will apply at just about every library you visit.


For word processing, do not save anything onto the library server. If you are using a university library computer, it might be connected to the university network. In that case, you might have designated space on the server to save work, but you should not save it onto the library computer since it will only get cleared out by the end of the day or week. At a public library computer, you will need to have a USB drive to save any work.
For Internet use, do not download any information directly onto the library computer. Use a USB drive instead. Moreover, you should not attempt to access any pornographic or illegal content while on the library computer. These computers usually have filters on them to block out the majority of such content, but you should not attempt to bypass those filters.
 The vast majority of libraries, both public and university, will charge a fee for color pages and transparencies. Most public libraries will also charge a smaller fee for black and white copies, but a few college libraries may allow students to print out a limited number of black and white copies for free.
 Close any programs and log off. You do not want to leave the computer logged into your account since any rule violations will automatically get filed under your account information.

