 Before you get started with your manicure, it’s important to take the time to trim and file your nails. Make sure that all of your nails are the same length, trimming any that are longer than the rest. Using a nail file, shape them into a square or rounded tip – this is a matter of personal preference.
 A base coat will help your glitter nail polish last longer by creating a sticky base for your polish while adhering firmly to your nail. You can also purchase a variety of different base coats that help with different problems you may have with your nails, such as dryness or weakness.You can find nail polish bases at the drugstore or at a beauty supply store.
 Basically, this product acts as a barrier between your skin and nail polish. Your glitter manicure won’t look as neat if there are specks of glitter all over the surrounding skin, so covering your skin in the liquid latex is key. Brush it onto your skin and allow it to dry according to the instructions on the product. When you’re finished painting your nails, you will peel off the liquid latex and reveal perfectly bare skin underneath, without any polish mess!You can find peel-off liquid latex at most beauty supply stores, and you can also order it online. There are a variety of different ones on the market specifically for manicurists.
 You can purchase cheap latex makeup sponges in bulk at a drugstore or a beauty supply store. Paint your glitter nail polish onto the corner of the sponge. You don’t need to pour a dollop onto the sponge, but paint with generous strokes., The sponge will have soaked up the clear nail polish that is in the glitter polish, leaving the actual glitter on the surface of the sponge. When you press it into your nail, the glitter will transfer. This will leave you with a solid coating of glitter, rather than the spotty coat you get when you use the nail polish brush.Add more polish to the makeup sponge as you go. If you are not getting the full glitter coverage that you like, simply add a bit more to the sponge.
 After your glitter has dried completely, carefully peel off the liquid latex. Use a toothpick or tweezers to lift up a corner of the dried latex, and then peel it off of your skin completely. Any flecks of glitter on the latex will come off too, leaving your nails looking perfectly painted., A topcoat will give your glitter nail polish a smooth, shiny finish. It will also make your manicure last by creating a protective barrier. It will prevent it from chipping, and keep your polish looking brand new for longer. Allow your top coat to dry completely before using your hands.