 Turn on the oven and preheat it to 350°F/176°C or 325°F/163ºC.There can be some slight variation in the temperature of the oven, depending on how quickly or slowly you wish to toast the coconut.


Since coconut browns rather quickly, a slower cooking process with a lower temperature (325°F/163ºC or 300°F/149ºC) is suggested. But, if you are toasting freshly grated coconut, preheat the oven to 350°F/176°C.Because the coconut will be damp since it's fresh, it may need to toast a bit longer to completely dry out all the pieces.
Alternatively, you can also toast coconut in a toaster oven. Simply preheat the toaster oven to 325°F or 163ºC.;
, Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. Spread out a thin layer of about ½ a cup of shredded, flaked, or powdered coconut.Keep that in mind that sweetened coconut will toast faster than unsweetened coconut.The finer the pieces of coconut, the faster they will toast.
If you’re toasting your coconut in a toaster oven, line the baking sheet with parchment paper and spread out a thin layer of about ½ a cup of shredded, flaked, or powdered coconut., Put the baking sheet into the preheated oven. Bake for approximately 5-10 minutes at 350°F/180ºC.If you have the oven set at a lower temperature, it could take approximately 20 minutes to toast all of the coconut.If you are toasting fresh coconut, it could take approximately 12-18 minutes to completely toast.Keep your eye on the coconut as it toasts. After about five minutes, stir the coconut and look for any pieces that are golden brown. Remove any golden brown pieces of coconut and continue to toast the rest for a few more minutes.


If you’re toasting your coconut in a toaster oven, at 325°F or 163ºC, it should take approximately 4-7 for finely shredded, unsweetened coconut to toast, approximately 7-12 minutes for large flaked unsweetened coconut to toast, and approximately 7-10 minutes for normally shredded, sweetened coconut to toast.Continue to check on the coconut and stir it every couple of minutes.
Do not let the coconut become too dark. A light, golden brown coloring indicates that the coconut is adequately toasted.
 Remove the coconut from the oven and pour it onto some parchment paper or into a bowl. You can either use the toasted coconut right away after it cools, or store it in an airtight container for up to four days until you’re ready to use it.