 If you can remove the stinger before all of the venom in the venom sac enters your body, this will help minimize the effects of the sting.The venom enters your skin in seconds, so act as soon as you feel the sting.
When removing the stinger, be careful not to squeeze the venom sac at the end of the stinger. Doing so may increase the amount of venom that goes into your skin.;
, Scrape across the stinger until you dislodge it from your skin. You may be able to see the venom sac at the end of the stinger. Again, be careful not to squeeze the sac. For this method, a thin object with a straight edge works best. Items you can use include:The back of a pocket knife. If you are using a knife to remove the stinger from someone else, only do so if the person is able to be still enough that you are confident you won’t cut them. Do not use this method on a child whose movements may be unpredictable.
The edge of a credit card (or driver's license, etc.). This method is safe to use on a child because there is no risk that you could injure him or her with the card.
 Use a tweezers or your fingernails to pull the stinger out. Grasp the stinger as close to your skin as possible. Try to grip it below the venom sac so that you will not squeeze more venom into your skin. Pull out with a slow steady pressure.The stinger may be barbed, so it may be uncomfortable as you remove it.
Do not jerk the stinger out. This increases the risk that it will break, leaving a smaller, more difficult to remove fragment in your skin.
 Wasps and hornets usually do not leave the stinger in the victim’s skin, so you may not find a stinger.If you have been stung by a wasp or hornet, they can sting repeatedly. Calmly but quickly leave the area where you were stung to avoid getting stung again.
 After you have removed the stinger, wash the area with soap and water. This will clean it and reduce the chances of it becoming contaminated with dirt or bacteria.Hold the sting under running water for several seconds to thoroughly flush the area of dirt and debris.
Gently rub the area with a mild soap and rinse thoroughly.
Pat the area dry.
 Apply ice wrapped in a clean towel to the sting. Apply the cold pack for 10–15 minutes, and then remove it for ten minutes to allow the tissue to warm up, before reapplying it.If you have circulation problems, then use the ice for less time to reduce the risk of frostbite.
If you do not have an ice pack handy, a bag of frozen vegetables wrapped in a towel will work just as well.
Do not put the ice directly on your skin because it can cause frostbite. Wrap it in a towel or cloth.
 Consult your doctor before taking these medications if you are pregnant, nursing, treating a child, or on other medications which could interact. Do not give children or teenagers aspirin. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. Possible medications include:Paracetamol
Ibuprofen

, The amount of localized swelling that people get varies from person to person. In addition, while the sting may hurt at first, it may itch more later. Possible treatments include:Hydrocortisone cream (1%)
Calamine lotion
An oral antihistamine with diphenhydramine (Benadryl) or chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton)

, If you know you are allergic to bee stings, you have likely been prescribed an emergency epinephrine autoinjector (EpiPen, Twinject). Use it according to your doctor’s orders and the manufacturer’s instructions. If you have used an epinephrine injector or you are going into anaphylactic shock, call emergency responders immediately. Symptoms include:


Itchy skin
Red rash
Swelling of the eyes, lips, hands, feet
The feeling that your throat is closing or swelling of the mouth, throat, or tongue
Difficulty swallowing
Difficulty breathing
Abdominal discomfort
Nausea or vomiting
Unconsciousness

