 Unless you have one that's about to go off in a few moves, you can generally ignore the timers and focus on making high-scoring moves. The bombs will often take care of themselves as more candies drop.Don’t worry about the bombs once you are on your last 7 moves. Since bombs go off after 8 moves, any new bombs that appear after this point will not go off before the level ends.;
, When you create a match using a bomb, you'll receive a 3000 point bonus. This bonus is absolutely crucial to completing this level, as you need to make an average of 4000 points per move to win., Creating special candy in this level is one of the best ways to ensure that your score reaches the minimum. Specials can clear out a lot of candies at once, netting you major points. You also get a bonus score for each bomb cleared in a special candy explosion.


If you create special candy combinations using bombs, or use a bomb to set off a special candy, you get even more bonus points. You can surf through this level on just these points alone if you can make enough special candy and bomb combinations.
Try to set off striped candy in rows and columns that have the most bombs. This is because clearing bombs is worth more points as compared to simple candy.
 You don't have a lot of moves available to reach your target score, so you'll want to avoid making simple combos as much as possible. These don't earn many points and are an inefficient use of your moves., If there is no bomb to take care of immediately, focus on making special candy or simple combinations at the bottom of the board. This can result in chain reactions as the higher up layers of candy move downwards.
 Set off as many special candy as you can during the level, but any leftover candy will be set off automatically at the end during the Sugar Crush. This can help push your score above the minimum score required.
 Like many of the difficult Candy Crush levels, a lot of your results will be based off pure luck. If you don't get a good board, there may be nothing you can do to meet the minimum. Keep at it!


Newer versions of Candy Crush Saga have made the level significantly easier, so make sure you update your app if you haven't in a while!

