 Your child may benefit from visiting a support group for those with juvenile arthritis. This can help your child feel like they are not alone because they can meet other child with the same condition. They can also learn from the other children about how to deal with and manage their arthritis.Ask your child’s doctor or search online for a support group in your area.
There are summer camps for children with juvenile arthritis.
The support group may be for children and their families.
 Exercise is important for the management of juvenile arthritis. Exercise and regular physical activity can help improve the function and motion of the joints. It can also reduce the symptoms. When symptoms are under control, children can participate in most sports.Exercise also helps build muscle strength, which helps protect joints. Regular movement also helps build better shock absorption for the joints.Your child can participate in most sports. Swimming is a great activity for arthritis because it doesn’t put pressure on the joints.
Talk to your child’s doctor before letting them participate in sports or exercise.
 Water therapy, also called hydrotherapy, is a common alternative therapy for arthritis. Your child can soak in a warm bath to help loosen stiff joints or relax tight or sore muscles.A warm shower or bath before exercising can help reduce pain or stiffness so the child has an easier time exercising.
 Massage is another good management technique for juvenile arthritis. When a child gets a massage, it helps the muscles to loosen and relax, reduces tightness and stiffness, reduces pain, and helps circulation. Massage also helps with symptoms of anxiety and stress.Parents can give their children massage. The physical therapist can teach you how to give the child a massage.
 Many relaxation techniques can be used to manage the pain and discomfort associated with juvenile arthritis. Your child can learn to use breathing exercises, progressive muscle relaxation, and guided imagery. These mind-body techniques cause no negative side effects and can help relieve symptoms.You can talk to your child’s psychologist, counselor, or physical therapist about teaching your child mind-body techniques to manage their condition.
 Your child may benefit from taking supplements or increasing certain vitamins and minerals in their diet. Calcium is important for a child with juvenile arthritis. Calcium helps with bone growth and strength and helps prevent osteoporosis. Vitamin D is also needed for using calcium and supporting bone health.If your child is from four to eight, they need 1000 mg of calcium per day, and they need 1300 mg if they are nine to 18 years old.
You can include more vitamin D or calcium into your child’s diet. Dark leafy greens are a good source of calcium, as are seeds and white beans. You can include vitamin D fortified foods in your child’s diet, or encourage them to spend 15 to 20 minutes per day in the sunshine.

