 The leaner the cut, or less fat it contains, the healthier it will be. Generally, cuts labeled “select” will be the leanest. These cuts will also contain either “round” or “loin” in the name. “Top round” cuts of meat are not only ideal for stews, they are also especially lean.Keep in mind that while you do want tough cuts of meat for stew, this does not mean fatty cuts. In fact, the fattiest and most “marbled” cuts, which are also the most expensive, do not cook well in a stew anyway.
 Meat contains some healthy nutrients, such as iron, zinc, and vitamin B12, as well as protein. However, centering meals around meat, especially red meat, is unhealthy. This is because red meat is particularly high in saturated fat. Diets centered on meat are also linked to higher incidences of cancer.In order to keep your stew relatively healthy, make sure vegetables and beans are prominently featured.
As a rule of thumb, use enough meat so that each meal-sized portion contains 3 or 4 ounces of meat. Visually, this amount would be equal in size to a deck of playing cards.
Vegetables offer variety in flavor and consistency as well. For instance, potatoes, carrots, tomatoes, and onions go great in most stews.
 A "certified organic" label is given to meat that is derived from animals that were not treated with antibiotics, hormones, pesticides, or biotechnology. Organically raised cattle were also allowed to graze in a pasture for at least a third of every year.Keep in mind that the healthiest meat comes from the healthiest animals. Unfortunately, much of the meat available for human consumption comes from farms where issues such as overcrowding, extensive antibiotic use, and forced feeding are common.
While organic meat is nutritionally comparable to meat from animals treated with chemicals, other methods of cattle raising are objectively unsustainable, and increasingly contribute to the risk of antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria.
Note that “grass-fed” animals, unless certified organic, may have been given antibiotics and hormones. The grass fed label means that they were allowed to graze naturally for part of the their lives and were not force-fed grain.

