


For an easier cleanup, you could cover the baking sheet with nonstick aluminum foil or parchment paper instead of using cooking spray.



You don't need to sift the flour, but if you notice any lumps, break them up with the utensil while mixing the ingredients.
The flour will make it easier for the outer coatings to adhere to the halibut. Adding the salt and pepper to the flour will allow them to flavor the flesh of the halibut more directly.
 Combine the two ingredients together in a second medium bowl. Whisk them together until evenly combined.


The egg and milk will help keep the halibut moist while also making it easier for the final coating to stick to the fish.
 In another separate medium bowl, combine the bread crumbs, Parmesan cheese, and garlic powder, tossing them together until evenly combined.


Arrange the three bowls side-by-side. The flour mixture should be first, the egg mixture should be second, and the bread crumb mixture should be third.
 Working one at a time, place each halibut fillet in the flour mixture, turning as needed and lightly coating all sides.


Finish coating each fillet with all three layers before starting on the next one.
After coating the halibut with flour, hold it above the flour dish and give the fillet a gentle tap to dust off any excess flour.
 Dunk the halibut fillet in the egg mixture, turning as needed to coat all sides.


When finished, hold the fillet over the egg bowl for a few seconds to allow the excess egg a chance to drip off.
 Toss the halibut into the bread crumb mixture, turning as needed to coat all sides.


You may need to use your hands to gently press the crumb coating onto the sides of the fish.
As soon as you finish coating the fish with this last layer, place it onto your prepared baking sheet.
 Place the coated halibut in the preheated oven and cook for about 15 minutes, or until the center flakes apart easily when pierced with a fork.


If you'd like the halibut to develop a golden-brown coating, consider spraying the top of each coated fillet with a little oil-based cooking spray before placing the fish in the oven.
Note that you do not need to rotate or flip the fish as it bakes.
 Remove the finished halibut from the oven and enjoy it immediately.

