 Before you begin to braid the hair, brush the hair to remove tangles and knots. Decide which shoulder you would like the braid to hang over. Then, brush the hair over that shoulder.









If you want to part your hair, the part should be on the opposite side of your head as your hair. If you hair is going to be over your right shoulder, part it on the left, and vice versa.
If you don't want to part your hair, just brush all of your hair towards the shoulder where your braid will be.
 The braid should be started underneath the ear opposite the shoulder where you’ve gathered your hair. If your braid is going to be over your left shoulder, begin the braid under your right ear. Start by separating a small section of hair from the bottom of the sweep of hair going across the back of your neck.









The goal of this braid is to wrap the side braid around the bottom of your head and over one shoulder for a more romantic, finished look.
Another option is to begin this French braid at the top of your head. This can start at the part line.To begin your braid in this way, follow the same French braiding instructions. The difference will be that you will start the braid a few inches higher on your hair.
 Make sure the sections are even, and begin braiding as usual. Grab one of the outer sections and cross it over to the middle, then grab the outer section on the opposite side and pull it to the middle. Do this only once. Don’t braid any further just yet.
 The rest of the braid will be half a french braid, and you will incorporate more hair into the upper half of the braid. Every time you go to cross one of the high strands down into the middle of the trio, add a section of loose hair from the hair sweeping over your other shoulder before you move it to the middle.









Be sure to add hair from directly above that section of braid so that your hair on the back of your head doesn’t cross all over itself and ruin the design.
Keep the braid tight, but keep the strands separated.By the time the braid reaches the opposite side of your head, it should contain all your hair,not just the little section.
If you are starting the French braid from the top of your head, you will begin by French braiding down, and then when you get around the earline, you will begin braiding in a horizontal line across your head. If your hair is super short, you can stop the side braid at your ear by fastening it with a pin or clip., When you reach the opposite ear, braid the rest of your hair in a normal braid. When you’re done, the braid will start at one shoulder and finish hanging down over the other one.
 Secure the braid with an elastic band. Arrange any wisps of hair and spray with hair spray if desired.


Tug on the braid if you want a messier look. Loosen the braid to the desired size.Tugging the braid gives the illusion of volume for thin hair.

