 Unlike coins, stamps generally do not bear a date showing the year they were issued, making the stamp's age harder to determine.


In some cases, a stamp's approximate age can be determined from the design on it, if the stamp was issued to honor a historical event at the time of the event.
Older stamps were also made with different grades of paper than more modern stamps.
Stamps used for a particular purpose, such as sea mail, have a history that's easier to trace, making it easier to determine their age.;
, How prominent a country was historically may have an impact on a stamp's value. The issuing country may display its name in an unfamiliar language or in an alphabet other than the Roman alphabet; if you can find the native country name rendered in the Roman alphabet, you can look it up at Nations Online to find the name it's known by in the English-speaking world.
 More important than the actual design is its centering on the stamp face. You can determine this by looking at the stamp upside down to see how well the design is positioned.
 Older postage stamps were backed with a gum that had to be licked to stick it onto the envelope or postcard surface. The gum material and its condition each have an impact on the stamp's value.


Mint gum is more prized by stamp collectors than a non-mint gum.
An evenly distributed, more complete gum makes a stamp more valuable than one where the gum has skips, creases, or has been partially or completely removed from the stamp. For this reason, a used stamp is generally more valuable still attached to an envelope or postcard than if it is removed from it.
Older stamp albums that held their contents in place with hinges also diminish the value of a stamp, as they damage the stamp's gum.
 In addition to having gum on the backs to adhere them to the mail, older stamps were printed in sheets with tiny round holes at the edges of the stamp faces to allow them to be separated from each other. Their size can be measured with a perforation gauge, while the perforation holes themselves should be crisply and cleanly cut.
 Cancellation marks prevent a stamp from being used for postage; they also diminish the stamp's value if they are too prominent. No cancellation mark or a very light cancellation mark are preferable to a cancellation mark that grossly interferes with the stamp design.
 The rarity of a stamp depends on how many copies of the stamp were produced to begin with. Stamps produced within the last 60 years are generally worth only their face value to mail postage because there are so many of them in existence. Likewise, the 1-cent Benjamin Franklin stamp of 1861 has less monetary value because it's been estimated that 150 million of them were produced.


Stamps with errors in the design, such as the famous "upside down" biplane stamp, are both rare and prized by stamp collectors. These stamps are among the few that have escaped the quality-control inspection to weed out such errors before distribution.
 The factors listed above all help to determine a stamp's condition, which can be expressed in two ways:


Stamp grade can be expressed in three broad terms: sound, faulty, or defective. A faulty stamp is one that has minor imperfections, such as a small crease in the corner. A defective stamp is one with major imperfections such as large creases, pinholes, abrasions, or stains. A sound stamp has no imperfections.
Stamp condition can be broken into seven smaller levels, similar to those used for coins: below average, fair, average, good, fine, very fine, and extremely fine.
 Even if a rare stamp is in excellent condition, it may not be sought after by stamp collectors. Connection to a major historical event or just general agreement on how prized a stamp is can affect how in demand a given stamp is.

