 For many people who struggle with social interactions, the thought of having an extended conversation with a total stranger may seem daunting. But you can start small and work your way up. Try starting out smiling at people you pass on the street. Work your way up to complimenting people you see everyday, and saying "thank you" to cashiers or waitresses. These little steps will help boost your confidence and can help you scale up towards saying more and more things to people you don't know., If you're still not comfortable carrying on an actual conversation with strangers, practice making conversation with people you do know. Conversational ability and social skills get stronger with practice, and every time you practice your social skills you become a little bit more fluent in your ability to converse with others.Start out by having extended conversations with one or two people you know well and with who you are comfortable. Then build up to conversing with a small group of people you know. Once you start to feel really comfortable talking with others, you can begin practicing your conversation skills with people you don't know that well., One easy way to strengthen your social skills is by observing other people when they interact. You can do this casually with people you don't know. Try going out to a public place like, a coffee shop or bar (if you're old enough to drink), and watch how people converse with one another.Take note of the structure of conversations you observe. Is one person predominantly talking, or is it a back-and-forth dialogue? How do topics come up in conversation: do they arise naturally in the course of talking about other things, or are they introduced abruptly? Perhaps some combination of the two?
Pay attention to body language as well. Do people who are talking together stand close together or far apart? Do they make eye contact, or do they seem distracted?
Watch as many people as you can in as many varied environments as possible. This will help give you better insight into how people carry on conversations and interact with one another.
 If you're going to be conversing with friends, you should think about things going on in your life that you can talk about with others. If you're going to be speaking with a stranger or someone you don't know very well, read up on current events, as this can give you easy topics of conversation.Practice listening. Whatever you're talking about with others, listen to what the other person is saying and make it a conversation. Take an interest in what the person says, and ask follow-up questions to show you are engaged.
 One of the best ways to improve your social skills is by being a friendly, approachable person. If you make yourself polite and likable, people will want to interact with you again in the future.Always say "please" and "thank you" when you interact with others. People notice good manners and generally find politeness a desirable quality in others.Practicing good manners can sometimes hide insecurity or uncertainty, and can help you appear and feel more comfortable while you interact with others.