 One of the most common symptoms of lung cancer is a cough that does not go away. See a doctor if your cough lasts more than two weeks, if it increases in intensity over time, or if you cough up blood (this is called hemoptysis) or a lot of phlegm.


Ironically, smokers, who have the highest risk of lung cancer, tend to cough a lot and, consequently, do not seek treatment for this most common symptom. If you smoke, be aware of any changes in your cough, and meet with your doctor regularly. Consider getting checked for lung cancer every couple of months
You’ll also want to note any changes in the character of the cough. You should be worried if, for example, a dry cough suddenly starts producing a lot of sputum. Likewise, you should be worried if the color of your sputum changes. In particular, keep an eye out for chocolatey brown, black, or greenish sputum.;
, Shortness of breath (dyspnea) is a common symptom of lung cancer, but it is often attributed to obesity, old age, or weather changes. See a physician if you are having trouble breathing, especially if your shortness of breath occurs outside of any strenuous activity.


In some cases, a lung cancer patient will feel back pain that worsens the deeper that they breathe in.
 Dull and persistent aching in your chest, shoulders, or arms could be an early symptom of lung cancer. This discomfort might progress to include tingling, numbness, and even paralysis.
 If you have multiple episodes of bronchitis or pneumonia, talk to your doctor about the possibility of cancer. Tumors can obstruct your airways and make you prone to these kinds of infections.
 Lung cancer, like other cancers, can cause a loss of appetite. If you notice your appetite has diminished, make an appointment with your doctor.
 Cancer cells use an inordinate amount of your body’s energy and can affect your metabolism, leading to weight loss. This is sometimes exacerbated by the loss of appetite some patients experience. If you lose ten pounds suddenly or without dieting, consult a doctor.
 All cancers can produce fatigue, but the symptom is so vague that it does not always prompt people to seek treatment. If you have risk factors for lung cancer or have any other symptoms, or if your fatigue is pronounced, see your doctor immediately.
 When lung cancer advances, tumors can hurt the vocal cords and obstruct the air passages, sometimes leading to hoarseness and wheezing.
 When a tumor advances into the esophagus, it can cause difficulty swallowing (dysphagia).
 Tumors can interrupt nerve supplies and make you feel weak. This may lead to tingling sensations, numbness, or even paralysis.
 Fluid accumulation in the lungs (pleural effusion) can be a consequence of lung cancer.
 If you notice that your skin or eyes are looking yellow, you may have jaundice. When lung cancer spreads, it can affect the digestive system and, specifically, the liver, producing this condition.
 Pressure from a tumor on the chest vein can lead to swelling in the neck, arms, and face.


In addition to this swelling, this pressure can also cause drooping eyelids, with one pupil becoming smaller than the other.
 In advanced cases of lung cancer, the cancer may spread to the bones, leading to pain and possible fractures. Unexplained pain or fractures definitely require a full medical work-up.
 When lung cancer spreads to the brain or compresses the superior vena cava (a large vein that supplies blood to the heart), it can cause headache, blurred vision, paralysis, and seizures. These are serious medical problems that require a doctor’s intervention immediately.
 Lung tumors secrete hormones and can produce symptoms that seem unrelated to the lungs. These include:


Palpitations and tremors
Puffiness in the face
A bloated appearance
Enlargement of the breasts in males (gynaecomastia)

, Lung cancer can also produce a high fever and a change in the shape of your fingernails. If you notice these or any other unexplained symptoms, especially if you have other symptoms or carry a high risk, see a doctor.
 People who have smoked for a long time or who smoke more than two packs of cigarettes per day have a much higher risk of developing lung cancer. Chewing tobacco and snuff also increase your risk.
 Even if you do not smoke yourself, frequent contact with second-hand smoke increases your risk considerably, especially if you live with a smoker.
 If you have had radiation to treat other cancers, your risk of developing lung cancer goes up. In general, though, under these circumstances, the benefits of treatment outweigh the risks.
 Gasoline fumes, diesel fumes, mustard gas, vinyl chloride, and coal products may increase your risk of developing lung cancer. This factor explains why people in certain jobs have higher incidences of the disease.


Exposure to other chemicals, including arsenic, chromium, and asbestos, may also make you more susceptible to lung cancer. These chemicals are mostly impossible to sense, however, and so are difficult to avoid.
 If you have a relative who has been diagnosed with lung cancer, you may also have a higher risk.
 Lung cancer rates increase with age, with people over 60 carrying the highest risk. Men develop lung cancer more frequently than women do.

