 If possible, remove all furniture. For bulky or heavy items that cannot be removed, place plastic under the legs of the piece to protect it from water damage.


If professional plastic is not available, cut squares of aluminum foil or wax paper and slide them beneath the feet of the furniture.Carpet shampooing is sometimes called "steam cleaning." However, this is a misnomer, as these machines actually use hot water and detergent, not steam., Vacuum thoroughly, first in forward and back then left to right. Be sure to avoid neglecting corners and crannies.Spot-treat major stains in the carpet. The shampooer will remove grime, but it can also set stains more deeply., Many grocery or hardware stores offer rentals of cleaners with the appropriate detergent available for purchase.


If you are renting the cleaner, prepare the room in advance so you do not need to pay for a longer rental while you complete that step.
Ideally the cleaner should have a built-in heating core that will keep the water hot. Read the product description or consult a salesperson prior to renting or purchasing a carpet shampooer.
 Once the carpet has been cleaned no one should walk on it until it has dried. Be careful not clean yourself into a corner! Begin at the area farthest from the door and work your way out.
 Some cleaners come with shampoo included or recommend a certain detergent usually purchasable from the same store. In general, you will fill the water container on the machine with water and a small amount of detergent.


Do not add too much soap as it can damage both the machine and your carpets. Some professionals actually advise to use slightly less detergent than what your machine recommends., The damp carpet will attract further dirt and your work will be undone if you wear dirty shoes while cleaning. Instead, wear socks or put plastic bags over your feet or shoes. Specialty booties are also available to place over shoes while cleaning.



Some detergents may be harmful after immediate application. Going completely barefoot is not advised., In general, cleaners are designed to lay down water as you push the machine forward and suck it up as you pull it back. You should pull back very slowly, allowing the machine to pull up as much water as possible.


If the carpet stays too damp, or if water soaks through to the carpet pad, it can lead to mold and mildew., Leave windows and doors open to allow for free air circulation. Make sure that the carpet dries completely within 24 hours for mold prevention.If open windows are not an option, set the air conditioner to a moderate setting (72-78 degrees) and leave the room door open.
Any combination of carpet dryers, fans, blowers, dehumidifiers, and air movers may also be use to encourage fast drying.
Drying may take 6-12 hours and during that period you should not walk on the carpet or replace the furniture.Plastic protectors on the feet of bulky furniture may be removed when the carpet has dried completely.
 If soap remains in the carpet after you have steamed it, it will attract more dirt. To thoroughly remove the soap, put a 50-50 mix of white vinegar and water in the machine and repeat the cleaning process. The vinegar will help remove any lingering detergent residue.It is recommended that carpets in high-traffic areas should be shampooed twice a year, while infrequently used spaces can be done as little as once every 18 months. If you have a light-colored carpet that begins to look dirty, clean it sooner.