 You need to unlock him first!


To get Lucario, play 100 brawls in Versus Mode and then defeat him in combat.
Play through the Subspace Emissary! You'll unlock him on the way.
Unlock all 5 levels of Target Test, then beat all 5. Defeat Lucario afterwards.;
, Now to begin playing. Go to Training, pick Lucario, and set your opponent to Pokémon Trainer. With Pokémon Trainer as your enemy, you can take on 3 different battle styles.
 Practice your moves.


Aura Sphere (Neutral B) can be charged up. Listen to the sound it makes, and when the sound changes a bit, you're fully charged. Dodge out of the way while charging to continue your charge whenever you press B again. If it is already fully charged, you'll launch it when you push B. This tends to be effective when the opponent is not expecting it.






Force Palm (Side + B) is a special move. If an enemy is close enough, you'll grab them and force aura into them, damaging them and throwing them back. If nobody is close by, you'll shoot aura out that can be walked into, which has the same effect as previously stated, only without being grabbed.






Extreme Speed (Up + B) is Lucario's recovery move. This move is considered the best of the best, since you can curve it around and massively change your path in several ways. It's like a knight in chess.






Double Team (Down + B) is Lucario's counterattack. If you're about to be hit, hit Down + B. If hit while the move is in use, Lucario vanishes, appears behind the enemy, and strikes with incredible force. If several enemies are crowded together, you'll hit all of them!







, Get a Smash Ball and unleash Aura Storm! You'll jump to the top of the screen, in the center. Quickly aim at your target, and then you can move the incredible beam you fire.
 Slow down gameplay and set Pokémon Trainer to attack.
 Become familiar with all moves. Try new combos.
 You need to know bad spots to fight at while playing on certain stages.
 It's time to go into a real battle. Maybe against yourself- Item less? Start with a Level 3 Lucario, then go up and see how high you can go before you lose. Keep practicing on the highest leveled Lucario possible until you can defeat a Level 9 CPU.
 Repeat the previous step.
,,