 Hold the apple in your non-dominant hand, keeping it stable against your palm and fingers.;
, Select a sharp knife no longer than the width of the apple, typically between 2 and 4 inches (5–10 cm) long. Hold it in your dominant hand, wrapping your fingers around the handle and the dull, back edge of the knife. Keep your arm straight, with the knife extending outward as though it were part of your arm.This type of knife is often called a paring knife, because of their use in this task.
 Hold the blade steady against the fruit by pushing gently against the dull edge of the blade. Make sure your grip on the knife is steady, with no wiggling, but don't strain or press against it.









Most people start by holding the knife within 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the apple's top or bottom, at a point on the round portion of the apple's surface.
 The best method for handling a paring knife depends on your level of comfort and control.If you are unfamiliar or uncomfortable with knife use, or using a larger knife than instructed above, point the knife away from you to minimize the chance of cutting yourself if the knife slips. Once you have had some practice using a paring knife, and you know your grip is firm, you may find you have more control over the knife if you point your knife at a slight inward angle.
 Press the apple gently against the knife, until the peel is cut and the knife is resting under the surface of the peel.
 Turn the apple slowly against the blade of the knife, holding the knife steady in the same position or using minimal pressure to push it against the apple. Keep rotating the apple as the knife removes the peel, turning it in a spiral pattern until all the peel is removed. Leave the flattened ends of the apple alone for now.









If the knife slips through the peel again, simple place it back onto the apple at any position where peel remains.
 The top and bottom of the apple are typically more difficult to peel, due to their uneven shape. Hold the apple down against a cutting board, rounding your fingers into a "claw" shape so your fingertips are pressed onto the apple, but your knuckles are the closest part of your finger to the knife.Slowly press the knife down against the apple end until it is stable inside the apple, then push down hard to cut off the apple end.









Do not attempt to cut the apple ends if the apple is sliding against the cutting board. Stop and make sure the apple and cutting board are both dry, instead, or try a different cutting board.

