 Although Twitter is not the most popular social networking account that there is, you will find you can "make fans" with twitter. Twitter is often used to share "less-personal" (more openly public) information, unlike sites such as Facebook. Facebook people tend to have "more-personal" settings and only add people they know. With Twitter a lot of people use it to easily add people whom they do not know. With Twitter make sure you keep up with "trends". Be trendy. This is very important. It will help people notice you, so that more and more people will start to follow you.;
, As well as doing your own songs (if you have your own songs) especially start off by doing covers. Why? Searching other names/brands -- but finding your covers there -- can bring a potential army of fans. Examples of those who used covers -- Here are two known stars who both started out by doing covers of songs on YouTube: Covers plus their own music online helped start-up of Justin Bieber and Conor Maynard toward both being very popular artists. Justin in particular is the 2nd most popular person on twitter.


Do songs which are new and current as well as old time classics.
 Although a bunch of covers can draw fans, it is very important that your growing fan base knows what your identity is (explained how below).
 Focus your efforts on your current fans to gain many new fans. Get your present fans to interact with your "social pages"/to your brand name. The more often they post to your page, the better chances that you set-up for their friends to catch it, see it, in your fan's newsfeeds and hopefully catch-on to become a new fan.


Free pub: Every time any fan or friend interacts with one of your pages, that’s a free newsfeed (free advertising) for your brand. Free ads! You don’t have to splash dollars into Facebook PPC to grow your own online community.
, Fans like this and will often watch video road-diaries of you.
,: Beliebers or TWFanmily/Prisoners.
, The more someone feels appreciated, the more likely they are to communicate with your page, post positive comments and recommend your page to their friends, too.
Say "Thank you so much; you're great." Say (out of nowhere), "Thanks!" to a fan;
So, when s/he asks "For what?" Say, "For being my friend!", and shake hands and/or hug, if they allow you. Announce to your fans what you’ve put on Facebook and Twitter. Show your customers what they’re missing and encourage them to join.
 ASK, “Are you a fan/follower? If not, here’s what you’re missing!” Show the benefits of being a fan, event schedules, win prizes on Facebook, fan-only coupons? This will also show non-fans the perks of becoming a fan.


Instead of just posting a link to a song, ask your fans what they think about it. Use Facebook Questions (poll) to ask your fans anything from what kind of breakfast starts their day off right to what they like most about your songs/music. The more engaged your fans become, the more impressions your posts will get.
 Add a call-out in any messages (and recorded voicemail greeting, messages) that says “Remember, you can also reach (us) on Facebook at Facebook.com/and Twitter @.” This soothes any frustration a fan might have, if they can’t get hold of someone to answer a question or request they might have. Alert your customers of any coupons or contests you’re running on Facebook through an e-blast with direct links to your pages.


Check your Facebook Insights to see what types of posts have been most engaging with your current fans. Sort your Page Post analytics by number of Engaged Users and look at the 10 most engaging posts and the 10 least engaging posts. If the majority of most engaging posts were photos, post more photos. If they were questions, ask more questions. Analyze your least engaging posts to find out what type of content your fans are least interested in.
 How? While you keep a style so that you can build a solid fan base -- do some odd songs which are unusual enough to get noticed, and catch on, and spread around, "going viral" if they're fun enough.
 Get your fans -- two or three months before it is due to come out -- to pre-order it.

