 Start the citation by reversing the first author’s name followed by a period. Type the year of publication and close it with a period. Type and italicize the book’s title and close it with a period. Then type the publisher’s location, a colon, and the publisher. End the citation with a period. Now it is your turn to try!For example: Beal, Kristin. 2008. The Mongolian Empire. Chicago: University Press.
If the book has more than one author, then only reverse the first author’s name. The rest of the authors’ names should be in regular format. For example: Beal, Kristin, Kathy Davis, and Brent Flowers. The Mongolian Empire. Chicago: University Press.
 Citing journal articles is simple! Begin the citation by reversing the author’s name and close it with a period. Type the year of publication. Type and quote the article’s title and close it with a period. Type and italicize the name of the journal with its volume number. Follow the volume number with a comma, the issue number, the publication month/season in parenthesis, a colon, and the inclusive page numbers. End the citation with a period.For example: Grant, Allen. 2007. “Kindergarteners and Gender.” Journal of Gender Studies 35, no. 10 (June): 30-45.
Remember to only reverse the first author’s name if there is more than one author.
If you retrieved the article from online or a database, then follow the inclusive page numbers with the access date and URL or the name of the database. For example: 30-45. Accessed December 15, 2011. http://www.libraryofcongress.com, or Academic OneSearch.
 Start the citation by reversing the author’s name and close it with a period. Type the publication date and close it with a period. Type and quote the article’s title followed by a period. Type and italicize the name of the magazine. Follow the name with a comma and the month and day of publication. Try it for yourself!For example: Rodgers, Will. 2005. “Just Keep Swimming.” San Diego Times, July 18.
Only reverse the first author’s name if the article has more than one author.
If you accessed the article online or through a database, then follow the month and day of publication with the URL and the date accessed in parenthesis. For example: Rodgers, Will. 2005. “Just Keep Swimming.” San Diego Times, July 18. http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_z=mlfjkcunum=4&68dfd=kjljlkjl (accessed May 29, 2005).
 Begin by reversing the author’s name. Close it with a period. Type the publication date and a period. Type and quote the article’s title and close it with a period. Type and italicize the name of the newspaper. Follow the name with a comma, the publication month and day, and a period. Then type the date you accessed the article. Follow this with a URL if you accessed the article online. Always end the citation with a period. Give it a try!For example: Collins, Brigette. 2004. “Stop and Smell the Roses.” Los Angeles Times, October 29. Accessed November 4, 2004. http://www.losangelestimes.com/2004/05/33/stop-and-smell-the-roses.html.
 Start the citation by reversing the author’s name. Close it with a period. Type the year of publication and a period. Type and quote the article’s title and close it with a period. Type the name of the website and a period. Type the publication month, day, and a period. Follow this with the date you accessed the article, a period, and the URL. End the citation with a period. It is really that easy!For example: Tidwell, Charles. 2006. “Summer Music Festivals in Chicago.” Chicago Events. May 15. Accessed July 20, 2006. http://chicagoevents.com/2006/summer-music-festivals-in-chicago.html


, Do this if you are making an in-text citation. If you are quoting someone directly, then place the page number in the parenthesis as well. Place the citation before the period at the end of the sentence.For example: It takes 365 days for the earth to travel around the sun (Davis 2007).
If it is a direct quote: “It takes 365 days for the earth to travel around the sun,” (Davis 2007, 65).

