 Then write down all the details of those activities as a part of the job you want. Be specific! To start, here are a few questions you could ask yourself to begin building the picture of your new job: "Where is it located?", "What will I do at work?", "What types of people will I work with?", or "How much money will I make?" As you are answering these questions, imagine the life you would like to live as you are working the job of your dreams. Consider the following:


Live your Passions. A dream job is only worth pursuing if you have a passion for the work you would like to do.
Work/Life Balance. Maybe you haven't figured out your passions as of yet, but you want to make enough money to finance an extraordinary life. How much money will it take to get you there? And are you willing to sacrifice today's pleasures for tomorrow's rewards?
Desire. How bad do you want the job of your dreams? Is it enough to keep you up at night thinking about it? Enough to make you create a position that would not have existed in an organization which you currently work for or used to work for? Put all of your thought energy in what matters to you right now.
Growth. You gotta become more to get more. Ever wonder why there are so many books on Success & Money and Power & Thought? Maybe you should read a book or two on these subjects. Acquiring the knowledge and skills that you want for your dream job takes time and effort, and if you're not currently working, you've got plenty of time.;
, See yourself already having that life you laid out on paper. The more you focus on that image the more familiar it becomes making it feel like it’s already true. Keep at it until you firmly believe this dream job is achievable. Reread your notes and continue to enhance your skills. Eventually it won’t be a dream; it will be reality. Saying things out loud make them feel true. For example: “I’m so glad I have the job I’ve always wanted! I make a lot of money, I work close from home, and it’s creative!”


Know your worth: You are your biggest cheerleader so start telling yourself you are worth more than what society is giving you.
Make it real: Tell the people closest to you about your dream job. Enroll them into your vision. The more, the merrier! Telling other people about your plans holds you accountable for what you want to attract into your life.
 Your brain waves are slower making it easier to access the subconscious mind without interference from the conscious mind. Because the subconscious mind is more powerful than the conscious, you must implant the desired outcome into the subconscious mind to manifest. The conscious mind more often serves us with doubt and self-defeating thoughts, so you must become strong to conquer the negative.


The best thing to do is to practice your visualization as often as you can. Imagine you’re driving to you new job as you’re driving to your current one. If you don’t have a job, then imagine you’re driving to work when you’re really driving out to run errands or job interviews. If your desire is to work from home and you are currently working, start working on your passions part-time. If you like to sew, sell your newly made curtains and table cloths. If you love animals, start grooming your neighbor's dogs for pay. If you're not working, think of all the time you have to do the things you've always wanted to do but couldn't because you worked all the time. Now is the time!
Don't block your blessings. Never think about how much money you don't have or how much time it takes to start planning a way out of your current job. Zap your negativity before it starts and replace your thoughts with day-dreams (it's okay to do so). Refer back to some lessons you've learned in the books you're reading, and go back to your list of the type of job you want to attract.
 Visualizing what you want is a very important step, but the number one way you'll ever get the job of your dreams is if you are physically moving yourself towards it.


Keep your Resume or CV updated with any new skills or work you have acquired during your time away from employment.
Network and meet new people. Let people know you are in search for the job of your dreams! You never know who has the opportunity of a lifetime for you.

