 The bathroom is often the most convenient place to store your makeup. The heat, humidity, and high levels of airborne bacteria can promote the growth of mold and yeast as well as contaminate beauty products. Keeping your cosmetics in a cool and dry closet or room may keep them from going bad or causing an infection.Consider storing products in a clear acrylic drawer or heavy plastic cosmetics bag. This can make it easier to find products and prevent contamination with fingers.Place creams, serums, and other liquid makeups in an easily accessible spot in your refrigerator.
Fill a small vase with colored marbles and place your brushes and applicators in it. A clear straw dispenser is another option that keeps brushes and applicators dust-free.
Try a hanging makeup travel bag to keep your cosmetics organized.
 Fingers can harbor bacteria and oils that degrade your makeup. Touching makeup only when necessary may keep it from going bad quickly. It may also keep it fresher for a longer period of time.Consider using brushes instead of sponge applicators to put on your makeup. Brushes sweep up less product and may not press as much oil into the product., Transfer a small amount of product to a different container. Use this on a daily basis and replenish from the original container, which can keep products from drying out.Getting small, clear, and reusable containers has several advantages. First, small containers ensure that if you do contaminate your product, you don’t lose the entire product. Second, clear containers help you more readily identify your products. Finally, reusable containers save you money—and the environment.
Label your products to more easily identify or organize them.
 Most people love the look of long and voluminous eyelashes. Applying mascara is the way many people achieve this look. However, a common thing people do is “pump,” or quickly insert and remove—the mascara wand. This can actually dry out the mascara and cause bacteria to grow in the tube. Making a concerted effort to not pump your mascara may extend its life and keep it fresh., Cosmetics brushes and sponge applicators can harbor a lot of bacteria, oil, and dust that may degrade your makeup. Clean your makeup brushes and with some soapy water every month and place them on a paper or cloth towel to dry. Wash sponge applicators after every use and replace weekly.