 Make sure it goes with the theme. If its a comedy, then don't name it something dramatic. Name it something clever! It may take a bit, but when you think of ones you like, write them down then later on take a vote! Get a few other peoples opinions.;
, Is it going to be a comedy? A romance? Drama? Horror? Or maybe a mix of everything?

, This is optional, but is highly recommended, as Maxis Sims isn't that good compared to some good downloadable CC, such as CrAzYtHiNg, or something what is unique. Making unique characters for your series is pretty cool, as you can express yourself and your character Sims.


Maxis clothing and hairstyles are a bit dull. Try downloading some custom content to make your Sims stick out.
 Build a house, buy a house or download a house. If you buy a house, change it up and make it look cool!

, Be sure not to make too many characters, excess actors can clutter up the set and make it hard to keep up with all the stories.
 Bigger rooms can be easier to film in, but are harder to make look good and presentable.
 This will give your family the money required to move in to your set without having to move in to another lot and use motherlode.
 If you are new in making videos with the Sims 2, watch lots of other series and Sims 2 movies.


Using some of the YouTube tutorials might be helpful.
, This will make the video seem more professional and well-done.
 Also change the camera settings to the highest possible, but keep the file quality to high, not high(uncompressed). Change the maximum recording time to 9999s.
 This is useful for smooth and professional looking camera movements. Consider putting parameters into your game.
 Make it interesting, and leave your audience with a question at the end of an episode, so you have a plot for your next show, and it excites your viewers! At the end of every season, get that question answered. Never do too much of the same plots, it'll get boring!

,, Make a folder for all the videos in your series.
 Post up a trailer for your series or movie. Get people excited.
 You may not like hacking and cheats, but making a film with them is very "professional" looking, as if you use the allMenus cheat (look on 'How to use the allMenus cheat on Sims 2 PC' for a detailed tutorial on how to download it) you can make your Sims do any type of option what they wouldn't have at that stage.-

