 If you're using a proxy service to access Spotify from a non-supported country, you won't be able to create a premium account unless you have a payment method from a supported country.;
, Any site that claims to generate codes for premium memberships is a scam. The only way to get free premium is through the one-time trial period or with promotional purchases.
 In order to get a premium account, you will first need to create a free account with Spotify. You can create a Spotify-specific account or log in with your Facebook account.


Spotify is not available in every country. You can use a proxy service to access Spotify from a country that isn't supported, but in order to get a premium account, you will need a payment method with a valid billing address in the country you are pretending to connect from.
 If you are US student attending a Title IV institution, you may quality for Spotify at half price. Visit spotify.com/student/ to apply for the student discount. You will need to provide proof of your enrollment.
 If you purchased a Spotify premium account from a store such as Best Buy, you will typically be given the code on your receipt. To redeem this code, make sure you are logged in to the Spotify website. You can also redeem Spotify gift cards to purchase subscriptions.


Click your account name in the top bar.
Select "Account".
Click the "Redeem" tab.
Enter your ZIP code and the code from the receipt. This will activate your premium membership.
 You get a month of premium for free when you sign up, as long as you have never used a trial on your account before. Click the "Upgrade" button at the top of the Spotify page to start the free trial process.


There is also a hidden "Unlimited" option for half the price of premium. The unlimited account does not allow for offline listening, and does not offer a free trial. Visit spotify.com/purchase/product/unlimited/? to access the Unlimited purchase page.
 In order to start a free trial, you will need to enter a credit card or PayPal account. You cannot use a Spotify gift card to start a free trial, though you can use it later to pay for your first month.


The payment information you enter will be used to automatically bill you once the trial period is over.
It is not possible to pay for Spotify using your iTunes or Google Play account balances. you must use a credit card or PayPal account.
 Once you have your premium account, you can start enjoying the benefits on your computer and mobile devices. Logging in with your Spotify account will give you immediate access to your premium benefits. See this guide for more details on using Spotify.

