 When you are shopping for a new bank, think about the services or features that you use and appreciate the most. Then consider which features you may not need and could do without. For example, some people will be willing to pay more for unlimited ATM use, but don’t care about free checking. Another person, however, may rely on writing checks and will want to minimize those particular fees.You should consider all the ways in which you use your bank before you begin your search. Then rank the features in order of importance.;
, Use an online search engine to look for banks that say they don’t charge banking fees. The best way to minimize paying fees on any account is to put your money into a bank that does not charge any such fees. Run a search for “no fee banks” or something similar. If you select a more specialized search engine related to banking, you can enter certain criteria that are important to you and receive information about banks that meet those conditions.


For example, you can use the search feature at FindABetterBank.com to search for banks with no fees or limited fees. You will be asked a series of questions to help decide which features are most important to you. Based on your answers, you will generate a list of banks that best fit your desires., Online banks do not exist in a physical building. Nevertheless, these financial institutions still offer many of the same services. With an online bank, you can still deposit and withdraw money, write checks and have access to ATMs across the country. Because these institutions do not have the same overhead costs as a physical bank, they may be able to charge lower or fewer fees for the same services.MyBankTracker.com provides a list of online banks and reviews of their services., Searching online is a useful tool and can give you information about nationwide banks. However, you may be able to find better deals and more customer service at a smaller, local bank. Either call or walk in to a local bank and ask to speak with an accounts manager. Because the smaller bank may need your business, you might be able to get some special deals with lower fees., When you have narrowed your search for a bank, you should speak with an account manager before opening an account. Ask about eliminating fees for some of the services that are most important to you. At a smaller bank that is trying to attract your business, the manager may be able to help you with these fees. If you are a good customer, with a strong banking history, the bank may be encouraged to draw your business and might be willing to reduce or deduct certain fees.