 See your doctor about getting a prescription for an oral antifungal medication if none of the above home remedies are helping your condition. Two commonly prescribed medications that are thought to be particularly effective are terbinafine (Lamisil) and itraconazole (Sporanox). Ask your doctor which medication is best for your particular condition.


You can expect to be prescribed an oral medication if you are at risk for developing cellulitis or are in pain from your nail fungus.
Oral medications allow the nail to grow anew without any fungus, but it takes a long time to replace the nail completely. It will usually take between six and 12 weeks for the medication to kick in, though it can take several months to completely get rid of an infection.
Be aware that oral medications can cause certain side effects including rashes and liver problems.
 If your infection is not so strong that it requires oral medication, you may be prescribed a topical antifungal lacquer. Lacquer basically looks like clear nail polish and is used only on the surface of the fungus outbreak. The most commonly prescribed lacquer is called ciclopirox (Penlac).


Apply it to the infected area once a day for a week. Then clean the area with rubbing alcohol and start the layering process over.
The drawback to lacquer treatment is that it takes an incredibly long time to get rid of an infection. It can take as long as one year to clear up nail fungus.
 Alternately, your doctor may prescribe creams or gels with antifungal properties or those that contain urea, which helps to absorb excess moisture. Some of these treatments require a prescription, while others are available over-the-counter.
 For severe infections, it may be necessary to surgically remove part or all of the infected nail. Don't worry, your nail will eventually grow back, it just takes awhile and can be a bit painful in the meantime.
 Doctors are now able to treat nail fungus using a laser or photodynamic therapy to remove the fungus. The laser treatment method is only a few years old and may not be available in some areas. Additionally, the process can cost several hundred to over one thousand dollars.