 These neutral-flavored dairy products are perfect for thinning out cream cheese without affecting its taste much. They may make it slightly less "tangy" but the difference should not be major. The procedure for adding these ingredients (as well as the ones below) is simple:









Add a small amount of the milk, etc. to the cream cheese. Start with no more than one tablespoon.
Stir well to combine. The cream cheese should become a little less solid and a little easier to stir.
Add small extra amounts of milk, etc. as needed if it's still not soft enough.
 This is another good choice for thinning out cream cheese. Melt butter in the microwave (separate from the cream cheese), then combine it with the cream cheese in a separate bowl by stirring well. Don't heat the cream cheese together with the butter unless you want it to melt as well.









If you have the choice, use unsalted butter to have the smallest possible effect on the taste of the cream cheese.
 Lemon juice won't just thin out solid cream cheese — it will also give it a noticeably tart taste. While this is great for frosting and other sweet and sour desserts, it won't go well with every dish, so use this method with caution.









You may want to use a little less lemon juice than you would use for the other ingredients in this section. Some frosting recipes that call for as little as two teaspoons of lemon juice can have problems with the finished product being too runny., Fluffy marshmallow toppings like Cool Whip may not seem like they would taste good with cream cheese, but they can be perfect when thinning cream cheese for frosting. These sorts of spreads tend to give cream cheese a mildly sweet flavor rather than the tartness of lemon juice or the neutral flavors of milk and melted butter.
 Mascarpone is an Italian spread that is very similar to cream cheese, just a little lighter and softer.Because it's so close to cream cheese already, mascarpone makes a good choice when you want to make cream cheese just a little softer than it already is. The effect is subtle, but noticeable — perfect when using the mix as a spread for desserts like french toast and bread pudding.








