 Do you want your bruise to look fresh, nearly healed, or somewhere in between? It's a good idea to keep in mind what type of bruise your character is likely to have and know what these bruises look like in real life.


Very fresh bruises: When a person sustains a bruising injury, fresh blood leaks from damaged vessels into the surrounding tissues like the skin. Because of this, a fresh bruise will appear to be bright red. This kind of bruise may be appropriate if you are playing a boxer.
Bruises that are hours old: Once the leaked blood loses its oxygen, it will take on a darker hue and begin to look more blue or purplish. If your character was in a car accident earlier that day, this type would be a good choice.
Bruises that are days old: Bruises often darken during the first few days following an injury, sometimes even becoming black. Use these darker-colored bruises if a character had gotten into a fight recently but not that day. Dark purple bruises also go well with zombie costumes.
Healing bruises: Bruises that have begun to heal will start to display a green color due to blood protein breaking down. Once the bruise has almost healed completely, it will begin to look lighter and a yellow color will appear. Use these bruises to show that a character had been injured in the recent past but has recovered.;
, How did your character get the bruise? If your character has been punched in the face, apply a nasty fake bruise to your eye socket, cheekbone, or the bridge of your nose. Bruises on knees, elbows, or shins may convey that your character is either clumsy or athletic.If you are making a zombie costume, think about how "you" may have died. Add bruises to appropriate areas based on your character's cause of death.
 Even the most gentle dyes and cosmetics can cause unforeseen stains in clothing. Unless you are wearing clothes that are fine to permanently stain, avoid putting bruises anywhere near where clothing will lie. Be safe and leave at least two inches between the edge of your clothes and the bruise in case the clothing shifts while wearing it.

