 Even if you're not personally guaranteeing the loan, the financial institution that processes your loan will be checking your personal credit report. Get a copy of it before you complete any loan applications so you know your score.You are legally entitled to one free credit report every 12 months. You can request your free report by visiting annualcreditreport.com or calling 1-877-322-8228.
This website is the only one approved by the federal government – beware of other sites claiming to give you a free credit report but that ask for credit card or other information.
In addition to checking your score, you also should review all entries in your report. If you see something that is inaccurate, you can contact the reporting company that issued the report and dispute it.
Before you apply for a business loan, you want to know what's on your credit report and be able to explain any negative marks.;
, Most traditional financial institutions want to look at your personal tax returns for at least the past three years in connection with a business loan application. You should have them in your financial records, but you may want to make copies to prepare for the application process.If you don't have the tax returns you need in your personal records, you can download transcripts of your past tax returns by visiting irs.gov.
The IRS offers transcripts for the current year and the past three years free of charge. You also can order them by phone by calling 800-908-9946 and following the automated prompts.
A transcript shows most line items on your tax return, including your adjusted gross income and taxable income, along with any additional forms you filed with your return.
The transcript should be sufficient for financial institutions processing a business loan application, but keep in mind that if you need copies of your full returns you will have to pay a $57 fee for each return you request from the IRS.
 While not all loan programs require a signed personal financial statement, many want this document from you and anyone else who owns at least a 20 percent stake in your business.The Small Business Association (SBA) has a form you can use to create your personal financial statement. The form is available for download from the SBA website.
The SBA's form is approved for use in evaluating credit worthiness for SBA-guaranteed loans, but you can use the form as a guide to create your personal financial statement even if you're applying for a loan that isn't guaranteed by the SBA.
Your personal financial statement must include information about all of your personal assets and liabilities, as well as your income from all sources.
 In addition to your personal financial statement, you should make copies of your bank statements for at least a year. Include all of your major accounts, such as your personal checking and savings accounts.Typically your bank can get the last year's worth of monthly statements for you if you stop by a branch.
If you have an online account with your bank, you also may be able to pull up the statements you need and download or print them at home.
 Since your ability to pay off a business loan will depend on how well your business does, many financial institutions want to review your resumé to understand your experience and educational background.Keep in mind that while most resumés are geared toward getting a job, this resumé will be used to get a loan for your small business, so you should adjust your basic resumé accordingly.
Instead of the traditional "objective" section seen on most resumés, provide a brief introduction of yourself and explain why you need the loan and believe your application should be approved.
Highlight your skills and expertise in the industry in which your business operates, as well as any business education and managerial experience.
Include a detailed work history with a list of your responsibilities at every job you've held going back several years.
Make sure the document is formatted cleanly and carefully proofread. Your goal should be to present a skillfully crafted professional resumé that works to sell both you and your business to the lender.
 If your business has been in operation for any length of time, it will have its own credit report under its employer identification number (EIN). Since you're applying for a business loan, the financial institution will review that credit report in addition to the personal credit reports of business owners.A business credit report works differently than a personal credit report, and the information is submitted voluntarily. For this reason, your business may not have much of a credit report despite the fact that it has years of credit history.
Business credit reports are issued by Experian Business, Equifax Business, Dun & Bradstreet, and Business Credit USA.
To get business credit reports, you must contact each of those companies individually. Expect to be charged a fee to gain access to your business credit report.
 Most financial institutions want copies of bank statements for your business bank accounts for the past year, or for as long as your business has been in operation.Keep in mind that if your business has only been open for a little over a year, the lending institution may want bank records going all the way back to the inception of the account.
You typically can access the monthly statements the same way you would statements for a personal bank account – visit your local branch or pull them from online.
The lending institution will primarily be interested in your business's cash flow – whether you're paying out more than you're bringing in and the extent to which that is true.
 If you have business assets you can offer as collateral for the loan, it's a good idea to go ahead and have those assets appraised and draw up a document listing the collateral you can offer for the loan.Your collateral document doesn't have to list all assets – just those you're willing to put up against the loan.
Collateral may include personal assets as well as business assets, but be careful when putting up significant personal assets such as your family home. if your business fails, you could end up losing your house.
Your collateral document should include proof that you own the assets and that they're currently unencumbered. If you already have loans or mortgages against the property you want to use as collateral, only the amount of equity you have in that property will count.
 If your business hasn't been in operation for very long, you may not have the three years of business tax returns financial institutions commonly ask for. But you still typically must provide copies of any tax returns you've filed for the lifetime of your business.If you have your tax returns in your business files, this is simply a matter of copying the tax returns for the requested years. However, you'll have to go through some additional steps if you don't have tax returns in your files.
You can request transcripts from the IRS free of charge for the current year and the previous three years. The transcript includes most of the information on the return and as such, should be sufficient for financial institutions processing a loan application.
While you can request personal tax return transcripts online, if you want transcripts of business tax returns you must complete IRS Form 4056T and fax or mail it to the appropriate IRS address.
Keep in mind that you may have to wait as long as 30 days to receive your transcripts if you request them by mail, so if you don't have your business tax returns on file, you should request your transcripts well in advance of the time you plan to apply for a business loan.
 Particularly if your business is still in the start-up phase, financial institutions require a sound business plan complete with profit and loss calculations and financial projections for the next several years.A full business plan also must include a market analysis of your competition and prospects for growth along with a description of the particular advantages your business has over competitors and your market strategy.
Include profiles of yourself and all partners in your business, including areas of expertise, experience, and other skills each of you bring to the table.
Describe the specific areas of which each person involved in the business will be in charge along with details about your business operations and structure.
Financial information that should be contained in your business plan includes projections, a profit and loss statement, and cash flow and balance sheets.
If you haven't already created a business plan, or if your plan is over a year old, you may need to create a new one for the purposes of applying for a business loan.
Seek the assistance of a business consultant, business attorney, or business accountant if you have questions or difficulties producing any of the reports that should be included in your business plan.
 When you apply for a business loan, the financial institution will need to personally verify your identification and conduct personal background checks, so you may need copies of any related legal documents.Since the lending institution typically will run criminal background checks on you and any partners in your business, you'll need documents that pertain to any marks you might have on your criminal record.
You also want to have documents handy that explain any name changes or other identity information. For example, if you changed your name after a divorce, you may want a copy of the divorce decree just in case your use of a different name is questioned.
Typically it's a better idea to present documents to support or explain something in your record before the lending institution finds it, rather than just waiting to see if they mention something or request an explanation.
 You won't be able to get a business loan unless you can prove that your business is legally allowed to operate in your location, so the financial institution will want copies of all required business licenses.In most cities and states you must have a license to operate your business, as well as documentation that you have registered to pay state business or sales taxes.
Some types of businesses require other licenses. For example, if you own a restaurant that sells alcohol, you typically need a liquor license.
Be prepared to provide copies of these licenses along with documentation to prove your license is in good standing with the issuing authorities.
 If your business is organized as a partnership, LLC, or corporation, the financial institution typically will want to review your partnership agreement or articles of incorporation.If you are operating your business as a sole proprietorship, you may not have any of these types of documents.
However, you should be prepared to provide copies of any registrations you've made with your state's secretary of state, such as if you've registered a DBA in connection with your business.
Businesses organized as an LLC or corporation typically must provide all organizing documents as well as certificates from the state in which your business was organized.
 As part of your business's overall financial picture, these documents prove either the business's liabilities or the business's potential future income.For example, if you have a standing contract with a vendor under which you pay a set amount per month for inventory-related products or services, this contract proves your business's liability to that vendor.
Likewise, long-term contracts with clients in which your business has a set amount of income coming in on a regular basis should be provided, and the amounts included in your financial planning documents.

