 This jar is liquid inside, so it swirls when you shake it or turn it upside down. It also uses glow-in-the-dark paint, so you can use it over and over again. Here's a list of what you will need:Mason jar
Hair gel
Glitter glue (or clear school glue and glitter)
Glow-in-the-dark paint
Glow-in-the-dark plastic stars
Water (optional)
Super glue (recommended)

, Wash your jar with soap and warm water, and scrub off any sticky residue using cooking oil and a scouring pad. Wash the jar again with more soap and water, and wipe it down with rubbing alcohol when you are done.
 If you can't find glitter glue, use clear glue instead and add some super fine glitter. The more glitter you add, the more sparkly your jar will be.


Great colors include blue, purple, and silver. You can even add in some star-shaped glitter, if you want.
It doesn't matter what color you use, but some colors will work better for a night sky than others, such as silver, blue, or purple.
 Try to match the paint color to the glitter glue color. If you mix opposite colors together (such as blue and yellow) you may get a different color that does not look like the night sky at all. Great colors include blue and purple.
 You can use clear hair gel, or tinted hair gel. If you are using tinted hair gel, try to use "night" colors such as purple or blue.
 They are the same type that you stick onto your ceiling at night. Some sets also include planets. If you can't find any, try using some star-shaped glitter or glow-in-the-dark glitter instead.
 You can also put super glue around the entire rim of the jar before you put the lid on. This will prevent kids from opening the jar and spilling everything inside.
 The stars should move slowly through the gel when you shake it. If they don't move at all, the gel might be too thick. Try adding a few tablespoons of water, closing the jar, and shaking it. This will thin out the gel a little, and let everything swirl inside easier., Some paints will become activated in as little as 15 minutes while others will need up to 2 hours. Once the time is up, take the jar into a dark room and watch the stars glow. If the jar doesn't glow, leave it under the bright light for a little longer.

