 If you're looking for a sweet treat, oatmeal cookies are a quick and easy staple that may be one of the healthiest cookies you can eat. Traditionally raisins are included, but you can add whatever dried fruit, nuts, or other flavors you like.If you're not much of a baker yourself, you can find oatmeal cookies at any grocery store. Try to buy the ones from the store's bakery rather than the commercial cookies found in the center aisles, which may have artificial flavors, preservatives, and added sugar.
Oatmeal cookies typically are gluten-free, but if you're buying packaged cookies in the store and you're on a gluten-free diet, check labels carefully to make sure.
 If you're up to experiment, try swapping out the flour in your favorite cake or muffin recipe for a healthier snack (or dessert) than the traditional recipe. You also can find specific recipes online that incorporate oatmeal.Oat muffins often have a more savory flavor, but you also can make them sweeter by adding blueberries or cranberries and sweeter spices, such as cinnamon and nutmeg.
Oat muffins or biscuits also can be eaten alongside a bowl of soup, instead of bread or crackers.
 Homemade granola has a variety of uses. You can bake it into bars, sprinkle it over other snacks or desserts, blend it into smoothies, or shake it into a trail mix with dried fruits and nuts.You can find numerous granola recipes online using oatmeal. Most of them have relatively few ingredients and are relatively simple.
You can make a sweet trail mix with chocolate, dried fruit, and coconut. You also can go the salty or savory route by mixing in seeds and nuts.
 Adding oatmeal to your favorite fruit smoothie has a thickening effect. It also adds plenty of healthy fiber so the smoothie is more filling than it would otherwise be, providing a sustaining burst of energy and nutrition.Mixing oatmeal in your smoothie can be especially helpful for a fuel-up snack before you test your endurance with a long-distance run or bike ride.
Let the oats soak in water or milk for a few minutes before pouring them into your blender with the rest of your ingredients, so they'll blend smoothly.

