 Have your disposal system ready before you start cutting so you can toss the guts and excess fish without getting up. Newsprint laid out on the cutting surface is helpful for soaking up the inevitable liquids that will spill out of the fish., You want to work against the normal direction of the scales, raking up from tail to head. Think of a short, shallow, scoop motion, getting under the scales and pushing up and into them quickly to rake them out of the fish. The back side of a knife, held a little less than perpendicular to the fish, works well too.








Get both sides, the top, and bottom of the fish.
It can help to scale under running water, or simply underwater in the sink, to prevent a mess.
Don't worry if you miss a few scales -- they aren't tasty, but they won't hurt anyone., These fish, in particular, have a thick, unappealing skin that most people remove before cooking. To do so, cut a 1" notch right where the top of the fish's head meets its body. Then, gripping the fish from the head, peel the skin back to the tail. Rinse thoroughly when done., The small hole on the belly of the fish, back near the tail, is the anus. Using a sharp knife, make a shallow cut from here along the belly of the fish, stopping at the base of the gills.









Don't jam the knife in their, or you'll cut the intestines open. You want a shallow cut so that you can pull them out intact, preventing messy (and unappetizing) spillage., Get in there and get everything out. These gummy, long guts should come out without much of a fight. Make sure to check inside to get out anything you missed, like the large, dark kidney in the back or some strands of innards along the walls.
 Not all fish have this thin layer in their inner cavity, but you want to remove it if they do. This is strongly flavored and has an oily, extra-fishy aroma that you don't want in your final dish., You do not have to cut the head off, and depending on your cooking method you might not want to, as the head adds flavor and depth. The "cheek meat" of the fish, as well, is considered the best part in some cultures.
 This, like the head, does not have to come off if you don't want to remove it, but it will help remove many nasty little bones. Simply grip the fin tightly near the tail, and pull quickly in the direction of the head to rip it out cleanly.
 Make sure you wash the outside, getting rid of any sticky scales, as well as the inside, getting rid of bits and blood. Your fish is now ready to cook!







