 The fabric should be about 55 inches (139.7 cm) long by 9 inches (22.86 cm) wide.


A thick, double-sided fabric works better than a single-sided fabric since both sides of the fabric may end up showing after you tie the turban onto your head.
Choose a fabric with good grip, like cotton. Smooth fabrics like silk tend to slide down and may not stay on your head well.
If you are working with a fabric that could fray but do not want to hem the edges, use pinking shears to cut instead of scissors. The zig-zag edge minimizes the amount of fraying that will occur, but it may not stop the fabric from fraying completely.
 If you use a "no fray" fabric like fleece, you do not need to worry about the raw edges of the material. If the edges are prone to fraying, though, you should hem 1/2-inch (1.25 cm) of the edge all the way around the perimeter.


The simplest way to hem the edges is to pin the fabric along the underside of the turban and sew a straight stitch with a sewing machine down all four sides. If sewing by hand, use a back stitch.
Alternatively, you could apply a "no fray" spray liquid to the raw edges to prevent fraying without hemming the fabric. These liquid solutions are not as secure as an actual hem, but they will likely work well enough for light to moderate everyday use.
 Wrap the fabric around your head, starting from the back and eventually twisting it into a knot at the front.


Place the center of the fabric at the back of your head. Hold the two ends out in front of you.
Wrap the turban around the sides and front of your head.
At the center front of your head, twist the two sides together once, interlocking them.
For a more secure twist, cross the two sides over each other once more.
Tuck the ends of the fabric into the portion of the turban wrapped around your head. Note that you need to tuck the fabric into the sides and not over the top.
With this, your twisted turban headband is complete. The front, side, and back of your head will be covered, but unlike the traditional turban, the top of your head will be exposed.

