 Use one part cream of tartar and one part lemon juice to make a paste. Apply the paste to the stain and wait 10 minutes, then wipe the stain off using a damp cloth. Dry the damp area off using a clean cloth.If there is any residue, mix a few drops of mild soap into some warm water, and dampen a towel with that. Use this towel to clean off the residue.
This is effective on food and blood stains.
 Dampen a soft-bristled brush, then lightly go over the stain. Pat the area dry with a paper towel, and wait overnight. The stain should be gone the next morning.









Do not get impatient and try to use a fan, hairdryer, or sunlight to speed up the drying process.
Water stains can be permanent, especially on unfinished leather, but a professional leather worker might be able to fix it., If the stain is fresh, try to soak up as much of it as you can with a paper towel, but try hard not to press the stain into the material. Once you have soaked up the oil, sprinkle a generous amount of cornstarch onto the stain, and pat it in. Leave it there overnight so that the cornstarch can soak up the oil. Gently brush the cornstarch off the following morning using a soft-bristled brush.









If you can't find cornstarch where you live, use corn flour instead.
Some people find that placing their purse under a light bulb helps the cornstarch absorb the oil better.If you are working with suede, you may need to dampen the area with steam afterward, then brush the rest of the cornstarch off., If you got mud on a leather or patent leather purse, wipe it off immediately. If you got mud on a suede purse, wait for the mud to dry first, then use a soft- bristled brush to buff it out.
 If you got wax or gum on your purse, stick your purse in the freezer for a few hours. This will cause the wax/gum to harden. Once the wax/gum hardens, pull your purse out of the freezer, and peel the wax/gum off. You may need to scratch off the excess wax/gum with your fingernail.
 Simply dampen a paper towel or cotton ball with hydrogen peroxide, and gently dab the affected area. Eventually, the stain will come out. This is most effective on suede.
 The longer they sit, the more difficult they will be to remove. Try to soak up the ink stain using a Q-tip dampened with rubbing alcohol. If you are working with suede, you may need to buff the area with a nail file.








If your bag is made out of finished leather, do not use rubbing alcohol. Instead, use a white "magic" eraser sponge. Finished leather handbags do not darken with water.