 A deposition is a formal discovery tool used by lawyers during the pretrial stage of litigation. At this point in the litigation, the other party's lawyer is trying to learn about the case and determine what helpful information you may have. For example, if your spouse has filed for divorce, their lawyer will want you to take a deposition so they can ask you about your finances, possible indiscretions, and your handling of any children. If you are asked to give a deposition, you need to consult with your lawyer about the process.


In California, divorce depositions can last up to seven hours. However, there are some exceptions to this rule.
In every state, depositions are given under oath, which means if you lie you can be charged with perjury.;
, You need to be an expert about the case you are being deposed on. A deposition is a lot like giving formal testimony in court. If you are not prepared and do not know the facts of your case, your deposition will not go well and you may get yourself into trouble. Luckily, these problems are easily avoided by preparing with your lawyer. Sit down and study your case and the circumstances surrounding it. If you are unsure about anything, do your best to find the answer.


For example, if you are being deposed in an alimony case, you should know everything about your financial situation, including how much money you make, where your assets are held, and how much debt you have. If you are unsure about the amount of debt you hold, call your banks and financial planners to get the answer.
 If you understand the law surrounding your case, you will be in a good position to answer deposition questions effectively. For example, if the other party's lawyer asks you how much money you make, you will want to know that they are asking you so they can determine how much alimony your ex-spouse can get. Under alimony law, you would only be required to pay alimony if you can afford it.The more you know about your case the better off you will be in your deposition. Being prepared will give you the best chance of success.
 While you prepare for your family law deposition, ask your lawyer what types of questions you will be asked. A good lawyer will have been in many depositions and should have a good idea of what tactics will be used. As a deponent (i.e., the person answering questions in a deposition), you should look out for the following tactics, which are used to try and trip you up and throw you off your game:The lawyer's distortion of facts to try and catch you in a lie
A discussion of known contradictions in the evidence
The lawyer's use of loaded terminology and leading questions
The lawyer's demeanor, which will change based on how they want you to answer the question

, After studying extensively to prepare for your deposition, take some time to answer questions that will likely come up from opposing counsel. This will give your lawyer a chance to give you feedback and work on structuring your answers properly. When you sit down for a practice session, your lawyer should have some anticipated questions ready for you.


Ask your lawyer to help you identify common questions and the role they play in the litigation. Identify reminders, key phrases, and documents you can use to help alleviate stress while you are in your deposition.For example, in a divorce case, opposing counsel might ask about your finances. If you are prepared, your lawyer may tell you to simply refer to financial documents that opposing counsel should already have. In this scenario your answer might be: "I do not remember what my exact salary was the past five years. However, I believe you have my tax returns that you can look at."

, On the day of your deposition, dress comfortably but professionally. As you know, divorce depositions can last around seven hours, if not longer. While it is important to be comfortable so you can stay focused on the questions being asked, you also need to look appropriate. This is particularly the case when your deposition is being videotaped.Your appearance will go a long way towards helping your credibility. The more professional you look, the more seriously opposing counsel will take you. Dressing professionally will also tell opposing counsel that you will present yourself this way in front of a judge and jury.
Wear business attire if possible. A long skirt with a button-up shirt and jacket would be good. You could also wear a suit. While a tie might not be necessary, if you feel comfortable in one you should wear it.
 Deposition answers must be given verbally, which means you will not be able to shake your head or use hand gestures. When you speak at a deposition, be clear, concise, and accurate. Try to avoid using the words "um" or "uh-huh".These phrases make it seem as if you are unsure of yourself and your answers. Speak audibly and slowly so your answers can be clearly understood.For example, if you are asked what time it is, answer with, "It is three o'clock". Do not answer by saying, "Um, I believe it is about three o'clock".
In another example, assume you are asked whether you had an affair with your spouse. If you did not have an affair, simply say "no". Avoid shaking your head and answering, "uh-nuh".
 Do not engage with the other party's lawyer by objecting to questions or arguing. You should try to be yourself during the deposition, but do not make jokes or act sarcastically.Do not get angry or lash out at opposing counsel. The other party's lawyer will be watching at all times to see how you react to different situations. In some cases, the lawyer may even try to make you mad. In these scenarios, answer the questions to the best of your ability and move on.


In addition to acting professionally during the deposition, make sure you maintain that appearance both before and after the deposition. Lawyers will watch your every move to see what effect you may have on a jury.
Above all, do not speak with opposing counsel at any time off the record., When the deposition begins, you will be required to take an oath to tell the truth. The oath you take during your deposition is the same oath you would take if you were testifying at trial. When you take this oath, you will be testifying under penalty of perjury, which means if you lie you can be convicted of perjury., The fist few minutes of a deposition will be filled with background questions that every lawyer asks. Each question has a specific purpose. While these questions and statements may seem silly, they are important to listen to. The initial questions you will be required to answer will usually be preceded by a statement. Each statement will be followed by the question, "Do you understand?" These statements are usually presented to you for the following reasons:To help you understand what a deposition is
To make sure you know how you have to answer questions
To make sure you are not under the influence of anything that may hinder your ability to answer questions
To try and get you to give what the other lawyer thinks are complete answers

, You have an unlimited amount of time to answer deposition questions. When each question is asked, take a moment to digest the question to make sure you understand it. Think about what is being asked so you can answer accurately.Most deponents get in trouble when they start speaking immediately after a question is asked. When you do this, you are more likely to give out to much information and information that is not relevant.
 After listening to the question, take a moment to think about your answer.Make sure you have a good idea of what you want to say. Doing this will help your answers be clear, concise, and accurate.


For example, assume opposing counsel asks, "What real estate do you own and what is the value of that real estate?" After the question is asked, take a moment to think about the real estate you own. In addition, think about whether you know the value of that real estate. In all likelihood, you will recognize that you can name your real estate holdings but you cannot value all of it accurately. In this scenario, you might formulate the following answer in your head: "I own two homes in Kansas and one condo in California. However, I am unsure of the value of that real estate".
 Your answers should only address the particular question that was asked of you. You never want to provide more information than necessary. The more information you give, the more information opposing counsel will have to use against you. Stop talking as soon as your answer is complete. Avoid embellishing and exaggerating. Opposing counsel will usually allow for a "pregnant pause" after you answer, which is meant to try and get you to talk more. Do not fall for their tricks.


The best answers are short and simple. For example, effective answers might look like: "Yes", "No", "Two o-clock", "In my office", "I don't understand", and "I don't remember"., "I don't know" and "I don't remember" are always acceptable answers. If you do not know the answer to a question, tell the lawyer that. A lot of times, when you tell a lawyer you do not know, they will try to ask the question a different way to see if you might give a different answer. Be aware of this tactic and stick with your answer.


If you are asked the same question again, tell the lawyer" "As I said before..." and then answer in the same way you did before., Leading questions are questions the indicate the answer within them. For example, "Isn't it true that you cheated on your spouse?" is a leading question because it assumes the answer. These questions are asked to try and get you to answer a certain way. When you hear a leading question, give your lawyer a chance to object (if necessary) and make sure you answer carefully. Common leading questions usually start with:"Isn't it true that..."
"Would it be fair to say that..."
"Am I correct in understanding that..."

, Opposing counsel will use other questioning tactics to try and trip you up. If you identify a tricky question, make sure you allow yourself enough time to formulate a good answer. Common tricks include the use of:Compound questions
Questions that assume facts
Questions that call for speculation

, Never answer a question without first fully understanding it. Doing so could give opposing counsel information they did not ask for. If you do not understand a question, ask for clarification and never feel pressured to answer before an acceptable clarification is given., Under the law, your lawyer will be limited in how much they can interact with you and other lawyers during the deposition. Therefore, you should not expect your lawyer to intervene all the time. However, your lawyer may instruct you not to answer certain questions and they may make objections. Your lawyer will also have to be careful not to use "coaching" objections, which are objections used to help you answer the questions.


During your deposition, allow time for your lawyer to act before you answer questions. If your lawyer does not look as though they are going to make any comment, you should answer the question. If an objection is offered, listen carefully as your lawyer's objection may help you answer the question., Depositions can be long and tedious. If you feel like you need a break, do not be afraid to ask for one. If you are tired, hungry, or you have to go to the bathroom, it may affect your answers. In most cases, you will be afforded a break about once every couple of hours.For example, if you really have to go to the bathroom and you don't ask for a break, you may rush your answers and speak without thinking. Instead of doing this, simply tell opposing counsel, "I need a moment to go to the restroom. Would that be alright?".

