 Canadian businesses can take many different forms. The form will impact your tax liability and your legal liability. If you don’t know which form to take, then meet with an attorney.


Sole proprietorship. This is an unincorporated business that is owned by only one person, who makes all of the decisions and receives all of the profits. You can bill clients under your own name. You report all income and expenses on your T1 income tax.As a sole proprietor, you are legally responsible for all of your business’s debts.
Partnership. Two or more people may form a partnership in which each contributes money and labor and receives profits in return. You can form a partnership with a simple written agreement. Each partner receives a share of the profits and reports the income on their own tax return.Partners are generally responsible for all of the partnership’s debts.
Corporation. A corporation is a legal entity separate from its owners that files a T2 corporation income tax return. A corporation has “limited liability,” which means the owners are not personally responsible for the corporation’s debts. You must file “articles of incorporation” with the appropriate provincial, territorial, and federal authorities., If you form a corporation, then you need to incorporate. (Sole proprietors and partnerships do not need to incorporate). You should choose whether to incorporate with the federal government or with a provincial/territorial government.


By incorporating federally, you can do business across all of Canada under one business name, even if someone in a province is using the same name. Federal incorporation, however, requires more extensive paperwork.If you incorporate with a provincial government, you need to register your business with every province or territory where you do business. If your house cleaning business is small, then provincial incorporation might be ideal.
 If you choose to incorporate federally, then you can incorporate at the Corporations Directorate website. Each province or territory should also have a website.Before incorporating, remember to do the following:Pick a name. Your name must be distinctive and not misleading. You should perform a Nuans name search to see if your name has already been chosen.
Complete articles of incorporation. A form is available to use.
Establish an address. This is where your records will be kept and where you will receive official correspondence.
Form the board of directors. Directors must meet certain requirements, which you can find from the federal or provincial governments. Generally, directors must be at least 18 years old and not judged incompetent by a court. They also must be individuals and not be in bankruptcy.Pay the fee. You must include the filing fee with your application.
 All businesses must register primarily for tax purposes. This includes sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations. You may be able to use the Business Registration Online (BRO) to obtain a business number (BN) as well as to register with four major Canada Revenue Agency program accounts—corporation income tax, goods and services tax, payroll, and import-export. You can register online if you have the following:a valid social insurance number (SIN)
an income tax return on file with the Canada Revenue Agency

, Before registering, you should gather the following information, which may be requested as part of the registration process. Get the following:social insurance number of all owners
business name
business number (if you already have one)
description of your major business activity
date of incorporation
certificate number
corporation name
jurisdiction
number of employees
date employees first received wages
type of pay period (weekly, monthly, quarterly, etc.)
payroll service, if you use one

, If you can’t register online, then you can register by mail or fax. Complete Form RC1, Request for a Business Number, which is available online for download. There are also separate forms for getting a GST/HST account, a payroll account, and an import-export account.After completing the form, you can mail it or fax it to your nearest tax center (TC) or tax service office (TSO).
You can find your nearest TC or TSO by visiting http://www.cra-arc.gc.ca/cntct/tso-bsf-eng.html.
 You might want to register using the telephone. If so, you can call the Business enquiries line at 1-800-959-5525. You should download Form RC1 and be prepared to answer any question that appears on the form., You also need to register your business with your provincial government. If you apply for a BN and program accounts online, then you can transfer to online systems to register for British Columbia, Nova Scotia, or Ontario.For other provinces, you can call the appropriate provincial registrar.


You should contact the provincial registrar for each province or territory that you intend to do business in.