 This step is too often skipped, and it makes all the difference in terms of how your makeup holds up throughout the day. Makeup primers smooth the skin and create a soft, even base for the eyeshadow to adhere to. It helps to make sure that your eyeshadow doesn’t smudge or crease throughout the day – two things that would ruin your matte look.








Use your fingertip to apply primer all over your lid, extending up to your brow. Let it absorb for a couple of minutes before moving on.
You can buy makeup primer at your local drugstore or beauty supply store.;
, Once your primer has been absorbed, apply a dot of your favorite concealer to each lid. Use your fingertip or a small brush to blend that over your eyelids and up to your brow. Eyelids can often be slightly discolored or blotchy, and this will help create a smooth, even-toned base for your shadow.
 You don’t want to apply your matte eyeshadow directly on top of your concealer, because that can create a slippery, smudged mess. Instead, set your concealer with face powder. Using a foundation brush or a makeup sponge, dab your foundation over your lids. Don’t rub your skin, or you will smudge the concealer you just applied. Simply press the powder over your lids.
 When you work with matte eyeshadows, it’s best to work with a light, medium, and dark color. The first thing you will do is apply your transition color in your medium shade. This color will go above the crease of your eyelid. In other words, it is the color that you will be able to see when your eye is fully open. Use a fluffy eyeshadow brush to gently apply this from your crease to your eyebrow. You don’t want a heavy coating of color, so use a soft hand.








Whether you’re working with shades of brown, black, pink, blue, or purple, it’s a great rule of thumb to have the light, medium, and dark shades.
 By applying your lightest color to your inner corner, your eye will look large, bright, and open. Use a flat eyeshadow brush to pat it into the inner corner and across your lid. This shade should go up to where your transition color begins.
 Using a clean shadow brush, take your darkest color and begin at the very outer corner of your eye. Sweep the color inwards, so that it meets your lightest shade in the middle of your eyelid. This color shouldn’t extend higher than your crease.
 Use a clean blending brush to blend out any harsh lines that were created between the three shades you used. The goal is to make your eyeshadows blend together seamlessly. Focus on the areas where the shades meet. Use a soft hand, focusing on gently blending rather than moving any of the product.








After you’ve blended your colors, you can add more of each shade if you find it necessary. This will make your colors bolder and more intense. Whenever you apply more shadow, it’s important to blend again.
 Matte eyeshadows are great for a smooth, more natural look, and cleaning up your brows will actually help accentuate your shadow.You don’t want uneven or unruly brows stealing the show. Using a small eyebrow brush, apply a brow powder or gel to any areas of your eyebrows that are sparse or light. You want your eyebrows to look even, full, and polished.


You can learn more about shaping and filling in your eyebrows here.
 When you apply eyeshadow, it’s normal to get some fall-out in your eyelashes. Once your shadow is done, you’ll need to clean up your lashes. Use an eyelash curler first, pressing down at the roots of your lashes to create a big curl. Then, apply your favorite mascara. Applying mascara will add volume and length to your lashes, and darken them so that they stand out against your matte eyeshadow.


Dark, curled lashes also help to make your eyes look bright and big, and they’re a perfect finishing touch for your matte eyes.
 Just like your primer helps to hold your shadow so that it stays put all day, a makeup setting spray seals it all in. Close your eyes, and gently spray it all over your face. It will air dry in a matter of seconds, so don’t disturb your makeup by rubbing or blotting your skin.Throw your setting spray in your purse to use as a refresher throughout the day and you’re all set!

