 You will need all 6 colors of the rainbow: red/pink, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. You will be using the first 5 for the body of the dish cloth, and purple for the edging.


For a standard rainbow, use red, orange, yellow, green, blue and purple.
For a brighter rainbow, use hot pink, neon orange, light yellow, spring green, bright/sky blue, and bright purple.;
, Make a slip knot, and slide your crochet hook through it. Make 25 chain stitches., Still using your red or pink yarn, make a half double crochet into the third chain from your hook. Continue doing a half double crochet into each stitch for the rest of the row. Finish with 2 chain stitches, then turn your work., Make a half double crochet into the third chain from your hook, then more half double crochets until you reach the second to last stitch. Don't finish the last stitch, and don't turn your work.


Your finished dish cloth will have 20 rows, with 2 rows for each color.
 Pull the yarn over your crochet hook, then push the hook through your last stitch, and pull up a loop with your orange yarn. Next, pull the orange yarn through all of the loops on your hook. This completes the half double crochet.Leave a 6-inch (15-centimeter) tail on your orange yarn.
Cut your red/pink yarn, leaving a 6-inch (15-centimeter) tail.
 Using your orange yarn, make 2 chain stitches, then turn your work. At this point, tie the two yarn tails together loosely. You will later untie them, and weave them into your dish cloth. Tying the tails together will simply keep your work from unraveling., Start each row with a half double crochet into the first stitch, then continue doing a half double crochet into each stitch for the rest of the row. Finish each row with 2 chain stitches before turning your work. Work 2 rows before changing to your next color. Remember, when changing your color:


Stop at the second to last stitch.
Do a yarn over, then push the hook through the last stitch.
Loop your new color onto your hook, then pull your new color through all of the loops on your hook.
Make 2 chain stitches, then turn your work.
Make sure that your old color and new color have 6-inch (15-centimeter) tails, then tie them loosely together.
 Working with your blue yarn, make a half double crochet into the top of each stitch from the previous row. Stop just before your last stitch.
 Using the same method as before, make a yarn over, then push the hook through your last stitch. Cut your old color down to 6 inches (15 centimeters), and loop your new color (purple, black, or white) over your hook. Pull your new color back through all of the loops on your hook. Make 1 chain stitch, then turn your work.Remember to loosely tie both ends of the yarn together.
Note that you are only making 1 chain stitch, not the usual 2.
 To get nice, rounded corners, put 3 single crochets into the corners. Do a slip stitch, then tie off your work.If you are having trouble, try this: put 2 single crochets into your double chains., Cut the yarn down to 6 inches (15 centimeters), then use a yarn needle to work it back into your work. Next, go back to your rows, and undo each of the knots you tied earlier. Use your yarn needle to weave the 6-inch (15-centimeter) tails back into the rows.

