 YouTube is the perfect way to start and create videos. There is lots of people out there with the same passion for model horses. Once you begin, there's no end!;
, Once you have a YouTube channel or account, you should find some true subscribers who will watch, like and comment on your videos. If that happens, more people will subscribe to you through some of your subscribers!

, There are lots of amazing model horse series already out there. You should start by trying to find some that you enjoy, this will give you ideas and inspiration for your series!

, Now that you have ideas running through your head, you should choose some models you want in your series. Do not choose models of different brands or sizes for this would look silly. Try your best neither to choose your most fancy or most prized models nor your most awful, scratched up models. It's helpful to choose models with a gaited stance, not ones that are lying down or grazing.
 You may have some ideas or inspiration which is great. Now it's time to make some of these ideas into a real thing. You can do this by writing down the ideas you have or typing them up. In the end you should choose one of these ideas to be the main idea of the series.
 You can do this to by writing or typing it up. Make sure to include details and surprises that your audience wouldn't expect. Also consider, to relate things to horses instead of humans/people.



To create a setting simply think of what time period you would like this to take place in. Think of where you will be filming the series, instead of dreaming of some amazing place you want but won't be able to create or reproduce.
Characters should all be unique. You should give them different looks, names and personalities. For example are they they kind and caring or rude and cruel?
The title you choose for the series should be based upon the series.
 You may want a script that is typed out for it would be easier to read. The script is not a full out exact way to do the series, its just a guideline of what should be happening in scenes and what characters will be doing. To write the script, simply think about what you want happening in the episode/part. Never give away too much at once, for you want your viewers interested in what will happen next to give them reason to keep watching the series. Maintain an element of suspense. Do not allow it to become predictable; add a twist. Make the script easy to read, label who is speaking and possible add what kind of tone they have etc.
 This is an optional choice. You can hold a casting call for your characters if you do not want to use your own voice and would rather have a variety of voices in your series. This gives your series a more professional appeal. When choosing parts make sure they fit your character and the voice you wanted for them. Ensure the people doing the voices have a good recorder and have a good sense of timing so that they can say their lines on time but equally appreciate the benefits of a pregnant pause. Ensure that they will have their work done on time; you don't want someone holding up your whole series because of their laziness, lack of commitment or lack of time management.
 It's finally time to film your series. Remember to use the best possible video camera. Find different angles you like for the characters. You can have shots of them walking, running, fighting, talking etc. Try to have the least amount background noise as possible if you are not adding voices later or doing the characters voices. Avoid background items you don't want or don't need, such as cars or houses. Follow the script to know the time management of shots of the clips but do not be afraid to improvise if you feel inspired!

, It's important that you edit your video clips to the best of your ability. Find the best video editor you can get; it does not have to be a fancy or expensive one. Special effects and background music are a nice touch.
 Its for sure to become a successful series!!

