 If your cat is not showing much interest in their food, you may be able to make it more appealing by warming it up a little bit. This will bring out the aroma of the food.Don’t make the food too hot. It should be no warmer than the normal feline body temperature of about 100 °F (37.78 °C).
If you use a microwave, heat the food for about 5 seconds and then stir it up to distribute the heat evenly through the food., Instead of giving your cat one or two large meals, feed them several small, manageable meals throughout the day. This will prevent uneaten food from sitting in the dish and becoming stale., When your cat is ill, they may come to associate their regular food with feeling sick. If your cat is refusing to eat, sometimes offering a new type of food, or even feeding the cat in a different location from usual, will spark their interest in eating.Before trying any new food, make sure that it meets your cat’s special dietary needs.
 Feeding a nauseated cat can lead them to associate their food with feeling sick, and make them less likely to eat it in the future. If your cat is showing signs of nausea, like drooling while looking at food, spitting out food, or turning away from food when you offer it, don’t keep encouraging them to eat.Your vet may be able to prescribe an anti-nausea medication for your cat. Let them know if your cat is showing symptoms of nausea.
 If your cat’s medication tastes bad or makes them feel nauseated, try to avoid mixing it into their food or administering it too close to a meal. If your cat associates their food with unpleasant medication, it may discourage them from eating.However, keep in mind that some medications need to be given with food to reduce the risk of upset stomach. Talk to your vet and follow the instructions on your cat’s medication.
 As a last resort, your vet may prescribe a medication to stimulate your cat’s appetite. Keep in mind that appetite stimulants are not a long-term solution to eating problems in cats, and they do not work for every cat.