 It can take a few weeks to get on a schedule with a new infant. Over time, work on finding a routine that works. Make sure to spend adequate time with your toddler each day so they don't get jealous of the new baby.No routine is perfect for everyone. Look for a routine that works for you and your children.
 If possible, get your infant and toddler to nap and sleep at the same time. If your kids are on the same sleep schedule, it will be easier for you to take advantage of alone time to catch up on chores or get some rest yourself. Try to put them both down for naps around the same time and get them ready for bed at the same time.
 If you cook, it's not necessary to prepare anything fancy when you have a newborn. In fact, it's better to keep things simple. When caring for a newborn and toddler, stock up on quick and easy meals. Look for things that can be boiled, steamed, or simply popped in the oven. Rely on the basics while adjusting to having a new infant.If you have time to cook one night, make double portions and freeze meals for later.
Look into services like Blue Apron, which sells meals that are pre-prepped and can be made quickly and conveniently at home.
 Stock supplies throughout your home so you're not left scrambling if your toddler or infant is in need. This way, if you need an item in a hurry, you know where it is. Keep things like diapers stored throughout your home. Leave boxes filled with your toddler's toys in various places in your house. You'll be able to hand your toddler a toy quickly if you need a few moments to tend to the infant.If you drive, it's a good idea to keep necessary items in the car as well. This will save you time getting everyone out the door in the morning.
 When feeding your infant, your toddler may sometimes want attention while the baby is eating. Your toddler may sometimes be occupied with their own toys and games. However, if your toddler wants attention, find something you can do while feeding the baby.Telling stories or singing songs can be done while you're breastfeeding or bottle feeding your baby. You can also read to your toddler if they're able to turn the pages while you read.
Games like "I-Spy" and "Simon Says" are easy to play when feeding your infant.
If your toddler is at all curious about the new baby, you can let them watch you breastfeed or bottle feed and explain the process.
 Your house may not be as clean as you want when you're juggling a toddler and infant. Learn to accept some mess. If dishes have to sit in the sink overnight, for example, let them so you can catch up on sleep.If it's within your budget, think about hiring a house cleaner for some days of the week.