 If the source doesn’t have a specific author, use the title to alphabetize it.;
, In your word processing software, highlight the text. Move your pointer to the top of the page where two tiny triangles sit on top of each other on a ruler.


Move the bottom one by itself to create hanging indention (1/2 an inch), where the second and subsequent lines of a citation are indented while the first line is all the way to the left.
 Make sure the works cited page and the rest of the paper are in a readable font. Times New Roman is fairly standard.


Format the font to be 12-point.
The margins on the works cited page, like the rest of the paper, should be 1 inch (2.5 cm) all around.
 The title should be centered and also in 12-point font. It should simply be “Works Cited.” Do not bold or italicize it.


Always begin your works cited page on a new page after you finish your paper.
 An example entry would look like this: French, Joe. City of Lights. Akron: Ohio Books, 1994. Print.


In this case, “Joe French” is the author’s name, so you reverse it for the citation because you alphabetize citations by the author’s last name.“City of Lights” is the title of the book, while “Akron” is the city of publication.
“Ohio Books” is the publisher, and “1994” is the publication date. The publication information can be found on the back side of the title page, though if you are using a catalog to look up books, you can usually find it there, as well.
“Print” is the medium of publication.
 For a scholarly article, use this basic format: Smith, George and Jessica Handler. “Kitten Sleeping Patterns.” Cat Behaviors 4.3 (2012): 22-43. Print.


Like the first example, the first author’s name is reversed; it’s normally “George Smith.” However, when you include a second author, his or her name is written in the typically Western way after an “and.”
The title of the article is “Kitten Sleeping Patterns.” Notice that for titles you use title case capitalization, meaning you capitalize important words. “Cat Behavior” is the title of the journal the article is published in, while “4” and “3” are the volume and issue numbers.
Journals are divided by year, and each year is a volume. So the first year is volume one, the second year is volume two, and so on.
Each issue in the year also receives a number, beginning with one and starting over each year. “2012” is the publication date, while “22-43” is the page numbers where the article is in the journal. That is, the issue has a number of articles in it, and these page numbers designate where it is located within the book, not the ones you use.
You designate the page numbers you use within your paper, not on the works cited page.
Finally, “Print” is again the medium of publication.
 For an article from an online database, it would look like this: Smith, George and Jessica Handler. “Kitten Sleeping Patterns.” Cat Behaviors 4.3 (2012): 22-43. JSTOR. Web. 18 November 2014.


The only additions made to this citation are adding in the database name (JSTOR), changing the medium to “Web,” and adding the date you accessed it., For a page on a website, use this format: “How to Find Cats.” AlltheAnswers. Big Internet Company, 2011. Web. 18 November 2014.


In this case, “How to Find Cats” is the name of the webpage. If the webpage has an author, place it before this title like you did in the other cases.
“AlltheAnswers” is the title of the website.
“Big Internet Company” is the publisher and “2011” is the date on the webpage (use “n.d.” if you can’t find a date). Be more specific if possible.
“Web” is the medium of publication, while “18 November 2014” is the date that you access the page.

