 St. John’s wort is a herb that can help mild to moderate depression. You can buy it as a liquid extract, in capsule form, as tablets, or as an ingredient in commercial tea. Talk to your doctor about which form is the best for your current situation and whether or not St. John's wort is safe for you to use.


Supplements are standardized to 0.3% hypericin concentration, which is one of the active compounds in the herb. The supplement should be taken three times a day with a dose of 300mg. It can take three to four weeks for the herb to get into your system, which means it may take this long to show improvements.
Don’t stop taking St. John’s wort all at once. There will be unpleasant side effects if you do. Instead, gradually lower the amount you take every day.
People with attention deficit disorder and bipolar disorder should not use St. John’s wort. Also do not use St. John’s wort if you are taking medications such as antidepressants, sedatives, birth control pills, or allergy drugs, or if you are pregnant and/or breastfeeding. Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while using St. John's wort

, Fish oil helps with brain function due to the omega-3 fatty acids. Individuals with depression may have lower levels of brain chemicals called EPA and DHA in their blood, which are two substances found in fish oil. Eat fish or seafood a few times a week to get plenty of omega-3s. Eat salmon, mussels, sardines, herring, oysters, trout, and canned white tuna. You can also take over-the-counter supplements.


Fish oil should not be used as the only form of depression medication, but it may be helpful in addition to prescribed medications or other treatments.
If you’re pregnant or nursing, talk to your doctor before taking supplements or increasing your intake of omega-3s.
Avoid eating raw seafood, shellfish, tilefish, king mackerel, and shark. These all have high levels of mercury., To avoid this, increase your daily intake of vitamin C. You can eat more food with vitamin C or take a dietary supplement. Eat more natural sources of vitamin C, such as red or green peppers, oranges, grapefruit, limes, lemons, spinach, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, strawberries, raspberries, tomatoes, mango, papaya and cantaloupe.


For supplements, take two or three doses of vitamin C per day that total 500 mg daily. Try to stay under 2000 mg per day between food and supplements. Be aware that higher doses of Vitamin C can cause diarrhea.
Smoking depletes vitamin C, which means smokers need an additional 35 mg per day.
Ask your doctor before taking supplements if you're on other medications, herbs, or supplements., This chemical is made in your body, derived from tryptophan, and becomes serotonin, a mood-regulating neurotransmitter. 5-HTP may have a help with sleep, mood, anxiety, appetite, and pain sensation.


5-HTP may work as well as some SSRI antidepressants (like Prozac and Zoloft) that are used to treat people with mild-to-moderate depression., Many of these treatments are more effective when combined, but your doctor will be able to tell you which are right for you and which may have negative interactions.


Other supplements you may want to talk to your doctor about to treat your depression include rhodiola and SAMe.

