 If you have gotten into the habit of comparing your body to those around you, you will stay on a rollercoaster of self-contempt. Comparisons set you up for failure because there will always be someone who is thinner than you.Remember that those people also have insecurities and things they wish they could change! They may even envy some of your features.


Stop comparing yourself to an idealized version of a male or female body. Instead focus on your individuality, your strengths. Do you have an eye for fashion? Start a blog or vlog. Are your eyes a dreamy shade of brown? Play up this feature with complementary eye shadows. Are you exceptionally compassionate? Offer your time as a volunteer.
 There’s a difference between wanting to realistically improve some aspect of your appearance versus wanting to become someone else. Face it: some people are just genetically thinner. In some cases, being overweight or simply larger than others is based on a person’s race, culture, and family background. These are things you can’t control.


If you must compare, look to body positive role models who come from the same background as you. Set reasonable goals that are based on what you can control, like your diet, your exercise habits, and stress-management. All of these factors affect your body weight, too.
 You may have developed a fat-shaming habit because you are always around people who judge their own or others’ bodies. This is especially common with women; many use fat-shaming as a form of bonding among the group. If you and your friends are in a contest to see who can hate their body the most, it’s time to forfeit.When you catch you and your friends fat-shaming, speak out. Say, “You know what guys? Let’s cut the ‘fat’ talk.”
In addition to raising awareness with existing friends, seek out new acquaintances who empower you to love your body just the way it is. Look for body-positive groups or organizations in your area or online.
 Sometimes, fat-shaming comes out because you feel bad about other things happening in your life. When you make self-care a regular part of your routine, you are less likely to use your body as a punching bag of criticism.Get some sunshine. Do things you enjoy like biking through a wooded trail, reading a science fiction novel, or painting your nails. Make a commitment to do at least one activity per day that nourishes your spirit, whether that’s a 5-minute meditation session in the morning or a relaxing cup of chamomile tea at night.

