 To some degree, this is common sense — but it’s worth double checking. Make sure washing machines and dryers are clean and empty. Further, clean the home’s oven and stove top. Both of these things will need to be tested, and the presentation of any dirtiness in the home reflects poorly on an inspector's assumptions on the home’s upkeep.There are plenty of low-cost, quick tidy-up tasks that can be done to improve an inspector’s perspective of a home. Cleaning everything is a great place to start.
 This is surprisingly easy to forget, and though easily remedied, worth being addressed prior to an inspection. Replace batteries and get new or additional detectors wherever necessary.In newer homes, there needs to be a working smoke detector in almost every room, aside from bathrooms and closets, but including hallways.


Keep in mind that older homes (those built before the year 2000) do not have to have a smoke detector in every room, just one on each floor.
All properties also have to have a working carbon monoxide detector on every floor. It is best to put the carbon monoxide detector close to the floor and near the bedrooms.
 Look over everywhere there is caulk on the exterior of the building. This will be caulk around almost anything, not just the windows. Check around doors, connections to exterior appliances, trim, and portions of the home that extend out of a previous level and have a seam along the roof.Similarly, touch up the mortar on the foundation or anywhere on a brick home.
 In particular, replace the air filters if the home has an HVAC system. Further, clean the air returns, vents, and other accessible parts of the system. Have any service tags or notes clearly visible., Keep mulch or other yard material at least six inches from the start of a home’s siding. Trim any plants that are touching any part of the building so that nothing is touching the home’s foundation, roof, siding, or chimney. Finally, clear the roof itself and the gutters of any collected debris. If you keep stacks of firewood, make sure no firewood is stacked against the exterior of the home.
Do not place garbage cans next to the house because they can attract pests and cause cracks in the siding.
Make sure any downspouts or drains are pointed and slope away from the home. Also, check the areas where outside drains connect to the interior of the house. They may be hidden and leak without being noticed.

