 You will have to enable monetization of your YouTube account to indicate that you want to earn money from your videos.;
, Click the “Sign in” button at the top right corner of the home page. A sign in window will appear. Enter your Google email address and password then click the “Sign in” button to proceed.
 Click on your profile picture on the top right corner of the page. This should open a small menu. Click on the gear button to access your YouTube account settings.
 Under the Overview menu of the settings page, click the “View additional features” link to display all the available features for your YouTube account. Scroll through the features and look for “Monetization.” Click on the “Enable monetization” link there. You will be brought to Monetization page in your Channel Settings., Do this by clicking the “Enable My Account” button to enable your account to earn money from your videos.
 The YouTube Partner Program Terms will be displayed. Agree to the terms by ticking on the checkboxes then click the “I accept” button at the bottom of the page. You will have to wait for your request to be approved before you can be allowed to monetize anything on YouTube. You will receive a confirmation email once it’s enabled for monetization. It should take less than 24 hours.
 Once you’ve been approved, return to the Account Monetization page. You will be able to see your account status from here.
 There’s a section for “Guidelines and Information” on the page. Click the “How will I get paid?” FAQ there to expand the answer. On the answer text, click the “Associate an AdSense account” link then click the “Next” button at the bottom of the next page.
 The next page will ask you which Google account you would like to link with AdSense, either the one you’re currently using or a different account. Click the button with your current Google account.


If you wish to use another Google account, click the “Use a different or new Google Account” button beside it and sign in with the account.
 The next page will ask you for the content you will show in your videos. Verify that your YouTube channel link and that your content language are correct on the page, and click the “Continue” button.
 The next page will provide you with the application form for AdSense. Fill in the information required in the appropriate fields, like Country, Time zone, Account type, Payee name, Street address, City, Phone, and Email preferences. Your personal information, such as your payee name and contact details, should be accurate and matching the data in your bank account that will receive all payments. Click the “Submit my application” button when you’re done.


Your AdSense application will be reviewed, and you will receive an email once it’s confirmed. As long as your account is in good standing, you should have this approved. It should take less than 24 hours. Once it’s been approved, your AdSense account is now linked to your YouTube account, and you can now start earning money from your videos.

