 Every day when you go home, think positive thoughts about your job. Don’t focus on the negative, especially what you didn’t get done. Instead, think about what you did get accomplished and how productive you were.


Think about what good things you got done. For example, think about the project you finished, the people you helped, the stack of papers you got through.
Focus on how productive you actually were instead of how productive you think you should be.
 One reason people have such an addiction to work and productivity is due to outside social and cultural influences. It is definitely important to take pride in your work and provide for yourself and family, but you need to also find the importance of your personal non-work life. One way to do this is to shift your thinking about work and your personal life.To shift your thinking about your work and personal life, start telling yourself that your personal life is just as important as your work life. For example, say to yourself, “The activities I do when I am not at work are valid. They add to my success as a person.”
Shifting your thinking means you have to put as much focus on your non-work life as your work life. This can be achieved in a variety of ways. You can try to strengthen relationships with family or friends, enrich yourself by taking the time to find new hobbies or pursue interests, or setting aside time for relaxing and restful activities.
 If you base your happiness on how productive you are, you eliminate opportunities to be happy in the moment. Setting goals is a great thing to do, but when your goal becomes an obsession and is all you can think about, it is a problem.


Ask yourself why you made the goals you made. Are they realistic goals? Do you have unrealistic expectations for the completion of your goal? Readjust your goal, come up with a new goal, or get rid of a goal if you have to.
Celebrate the successes you experience as you go towards a goal. This helps you find happiness as you work or strive to achieve a goal, instead of always focusing on needing to do more.
 You should stop basing your self-worth on your level of productivity. Just because you were more productive the day or year before doesn’t mean you are less of a person. It doesn’t mean you need to make up for it by being extra productive. Your self-worth should be based on a combination of things, not just productivity.
 Being obsessed with your productivity keeps you either in the past or the future. Striving to be more productive has you looking too much into the future, while obsessing on how you weren’t productive keeps you in the past. Instead, focus on the moment.Get what you can done in the moment. Don’t worry about yesterday or tomorrow. Work your best today, and when you are done, be pleased with what you accomplished this day.
Don’t beat yourself up if you are sick, fatigued, or not at 100%. Instead of worrying that you are doing less than you have before, focus on what you can accomplish despite feeling under the weather. Be happy with what you get done.

