 Nobody knows exactly what causes migraines. A lot of research has gone into the exact cause of migraines, but with little success. It is generally agreed upon that the trigeminal nerve plays a role in migraine pain. The trigeminal nerve is a cranial nerve that facilitates a major pain pathway. Serotonin imbalances and imbalances in other brain chemicals may also be a factor.Neuropeptides, such as substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, may be causing neurogenic inflammation and vasodilation.There are a variety of subtypes of migraines. There are chronic migraines, medication overuse migraines, basilar type migraines, hemiplegic migraines, ophthalmoplegic migraines, retinal migraines, menstrual related migraines, childhood periodic equivalents, and status migrainosus. The treatment for these types of migraines are generally the same.;
, Even though we don't know what causes migraines, there are some risk factors that can increase your chance of getting one. Knowing that you have one, or more, risk factors for migraines should help you be more aware if you start to have symptoms. Risk factors include:


Family history
Stress
Female sex
Changes in diet
Use of certain medications, such as estrogens and vasodilators
Migraines in women are often related to hormone changes such as menstruation, menopause, or pregnancy.
 Recognizing what triggers a migraine can help you avoid it. For example, some people get migraines from chocolate or caffeine or too much stress. Some migraines are preceded by sensory “warning signs.” These can differ from person to person and may not be present in all people with migraines. The signs can present as:Blind spots
Tingling in hands or face
Flashes and specks of light
Odors, such as burning smells
You may have other warning signs in the period before the headaches starts, such as a craving for sweets, thirst, sleepiness, or depression., When your body knows what to expect during the day and night, you will be less likely to get a migraine. If you are functioning on a routine, there is less mental and physiological stress because your body knows what to expect and when to expect it.


Go to bed at a regular time, keep your exercise habits in sync and eat your meals and snacks at around the same time and in around the same sizes every day.You can reduce tension and help prevent migraines with regular aerobic exercise.Smoking is a regular habit you should avoid.
 If your migraines are frequent or severe, or if the pain and discomfort are negatively affecting your ability to function in your daily activities, then you should see a doctor. Your doctor can work with you on designing a specific treatment regimen.
 This works best for people who have disabling migraine headaches that come with uncontrollable pain or migraines that come frequently. Discuss different medication options and side effects with your doctors.


Talk to your doctor about medications you are taking, such as hormonal treatments including estrogens, to see if they may be aggravating your migraines and if there are alternative treatments.
Some classes of medications that can help prevent migraines include beta-blockers, antidepressants, anti-seizure drugs, and botox. There are many specific medications under each class and your doctor will have to work with you to decide what medication will help you the most.