 Exercise can help anyone be and feel healthy. But it can also help you shed excess weight. Understanding the benefits of exercise can help you get fit and lose weight and even sculpt your legs.Exercise can prevent excess weight gain and strengthen your muscles, including those in your legs.Exercise has that added benefit that it can increase your energy and help you to sleep.;
, Before or after any exercise session, do a light, low-impact warm up and cool down. This can prepare your body to exercise as well as stabilize your temperature and blood pressure.Warm up with a low-impact and light activity, such as walking, for five to 10 minutes.Cool down with a low-impact activity such as light jogging or walking for five to 10 minutes.Proper hydration is an important component of exercise. Consume at least 64 ounces of fluid a day to stay hydrated and add eight ounces of water for every hour of activity., Note that marathon runners and bicyclists have lean, strong legs. This is due to the type of muscle fibers worked during cardio activity. Doing moderate to vigorous intensity cardiovascular exercise can help you lose weight and sculpt your legs. Discuss your plan to do cardio training with your doctor and certified fitness professional before you start to ensure you are healthy enough for activity.Aim to get 150 minutes of moderate physical activity or 75 minutes of vigorous activity to help you lose weight.If you can’t do an activity for the whole time, split it up into more manageable parts.If you are already very active, you need to revamp your training with routines such as high intensity interval training to fire up your metabolism.If you are just beginning or need to do a lower impact activity, walking and swimming are excellent options.Any type of cardio training can help you shed pounds. Beyond walking and swimming, consider running, rowing, biking, spinning, dancing, or using an elliptical machine., In addition to cardiovascular exercise, strength training can help you lose weight.More importantly, strength training can help sculpt your muscles, making you stronger and leaner.Legs that are lean will appear thin and skinny without some muscle definition. Strength training improves muscularity and tone of the legs. Strength training can be especially effective at helping you shed leg fat.


Before you begin any strength training program, consult with your doctor and maybe even with a certified trainer, who will create the best plan for your wishes, abilities, and any physical needs.
Focus on exercises that strengthen your legs, which can help sculpt the gams you desire.If weights are too heavy, start with resistance bands, which can provide a similar muscle-building effect.
 Try out a yoga or Pilates class either in a studio or online. These lower-impact activities can help strengthen and stretch your muscles, especially those of your leg.Both yoga and Pilates have exercises and poses that specifically target your legs. Exercises such as downward dog and the warrior series will strengthen and sculpt your leg muscles, making them longer and leaner.
There are many video-based yoga and Pilates courses available. You may consider purchasing DVDs, which can offer basic guided sessions for you to follow. You can also search online for videos or courses that guide you through different levels of yoga and Pilates sessions., If you decide to exercise to lose weight, it’s important to listen to your body during any form of exercise. This can help you identify if you’re tired, need to hydrate, or are experiencing the signs of a more serious problem.


Rest if you feel like it. If you feel tired or don’t want to exercise one day, make it a rest day or even an active rest day on which you take an easy walk. Remember that rest is an integral part of losing weight, building muscle, and staying healthy.Stop exercising if you experience dizziness, headache, worsening shortness of breath, chest pain, heart palpitations or uneven and rapid heartbeat., Doing exercises that target your legs can help you achieve long, lean gams. You can sign up for group classes that target the legs through cardiovascular exercises or strengthening classes such as TRX or spinning., Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and point your toes outward like a ballerina. Bend your knees and dip down until your knees are just above your toes, and then stand back up.


Repeat 10–15 times for one set; perform three sets total.
 Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Slowly lift your heels off of the floor so that you are balancing on the balls of your feet, and then lower your heels back down to the ground.


Repeat 10–12 times for one set, doing three set total.
Hold a five to 10 pound dumbbell in each hand for more of a challenge.
 Stand with your feet hip-width apart and your hands resting on your hips. Take a big step forward with your right foot and bend your left knee until it is almost touching the ground. Return to standing position and repeat the movement with your left foot. Walk from one end of the room to the other and then back.
Repeat 10–12 times for one set, working up to three sets.
Add some hand weights or dumbbells for an extra challenge.
 Having a regular diet of healthy and nutrient-rich meals can help you lose any weight and burn fat. Foods containing moderate amounts of fat, complex carbohydrates, and high nutrient content, for example, are best for your general health and weight loss.The amount of calories you consume every day should be commensurate with how much weight you want to lose.Remember that you want to lose weight gradually so that you don’t risk gaining it back quickly.Cut 500–1000 calories per day through diet and exercise to lose one to two pounds per week, which is the safest amount to lose.Fat on the legs can be due to an unbalanced diet or water retention from a diet that is high in carbohydrates. Consider lowering your carbohydrate intake.
 A key part of any healthy diet is getting enough vitamins and nutrients to bolster your overall health. You will consume sufficient nutrients if you eat foods from the five food groups every day. The five food groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy.Aim to eat one to 1.5 cups of fruit per day. Whole fruits such as raspberries, blueberries, or strawberries, or from drinking 100% fruit juice are good and nutrient-rich choices.Choose different fruits so that you get an array of nutrients. For example, one day you could have blueberries and raspberries, and another day you could have strawberries and bananas.
Try and eat 2.5 to three cups of vegetables per day. You can get this from eating whole vegetables such as broccoli, carrots, or peppers, or from drinking 100% vegetable juice.Make sure to vary the vegetables you choose so that you get a range of nutrients.
Fruits and vegetables are an excellent source of fiber, and can help you to lose weight.Eat around five to eight ounces of grains per day, of which at least half should be whole grains. Foods such as brown rice, whole wheat pasta or bread, oatmeal, or cereal are great sources of fiber.Grains offer Vitamin B, which can aid slowed digestion.Consume five to 6.5 ounces of protein per day.Protein is in lean meats such as beef, pork, or poultry; cooked beans; eggs; peanut butter; or nuts and seeds.Protein can also help you to build and maintain muscle, which may make your legs get and look even leaner.Drink or eat two to three cups, or 12 oz., of dairy per day.There is a wide variety of dairy products including cheese, yogurt, milk, soymilk, or even ice cream.Dairy can help you build and maintain strong bones and muscles, which may help develop your leg muscles., If you’re trying to lose weight, don’t eat unhealthy or junk foods, which are often loaded with fat and empty calories.Potato chips, pizza, cheeseburgers, cake, and ice cream will not help you lose weight.


Avoid starchy, refined carbohydrates including bread, crackers, pasta, rice, cereal, and baked goods. Eliminating these foods from your diet may also help you lose weight overall.Look at food labels for hidden sugar. Too much sugar in your diet can cause you to gain weight. Look for words such as corn syrup, sucrose, dextrose, or maltose, which are all forms of sugar.Stay away from too much sodium. While you need a bit of sodium, it is often too prevalent in mass-processed foods. Use alternative seasonings such as garlic or herbs to help you avoid excess sodium, which can cause you to retain water weight., You may be excited to completely change your diet to lose weight quickly, but it’s important to gradually make changes to your overall diet. This will help you stick to eating healthy and minimize your risk of gaining the weight back.For example, you can slowly replaced processed foods. If you eat white rice, try brown rice and then gradually add more vegetables and protein and less rice.
Let yourself to cheat once in a while so that you stay on track., Putting together a mean plan can help you not slide back into bad or “easy” eating habits that can make you gain weight. It can also help make sure that you’re getting sufficient nutrients.For example, figure out your breakfasts for the week. This helps start off your day on the right foot. If you don’t have lunch meetings, pack lunch and go for a walk. This can help you avoid buying unhealthy fast foods and gives you some exercise, too. At lunch meetings, order the least processed and most natural food on the menu, such as salads without cheese or heavy dressings.
 No one is perfect and sometimes you may just want a burger and fries. Allow yourself an occasional cheat day to enjoy junk food or foods you wouldn’t normally eat on your plan.


There is some evidence an occasional cheat day can help you maintain your diet because you’re not denying yourself anything.You may discover that you don’t crave junk and unhealthy foods as often when you’re eating a healthy and nutrient-rich diet.
 Eating out is a great social activity, but it can also cause major setbacks for many diets because of processed, high fat and calorie dishes. Consciously choosing your meal can help you reinforce your good eating habits and continue to lose weight.Stay away from unhealthy breadbaskets, fried foods, or dishes drowning in heavy sauces such as fettuccine Alfredo.Salads and steamed vegetables, or simple steaks are good choices of healthy foods that won’t break your diet.
Steer clear of buffets, which are often filled with unhealthy, calorie-laden, and processed food choices. Buffets can encourage you to overeat, too.Consider having fruit or low-calorie sorbet for dessert.