 You may need to turn your phone on or bring it out of standby mode. Once you have reached your phone's home screen, you can access your apps, web browser, or your phone default settings to reach the screen you want to capture.


Any image displayed on your phone screen will be captured. This includes text message notifications and status notifications that may pop up on your screen while taking your screenshot.;
, You will need to press these simultaneously, and poor timing could result in you putting your phone in standby mode instead of taking your screenshot. If this occurs, bring your phone out of standby mode and try to take your screenshot again.


You should hear the noise of a shutter when you have successfully captured the on-screen image.Your power button can be found on the upper-right side of the device, and the volume button on the upper-left side of your phone., You may be able to do this by pulling down your device Notification Menu, which you can access by swiping your finger in a downward motion from the top of your screen, where you should find a thumbnail of your photo.Tapping this thumbnail will take you straight to where the image is located in your gallery.


If you cannot find your image in the Notification Menu, navigate to your Apps, which will be represented by an icon with four squares. In your app list, you should find an icon labeled "Gallery," which you can tap to open your gallery. Your screenshot should be located in a subfolder in your gallery labeled "Screenshots.", Since your screenshot will capture any images on your screen at the time, if you have received a pop-up notification for an incoming text, or any other app, that notification will also show up in your screenshot.
 You can make adjustments to your image by tapping it while in the screenshot subfolder, clicking the menu icon (represented by three stacked horizontal lines), and selecting "Crop." Now you can touch the small manipulator boxes, located in the middle of each side of a larger box that represents the part of the image you will keep, and crop out parts of your screenshot you don't want included in the picture.

