 Pictures speak a thousand words, and including many pictures in a pregnancy journal is a great way to capture special moments. It is a great idea for you to keep a camera with you throughout your pregnancy so that you can take pictures of yourself or have someone take pictures of you.


Many women include all sorts of pictures in their pregnancy journal, especially ultrasound pictures and pictures of their expanding abdomen as the baby grows inside them.
Take pictures of places you have visited while pregnant.
Note your progress on your stomach and photograph it once in a week.
Take pictures of your baby shower, and make a note of who is involved.
If your journal does not have space for physical items, pictures are a great way to add some mixed media to an otherwise text-based journal.
 Whether the journal is capable of holding physical items or not, there are some items that are definitely worth keeping. Certain items will have deep symbolic significance to you and your family, and are great things to preserve for years to come.


These items could include invitations to baby showers, congratulation cards, scraps of paper or napkins with scribbled down lists of possible baby names, and even the baby’s name card from the hospital bassinet after they are born.
As stated before, some pregnancy journals have spaces for these items and some do not. If your journal does not have space for physical items, the date and other information can still be written in the journal and a picture can be taken of the object. #*You can also have a keepsake box where you store all of the things that cannot be put in the journal.
 Add pictures of family members and create a family tree for your baby. Let family and friends leave messages for the baby. Put them in a special envelope and paste them in the journal.


This can be a great way for the baby to come into the world surrounded by loving, supporting people.
 Shoot video or record audio during your pregnancy to add a realistic element to your journal. Audio and video recordings can be a great way to transport yourself back in time, providing a set of detailed and personal images.


You can record them on CD or DVD and show them to the child when they grow up.
Record music you like to listen to, or music you "play" the baby while he or she is in your stomach. Put it in an envelope and stick in your diary.
 You spent all this time writing and logging the progress of your pregnancy, so don't forget to include the birth! The birth is the culmination of this process and often a life changing experience for a new mother. Include relevant details:


Where the child is born and when.
Under what circumstances did you feel your first contractions?
Who took you to the hospital?
How did you give birth, naturally or by cesarean section? With or without an epidural?
How long was the labor and what went through your head?
How did you feel when you first saw your child?

, Take pictures of the newborn and put them at the end of the pregnancy journal for a fulfilling endpoint. Saving all of these precious memories will be priceless when you look back at them later in life.


One day, you can show your child and remind yourself what he or she looked like.

