 If treated medically, very urgently people can more fully recover from the "milder, beginning levels of sepsis". Recovery becomes more and more difficult as minutes and hours pass... as any organs and limbs can be damaged beyond help by tiny blood clots and death of tissues., Infection may be unseen/internal, which can be/lead to a very serious danger, if it goes untreated. One may be mild sepsis but then can lead to severe complications including amputations, organ failure or septic shock and 50/50 and rapidly worse chance of death--not all likely, but something might develop! For example, drug resistant streptococcal bacterial infection can be a cause of great concern. Strep is very common and can cause SIRS, or it can seem to clear up after "settling" in certain organs, causing gradual damage and inflammatory conditions, and organ weaknesses can pop up later.


Early stage, "mild sepsis" treated with antibiotics, quickly, is more curable, compared to the mortality (death rate) for a related condition during more severe sepsis complications, called septic shock syndrome, in which death is near 50 percent (about 1/2).,, These are possible indications of severe sepsis, requiring immediate intensive medical care: if the patient exhibits "at least one of the following signs and symptoms, it may indicate an organ(s) failing":Abrupt, unexplained change in mental status: such as unusually confused, disoriented or dizzy (sudden difficulty speaking or behavior changes), and possible seizures;

Significantly decreased urine output (low kidney function), but this could be from extreme dehydration, such as from continual diarrhea and/or vomiting, very serious, also;

Abnormal heart pumping function/significant rhythm change;

Abdominal pain (possibly pancreas, kidneys or liver, etc. impaired or failing);

Difficult or labored breathing, unusual fatigue, light-headedness;

Lab: shows decreased platelet count. (Normally platelets are sent to sites of injury or infection, to signal and to control leukocytes and such in your inflammatory processes, but with severe sepsis they begin failing miserably!).,, Doctors often order a battery of tests to try to clearly show the underlying infection:Blood tests for evidence of: infection, clotting, abnormal liver or kidney function, impaired oxygen availability, electrolyte imbalances
Test other bodily fluids: Urine may be checked for signs of bacteria. Wound secretions can help show what type of antibiotic might work best. Respiratory secretions from coughing up mucus (sputum) may determine what type of germ is causing the infection.
Imaging scans are used as tests to help visualize internal problems including in soft tissue infections, such as in lungs, liver, pancreas, bowels, spine, etc.
, An immune system weakened by such common illness are more open to sepsis, and they're avoidable.
Properly clean, possibly medicate and bandage up cuts, surgical wounds, or other wounds. Even, chickenpox blisters can become infected by bacteria.
Wash your hands regularly: And if you or your family member or friend is in the hospital, ask about all health providers washing their hands, and putting on new rubber gloves between patients.
Do not take antibiotics for common ailments of three day viruses or colds: Such improper antibiotic use may create drug-resistant bacteria that make sepsis more dangerous.


Drug-resistant bacteria. Many types of bacteria now can resist the effects of antibiotics that once killed them. These antibiotic-resistant bacteria are often the root cause of the infections that trigger sepsis.
 away from:


Cuts, sores, scratched places (avoid staph infections);
Face, mouth and eyes and other body orifices (avoid E. coli infections):

Wash hands, going in and coming out of the bathroom (water-closet), toilet, handling public door handles, etc.
 Get your seven or more hours of sleep. Extensive sleep loss/deprivation is detrimental to your immune system.
 Realize that Sepsis is more common and more dangerous with any of these risks:Are very young or very old -- which may have immune system weakness
Have a compromised immune system -- such as due to certain illness, drugs/medications
Are already very sick, often in a hospital's intensive care unit -- system is overtaxed
Have wounds or injuries, such as burns
Have invasive devices, such as intravenous catheters (drip or pump) or breathing tubes -- that may introduce infection and aggravate an inflammatory response.

