 Whether you want to accent a room in your home or decorate for a special event, you'll need to choose your colors carefully. Choose between 1 and 4 different colors that compliment each other well.


For a bold look, go with just one bright color, like an all-crimson bouquet.
Mix it up with green foliage for a natural effect.
Think of yourself as a painter when you're deciding which colors accent each other. Consider referencing a color wheel to help you make your decision.
You can't go wrong choosing your favorite hues. If they make you happy, you'll be happy with your flower arrangement, so don't feel constrained by traditional choices.;
, Use a pencil, paper and some colored pencils to achieve a rough sketch before you visit a florist or craft store. You don't have to draw a perfect representation of what you want, but sketching it out will help you figure out what type of look you're going for.


Are you looking for a natural, hand-picked effect? You'll want a variety of colors, shapes and textures.For a more formal arrangement, you could stick with one type of flower in classic shape.
If you're decorating for a holiday, you may also want to add seasonal items such as cornucopias around Thanksgiving or snowmen cut outs that can be placed in a vase.
Decide whether you will have a vertical or horizontal arrangement when you conceptualize your floral design. A vertical design often features a taller vase with flowers extending higher in the center and lower around the edges. A vertical design has a shallower vase and looks to place flowers slightly higher in the center and drape them out toward the ends.
 The container can make as much of a statement as the flower arrangement. Determine what size and shape you'd like the container to be. Here are a few options:


Traditional glass vases highlight the beauty of the flowers without standing out too much.
Vases or boxes made of ceramic, wood, aluminum, and other materials also do quite nicely for a floral craft arrangement.
Consider using a mason jar, an old ceramic jug, or another item you already have on hand to add a personal touch to your arrangement.
 Now that you have your plan in order, it's time to gather your supplies. Depending on what type of arrangement you're making, you'll need some or all of the following items:


Several types of flowers
Greenery, such as ferns and moss
A foam block or florists' frog that fits into your container
Other accent pieces, such as buttons, ribbons and/or seasonal décor.
Florist's tape in green, white or clear

, A frog at the bottom of your container will anchor the stems of your flowers to keep them in place.


If the frog is a bit too small, you can cut a piece of floral foam to achieve the same effect. Soak the foam for a few minutes to soften it.Trace the bottom of your container onto the foam, then use a utility knife to cut out the shape. Place it at the bottom of your container.
You can skip this step for fake flower arrangements, since they tend to stay in place without help.
If you don't have a utility knife, you should be able to cut through the frog with a scissors.
 If you are using a large, decorative bowl as a container for your flowers, having a tape grid over the opening will also keep the flowers and other elements from moving. Place half a dozen tape pieces going horizontally across the opening, and half a dozen running vertically. This will allow you to secure the flowers in an orderly design.
 Clip off leaves near the bottoms of the stem with scissors, to remove bulk and help them stay fresh longer. Use a diagonal cut to trim the flowers to the desired length. The shallower your container is, the more you will have to clip.


Consider cutting the stems of different flowers to different lengths. This will add tiers to the floral design.
If you're unsure how much to trim, do a practice run and hold the flowers up next to your container in a bunch to estimate how tall each one should be.
 Be sure the tips are wedged into the flower frog. Place the tallest, boldest blooms in the container first, then fill in the gaps with the other complementary flowers and you have chosen. Continue filling out the container until the arrangement looks balanced and complete.
 You will want to check its appearance from each side to make sure it is consistent. Fix any gaps with other flowers or remove flowers if it is too full.
 Ivy, ferns or baby's breath accent the flowers while adding rich green hues to your design. Depending upon your design, you may want your greenery to surround your flowers at the bottom, drape down over the vase itself in a few places or sit up higher among the flowers.


You may place moss around the frog in places where you can see these items. For example, you can use moss around a frog in a see through vase or at the top of a basket arrangement.
Instead of using moss, you can fill the area around the frog with other objects. Consider buttons, glass pebbles, corks or shells.
 Don't forget this final touch! You want your arrangement to last as long as possible.
 Use orange, brown, yellow, and red flowers as well as Thanksgiving-themed decorative items to create a beautiful arrangement for your Thanksgiving table.
 Pretty pastels and soft spring hues are the stars in this arrangement. Buy decorative eggs, bunnies, chicks, and other Easter decorations to accent your flowers.
 Take advantage of the year's most colorful and bountiful flowers by crafting your own summer arrangement. This is the time of year to use lots of colors and big, bold shapes.
 Use the bride's chosen colors and add wedding bells, lovebirds, or another sweet accent to make a beautiful wedding centerpiece.

