 Take down any bird feeders, as they provide instant food for nuisance birds. Resist the urge to feed bread crumbs or anything else to the birds in the area. Empty the water out of any bird baths and fill in any standing pools of water.








If you really want to keep some songbirds around, switch over to tube-shaped feeders and fill them with black oil sunflower seeds.To keep away the scavengers, secure your trashcan lids carefully and cover up your compost pits., Thin out any heavy thickets and any grass or brush debris. Haul away any dead trees or logs. All of these sites provide shelter from predators and potential nesting spots for wild birds. Maintain this level of upkeep after the birds leave, so that your lawn doesn’t attract another flock., Look at your local garden or hardware store for nylon or plastic mesh. Use stakes or posts to create a framework for the netting around any trees that need protecting. Drape the netting on top of any vulnerable bushes. Use netting to block off potential nest sites on buildings, like rafters.Four-inch mesh is large enough to block out crows and other large birds. Go with a finer, smaller mesh if you are trying to dissuade tiny birds.Before you place the mesh, make sure that no birds will be trapped inside.
 Get wire cables or monofilament/fishing line and string a set of parallel lines about a foot above the area you’d like to protect. Use cinder blocks spread along the sides as line anchors. This will not stop birds from landing, but it will keep them from building large nests.Check the filament every so often to make sure that the lines are still intact.
 Birds will sometimes fly right into an interior space through an open door. Hang thick plastic or rubber strips from the doorframe to keep them out. Cut out 10” strips and place them 2” apart to create a heavy barrier., Buy a few strips of metal spikes, also called perch blockers, and attach them to any potential roosting or perching areas. Most people put them on ledges, around gutters, at the edges of roofs, and on top of patio covers. The strips usually attach to your structure with glue or screws.
 These are flat, flexible strips that put out an electrostatic pulse when pressed upon. So, when a bird lands on a strip, they’ll get a quick, painless jolt. This is a great option for the edges of signs or ledges, as they can be purchased in a number of colors and thicknesses.Some strips run off traditional electrical or battery power while others can be set up to store and use solar energy., Purchase the repellant and then smear it on any problem areas, such as ledges or eaves. Go slowly and make sure to leave no spaces untreated. While there is no scientific backing that this method works, some people argue that the scent alone is enough to drive birds away.Some of these repellants can stain surfaces. If you are worried about this, put down a layer of tape and then follow it with the repellant., Starlings and other small birds are known for aggressively seeking out small spaces in which to build nests. Walk around the perimeter of your house and look for any holes. Push a piece of copper mesh or steel wool into them. Cover this plug with a piece of wood, metal, or mesh.








Seal up your gutters and vents as well with mesh screens.Don’t just use caulk to seal up the holes, as birds can easily peck this out.

