 If your visitors might consider using your bathroom or lavatory, some fresh towels and a plentiful supply of toilet tissue would be appreciated.

Do some shopping to get extra groceries, cutlery, napkins etc and if necessary some extra chairs.



 

;
, A position where everyone will be facing each other and at the same time the TV, if any. Many people have visitors come into their home for a specific activity, such as a book meeting, a meal, to discuss family business, etc, if television is not part of the planned active of your visitors, don't make it the focal point if your entertaining space. If you have invited a lot of visitors, get more armchairs, sofas or chairs and arrange them properly so that you need not panic at the sight of too many visitors at the last moment.
 Take your cleaning supplies, use them and clear out unwanted mess.


Dust the furniture. Sweep all the corners, nooks and crannies of the house. Go a step further and use a vacuum cleaner if you have ones and flooring than be cleaned using one. Mop the floors of your house that can be mopped well and ensure you do so hours before the visitors arrive so that dirt does not accumulate before they arrived and it shall still look clean. Wash out carpets, curtains, mats, cushion covers, table clothes etc and dry them well. Be sure to leave enough time for carpets you was to dry. This can take several hours.
Arrange all the books neatly in the bookshelf according to each category like fiction, non-fiction etc so that your visitors can have access to the books whenever they wish if reading is likely to happen. If your visitors have come round to discuss great Aunt Violet's funeral, there's not likely to be much reading going on.
 There may be lot of changes in the plans of arrangement according to the weather

If there's cold weather, get some fire logs and arrange the fireplace neatly. Get warm blankets and spread them on the sofas and armchairs(optional). If there is a heater in the room, switch it on half an hour before so that the cold visitors come to a warm and cozy home. You may like to put your central heating on throughout your home.






If its a hot weather, switch on the ACs and fans to keep the room cool. Remove any blankets or too warm cushions from the sofas. Just add one or too cushions for each sofa. Keep a bowl of mint chocolates for the visitors to suck on if they feel too hot, mint chocolates are considered to be extraordinarily cooling by some. Provide a bowl for your visitors to spot the mint chocolates out into when they're done sucking on them.
 Don't use heavy wall paper, dense fabric wall hangings and imposing pictures. Add a flower vase or two, keep your family photos on the shelves or on the tables neatly, change curtains(optional), drape the armchairs and sofas with a clean and attractively designed cloth so that if a child spills juice on the sofa mistakenly, the cloth will take the damage.(optional).