 Cutting boards made of soft woods split more easily, and bacteria grow in the cuts a knife leaves behind. If you pick a cutting board made of a harder wood, like maple, walnut, or cherry, it will resist being cracked or nicked. This will keep it safe and looking good for a long time., Wood is a natural material, and when it loses moisture, it can dull--or, worst case scenario, split! Keep it sealed and seasoned with a light coating of mineral oil. Warm a small amount of oil in your hands, and then spread it on the surface of the cutting board. Let it sit for a few minutes, then wipe off with a clean rag or paper towel. Then flip over the cutting board and season the other side too.


You should season your cutting board about once a month, and every time you sanitize it.
Don’t use natural oils to seal the wood, because they can go bad. Mineral oil should do the trick.
 Because wooden cutting boards can’t be run through the dishwasher, many sources recommend not using them for high-risk foods. Whether you choose to use all-wooden, or a combination of wooden and plastic, cutting boards in your kitchen, it’s important to use different cutting boards for different foods.A plastic or well-seasoned wooden cutting board should be used for high-risk foods, including raw meat, poultry, seafood, and tofu.
A separate cutting board should be used for breads, cooked meats, cheese, fermented soy (like tempeh) and washed fruits and vegetables.
Both boards should be cleaned after use, and it’s important not to mix them up. Otherwise, you run the risk of cross-contamination., Every time you use your cutting board, rinse it with hot, soapy water, then with plain water. Dry with a rag or paper towel, or air-dry with the cutting board on its side. This exposes both sides of the cutting board to the air and allows gravity to drain excess water., When you’re tidying up your kitchen, you can also give your cutting board a more intense cleaning with some readily-available ingredients. This is especially helpful if you’ve noticed your board getting a little smelly or stained.


If you notice your cutting board is clinging on to the scents of strong foods, vinegar can help! Soak a paper towel in white vinegar, then wipe it across the surface of the cutting board. This will neutralize the odors without making the wood smell like vinegar in the long term.Another time-honored trick is sprinkling salt over the cutting board’s surface while it’s still wet. The salt draws out moisture trapped in the board’s cracks, along with any bacteria that might be hiding.Stains can be dealt with using science-fair volcano ingredients, too. Try sprinkling baking soda over the discolored area, then scrub the baking soda into the wood using half a lemon. Afterwards, wash and dry the board.