 Because penalties and taxes typically are a percentage of the total you've withdrawn, figure out exactly how much you need to withdraw to accomplish your objective, and don't take out more than that.Hardship withdrawals are allowed in limited situations, but you still must pay the additional 10 percent tax for early withdrawal.
To qualify for a hardship withdrawal, you typically must fill out an application and be able to demonstrate immediate and severe financial need, and cannot withdraw any more money than is necessary to meet that need.
 Your financial advisor or plan administrator will be able to help you with the specifics of completing necessary forms and withdrawing the money from your retirement account.Your financial advisor likely will remind you that you will have to pay regular income taxes plus an additional 10 percent tax on any amount you withdraw early. This can be a substantial amount of money.
Your advisor may be able to help you explore other options that will enable you to meet the same goals without withdrawing money from your retirement account and having to pay stiff penalties.
 So that you can plan ahead, you should calculate the taxes you will owe on your withdrawal and understand how that will affect your budgeting for the year ahead.Regardless of whether an exception applies, you must pay taxes on the amount you withdraw as ordinary income.
That amount will be taxed at the same rate as your other income. However, keep in mind that adding the amount you withdrew from any other income you received in the same year could subject you to a higher tax rate.
If your situation doesn't fall into any of the limited and specific exceptions, you also must pay an additional 10 percent tax on the amount you withdrew.
 You must report any money you withdrew from your retirement plan on IRS Form 5329 and file that form with your tax return for the year you withdrew your funds.You can download the required form and instructions from the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov/uac/About-Form-5329. You may want to look over this form in advance so you understand how an early withdrawal will affect your taxes for the year.
In addition to filling out and filing Form 5329, you also must report the additional tax on the appropriate line of your Form 1040.
If you have questions or concerns, you may want to consider discussing your desire to withdraw money from your retirement plan early with a tax professional so he or she can provide an accurate assessment of your tax liability.

