,


Look beyond the traditional internet naming sites and seek early records of settlements that existed before the European scourge of disease decimated the native population. Heavily consider resurrecting some names that have lain quiet for decades, if not centuries. Give voice to these once more.
Read online histories of Hawaii and pick out names of interest.
Look into the IMDB (International Movie Data Base) for the names of characters that are in movies set in Hawaii. Check for movies shot on-location in Hawaii. This will help to narrow your choices.
Alternatively, look in Wikipedia for the cast of such movies.
The online resources are extensive and can easily be expanded if you use your imagination coupled with logic.
 Historical books of an epic nature such as Hawaii by James Michener are great sources of those light bulb moments. Pick out names of interest, those that have special meaning to you, or those that remind you of a character you'd like your child to be like.


You can search the internet, specifically Amazon.com and the online card catalog for your local library. Scan the summaries for interesting names.
Get Sparks Notes for books set in Hawaii and scan them for the coolest names.
 You know the one -- with Jack Lord and the famous line, "Book 'em Danno!" Again, pick out names that resonate.
 If you have a few traditional names -- either ones you particularly like or ones in your family -- feel free to Hawaiian-ize them! Here's a short list of Western names and their Hawaiian counterparts to give you an idea:


Alex -- Alika

Brandon -- Palanakonu

Danielle -- Kaniele

James -- Kimo

Mark -- Maleko

Rachel -- Leikela

Sam -- Kamuela

Theodore -- Keokolo

Zachary -- Kakali


, Make a list of candidates for both boys and girls.
 Do online research on the meanings of the Hawaiian names and rule out any that lack appeal in this respect. Just cross them off your list of candidates.


For example, Keano means cool breeze in Hawaiian. Variants are Keanu or Keeno. If these do not appeal to you, cross the name off of your list.
 Talk it over with your spouse or domestic partner, your parents, the in-laws. They may supply input which will shape your decision.


Bringing additional people into the decision-making can be beneficial in tightening family bonds or it can be a nightmare, so implement this step at your own discretion.
 If you already know the gender of your baby, make one list. If the gender will be a surprise, make two short lists.
 It could be the American standard of two names - a first name and a middle name - or it could be more. Some Spanish names are quite long.


Consider pairing the names, too. Write down every possible combination your name in groups. Each group should have the number of names you have chosen.
 Then, order the combinations from favorite to least favorite, but do not finalize a name just yet. Sit on it and let your subconscious mind mull over the name combinations.


Review the list every few days or weeks to familiarize yourself with the choices

, Make sure to choose a name that fits your new baby's looks and temperament.
