 Primer is a type of cream/lotion/gel that can be applied directly to your skin, before you put on any other type of makeup. Primer is designed more for humid conditions as it helps keep your makeup looking fresh longer.Primer can be applied to your entire face, but should be used in less amounts along your t-zone (forehead and nose) and cheeks as those areas tend to produce more oil.
Avoid using primers that are silicon-based as they can cause your skin to dry out and produce excessive amounts of oil.
If you do not want to use primer, consider using a water-based face lotion instead.
There are primers made specifically for your eye lids, do not use normal face primer on your eyes.
A light layer of corn starch is another potential alternative to a primer.;
, Foundations come in a variety of types including: liquid, gel, cream and powder. Liquid and gel foundations hold up better on your face in hot and humid weather than cream foundations. Powder foundations do well in warm weather (than cream foundations). All types of foundations will do well in “normal” weather conditions.BB creams, which are quite popular right now, may melt if worn in really hot and humid weather.
 Your skin type should dictate which type of foundation you use on a regular basis. If you have dry skin, for example, you may wish to select a liquid foundation or a powder that contains a moisturizing ingredient. If you have oil skin, select only powder-based foundations or products that leave your skin looking matte., Many people attempt to select a foundation colour based on the current colour of their face. When applied, this colour will make your face look quite different from the rest of your body. If it is the summertime and you have lots of exposed skin (e.g. tank top, shorts, etc.) the difference in shade will be quite obvious.Instead, select the colour of your foundation by matching it to your neck, arms and chest. This colour will blend nicely into your neck and make the colour of your skin look consistent everywhere.
 When applying liquid foundation to your face, drop a small amount onto your fingers or a makeup sponge. Then dab the foundation onto your forehead, nose, chin and cheeks. Keeping dabbing outwards and downwards from these central areas until the foundation has been applied to your whole face.Applying foundation using this method helps ensure your facial hairs are lying flat on your face and not sticking up and out.
Note, this is the opposite of how you should wash your face and apply moisturizer.
 People with normal-to-dry skin shouldn’t need to use powder as part of their regular makeup routine. However, if you have oily skin, powder foundation is highly recommended as a way to keep the shine on your face from becoming too bright.A fluffy brush or powder puff are the best methods for applying powder as they ensure more even coverage.

