 There are certain situations that put you at risk for diverticulosis. These can be genetic or lifestyle related, but old age also plays a large factor. Risk factors include:Advancing age
Weakness in the colon or bowel wall
Constipation
Low fiber or high animal fat diets
Increased intestinal pressure due to stool build up
Genetics
Use of medications such as steroids, opiates, and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs naproxen and ibuprofen
Obesity
Smoking
Lack of exercise

, If you think you might have diverticulitis, you can go to your doctor and have him or her run a variety of tests. Your doctor may give you a barium enema and then perform an X-ray, which will show the inflamed areas of your colon. Your doctor also may do a visual check of your color with a short or long scope to look for the existence of the inflamed sacs.


If your condition is causing serious pain, your doctor may perform a CT scan or ultrasound to look for the characteristic sacs., If you catch the condition early on, you may be put on a liquid diet that will help to flush out your system and allow your organs to heal. You will be able to return to a solid diet when the symptoms subside.For more intense situations, you may be put on an intravenous liquid diet, which means that you will have to remain in the hospital while your colon heals. These intravenous foods contain carbohydrates, vitamins, proteins, fats and minerals to ensure that you get a balanced diet.
 Since most patients do not have symptoms or the symptoms are minimum, the treatment is also generally light. A strong fiber diet is typically prescribed to prevent constipation and the formation of the inflamed sacs.


If the inflamed tissue becomes infected or pus-filled, treatments range from oral antibiotic treatment at home with Levaquin and Flagyl to inpatient treatment with intravenous antibiotics with the same medications or Clindamycin to take care of anaerobic bacteria. If the condition is severe, surgical drainage with sterile washout and colonic resection may be used. 200 to 400 mgs of these medications are generally given twice a day, though the dosage depends on the severity of the infection.
The drug Mesalamine is often used with the probiotic Lactobacillus casei to help prevent re-occurrence as well., You can talk to your doctor about taking acetaminophen to fight the pain caused by your condition. Mesalazine can also be taken to combat abdominal pains.There are also medications you can take to control muscle spasms. These medications include buscopan. Take these medications as prescribed by your doctor.
 Although this condition is typically not problematic, there are serious complications that can arise. Diverticulitis may cause an abscess, an infectious mass called a phlegmon, or peritonitis, which is an infection of the lining of the abdominal wall caused by a ruptured sac. Some of these conditions can be deadly if not treated properly.


If you have diverticulitis that has led to peritonitis, you will be admitted to the hospital for IV antibiotics and potential surgical intervention., If you have extreme pain in your left lower quadrant that gets worse over time, you may have an abscess. You may also experience unbearable pain to the entire abdomen with just a slight tapping. These abscesses may be drained via percutaneous drainage with a needle guided by a CT scan, where the needle is inserted as the patient receives anesthesia. The pus is drained with the guidance of the CT scan to avoid surgery. However, some cases require surgery.


In other severe cases, you may have to have a colon resection, where two sections of your colon are sutured back together after the doctor cuts the infected and diseased portion away.
About 15 to 30% of patients with diverticulitis will have to have surgical intervention. Uncomplicated diverticulitis surgical treatment rates have declined from 17.9% in 1991 to 13.7% in 2005.