 This is important, as the fresher your garlic, the longer it will last.









The garlic bulb should be firm with papery dry skin and have no sprouting. Soft bulbs indicate over-ripe garlic that will not store for very long.
Avoid shriveled garlic bulbs or those that are stored in the refrigerated section of the grocery store.;
, Drying your homegrown garlic before storing allows the flavor to develop and become more concentrated.








Wash your recently harvested garlic bulb and allow it to dry in a dark, but moisture-free, place for about a week.
You can hang garlic from its stalks to dry.
 Many people make the mistake of storing garlic in the refrigerator, but garlic actually does best at a cool room temperature of around 60ʡF (16ʡC).








Refrigerating garlic is a bad idea as it causes the bulb to deteriorate. Refrigerating garlic bulbs adds moisture and can cause the bulb to grow moldy.
If you have chopped or minced fresh garlic, you can store it in the refrigerator in a sealed container for a short period, but use it as soon as possible.
Freezing is not recommended, because it changes the consistency and flavor of the garlic.
 Storing your garlic bulbs in a well-ventilated spot allows the garlic to "breathe" and will extend its shelf-life.








Garlic bulbs can be kept in a mesh or wire basket, a small bowl with ventilation holes or even a paper bag.
Do not store fresh garlic bulbs in plastic bags or sealed containers. This can cause mold and sprouting.
 Your kitchen cupboard or a shady corner of your kitchen counter top is perfect for this.









Keep your garlic away from sunlight and moisture to avoid sprouting.
 The shelf life of your garlic is shortened significantly when you break up the bulb to remove the cloves.









If the garlic begins to feel soft, or the cloves have green sprouts through the middle, then it is time to throw the garlic away.
Unbroken garlic bulbs can be kept up to 8 weeks if stored properly. Cloves broken from the garlic bulb will keep from 3-to-10 days.
 Homegrown, new season garlic will need to be refrigerated directly upon harvesting.









Also called "young wet" garlic, these garlic bulbs are harvested in early summer and have a mild flavor. They do not need to be dried and can be refrigerated for up to a week.
New season garlic has a milder flavor than regular garlic and can be used in place of onions and leeks in cooking.

