 It is also the cheapest method of transport — a 10 trip ticket over any number of days (T-10) costs €9.95, and a single ticket costs €1.40. The Metro system is efficient, clean, air-conditioned and punctual, and there are trains running almost always. However, if sweaty, crowded metros aren't your taste, try the bus system, which uses the same ticket and pricing system, so you can easily combine metro, tram, train, ferrocarril, and metro journeys, meaning that you can get anywhere within the city with little effort.;
, Okay, it is expensive, but the tourist buses are one of the easiest ways to see the city. However, try to use this service on the first day of your trip, as it will allow you to explore the city on foot, and with the bus ticket, you get money off vouchers, maps, and advice to get the most out of Barcelona.
 Barcelona is a huge city, but most people don't venture far out of the centre. How about heading up to the typically Spanish Plaza Sarria, or seeing Gaudí's fountain in Las Jardines de la Ciutadella?

, Often it's cheaper to head to a supermarket, buy some bread, cheese ham, fruit, and have a picnic in one of BCN's many parks or gardens. If the weather's not on your side though, many privately owned restaurants offer a menú del dia with which, for a set price (typically €5–€12), you can choose from certain starters, mains, desserts and a drink. Well worth the money!

, Barcelona has the greatest number of clubs and bars per capita than any other city in the entire world, and so you are never stuck for choice!

, Any visitor to Barcelona must see: La Sagrada Familia (Metro: Sagrada Familia, L5), Casa Batlló (Passeig de Gràcia, L2, 3 and 4), Casa Mila (Diagonal, L3 and 5), Las Jardines de la Ciutadella (Ciutadella I Vila Olimpica, L4), La Boqueria (Liceu, L3), Park Guell (Lesseps, L3 or Alfons X, L4).
 Just walk and walk, go down streets that take your fancy, and if you get lost, look on the map, and find the nearest Metro station. Simple!

, Avoid Barceloneta, as it gets very busy in the summer, and the locals favour quieter out-of-city beaches, such as Sitges. Beautiful Sitges is easy to get to, being just 35 minutes away by train from either Barcelona Sants or Passeig de Gràcia.

