 While you may choose to assign reports or focus a unit on important African Americans, it is important for students to see African American history as 1 of the main facets of American history. If you teach history in chronological order, African American history should be covered in each century as it becomes relevant.;
, You can ask students to choose a date, research it, and present their discoveries at the beginning of each class., Students can only understand and absorb African American history lesson plans if they are catered to the style of learning that is most effective. The following are general guidelines for teaching African American history through the grades:

, Explain a lesson with a short story, and illustrate it with singing, a pageant, or an art project., If your state is rich in African American history, then bring your class to view a historic location. Ask the students to talk or do a short assignment on what they learned., They can understand the cultural, social and political implications of African American history. Encourage critical thinking by using audio visual aids and assigning essays about African American history when covering the colonies, the Civil War, Segregation, Civil Rights and many other movements., You can find lesson plans that cover slavery, the triangle trade, the Underground Railroad, the Civil War, Jim Crow Laws, Civil Rights, the Harlem Renaissance, Kwanzaa and more online. Search for your grade level and the subject you require to do research outside of your text books.
, In order to reach all learning styles, try to use audio, visual and artistic methods as well as more traditional reading and writing. The following are ways that you can incorporate other learning styles:

, African American history has rich, easily accessible traditions that start in the colonial days and culminate in the creation of blues, jazz, hip hop and more. Play and discuss these musical styles., In addition to learning about the Harlem Renaissance, the African American literary tradition begins with people like Frederick Douglass and W.E.B. Du Bois and it continues to modern day favorites, like Maya Angelou, Toni Morrison and Alice Walker. Ask each student to choose an excerpt to read. The reading and discussion of a book like Ernest Gaines' "A Lesson Before Dying," can also encourage critical thinking of African American themes., Plan a film class / night every month. Consider including modern documentaries and classic cinema in your choices. Have a discussion about themes, stereotypes, and history after the film., Ask some students to make and bring African cuisine, which can be compared to slavery-era cuisine and modern "soul food" recipes. Ask the students to research where the ingredients and inspiration came from in order to create a "food timeline.", These may include the Harlem Renaissance artists, the quilts of Gees Bend or modern visual artists, like Iona Brown. Discuss the African American Arts movements in each century, along with their themes and inspirations., Research and watch documentaries on important sports stars like Jackie Robinson, Jesse Owens, Althea Gibson, Muhammad Ali, and more., The History Channel, the Smithsonian Institute and education companies create historical documentaries for topics before the 20th century. You can order Martin Luther King's speeches, Barack Obama's speeches, readings by African American poets, videos of Civil Rights protests and more, to give a clearer picture of African American history in the last century.
 A member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) can talk about African American causes they have fought for since their formation in 1909.
 Schedule field trips to view impressive exhibits that come to your area. Invite visiting curators to speak about their exhibit.
 Ask students to journal, write essays, discuss in groups or discuss as a class. Students will understand African American history and retain more information if they are asked to pull the information together in thoughtful prose or discussion.

