 Straight hair is a huge trend lately, and one of the easiest as well as quickest morning hairdo's. Be sure to purchase a thermal protecting spray (try Aquage Beyond Body Thermal Protecting Spray), as well as a quality flat iron (see Tips).;
, Ah, highlights! They can take even the drabbest hair and morph it into the mane of a model, and yes, they can brighten up an entire face. For dark brown hair, chestnut, caramel, and honey highlights look cute! For black hair, dark blue highlights look really good and natural. For light brown hair, medium brown and blonde highlights look natural. For blonde hair, choose lighter and darker shades of blonde, and possibly the lightest brown. For redheads, burgundy, auburn, and orange highlights are AMAZING. If you cannot afford the salon, then use Clairol Herbal Essences, lemon juice, cinnamon, rosemary, or better yet, have your friend or cousin who has more experience with coloring her own hair do it if you have never done it before. If you can, try to go to a salon as they are professionals and know what they are doing. T-bar highlights are cheaper and rarely go over $40 per application.
 Smelling good is very important, as it can make you feel sexy! Scent is the strongest sense tied to memory, so you always want to smell your best.. but how you ask? Well, showering at least once a day (hopefully you do that already) and using shampoo and conditioner that smells beautiful. Try Dove and/or Herbal Essences as they have yummy scents and make your hair silky soft! If you are African American try using Motions products. I hear they have AWESOME scents and GREAT results!. As for body wash, go for Bath and Body works Cotton Blossom (Sea Island Cotton) as it smells like you just stepped into a laundry basket, and everyone loves that smell! Follow up with the Cotton Blossom Lotion after you exit from the shower so that you ferment the smell upon your body even further. Now, comes perfume time, there are so many to choose from but nice ones are anything from Ralph Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger. Tommy Girl by Tommy Hilfiger and Romance by Ralph Lauren are the best. Provocative Woman by Elizabeth Arden is also a pretty smell. Try going to a Department Store such as Macy’s or Kaufmann’s to see what scent is for you, and get some free samples while you are there before purchasing.
 If the eyes are the windows to the soul, then the eyebrows are the pretty curtains. Always keep them groomed, whether you choose to tweeze or wax ($7-$10) Waxing really doesn't hurt after you do it for the first time (you develop a tolerance for it!) and can last longer than tweezing. They really do make you look sexy if done right! Another alternative to tweezing and waxing your eyebrows is threading. It has a huge cult following in the South Asian and Middle Eastern community where a person uses cotton thread to remove eyebrow hair. It is quick and painless and has the precision of plucking but is as fast as waxing. Give it a try at your local salon!

, A lot of girls go get acrylic nails done at those cheap nail salons, and although they may look pretty and tempting – whatever you do, don’t get them on in attempt to make your hands look beautiful. Honestly, they destroy your real nails underneath – before they apply the fake nail, the technician saws away at your beautiful nail bed making it rough and course and then applies toxic glue to make the acrylic stay on. You soon end up going every week dropping $15-20 dollars or more plus tips and sometimes you end up in the nail salon for hours! Save your time and money and just go for a traditional manicure every other week or so and take care of your nails at home. If you really do want those long nails, try going to Rite Aid and getting press ons – they may only last an evening but its better than destroying your cuticles. You and your nails will be happy!

, Pearly whites are essential to any smile, so make sure to brush at least 2 times a day and/or after every meal! Don't over brush as this destroys your tooth enamel. Use whitening toothpaste and chew Orbit White gum (it really works!). Stay away from those gross suckers that turn your mouth shades of green and purple, in fact avoid all sugary food as it turns your teeth yellow. When drinking pop, use a straw and place it past your teeth so it goes right on your tongue and causes no discoloration to your teeth. If you want to splurge for a whiter smile, use Crest White Strips Premium. However, use these only once as they take off some enamel off your teeth (this is why they are white). They are a great investment as long as you continue to take care of your teeth!

, A healthy body is important. Gym memberships can get a little steep but it is a great investment! But, there are simple things you can do to keep your figure. Try doing at least 20-50 crunches every other day, and at least 20 push-ups after. This will define your abs and arms, which are very important! (hey, works for me!) For legs and butts, try just walking around – walking really does work! Take your pooch for a walk or walk around a campus with a friend near your home. Or, try going to the mall – you get to walk and shop at the same time! You can also buy barbells and do squats and lunges to stay in shape. Another good investment is the bicycle. Not only do you get your exercise ,but if you ride it to do some of your errands, you help the environment as well.
 For any girl or even guys now, as teens, if we get an unnatural or natural tan it can lead to skin cancer when we're older. So fake it don't bake it. There are loads of products out there now that can give you a fake tan, with no streaks and still be under twenty dollars. Its cheaper than have to get a cancerous part of the skin cut out, leaving a really nasty scar.
 Always take your vitamins! Try a Flint Stone every day, along with a vitamin that has some sort of collagen within it. This will lead to healthier skin and nails.
 Hopefully, you have made an investment with your highlights and your flat iron. Time to get a trim! You should go every 6-8 weeks for a trim as it makes your hair grow so much longer than you thought possible! Always use a heat protection product before you apply any heat to your hair! (Flat irons such as the Sedu can go over 100 degrees, and what does water do when it reaches over 100 degrees? BOIL! Do you want this to happen to your hair? No!) Shampoo, Condition, heat protectant.. and remember a playful side bang is in.
 There is no specific guide to dressing, as everyone is very picky about their clothes. If you want clothes that look designer, but aren’t try JcPenney, Kaufmann's, and maybe Sears on a good day. Also, stores like TJ Maxx and Marshall’s sometimes have beautiful clothing that you have to dig for but are less than 75% the designer’s price. You can find quality Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren, Guess?, and other designer clothing here for less than $20! Don’t be embarrassed going into these stores, as you see tons of women who carry real Louis Vuitton and Gucci purses shop inside there (which brings me to number 12) If you can't afford to buy designer clothes always, buy a few basic designer items for cheap(as explained above)make sure they're classics, ie: will always be in style and not be out of fashion next season; team your designer jeans w/a non-designer blouse or a designer logo tank w/cheap but trendy shorts, etc.. this will make you look rich enough and at the same time self-confident enough to be seen in less expensive brands! If you're going for a classic look, try your local thrift store. They just might have super cute and trendy clothes. But, if you really cannot get any designer clothes, clothes from Target brands (other than Circo), Old Navy, and Walmart are just fine. They are really cute and can look elegant and trendy even though they are cheap.
 Knockoffs for clothes are OKAY, but for a handbag? No way! If you carry around a real designer purse, people will assume that the rest of your clothes are designer as well. (It’s not a falsity!) Yes, they are very expensive and you will probably have to save your money for a long time to afford one or two. But, if you are on a budget try Dooney and Bourke, as they are usually less expensive than the others – think around $100-$150 for a small bag. Coach is a good choice as well, and is consistently becoming the standard for a quality designer bag. It is also slightly cheaper than the others. However, everyone loves a little Louis Vuitton. Splurge on either that or a Prada bag, as everyone recognizes these labels and can make you feel like a million bucks. However, if you can't splurge, you don't really need to carry a designer purse! If you can't buy one, a solid black or leather purse is fine and it looks really cute too. Just make sure that it isn't a knockoff brand!

, Go and purchase a silver piece – whether a necklace or bracelet. Make this your signature and everyone will assume that you are an heiress. For your other jewelry, go to Claire’s! You can accessorize so much with many cheap items, and while no one will assume it is as good as your Tiffany piece - people will assume that perhaps it was also purchased from an expensive jewelry store. Chandelier earrings are in, so get as many as you want in all different stones and colors. Pink and blue are essential, but try going for black beads as well - black matches everything and can really make an outfit look classy! Pearls are a classic and look very attractive with all clothing whether you are wearing a little black dress or cute couture. You can check out a thrift store for jewelry as well. Remember that you will probably have to shop from store to store to find something gorgeous ,but when you do, you'll have a classic, beautiful piece for twice as less as it's worth.
 Why is this almost last? Well, certainly it is not of the least! Makeup can either make or break your look, and of course the same look does not work for everyone! For foundation, don’t go to a drugstore. Get quality foundation from either Clinique or Elizabeth Arden as these will never, ever make you breakout as they use only the best ingredients in their products. However, for the rest you can just go to Rite Aid or Eckerd. For eyeliner, always use Almay as the brand provides a dark, smooth application as the applicator lines your eyes. Buy an eyelash curler, as well as any kind of mascara you choose along with a white-colored primer – this will really make your eyelashes pop! Use pretty lipgloss, whether you choose to invest in M.A.C. (expensive, but worth it) or Wet ‘n Wild (cheap with good results) your lips will always look kissable! Use a bronzer, again return to the Clinique counter as they seem to make the best bronzer. You can experiment with whatever brand you want, but use what fits your look and budget! A great blush is Orgasm by Nars. It is a beautiful pinky-peach shade with shimmer and has a cult following since it compliments so many different skin tones and shades. Paired with a great bronzer, it gives your face a beautiful glow. Now if you only shop at drugstores, buy some Fit Me foundation and concealer, Maybelline or CoverGirl mascara, any nice blush, some CoverGirl eyeshadow, and CoverGirl lipstick and gloss. You do not always need eyeliner or concealer. You won't even need foundation if you keep a good skin care routine.
 If you want to feel very, very sexy – buy gorgeous undies! Buy some push-up bras on sale at Victoria’s Secret along with some matching panties. They really do make a difference even though no one will see them.
 Have you noticed that starlets are always confident? They don't care about what their anti-fans or those crazed Hollywood gossip blogs and magazines have to say about them, and they don't care if anyone gives them mean comments about their looks. Don't hide behind your hair. Show your beautiful face! Hold your chin up high (but not TOO high), and sit up straight. Pull your shoulders back and walk like you're worth a million dollars, because you are. Believe in yourself and your abilities. Be confident. If you are not confident, then fake it. When others start believing it, you will too!

, Wash your face 2 times a day with a good cleanser and moisturize afterwards. Put on some chapstick. Take a shower everyday. In the shower, wash and condition your hair and exfoliate your skin with a loofah or puff. Pamper yourself with a hot bath, manicure, facial and massage twice a week.
 Even if you do all of the above, you might still look like a drab beauty and far from a gorgeous starlet! Wanna know why? Cause of your slouchy hunch. On the other hand, even if you choose to ignore tips 1-17 but stand upright and walk straight, you will portray a "gorgeous starlets" air of grace, poise and confidence. A fabulous posture is the difference that makes the difference so don't leave home without it!!

