 Some of the medications that are used to treat hypothyroidism can increase appetite. This is especially true if they cause too much of an increase in your hormone production.Managing increased appetite related to your medications can help you manage your weight and prevent unnecessary weight gain. Obesity can be related to hypothyroidism so appetite, hunger and weight should be monitored.Eat protein and fiber-rich foods and meals. This combination is very satiating and is very filling to your body. Examples of high protein, fiber rich meals include: dark green salad with raw vegetables and four to five oz of grilled salmon, one cup of Greek yogurt with 1/2 cup of raspberries or chicken and vegetable stir fry over 1/2 cup of quinoa.
Drink a glass or two of water. When you're feeling hungry and it's not time for a planned meal or snack, sip on some water or flavored water. This can help fill your stomach and "trick" your brain into thinking you're a little satisfied.
Have healthy snacks on hand. Sometimes you need a snack to get you through a long period between meals. Foods like Greek yogurt, fruit, nuts or hard boiled eggs can give you a boost of nutrition and manage your hunger.
 Many supplements interfere with a variety of medications that are used to treat hypothyroidism.Make sure you time them throughout the day to minimize any complications.


Both iron supplements or multivitamin formulas that contain iron should not be taken at the same time as your medications.Calcium supplements, multivitamins containing calcium and medications containing calcium (like antacids) should also not be taken at the same time as your medications.Many other prescription medications may also interfere with your medications to treat hypothyroidism. Make sure to tell your doctor each medication or supplement you're taking and the dose.
Separate your supplements from your hypothyroidism medication by at least two hours.
 Like many supplements, there are a variety of foods that can also interfere with the absorption of your thyroid medications.There is no "hypothyroid" diet to follow. However, you do need to pay attention to your diet and timing of foods to make sure your medications work as intended. It's typically recommended to take thyroid medications on an empty stomach to prevent any issues.Some foods that can interact with your medications include: walnuts, soy-based products, cottonseed meal and calcium-rich foods (like dairy products).Try to take your thyroid medication at least three to four hours before or after eating these foods.It is best to take your medication in the morning or at night. For example, you can time doses so that you are consistently taking them either 60 minutes prior to breakfast or at bedtime (more than three hours after supper).
 Exercise is important for general health, but health professionals recommend exercise specifically for those suffering from a thyroid condition.Some of the side effects of a hypothyroid include weight gain or difficulty maintaining weight, depression, fatigue and insomnia. Exercise can help lessen these symptoms.Some health professionals recommend starting an exercise program with low-intensity exercises and lifestyle activities. It's an easier and more gentle way to get in the habit of being active - especially if you're dealing with fatigue. Yoga, walking or stretching are great areas to start.
Over time, try to work up to 150 minutes of physical activity each week.This is recommended for most healthy adults and can help you deal with side effects.

