 Before the shot even goes in the air, be on the lookout for a good position. First, look for other players on your team, and make sure you are not getting in a teammate's way. If you do not see any teammates close to the hoop, move in to try and get the rebound.Communicate with your teammates by yelling, “Shot” as soon as you see the ball go up.
Both defensive and offensive players should look for a rebound, so don't worry about your position. Rebounds are important to the game, so go for them as much as possible.
If you took the shot yourself, follow the shot to the basket to try to get your own rebound. The majority of first shots in basketball are not made. Therefore, there's a good chance you'll miss on your first try, so be prepared for a rebound.;
, If you did not take the shot yourself, a good way to prepare for a rebound is to get low on the ground. You may have to jump in the air to catch the basketball. You may also need to block opposing players going for the rebound, a process called boxing out. This usually involves crouching slightly so, in the event you have to box out another player, you will already be in the right position.


Use your legs to keep other players from getting between you and the basket. Bend your knees slightly and spread your legs, making your body bigger. This will block other players behind you who are considering the rebound.Stay on the balls of your feet so you are ready to move and jump when the ball comes down.
 Keep your hands up and arms open wide. This allows you to have the widest coverage on the court, blocking other players. It also prepares your arms for catching the ball. When the rebound comes, you'll need to jump and grab quickly.The opposing player can also choose to pin your arms down. This is another reason why keeping your arms up is important.
 Boxing out, as stated, is a means of blocking another player from reaching the basket. You can use your hands and feet to position yourself between the opposing player and the basket. If you're crouching and spreading your arms, you're already in the box out position. Just keep an eye on the player behind you.









Push the other player back with your behind as you spread your arms and legs out wide to keep them behind you. You have to make first contact, so locate any potential opposing players and move in front of them.Be prepared to reposition yourself as the opposing player attempts to move around you. Move backward if necessary, forcing the opposing player further back in the court. If you're boxing out an opponent too close to the net, the player can easily jump up over you and get the rebound.