 Sometimes premature ejaculation is a symptom of another underlying problem that needs to be treated. Possibilities include:Diabetes
High blood pressure
Alcohol or drug abuse
Multiple sclerosis
Prostate disease
Depression
A hormonal imbalance
Problems with your neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are the chemicals that convey signals in your brain.
Abnormal reflexes in your ejaculatory system
A thyroid condition
An infection in your prostate or urethra
Damage from surgery or trauma. This is not common.
An inherited condition.
 This medication is similar to selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants, but it was created to treat premature ejaculation. It is a relatively new drug and is usually the first thing your doctor will try to treat this issue. If you are prescribed this medication, you will take it one to three hours before sex.Do not take it more than one time per day. It may cause side effects including headaches, dizziness, and feeling unwell.
It is not suitable for men with heart, liver, or kidney conditions. It may also interact with other medications, including other antidepressants.
Other options include the SSRI's paroxetine, sertraline, fluoxetine, and citalopram.
The typical full effects of SSRIs (which are taken every day, not on-demand like Dapoxetine) are not seen until about two weeks after you begin use.
 These drugs have not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use in treating premature ejaculation, they are known to delay orgasms. Your doctor may prescribe them for you to take as needed or daily.Other antidepressants. Possibilities include other SSRIs such as sertraline (Zoloft), paroxetine (Paxil), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem) or the tricyclic clomipramine (Anafranil). Side effects may include nausea, dry mouth, dizziness, and reduced interest in sex.
Tramadol (Ultram). This medication is used to combat pain. One of its side effects is that it can delay ejaculation. Other side effects include nausea, headaches, and lightheadedness.
Phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors. These medications are often used to treat erectile dysfunction. They include sildenafil (Viagra, Revatio), tadalafil (Cialis, Adcirca), and vardenafil (Levitra, Staxyn). Side effects include headaches, flushing, vision changes and a stuffy nose.

