 Different moisturizers are made for different skin types. Your skin type can differ somewhat between body parts (e.g. you might find your face is oily but your leg are dry). You should select a moisturizer (for your face and body) based on the type of skin you have on those parts. The different skin types are as follows:Normal Skin — Skin that is able to maintain a natural moisture balance. Normal skin only needs a light, water-based moisturizer to keep it looking fresh.

Dry Skin — Skin that is dry to very dry in certain areas, sometimes even cracked. Dry skin needs heavier, oil-based moisturizers in order to keep it hydrated properly.

Oily Skin — Skin that may have patches of oil in one or more places, normally on your face. Oily skin also tends to be more susceptible to acne and breakouts. Although counter-intuitive, oily skin still needs to be moisturized, especially after you’ve washed it. For oily skin, use really light, water-based moisturizers that won’t clog pores.

Sensitive Skin — Sensitive skin can be easily irritated and may turn red, itchy or even break into rashes when certain products are used. You should try to select a moisturizer with soothing ingredients for sensitive skin to help prevent irritation. You’ll also want to avoid moisturizers with fragrance and dyes, as they’re more likely to irritate sensitive skin.

Mature Skin — As skin ages, the oil-producing glands slow down and skin becomes drier. Mature skin will have a better time maintaining moisture if an oil-based product with antioxidants or alpha hydroxy acids is used.
 Some moisturizers are designed for older skin, to help reduce lines and wrinkles. While yet other moisturizers may contain extra ingredients that help with certain conditions, like acne. Before selecting a moisturizer, think about any specific situations you may want to address.Your skin type can change because of the season (the winter can cause you to have dry skin when you may have normal skin in the summer), and due to other medical conditions (i.e. pregnancy, menopause, etc.). Change your moisturizer when your skin type changes.
The cost of a moisturizer is NOT an indication of its quality.
If one type of moisturizer isn’t working for you, experiment with others until you find one that meets all your needs.
 Your lips are skin too, and they also need to maintain moisture in order to look great. Use a moisturizing lip balm to keep your lips soft and plump. Carry it with you and reapply as needed throughout the day. You can even wear it under your lipstick.Your lips can also burn in the sun, so try to use a lip balm that contains SPF.
 Sometimes, especially in the winter, the air can get so dry that it seems to literally suck the moisturizer out of your skin. One way to help avoid this is to use a humidifier in your home. You can install humidifiers directly to your furnace (if you live in a place where you have a furnace), or you can buy humidifiers that can be used in one room., Your hands take the brunt of just about everything that you do. However, every time you wash your hands you not only remove some of the moisturizer you previously applied, you remove the natural oils and moisture in your skin. Get into the habit of applying hand cream every time after you wash your hands in order to keep them soft.