 It may mean that you need something stronger to dry your skin, increase cell turnover, kill bacteria, and soothe inflammation. Prescription medications should start to show effects in four to eight weeks. Your doctor may prescribe:Topical medications including retinoids (Avita, Retin-A, Differin, Tazorac, Avage) to prevent clogging of hair follicles, antibiotics to kill bacteria and reduce inflammation, or dapsone (Aczone). Follow your doctor's instructions on how often to apply them. He will likely advise you to first wash your hands, then your face with a gentle cleanser and follow this with a thin layer of your medicated topical ointment.
Oral medications including antibiotics to kill bacteria and promote healing. These medications may also be combined with topical medications. Typical antibiotics prescribed by the doctor include tetracycline, doxycycline, and minocycline.
Combined oral contraceptives (Ortho Tri-Cyclen, Estrostep, Yaz) which contain estrogen and progestin may be prescribed for women and girls with severe acne.
An antiandrogen agent, spironolactone (Aldactone), may also be prescribed to women and girls to block the effects of androgen hormones on the oil glands in the skin.
 These options may also be used in combination with medications. Your doctor may suggest: Light therapy to kill bacteria causing the inflammation. This may be done either in the doctor’s office or at home with a hand-held device.
Chemical peeling to cleanse the skin by removing oils and dead skin cells.
Extracting the whiteheads and blackheads that are plugging your pores. This may cause scarring.
Injecting a steroid into the pimples to make them less obvious without the need for extracting the plugs.
If the costs are not covered by your health insurance then ask your doctor if she offers payment plans.
 This medication (brand names Amnesteem, Claravis, Sotret) is very effective, but because of the potential for severe side effects, it is generally a last resort. Side effects including severe depression, suicide, ulcerative colitis, and severe birth defects.
Women of reproductive age must participate in a Food and Drug Administration-approved monitoring program when taking this drug.
Contact your health insurance company to determine what is covered. Many doctors will also let patients pay in installments.

