 If the party you're throwing is a small dinner party for 4-12 people, there's no need to make a huge mix, and certainly no call for danceable music. Instead, help everyone relax and feel elegant by putting on some classic jazz. Not just any jazz album will do; look for famous performers, and lean towards variations on songs rather than original compositions (though these are also fine in moderation). You should only need a few albums' worth of music, at most.


Don't shuffle your jazz; instead, go through each album in turn, from beginning to end, preserving the intended mood.
As for era, stick to the 20 years between 1951 and 1971. Jazz from this period has a classic jazz sound that most people find relaxing and sophisticated.

Consider these albums as useful starting points: Solar Energy, Ray Brown Trio with Gene Harris; Time Out, Dave Brubeck Quartet; Kind of Blue, Miles Davis; Idle Moments, Grant Green.


You can also try an album of bossa nova (such as Antonio Jobim's excellent Wave) or other “relaxed” sounding music, but be careful not to make your guests feel as though they're listening to elevator music.
 This works best with a collection of CDs or LPs, but can be approximated with a digital music player. Before the party, set aside every album that's not suitable for the party, leaving only good party albums out in the main area. Put one on as guests begin to arrive, and leave the albums prominently displayed so that people can look through them. Offer to let people play albums, a few songs (or one side) at a time, one pick per person. Your guests will have another activity to play around with, and you can rest assured that only the chosen albums will be played.


To be safe, don't leave out any albums that would be difficult or expensive to replace if broken. Parties have been the bane of many a breakable item.
 Themed mixes aren't only useful at theme parties; they're also a great way to show off a collection that has some depth, and can provide some additional structure to a more public event (like a neighborhood block party). Simply look at your collection and make mixes of your favorite songs from genres you collect or have a special interest in. You can even make more tightly themed mixes for specific parties, such as a maritime theme or a desert theme. People love it when the music matches up to the theme of the evening.


An early rock, rockabilly, and bebop mix is great for a sock hop or retro-themed gathering.
Funk and classic '70s soul lend a lush, decadent air to any warm summer night.
Split your mix between EDM (Skrillex, Tiesto, the Chemical Brothers) and IDM (Bonobo, Aphex Twin, Modeselektor) to create a soundtrack for a rave. (You can learn to crossfade and match beats to make it feel even more authentic, but that's not covered here).

