 For a slim chicken costume, you can stick with one leotard. For a plump chicken, you will need two.;
, Wrap two to four white feather boas around the body of one leotard. Start in the center back of the neck and secure the boa to the fabric with safety pins.


Make sure that the boas are wrapped with a few spare inches in each parallel, so that the costume can be filled with batting.
Meanwhile, spiral the boas as closely as you can to each other so that you can get full coverage in your costume.
For a more durable costume, sew the feather boas to the leotard.
 Choose sweater tights or lined tights so that your skin doesn’t show through.
 Wrap several layers of white wool batting around your torso to make a plump chicken. Then, pull the feathered leotard over the wool batting., You can also find and wear a novelty chicken hat in place of this homemade model.
, Trace around the template with a fabric pen. Cut through both layers of red felt around the template.
 Sew the perimeter of the top edge of the comb together. Turn the shape right side out.
 Sew the remaining edge shut, while sewing it onto the white pilot cap. You should attach the chicken comb from the center front to the center back of the cap, like a mohawk.


Once attached, the wool batting will keep the comb stiff. Tuck more into the comb before you finish sewing if it falls to the side.
 For a child’s costume, you can find a small pair. For an adult costume, you will need to find extra large rubber gloves.
 They should stick straight out.
 The end of the sneaker must be flush with the fingers of the glove. Converse or Keds sneakers work well for this costume.
 This will prevent tripping when you wear the costume.
 Pull the laces through so that you can tie them.
 Wrap them around each other like you are wrapping a package. Glue the pieces to each other with super glue.


Allow the gloved shoes to dry overnight.
Avoid gluing the rubber to your shoe, so that you can dismantle the costume later on.
 Wrap your ankles with an extra piece of white feather boa and tie them securely in the back.,