 Remove the basket from the portafilter. Use a nylon brush or a scrubby pad to dislodge grounds from the portafilter and basket.Rinse the basket and portafilter with hot water and dry the items with a clean towel.









The portafilter is the handled, portable filter that is inserted into the group (the gasket that releases hot water to make the espresso).
The basket, or portafilter basket, is a metal filter screen that is placed within the portafilter.;
, Insert a nylon brush into the group to clean the gasket. Move the brush around the edges to dislodge material from the gasket. Run water through the group to rinse away any remaining material.








The gasket, or group gasket, is a rubber-O ring with grooves. The gasket provides the seal between the group and the portafilter., Look at the underside of the group and locate a screw. Loosen the screw with a short screwdriver to remove the screen from the group. Use a nylon brush or scrubby pad to remove debris from each side of the screen. Debris can build up in the area behind the screen. While the screen is out, scrub the interior of the group. Screw the screen back in place.








The screen, or group screen, covers the filter chamber. It prevents grounds and oils from clogging the head.
 Insert a blind disk, a basket without holes, into the portafilter. Lock the portafilter into the group. Turn on the group and allow it to run for approximately twelve seconds. Remove the portafilter, empty the water, and repeat the process one more time.








Before you backwash your machine, read the user’s manual to determine if this cleaning process is recommended by the manufacturer.
 When left uncleaned, milk-proteins will build up on your steam arm. Overtime, the residue will affect the taste of your drinks and clog your machines. To prevent this from occurring, purge your steam wand before and after use.









Place a clean, damp rag over the steam wand’s nozzle.
Turn on the steam wand for one to two seconds to flush out water and milk proteins.
Once you’ve steamed your milk, wipe down the steam arm with a clean, damp rag.
Place the rag over the nozzle and turn the wand on for one to two seconds., Making espresso can be a messy process. After you’re done pulling shots and frothing milk, run a clean, damp rag over the entire machine.









If you use a cleaner, make sure it is safe to use on your machine.

