;
,, These cost about $4 and include information about the horses and jockeys in each race.
 The monitors display dynamic betting odds, race number, and a live feed on what is happening on the racetrack.
 You can find the race number on the monitors.
 Each horse is assigned a number that appears in the program and on the horse's saddle pad. Evaluate the horses one at a time using the information provided in the program:




Look at the percent chance that the jockey will win the race on this particular horse. This can be found under the jockey’s name.
Look at the horse's race record. Most programs have a diagram at the beginning that will show you where it can be found.
Look at the estimated odds of this horse winning the race. This will appear as a large number printed next to the horse’s information.

Note: the published odds are estimates and can change depending on the track condition, amount of money bet on the horse, and other factors. These changes can be observed on the monitors prior to each race.


Take into consideration the estimated outcome for the first three places. This information is usually printed at the top of the page.
Consider the following additional information located in the back of the program:

Jockey’s overall win percentage
Trainer’s overall win percentage
Owner’s overall win percentage





, Some common bets are as follows:




Place a ‘win’ bet if you think you know the winning horse.
Ex: “$2 to win on number 3.”
Make a ‘place’ bet if you think a horse will come in first or second.
Place a ‘show’ bet if you think a horse will come in first or second or third.
Place an ‘exacta’ bet if you think you know the first and second place horses in order.
Ex: “$2 extra, numbers 3 and 5.” (3 will come in first and 5 will come in second)
Place a ‘quinella’ bet if you think you know the first and second place horses, but not the exact order.
Place a ‘trifecta’ bet if you think you know the first, second, and third place horses in the exact order.
Place a ‘superfecta’ bet if you think you know the first, second, third, and fourth place horses in the exact order.
 The more people bet for a particular horse, the worse your odds are. Preferably, you want a winning horse, which isn't favored by the crowd.
 You will receive a ticket with the details of the bet.
, If you have a winning ticket, present it to the cashier and you will receive a cash voucher for the amount you have won.
