 If you do not want to sell or swap the gift card to buyers, you can try selling the gift card back to the retailer. Call the retailer and ask them if they have a return policy for gift cards. Depending on the retailer, you may be able to arrange a return of an unused gift card purchased within a certain period.For example, the retailer may have a policy where they allow returns on gift cards purchased within 10 days.
You may have more luck returning a gift card to a third party retailer, such as a grocery store. They often have a return policy in place for gift cards.
 Ask the retailer if they are able to return the gift card for the cash. If you have a relationship with the retailer and are known to be a good customer, you may be able to arrange for a cash refund for the gift card. This may be more of an option with local retailers or smaller retailers.For example, you can say to the retailer, “I have been a loyal customer for years now. Would it be possible to get cash for this unused gift card? I ended up getting one as a gift and would prefer the cash.”

, If the retailer does not offer cash refunds for gift cards, you can try to get a refund using the original form of payment. For example, if the gift card was bought with a friend’s credit card, the retailer may be able to refund the amount back onto their credit card. Speak to the retailer about your options and see if you can work out an arrangement so you still get money back for the gift card.For example, you can say to the retailer, “Is it possible for me to refund the gift card on the original form of payment?” or “What are my other return options for the gift card?”
Keep in mind if you choose this return option, you will need the person who bought you the gift card to supply the original form of payment to get the refund. This could be an awkward conversation to have with the person who got you the gift card as a gift, so be prepared and tell the person that while you appreciate the gift card from them, you'd prefer to buy something else for yourself with the money.

