 It sounds obvious, but a quick rub with soapy water in the shower isn't enough. The objective here is to get rid of any bacteria and dead skin cells that bacteria like to feed on. So when you wash your feet, exfoliate the entire surface of your foot with a washcloth, brush, or any other abrasive mechanism and use anti-bacterial soap. Don't forget to scrub between your toes, either.;
, When you dry your feet, dry them completely. Moisture, whether it's water or sweat, is what creates a fertile breeding ground for bacteria, Take the time to dry your feet thoroughly and don't neglect the space between your toes.
 It may sound weird, but a good hand sanitizer can kill germs on your feet and inhibit bacterial growth.
 The same type of antiperspirant you apply under your arms could also be used for your feet. Just make sure to get a separate stick for each area. Apply it to clean, dry feet at night, then put your socks and shoes on as usual in the morning.It will help keep your feet dry and fresh during the day.


Antiperspirant actually reacts with the electrolytes in sweat to form "gel plugs" that block off your sweat ducts. Since each one of your feet has over 250,000 sweat glands(more sweat glands per inch than any other part of your body) a little antiperspirant can go a long way.
Don't apply it right before going out, or you'll be slipping and sliding in your shoes.
 Dribble this daily (use a medicine dropper) over and between your toes and irritated skin on the feet and spread it. Both products are harmless to your skin, but the vinegar kills fungus and the alcohol inhibits or kills bacteria. It also helps get rid of toe fungus on contact.


You can soak your feet in a solution of 1/2 vinegar, 1/2 water as a way to stave off bad odors. Add a few scoops of baking soda and thyme oil drops, both of which also help get rid of stinky smells., Do this between your toes as well. This is what most foot powders and sprays contain to combat foot odor:


Talcum powder. It's an astringent, so it'll dry out your feet.






Baking soda. This creates an alkaline environment that's not bacteria-friendly.






Corn starch. This helps absorb sweat.







