 Mediation is a method of dispute resolution that is cheaper and faster than going to a formal hearing. The two parties - you and the realtor - must both agree to participate. If you have already spoken with the realtor about your complaint, then moving to mediation should not be a difficult or controversial proposal. If they refuse, then you can point out that your next step is to move to a more formal complaint process.


Contact the broker or manager of the agency. Point out that you have a problem that would be in everyone's best interest to resolve. Recommend mediation as a solution. You can offer to handle the application paperwork, or you can let the agency handle it, if that makes them more comfortable. In the end, you both need to review the application materials before submitting.
 In addition to the Ombudsman program, the AAR offers a mediation program. This is a bit more formal, but it still allows the parties to resolve their dispute more readily than through a full, formal complaint process. You begin the mediation by accessing the Request for Ethics Mediation form at https://www.aaronline.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Form-MediationRequest-Ethics72016-WEB.pdf.


In 2012 (the latest data available), the AAR mediation process was 100% successful in reaching a mutually agreeable resolution of all requests filed.
 The Request for Ethics Mediation form is designed to be completed online. You can type your answers directly onto the form and then print or save a final, typed copy. You will need to provide the following information:Your name and contact information.
The other party’s name and contact information.
A statement that you and the other party each agree to participate in the mediation process. This will require you to discuss the mediation with the realtor before submitting the form. Nobody can be forced to participate in mediation, as it is a voluntary process.
 The quickest form of submission is to save the completed form onto your computer and then send the file by email to ethics@aaronline.com. Alternatively, you may print the completed form and send it by mail to Arizona Association of Realtors, 225 East Osborn Road, Suite 200, Phoenix, AZ 85012.


If you have questions about submitting your request, you may call the AAR directly at (602) 248-7787.
 After your form has been received, someone from the AAR mediation office will contact you and the realtor to schedule a mediation meeting. It is important for both parties to be available, because the purpose of a mediation is to help the two parties reach a resolution. You must be available to take part., You have the right to have an attorney with you through the mediation process, although you must be available to take part. You cannot send an attorney to represent you entirely in your place. An attorney can, however, join you through every part of the mediation process and can advise you.If you choose to have an attorney with you, you must notify the other party with at least ten days notice prior to the mediation meeting. This will give them an opportunity to retain an attorney as well.
 A mediation is a series of discussions, led by a trained mediator. The mediator’s function is to help guide both parties to a resolution. The mediator has been trained in negotiation skills as well as the legal issues regarding real estate. Usually, the mediator will meet with one party in private, then with the other in private, and then with the two parties together to facilitate a discussion.The mediator is not likely to tell you who will “win” or “lose” if your dispute goes to a hearing or trial. Instead, the mediator will explain to you what the legal issues are. In that way, the mediator will help you understand the strength or weakness of your case and guide the joint discussion.
 The goal of a mediation session is for the two parties to reach a resolution. You have wide latitude in what this resolution will be. Anything that you and the broker can agree on can become the subject of a mediation agreement. The mediator will assist you in drafting a brief document that provides the terms of your agreement and finalizes the mediation.Some possible results of mediation may be a financial settlement, a formal apology, a change to your working relationship, or a modification of an existing contract. The mediation cannot change any legal arrangements with parties who are not part of the mediation. For example, if you are upset that you lost the purchase of a particular property because of some action by your agent, you cannot use mediation to get the property back from that other buyer.
 If you are able to reach a satisfactory agreement, then all parties will draft and sign a mediation agreement. This agreement will serve as the final resolution of any claims that you have related to this dispute. By signing it, you agree that you will not make any further complaints or take any additional legal action.If you do not reach an agreement, the mediator will formally terminate the mediation. Any discussions or negotiations that took part during the mediation session are not admissible in any future court proceeding.

