 Quail are small and fairly easy birds to look after but do need time for feeding, refilling water containers, cleaning the cage, checking up daily, and collecting eggs. You may also encounter many problems while raising quail for the first time.
 Clear the space underneath in which to place straw. This will help you to collect and remove waste.


You can also decide whether to house your quail in a different sort of housing like a rabbit hutch or something alike. However, the cage above is set up in a way to prevent diseases since quail waste is high in ammonia.
 Choose somewhere that has access to light, but is blocked from strong winds. Most quail cages are built of open mesh wire, since the birds need shelter, but plenty of air.


They should be housed away from predators including pets and the room shouldn't have any disturbances.
 This will allow you to increase egg production in the fall and winter months. The birds need 15 hours of light per day to produce eggs but any more and they will get stressed from lack of sleep.
 A mature bird can cost around $5, while you can get 50 eggs for about $20. Along with the eggs you'll have to prepare to spend a lot of time caring for a bunch of chicks and you will also have to purchase some extra equipment. If it's your first time raising quail you might want to purchase some mature birds instead of hatching chicks.
 Figure out your weekly chicken egg consumption. It takes five quail eggs to equal one chicken egg and your mature females should lay one egg every day.


Plan to get one female bird (through hatching eggs or pairs of mating birds) for each chicken egg you eat.
Quail eggs can be consumed like chicken eggs; however, it requires more birds to produce the same amount.
 Coturnix are highly recommended birds to keep. They aren't just good egg producers but they can also be kept as meat and are really easy to look after. If you're looking for quail that lay bigger eggs you should go for the jumbo coturnix.


Coturnix quail are also known as japanese quail. You'll also get different coloured coturnix quail such as the tuxedo quail which is a white and brown colour.
Coturnix usually start laying at 6-8 weeks when they mature. From then on they will lay 1 egg every day.
If you're not sure about coturnix you can buy other popular breeds such as the Scaled Quail, Gambel’s Quail or the Bobwhite Quail. However, coturnix quail is the recommended starter breed.
 The best idea is to use contacts in the local livestock or urban farming community to get birds that are acclimated to your climate.
 They can be sent via mail; however, you may suffer higher mortality rates than if you buy locally.
 If they don’t get quail each spring with their chickens and guinea fowl, they may be able to order them specially for you.
 A preponderance of females will ensure plenty of egg production in your flock. At the same time, you'll probably only be able to house one male in each cage; if two or more males are kept in a single cage, the dominant male may attempt to kill all other males to ensure that only he will be able to mate with the female quails.
 You can also order them in advance online. Your incubator should include an egg turner.
 Keep a humidifier or dehumidifier nearby to adjust the humidity. Humidity controls unnecessary loss of moisture in the egg.
 It is essential that you keep it even at this temperature. It will take a Couternix egg about 16 to 18 days to hatch at this temperature, while other breeds take 22 to 25 days.
 Then, the tray must turn 30 degrees each way every day to keep embryos from sticking to the shell., Gradually lower the temperature from 100ºF (40ºC) to room temperature by three degrees each day. Cold chicks will bunch on top of each other whilst hot chicks will pant.
 Then, give them more space as they grow.
 Chick starter provides more nutrients for your chick which is what they need, and when they get older they do not require this diet any more. You can purchase some turkey starter or some chicken starter and grind them up into smaller grains so that the quail chicks can eat it. Any feed that is high in protein should be alright.,, Clean and refill their water containers daily.


Make sure that the chicks cannot drown in the water container and have easy access to it. Most breeders will put marbles in the water container to prevent the quail from drowning.
 You can add some of it to your compost. Quail waste is high in ammonia, so it must be changed frequently.
 Wash it once per week to avoid disease and illness.
 Special laying food is available at most feed stores. Ask if it is good for laying birds before you buy it. If you are raising quail for meat, change their food to a finisher diet instead of a laying fowl mix.
 The grit will help grind down the food and the oyster shells provide calcium for the quail to lay strong, healthy eggs., The females will start to lay and they will have poor egg production levels if they are exposed to other animals, noise or other disturbances.
