 Gently scrape away the excess sauce as soon as possible after the stain sets. Use the dull edge of the knife, and remove as much of the ketchup as possible.;
, It's essential to use the right stain-removal techniques for a type of carpet. For example, natural fibers, such as wool or grass, can react badly to liquid stain removers (see the warning below concerning these chemicals), and you should always think twice before cleaning antique carpets or valuable rugs. If in doubt, call a professional carpet cleaner.
 Dry stains need to be prepared for cleaning, so simply moisten a clean cloth with warm--not hot--water, and gently dab it onto the stain.
 Add ¼ teaspoon mild detergent or carpet shampoo to 1 liter (0.3 US gal) of cold water. Stir the solution in a bowl to mix thoroughly.
 Before you apply any cleaner--including the one in these directions--to your carpet, test the cleaner in a small patch where no one will see it. Wait a few minutes. If the cleaner discolors or otherwise adversely affects the carpet, remove it immediately with cold water and a sponge. If it ends up causing permanent damage, at least it won't be right in the middle of the room.
 Moisten a clean cloth liberally with the cleaning solution, and simply lay the cloth over the stain.
 Use the bottom of a spoon to gently press down on the cloth. Gradually work your way all over the cloth, starting on the outside and working your way toward the center in a spiral to prevent spreading the stain. This process works the solution into the carpet without rubbing the stain in or damaging the carpet fibers.
 Lift the cloth off of the carpet, and spray warm water onto the stain. Alternatively, you may moisten a clean sponge with warm water and gently dab the stain.
 Blot the stain with a clean dishtowel or sturdy paper towels. Blot, don't rub.
 Place a clean, dry dishtowel or sturdy paper towels over the damp spot. Place a plastic bag over them, and then place a heavy object, such as a large book, over the bag. Wait several hours or overnight before removing the towels. The stain should be gone.

