 Look for a sticker on your machine. Write down the first three digits of the serial number shown on the sticker. The sticker may be in one of the following places: on the back behind the hose; at the base between the wheels; behind the bin.


If you’re having trouble finding the sticker, navigate to http://www.dyson.com/support/findserialnumber.aspx.;
, Navigate to http://www.dyson.com/support.aspx. Enter your serial number, if you have it. Otherwise, select the style of your machine. Choose the image and description that matches your machine. Select the topic “Wash the filter.”


If you don’t see an option for “Wash the filter,” view the user guide instead.
 Find out how to remove filter, if needed. Determine which filters you should wash. Check how often to wash them. Determine whether your model’s filter requires a pre-soak.


Some models, such as the DC07, have a washable filter as well as a post-motor filter that never needs to be washed.Some models, such as the DC24 Multi Floor, have more than one washable filter.Most models’ filters require washing every three to six months. However, Dyson 360 robot vacuum’s pre-filter should be washed at least every month., Unplug the vacuum, if applicable. Switch the vacuum to OFF. Never attempt to open your vacuum cleaner when it is switched on or plugged in.
 Open the vacuum carefully. Push the filter housing’s release button, if your model has one. Separate the filter from its plastic housing, if applicable.
 Fill a bowl with cold water. Do not add any detergent to the bowl. Submerge the filter and allow it to soak for no less than five minutes.


Some cordless models – such as DC35 and DC44 – require a pre-soak.Some upright vacuums, such as DC17, require a pre-soak. Others, such as DC24 Multi Floor, do not., Squeeze the filter gently as you rinse it. Continue rinsing and squeezing for at least five minutes, until the water from the filter runs clear.Some filters may require up to ten rinses until the water runs clear., Shake off the filter over the sink. Tap the filter against your hand or the sink to expel extra droplets of water., Set the filter down horizontally, unless your model’s directions instruct otherwise. Never put your filter in a microwave, tumble dryer, or near an open flame.For example, leave your filter outside in the sunshine, or near (not on) a radiator.
 Leave the filter to air dry as long as needed. Make sure it is entirely dry before putting it back into your machine.Some upright and cordless models – such as DC07, DC15, DC17, and DC24 – should air dry for twelve hours.
Some models – such as DC17 (upright) and 360 (robot) – should air dry for twenty-four hours.

