 With any new diet, it'll be very helpful to come up with a meal plan for yourself. While some diets come with suggested meal plans, the MIND diet does not, so you'll need to create this yourself.


Once you've decided to follow this brain-healthy diet, sit down for a few minutes to create your meal plan. Write down every breakfast, lunch, dinner and snack that you'll have for an entire week.
Make sure that each meal contains one or more of the suggested brain-healthy food groups.
Although the MIND diet is incredibly flexible, your meal plan should have the following each day: three servings of whole grains, one serving of dark greens, a glass of red wine, an additional serving of other vegetables. You should also include 1/2 cup of beans every other day, a serving of either poultry at least twice per week, and a serving of fish at least once per week.For snacks, you can enjoy a serving of nuts or berries, especially blueberries.;
, The MIND diet doesn't give very many suggestions when it comes to your eating pattern. However, there are some guidelines when it comes to pairing certain foods.


When you're meal planning, try to make your main meals (especially lunch and dinner) a combination of a carbohydrate and protein.The MIND diet focuses on consuming carbohydrates from foods like whole grains, fruits and starchy vegetables. Pair these nutritious sources of carbohydrates with a protein-based foods.
For example, pair a sweet potato (a carbohydrate and starchy vegetable) and a piece of salmon (a protein), top a bowl of quinoa (a carbohydrate and whole grain) with some grilled chicken (a source of protein), have a serving of seasoned black beans with a serving of brown rice, or top a salad with a can of tuna.
Although this is a suggested practice, it's not necessary to see the results of this diet. It's only suggested as the combination of protein and a high fiber carbohydrate helps keep your appetite more stable during the day.
 Once you've created your meal plan and meal ideas, check for what you need to purchase and then make a run to the grocery store to stock up.


Review the list of foods for the MIND diet and see which ones you have at home. This will help you formulate your grocery list and prevent you from buying unnecessary items.
With your list, go to the grocery and stock up on your foods. Since many of the foods are fresh fruits and vegetables, only buy enough for the week.
One of the benefits to the MIND diet, is that there aren't a whole variety of foods that are required or suggested. In addition, the foods that are suggested are easy to find.
 Outside of your grocery store trip, you might also want to consider buying either a food scale or measuring cups. It'll help you make sure you're eating the right amounts suggested by the MIND diet.


The MIND diet is very easy to follow. However, it is recommended that you measure your portions.
It'll help you meet the recommended amounts of certain foods, but is also a suggested way to cut down on calories if weight loss is something you're interested in.
Check out your local grocery store or cookware store. Both a scale and measuring cups will work well. You may want to get both - measuring some foods is difficult with measuring cups (like measuring bulky foods like apples or carrots).
 Unlike many diets, the MIND diet is incredibly flexible and allows you much more dietary freedom. The downside of this is, that there are no recipes or meal plans suggested.While it's nice to not have to follow a very strict diet, the MIND diet can leave you hanging when it comes to recipes. You'll need to do a little research yourself.
When looking at the "foods to include" list, try searching for recipes that focus on these items.
For example, it's suggested to eat a serving of dark greens daily. Outside of salads, you might want to do a quick search for "dark greens recipes" to help give you more of a variety in your meals.
Use food blogs, cookbooks or food magazines to help you collect a few different recipes to use during this diet.
 One of the main food groups that is suggested on the MIND diet is vegetables. You have many choices and no limitations here.The MIND diet advises to have one serving of leafy dark green vegetables everyday. Include foods like: spinach, kale, swiss chard, arugula or collard greens.
Also measure the correct portion size of dark greens. Your serving should be 2 cups.You also need to have an additional serving of other vegetables. These include veggies like: green beans, eggplant, broccoli, cauliflower, brussels sprouts, asparagus, mushrooms, tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers or peas.
These vegetables should also be measured. Include at least one 1 cup serving daily.
 In addition to vegetables, the MIND diet suggests incorporating fruit into your daily diet. Again, there are no limitations here, but some specific suggestions.


Include at least one serving of fruit everyday into your diet. You can choose any type of fruit you want. Try: bananas, apples, pears, peaches, grapes or oranges.
Measure the appropriate portion size of fruits. It's 1/2 cup or one small piece of fruit per serving.Any type of fruit is great. However, the MIND diet does emphasize berries. Blueberries and strawberries in particular have been shown to have a variety of beneficial effects on brain health.You can include a 1/2 cup of either blueberries or strawberries every day, but at least two to three times a week.
 The MIND diet advises to eat certain types of protein during the day. Avoid fattier cuts of meat, red meat, and fried meats because these can increase your risk of dementia. Instead, leaner protein is emphasized.The protein group is important on the MIND diet. You still have a lot of freedom of choice, but this group of foods does have some more specific restrictions.
The types of protein foods suggested are: poultry (chicken and turkey), fish (especially fatty fish), nuts and beans.
Measure out the appropriate portion sizes of these foods as well. Protein should be measured to 1/2 cup or 3 to 4 oz per serving. This will be about the size of your palm.You need to eat protein at every meal on the MIND diet. The suggestions are: have a serving of nuts daily, beans three to four times a week, fish one or more times per week, and poultry two or more times week.
 Included in the both the DASH and Mediterranean diet, whole grains are a great, nutrient-dense food to include in your diet. The MIND diet specifies to have a few servings daily.


Whole grain foods are less processed than refined grains like white bread or white rice. This lack of processing helps them be higher in fiber and protein.The MIND diet suggests including up to three servings of these fiber rich foods every day.Choose whole grain foods like: quinoa, brown rice, oatmeal, whole wheat bread or whole wheat pasta.
Like all foods, you still need to measure the appropriate portion size of grains. Serve yourself about a 1/2 cup or 2 oz of whole grains per serving. These should be cooked before measuring., Like the Mediterranean diet, the MIND diet wants you to use olive oil as your main source of fat. Skip other types of fats and oils and only use olive oil in your cooking.Since olive oil or any fat for that matter is not a food group per se, you should try to incorporate this by using it as your main cooking oil.
For example, if you're sautéing vegetables, use olive oil. Or, if you're making a salad dressing for your dark greens, use olive oil as the main type of oil.
You can also just drizzle on olive oil to steamed vegetables, baked potatoes or over your protein at meals.
Since olive oil is high in calorie, it's suggested to measure your portion sizes (especially if you're watching your weight). Use a tablespoon per serving., A common suggestion on the Mediterranean diet, the MIND diet also suggests incorporating a glass of red wine on occasion.


Include a glass of red wine into your diet. Have a maximum of one glass daily or just a few a week.
When you're having a glass of wine, stick to a 5 oz pour of wine. This is just over a 1/2 cup total.Like many foods, red wine is only good in moderation and in the appropriate serving. Too much alcohol is never recommended or considered a method to improve health.
 One of the benefits of the MIND diet, is that the foods that are restricted are few and easy to limit. Plus, it's suggested to only limit these foods, not completely avoid them.Like many diets, there are a few foods that are suggested to reduce in your diet. These foods include: red meat, butter, stick margarine, cheese, pastries and sweets, fried foods and fast foods.
These foods are avoided because they're overly high in saturated fat, sugar and calories.
Studies have shown that people who have diets high in these types of foods are more at risk for cognitive decline and the formation of Alzheimer's Disease.
Although these foods should be avoided, the MIND diet does say that moderation is key. Having one serving of these foods per week is acceptable if you do want to include them.
 One specific lifestyle component that is not addressed in the MIND diet is exercise. Although it's not covered, it's still essential to include regular aerobic exercise each week.


Studies have shown that those people who had higher aerobic fitness levels (from working out regularly) had lower levels of brain atrophy compared to those with lower fitness levels.To help support your brain-healthy diet, include at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity aerobic activity each week.Try exercises and activities like: dancing, running, walking, using the elliptical, taking an aerobics class, rowing, swimming or hiking.
 In addition to aerobic exercise, you should also include a few days of strength training. There is an additional benefit to your brain by including both forms of exercise.


Studies have shown that a combination of both aerobic exercise and resistance training have the most dramatic effect in preventing cognitive decline and the formation of Alzheimer's Disease.Include one to two days of strength or resistance training each week. You should do these types of exercises every other day and ensure there's a day of rest in between days of work.Work every major muscle group and make sure your exercise routine lasts for at least 20 minutes. Try: weight lifting, yoga, pilates or body weight exercises.
 It's also frequently recommended to increase your lifestyle activity. This does produce additional aerobic benefits, but has a unique effect on your brain health.


Studies have shown that regular daily lifestyle activities, when a part of your routine, help preserve brain size and efficiency.The fact that these things can become a routine for you is why this helps improve your brain health.
Lifestyle activities are those things you do on a daily basis: doing the laundry, sweeping the floors, cleaning, gardening, and walking to and from your car.
See if there are ways in your life to be more active by taking more steps during the day. Park father away, skip the elevator or escalators, clean more regularly and walk more often.
 Although not mentioned or addressed in the MIND diet, you should give up smoking. This will help decrease your risk for cognitive decline and Alzheimer's Disease significantly.


Smoking increases your risk for a variety of devastating diseases long-term. However, studies have specifically shown that smokers are twice as likely to develop Alzheimer's Disease.
If you currently smoke, consider quitting cold turkey. Although difficult, this is the quickest and fastest way to remove those harmful and toxic chemicals from your body.
If you're having difficulty quitting, talk to your doctor about prescription medications or a referral for a smoking cessation program.

