 If you are lucky, bamboo may already be growing wild in your area, and it is simply a matter of obtaining permission and cutting the bamboo plant to a proper size. If there is no local source, you may be able to purchase a common bamboo pole, used for fishing. You can also often find bamboo poles of varying sizes at garden supply stores.


Make sure your bamboo is thoroughly seasoned and is not split or rotten.
 Each length should be composed of two of the plant's "sections", with one end above the partition-like segment end, and the other below it, so you have an open tube to work with.
 This can be done with a very sharp knife, but care must be used, since both the splinters from the bamboo and the knife can impale or cut you. If you have a vice, it might be easier (and less risky) to fix the bamboo in the vice and cut it with a saw, especially if it is quite tough. Taper the last inch (2.5cm) or so off at an angle.
 This will ensure the hollow, concave bamboo "channel" will be facing out on each tube when they are assembled.
 In the photos, each piece was about 1 inch in diameter, so the plywood disk is 7 inches (~18cm).
, The string should be about 48 inches (1.2m) long to begin with; any surplus can be cut off after each tube is tied in place. Heavyweight fishing line can be used for hanging the tubes, as in the photos, but a more flexible string will give better results.
 Continue doing this until each bamboo is hanging under the plywood disk, then tie off the end of your line.
 This is what changes the tone of each bamboo, so you can experiment here until you obtain a pleasant sound with the tonal variation you desire.
 Measure and cut three equal lengths of string, about 30 inches (0.75m) long, and tie them together on one end, allowing a small loop to be formed.
, Drill three 1/8 inch (3mm) holes spaced equally about the center of this disk, about 3/4 to 1 inch (1.9 to 2.5 cm) from the center. Thread the loose ends of your three center strings through these holes, allowing it to hang about 1/4 of the distance down from the top of the bamboo sticks.
 This disk will be the "hammer", the striker that produces the sound of your chimes.
 This will catch the wind, causing the hammer to strike the bamboo tubes as the wind makes it sway back and forth. One with a larger area will move more in a lighter breeze. Feel free to experiment with different materials in different sizes and weights.
 Sand and varnish, or paint your chimes if you like.
