 Add ¼ cup (59 ml) plus 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of water, ¾ cup (150 g) granulated sugar, and ¾ cup (225 g) of light corn syrup to a medium saucepan. Warm the mixture over medium-high heat until a candy thermometer reads 240 degrees Fahrenheit (116 degrees Celsius), which should take 10 to 15 minutes.If you don’t have a candy thermometer, fill a bowl with ice cold water. Drop some of the corn syrup mixture into the water. The mixture should easily form a soft, flexible ball in the water when it reaches the right temperature. If it forms thin threads instead, it isn’t hot enough yet. If it forms a hard ball, you’ve cooked it too long.;
, While the corn syrup mixture is heating, add the whites from 3 large eggs to the bowl of a stand mixer with a whisk attachment inserted. Whip the eggs whites on medium until they become foamy.To separate the egg whites from the yolks, crack the eggs against a flat surface, such as a counter or tabletop. Divide the eggs in two over a bowl, and let the yolks to fall into the lower half. Move the yolks back and forth between the halves, allowing the white to drip out into the bowl. Continue moving the yolks until all of the whites have dripped out. Save the yolks for another recipe.
If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can use an electric hand mixer instead.
 Once the whites are foamy, turn the mixer’s speed up to high. Add ½ teaspoon (2 g) of cream of tartar and a pinch of salt, and continue whipping until the mixture forms soft peaks, which typically takes 1 to 2 minutes.You want the egg white mixture to reach the right consistency just as the corn syrup mixture is finished heating. If the egg whites are coming along more quickly than the corn syrup, it’s okay to stop mixing them and wait for the corn syrup to reach the proper temperature.
 When the corn syrup mixture has reached 240 degrees Fahrenheit (116 degrees Celsius), remove the pan from the heat. Let the mixture rest for approximately 20 seconds so it cools slightly.Don’t allow the corn syrup mixture to cool any longer than 20 seconds. It may become too thick to incorporate into the egg white mixture.
 Turn your mixer on to high, and slowly pour the corn syrup mixture into the egg whites. The mixer bowl may get warm, but continue mixing the ingredients for 7 to 8 minutes, or until the outside of the bowl returns to room temperature again.Try not to pour the corn syrup mixture so it hits the whisk. Instead, aim for the side of the mixer bowl.
 When you’re finished mixing the corn syrup mixture into the egg whites, add 1 ½ teaspoons (7 ½ ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Continue blending the mixture until medium-stiff peaks form, which should take 1 to 2 minutes.The recipe makes 2 to 3 cups (200 to 300 g) of marshmallow fluff. You only need 2 cups (200 g) for the buttercream frosting, so store the leftover fluff in an airtight container in the refrigerator. It should keep for up to 2 weeks.

