 Now that you feel amazing both physically and emotionally, it's time to attract that special someone.


Remember that you only get one first impression, so have a positive attitude before you meet the man in question.
 The first thing you can do is establish eye contact to show a man you're interested.


Hold his gaze for just the right amount of time. You don't have to stare into his eyes for hours, but looking at him for just a few seconds from across the room will show that you're interested.
Be coy yet approachable. When you look at the man, try not to look too eager, but make it clear that you would be happy if he started a conversation with you.
Let your facial expressions do the talking. Once the man approaches you, don't forget to smile, smile, smile! Nothing says that you're friendly and attractive like a good smile.
Smile--but don't over think it. Make your smile something you approach the world with. Not only will this make your smile more natural and frequent, but you will feel happier in general. Try smiling when you're not happy - you'll find that some happiness bubbles up. You don't have to look overly-eager when you smile--just be natural.
 Now that your man has seen the look in your eyes, as well as your pearly whites, it's time to use your body to show him the attraction is mutual.


Carry yourself in a confident manner. Don't slouch, look at your feet, or cross your arms over your chest. Avoid nervous actions such as playing with your hair or biting your nails. Instead, face the man and keep your arms moving through gestures. This will make you seem like an open and dynamic person.
Show him that you're interested. If you're feeling his love, there's no harm in leaning in to hear him talk, especially if you're in a loud or crowded place. A light touch on the arm or knee can also show him that you like what he has to offer without being too aggressive.
Physically hold his attention. Make sure to maintain eye contact and to avoid looking around--or even worse, checking your phone every five minutes--when he's talking to you. He wants to feel like he's the only person in your world, and nothing will turn a man off faster than someone who checks her email every two minutes instead of holding up her end of the conversation. Touch him but not in the weird way but a friendly/flirty kinda touch like when he is right you agree and smile and touch his knee? But always find some way to get close!

