 Do you lean on your parents for a lot of different favors, or are you mostly independent? You parents may be more likely to give you what you want if you have a track record of being pretty self sufficient. If you've already asked for money several times, you constantly borrow their car, and you don't help out much around the house, they may not be in the mood to give you the cash.


If you feel your track record is a little shaky, make an effort to improve it before you ask. If you live at home, you could cook them dinner, wash their car, and do other chores around the house.
If you don't live at home, find other ways to brighten their days from afar. Be responsive when they call and let them into your life. You don't want to call them out of the blue for the first time in months just to ask for money.;
, If your reason is well thought out and concrete, your parents will be more responsive. Think about exactly what you need the money for, and why. Get ready to make a case for yourself that will have your parents feeling happy to loan you the money.


For example, let's say you want the money for a new computer. Your parents will be more likely to give you money to buy it if you tell them it will help you excel at your new job or do better in school, rather than just saying you want a computer.
If you need the money for a basic necessity, like paying rent or buying food, be honest about why you're in this situation. Your situation will probably tug on your parents' heartstrings and they'll be likely to help you.
 You might get further if you come up with a way to pay for at least part of what you need. Save up as much as you can toward the total sum you need, so you can ask your parents to help you pay for the rest. They'll see that you're working hard to pay what you can and might be more likely to help you out.
 Research the price of what you need and come up with an accurate number you can share with your parents. Be sure you're able to account for the total amount of money you're asking for, so your parents won't feel you're taking advantage of them. If you're straightforward and honest, they may even throw in a little extra., If you're asking for a loan, not a gift, your parents will be more likely to loan you the money if you have an established plan for paying them back. Calculate the amount of time it will take you to save up the money so you can give them a projected due date. Whether it's a month from now or a year from now, your parents will want to know.You could offer to set up a payment plan and pay your parents back in installments. That way you won't have to pay everything at once, and it might feel easier to get the money back to them on time.
If you don't plan to pay them back, don't tell them you're going to. It's better to be honest about your intentions. If you ever find yourself in need of money again, you'll want your parents to remember that you paid them back last time.

