 A silicone spray in an aerosol container can help lubricate, protect, and waterproof a surface. It can be used on a wide variety of surfaces, including metal, glass, painted surfaces, and even fabrics.In addition, it is safe to use on plastics, vinyl, and rubber.Silicone sprays can be purchased at hardware stores and typically cost less than $10.Consider using a silicone spray on a work surface in your home or garage to prevent objects from sticking to it.
Spray the outside of a backpack to help create a water-resistant barrier.;
, When using a silicone spray, be sure you are in a well-ventilated area. This product is flammable, so keep the spray away from open flames., Wear protective eye goggles to shield your eyes from vapors and debris while using the spray. These can found at home improvement and hardware shops and cost around $20., Before coating the surface with a silicone spray, be sure to remove dirt or debris so it will not become trapped beneath the coating.Use warm water and soap to wash the surface. Allow it to dry completely before applying a silicone coating.
 Before using the product, be sure that the contents are thoroughly mixed. Keep the cap on, and gently shake the can for several seconds.
 Remove the cap and place the nozzle toward the surface you would like to coat. Keep the nozzle about 4 in (10 cm) away from the surface.
 Do not continuously spray the product. Use it in short bursts. This will help you control the amount of silicone that is released.
 As you spray, gently and slowly move the can along the surface. Using a sweeping motion while spraying will help evenly distribute the product., The object will lose its stickiness in about an hour, but it will take at least 72 hours for it to dry completely.Keep it in a safe place where it won’t be disturbed or knocked over.


If you are spraying an object with multiple sides like a tool handle or a pot handle, spray each side one at a time. Allow each side to dry for about an hour before moving on to the next.

