 Your practical experience in the military is only applicable to certification if it's one of the specific jobs that has been approved by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). You'll need to contact your local FAA Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) for a list of these jobs, because the list changes without notice. Your military recruiter should also be familiar with specific job listings for FAA certification requirements.Each branch of the military has its own job codes. There are more than 50 MOS codes for the Air Force that describe jobs that are reported as being FAA-approved work experience.
The US Army has around 20 specific MOS job codes that qualify, including: 15N10/30 (Avionics Mechanic, Airframe experience), 15M10/30 (UH-1 Helicopter Repairer, Airframe and Powerplant experience), and 15B10/30 (Aircraft Powerplant Repairer, Powerplant experience).
 If you believe you meet the basic requirements for US military eligibility, you can get in touch with your local recruitment office at military.com. Basic military requirements are:Be a US citizen or resident alien.
You'll need to be at least 18, or 17 with permission from your legal guardian.
Most jobs require a high school diploma (there are a few that will allow a GED, but not many.)
You'll need to be in good physical and mental condition, and pass medical examinations.
You will need to pass two separate drug tests.
For the Air Force, you must also have an AFQT score of at least 50, be between 17 and 27 years old, and have no more than two dependents.
For the Army, you must be between 17 and 34, have no more than two dependents, and have a minimum AFQT score of 31.
For the Marines, you must be between the ages of 17 and 29, and have a minimum score of 32 on the AFQT. Women are allowed to serve in all jobs except combat positions.
For the Navy, you must be between 17 an 34, and have a minimum AFQT score of 50. Women are allowed to sign up for any job except the Navy Seals and positions on submarines.
 Jobs vary in each branch of the US military, so you will need to speak to a recruiter to get specific details about aircraft mechanic positions. Each branch of the military has its own basic requirements for enlisting.Certain occupations have additional requirements beyond the basics, such as a certain score on the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) test.
You may need to demonstrate aptitude in math, science, and technology to convince a recruiter you'd do well as an avionics mechanic (through test scores or your school transcript).
 When you leave the service, you'll need to get a letter from your boss listing the types of aircraft and engines you worked on, and how many hours of practical experience you received. Training time does not count toward practical experience hours, only actual hours worked.