 One of the most common ways of selecting a middle name involves using it as an opportunity to pay tribute to a close member of your family. Choosing a grandparent's first name as the middle name for your child can be a great and moving way of paying tribute to your forebears.


You can go recent into your family tree, or you can go way back. Look at a genealogy report and find distant relatives for interesting and unusual historical names that are part of your lineage.
If someone is giving up their last name as part of a marriage, it's also common to use that name as the middle name for a child.
 The middle name can be an excellent opportunity to select something spiritually or culturally significant, giving your child a sense of history and significance. Naming a child after your favorite saint, martyr, cultural icon, or other religious figure from your tradition can lend a gravitas to a name.


Think of names that are significant to sharpening your view of the world and your own morality. Pop culture names are perfectly applicable, especially if they sound good. If Johnny Cash means a lot to you, naming a child Carter Cash might be a great way of paying tribute.
 It's sometimes popular to use the middle name as an opportunity to go way back and choose a retro or historical name that's less common than common names. Names like "Rosemary" or "Orville" are unusual in digital age, which might make them excellent and unique names to pick for the middle of your child's name.


Go through old romantic novels from 100 years ago and check out the names. Keep a running list to go by and experiment with to see how you like older names.
 Use a coincidental word or name at the last minute to give your child a middle name. This can be an excellent way of using chance and coincidence to pick a name, which can actually be quite unique and moving for some people. Use the month the child is born to pick the middle name, like Alex June or Christian May. You could also use the day on which the child is born: Jacob Wednesday or Christa Monday.


Consider using the town in which the parents met as the middle name. Names like Joshua Brooklyn or Mary Paris can have a nice ring to them, as well as a reminder of roots.
Consider naming them after a significant noun during the day the child is born. If you drove to the hospital in your old, beat-up Volvo, a car that's gotten you through some rough times, consider picking "Volvo" as a middle name. If it means something, it's not wrong.

