 You can find graduated cookie cutters at most craft stores where the cake decorating supplies are, or purchase them online. Stars are a great choice because their corners mimic the ridges of pine trees. However, you can use other shapes such as circles instead.If you don’t have the time or desire to get graduated cutters, cut out freeform circles or stars in graduated sizes. For example, make cookies with diameters roughly two inches, one and a half inches, and one inch. The more imperfect the cuts are, the more abstract your tree will look. You can even make them wavy!, Sugar cookie recipes are an ideal choice because they will be sturdy and take decoration well. However, you can use any cookie recipe you like: for example, you could use butter cookies, gingerbread cookies, or snickerdoodles. Alternately, if you don’t want to use homemade cookies, you can purchase cookies for this purpose at a grocery store or bakery.


If you choose a butter cookie recipe, make sure the cookies will be thick enough to be sturdy in your cookie stacks. A good dough thickness is a quarter of an inch., Royal icing is a good choice since it will dry hard and maintain its shape. Smooth icing onto the surface of one of your largest-sized cookies. Build your stacks by working from the bottom up, placing smaller cookies on top of larger cookies. If you are using star shapes, arrange them so that the points of the star are shifted for every other layer.If you have frosting remaining, drizzle it onto the trees., Place a small cookie vertically on the top of your tree, secured with icing. You can add sprinkles, colored sugar, or whatever edible decorations you like!For example, if you’re using star shapes, you can put a dome-shaped sprinkle where the points of the stars are.
Try cinnamon-flavored crystals or sprinkles in red, green and metallic shades.
 Arrange them all on a single platter, or give them each their own decorative dish. Add “snow” on their dish(es) with paper doilies or by sprinkling powdered sugar around their bases.