 Research the statistics on how many people commit suicide or attempt it. Learn about strategies and tools for suicide prevention. You will better understand how to deal with suicide as a serious issue in society if you understand more about it.


Read Fact Sheets, reports, and articles by reputable agencies and organizations like the Centers for Disease Control or the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention .Talk to professionals and specialists about the most effective ways to prevent suicide and address it as a social problem.
Attend trainings, information sessions, and other activities related to suicide prevention.
Compile a reference list of some of the best sources you have found for dealing with suicide.
 The more people understand about suicide, they better they will be able to deal with it. Addressing the shame and misunderstandings about suicide is one of the best things you can do to combat suicide as a social issue.Have open conversations and discussions about suicide with your friends, co-workers, and other community members. It is important to know that this will NOT cause people to consider suicide. Common thought is often to avoid the topic so as not to put the idea in peoples' heads.
Stress the fact that suicide is not a sign of mental, spiritual or emotional weakness.
Encourage others to use the terms ‘died by suicide’, ‘died of suicide’, or ‘died from suicide’ rather than the stigmatizing term ‘committed suicide’.
 One way to join the movement to prevent suicide is to inform people about the most common risk factors and warning signs associated with suicide and suicidal attempts.When people know what to look for, they can address it.


You must also educate people on what to do if they notice any of these warning signs or risk factors in someone. One thing they can do is offer to call and set up an appointment for them with a counselor — often the depressed person is too symptomatic to walk through the steps of this process. At least, they need to notify family members or next of kin to the individual if they are worried.
Join an organization that educates the public about suicide prevention. Participate in activities to educate others about how to prevent suicide.
Work with leaders at your school, church, or community center to set up a suicide prevention education center or program.
Ask agencies or organizations to hold trainings about recognizing the warning signs and risk factors for suicide. Organize the event yourself, if necessary.
 Making people aware that there is help available for them if they are considering suicide is one concrete way to deal with suicide as a societal issue.Make sure that your community members know what websites, support groups agencies, and hotlines are available to help them with their issues and feelings.


People should know they can call the emergency services or a suicide lifeline at any time of day or night. They can contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800- 273-8255 or call 1-800-SUICIDE.
Post information about crisis and suicide prevention resources where people can access them with some sense of privacy.
For example, include information like the website for WebMD Crisis Resource Links at the bottom of the weekly newsletter or as a link on your organization’s website.