 Often, the first step to finding a great drummer starts with getting to know other musicians in your area. Even in the most sprawling cities, the chances of meeting a musician who could refer you to an available drummer are still fairly high. Find out where local musicians spend time outside of playing shows and strike up a conversation!Keep in mind that drummers are typically in higher demand than guitarists or other musicians. Even with effective networking, it may take some time before you’ve met a good candidate.;
, One of the best ways to network with other musicians is to attend their shows. Attending shows often puts you in direct contact with several bands at once, not to mention the other local musicians who might be in the audience.


Approach bands after their set and tell them how much you liked their performance. Being appreciative and supportive is not only polite—it’s an effective networking technique. Next, ask them if they know of any available drummers. It’s that easy!
Ask the band members if they know anyone else in attendance who could help you find a drummer. Chances are, they’ve been in your shoes before and will be more than willing to connect you with someone who can help.
 Many drummers play in more than one band and often mix genres. Just because you play in a surf rock band doesn’t mean you can’t go to a jazz show to recruit a drummer. Go to shows at a wide variety of clubs and venues to give yourself as many opportunities to meet drummers as possible.
 Using sites like Craigslist can really boost your chances of finding a drummer. Musicians often patrol these sites regularly to find gigs or permanent positions. Search the Internet to find out if there are any forums or message boards that post wanted ads specifically for drummers in your area.When making your advertisement, be clear about who your ideal candidate is and what style of music they’ll be playing. Also include information about payment, time commitment, and any other helpful details., Make some paper fliers to post in different music venues around town. Distribute your fliers liberally—the more ads you have out there the more likely you are to get a response. As with networking, don’t shy away from advertising in a club just because you’re unfamiliar with it.


Always ask the management if it’s okay to post fliers at their venue. Most clubs will have a bulletin board specifically for this purpose, but it’s always a good idea to check in before you post fliers.
When posting paper advertisements, be respectful of other bands’ ads and don’t cover them up. It’s a good rule of thumb to just use one advertisement per venue to save room for other advertisements or show posters.
Many music stores also have bulletin boards where you can post advertisements.
 Your advertisement doesn’t need to be stilted and overly professional to be effective. Try to get across the notion that you take music seriously, but have a little fun with the advertisement. Consider including some pictures of the band playing shows or just goofing around. You don’t want prospective drummers to skip over your ad because it didn’t grab their attention.


Think about using brightly colored paper to make your advertisement stand out against the sea of other ads at a club or venue.
 Drummers won’t respond well to a band leader who plays hardball before getting to know them. Structure is good and shows that you’re serious about what you do, but try to create a relaxed atmosphere that puts everyone at ease. Your prospective drummer is much more likely to play their best in an environment where they feel encouraged rather than threatened., The point of an audition is to find out how your drummer fits in with the rest of your band and how adept they are at playing your style of music. Come up with some exercises that will test your drummer's skill. This could be anything from playing well known songs to having the drummer give you a short demonstration of their talents.Consider sending the drummer a link to some of your songs so they can get a feel for your style.
Get together with your band mates and write down some questions to ask the drummer during the audition.
 Make sure you're on time, and greet your prospective drummer warmly--remember, this could be your future band mate! Take some time to talk and get to know each other before moving on to the audition. Introduce the drummer to your other band mates, relax and chat for a while, then move on to the schedule you planned for the audition.


Look for things like tempo consistency and how effectively the drummer can reenter after a break. These skills are telltale signs of a drummer who has practiced and developed good habits.It’s a good idea to test your drummer’s limits and versatility, but also ask them to demonstrate any special skills they may have—you might discover they have an interesting technique you’d like to incorporate into your music., After the audition, thank the drummer for participating and let them know you’ll be in touch. You’ll want to confer with your band mates before making a final decision. It’s important to be polite and appreciative of your prospective drummer regardless of what you ultimately decide. If you focus on forging a good relationship with the drummer, they are much more likely to refer you to other musicians.Take stock of the audition before you make a decision. Was the drummer technically skilled enough? Did they arrive on time? Did they seem to get along with your other band mates?

