 That is the most commonly done thing. If you're a scene person, you will know and you don't have to say something about it. If someone asks you, just simply say, "I don't label myself," or just brush it off. A good idea is to not freak out whenever someone calls you scene. If someone mistakes you for another style, just say "no.";
, Also, don't go up to scene kids and say, "Wow, that shirt is so scene." Scene kids can be nice, but like most people, will get annoyed when followed everywhere.
 Seriously, listen to it, don't just say you do because you've heard a couple of songs by that artist. Here's LOADS of music that many scene kids listen to:


Electronic/Powerpop/Crunkcore: Blood On the Dance Floor, Lady Gaga, Breathe Carolina, Ke$ha, Jeffree Star, T. Mills, Electric Valentine, Dot Dot Curve, BrokeNCYDE, Paramore, Rediscover, Kill Paradise, J Bigga, Geoffrey Paris, Scotty Vanity, The Millionaires, All Time Low, Tila Tequila
Metalcore/post-hardcore: Asking Alexandria, Eyes Set to Kill, Greeley Estates, Escape the Fate, Drop Dead Gorgeous, Hopes Die Last, Black Veil Brides, A Day to Remember, Alesana, Inhale Exhale, Destroy the Runner, Get Scared, Emery
Metal/Nu-Metal/Rock: The Faceless, Dope, Ozzy Osbourne, Metallica, Danzig, Twisted Sister, Bullet For My Valentine, Black Sabbath, Flyleaf, Aerosmith, AC/DC, The Rolling Stones, Korn, Deep Purple, Alice Cooper, System Of a Down, Iron Maiden, Guns N' Roses, Slipknot, Bon Jovi, Avenged Sevenfold, Black Label Society, Scorpions
Indie/Acoustic/Soft Rock: Modest Mouse, Neon Trees, Never Shout Never, Lexia, The Almost, Nickasaur!

It's completely okay if you don't like all of those artists, especially the older, 80s ones. They're good to know though, because of the musical knowledge it gives you. Listen to anything you like here, and whatever else you like.
 Get a good hair cut, not a bad one. For girls, the typical scene haircut is choppy layers on the top with longer layers on the bottom. The top is usually teased & it often has a fringe. You can accomplish this look by using hairspray; most use Rave or BedHead. For guys, the hair is simply layered and brushed to the front. Both genders usually straighten their hair, although scene girls with long hair can be seen curling a few strands on the bottom, un-teased part. Hair can be any color, but if you're a ginger, simply color in your eyebrows at least 3 shades darker so your hair looks dyed that color.
 Thrift stores are good, but try going to a Plato's Closet, Buffalo Exchange, your local consignment shop, or Goodwill. You can go to anywhere that you like the clothing in general.


Shoes: For girls, pretty much anything goes here. However, if your grandmother would wear it, it's best to avoid. Most scene girls stay true to Converse, Vans slip-ons, and ballet flats. Any color works here, as long as it goes with the stuff you wear. Guys usually stick with Converse and Vans, although flipflops are sometimes worn. Some guys wear Toms shoes, as well.
Pants: Skinny jeans, skinny jeans, skinny jeans. That's pretty much what you'll be wearing everyday. For girls, any color works, but very wildly-patterned ones are best to avoid. (Think: Abbey Dawn brand printed pants.) Denim is by far the best, and dark washes and very light washes look great. Rip them, draw on them; anything that makes them YOU.girls can also wear cute skirts,tutus and cute tight or leggings. For guys, the skinny jeans should just be denim, but the occasional red looks amazing.
Shirts: For both genders, band tees and graphic tees are basically the norm. If you're just getting into the scene, graphic tees are your best option, because many girls wear them. You can get these at most stores. Try going to Kohls at the end of the season, because there are sales on the cute, funny ones all the time then. JC Penny and Buffalo Exchange are also good places for graphic tees, and Buffalo Exchange has great retro (1970's-early 1990s) band tees. Wear band tees of bands that you actually listen to. Most articles suggest knowing at least 3 songs, but that's not enough. You should at least know an entire album by an artist if you're going to wear a tee with their logo, or have seen them live and own at least one album. Do this because people will often ask what your favorite album is by them, and you don't want to be clueless. Know the members, too. You can also wear tank tops and v-necks if you want.
Jackets: You'll be wearing mostly hoodies. You can wear these any time of year, unless you can't tolerate the heat in hotter seasons. Wildly patterned is actually good here, and black hoodies are a must. Band hoodies are great if you can find them. Girls can look for hoodies with ears & faces on the hood itself. (Hello Kitty, Gir, etc.) The brand So So Happy also sells hoodies with cute monster faces on the front. Bomber jackets and even dark peacoats are good for regions that get very cold.
Accessories: Go light on this one. A common mistake that most people make is wearing too many accessories. It honestly makes you look like a poser. For girls, it's alright in pictures, but never go out wearing that many. 2 or 3 bracelets, a necklace, a bow, and a belt is more than enough. Silly Bandz are okay, but only wear a few at a time. Try getting those thick rubber ones that have band names or sayings on them. Don't wear "Save the Boobies/Tatas/etc" bracelets/merch if you aren't sincere about the support of breast cancer research. If you wear Kandi, don't overdo it. Only wear a couple at a time and don't call them Kandi unless you attend raves, or know what kandi is and what it stands for if you DON'T attend raves. If you go to raves, it's alright to wear a lot, but then you're more of a raver. You can also wear Sex Bracelets, but again, don't overdo it, and be prepared to explain to people what they stand for and that you don't actually play the game (if you don't). Pendant necklaces are your best bet, and Hello Kitty is a basic scene girl necklace. Bows shouldn't be too big; just don't buy ones that are as big as your head. Belts are commonly white or checkerboard, but any bright, fun belt passes. Guys usually wear a few bracelets and a belt. They usually wear the same bracelets that girls wear. Belts are commonly just simple, white ones.
 Girls should only really wear makeup, although guys can put a little, tiny bit of eyeliner on if they know how. Girls commonly make the mistake of putting on too much makeup. Simple makeup is more popular now. Put on a liquid base and foundation that's your skin tone or a shade lighter. Make your face look as flawless as you can, but still realistic. Put a white base of eyeshadow from your crease up to your eyebrow, but not too heavy. It's just to lighten it up. Eyeliner is probably the most important part of a scene girl's makeup. Don't put it on too thick. Black or brown/black is the best; avoid color eyeliner unless you're good at applying it and can successfully pull it off. You can use pencil, auto, or liquid eyeliner, although most prefer liquid. Go all around your eye, with a thin line in the inner corner, getting slightly thicker in the outer corner. Wing it out if you want to. Don't wear eyeshadow unless it compliments your eye colour. Black is okay too, because it matches any eye. Wear a little blush if you want. Pink lipstick is alright, as long as it's a very light pink. Don't wear nude lips; you'll look sick. Coral color lipstick can go with just about everything, as it can stand out while still looking nice and classy. Red is a risky color as it can only go for a select few people, and anything too dark can look odd/out of place or downright trashy.

