 If you don't know anyone familiar with a soft surface to practice on. Gymnastic pads or mats are highly recommended. If you don't have access to them, use a firm mattress.;
,


Jump straight up as high as you can. Bend your knees and powerfully push your body up towards the sky. Use your arms to help you reach higher, and land on the balls of your feet. Do this several times. The idea is to increase your vertical leap so that you get enough height when doing the flip.
Repeat with a running head start. Jog a few steps, hop, plant your feet and punch up with the balls of your feet as high as you can.
Practice forward rolls from a standing position. Stand, roll, and stand. This will allow you to get a feel for how you will tuck in the air.
Combine the above. Take a running start, jump high, and tuck in (but don't flip!). Bring your knees to your chest at the highest point. You don't need to hold your knees, but you can if you want.

Dive roll to get you over the fear of rotating over your head. It'll also help you get the hang of leading the rotation with your shoulders, not with your legs. Jump a bit up and forward on a dive and slightly tuck your head inward towards your chest. You should feel your body starting to rotate without much well...effort.
 Don't run so fast that you throw yourself off balance when you plant, and don't run so slow that you can't complete the flip. Many people have a tendency to run fast, thinking this will make for a powerful flip, but they often end up not jumping high enough, which results in landing on their back. A fast jog is sufficient.
 Your feet should be planted at about your shoulders' width but further forwards than your shoulders to help get you the explosive height that you need. Lift your arms while you jump, so that your arms are above your head as your feet hit the ground.Quick tip do not stomp on ground . It takes your height away from your jump push off with the balls of your feet not the whole foot. In the next step, your arms will be thrown up and forward to generate more spin for your flip.


Jump before you flip. Don't tuck your head until after your feet leave the ground, or you may not get the full rotation., It's quite possible to do a good front flip without your arms swinging, but it does make things a lot easier. Remember to "punch" off the ground with your feet to achieve maximum height. To help your body go up rather than forward, look up at the ceiling as you jump. You don't have to turn your face all the way up--just enough so you can see the ceiling above you.
 Try to spread your legs slightly when you tuck rather than having your knees touching each other. This gives you a smaller profile and therefore a faster rotation. It can also help to avoid injury to the face. A knee is much stronger than a nose and will break it.


Keep your tuck tight, not loose. If you don't tuck tightly enough with your shoulders, your landing will be unbalanced and sloppy.
 Some people suggest "looking" for your landing, but it's not as easy as it sounds to watch the ground while you're whirling in a circle. "Feel" your way through the flip.


Don't untuck too soon. You will land leaning backwards and fall on your rear. Hold the tuck a bit before opening.
 Bend your knees as you land to absorb some of the force, and use your arms to balance yourself so you don't fall forwards or backwards. Always land on the balls of your feet.
