 These could be striped shirts, relaxed fit jeans, or seersucker pants or shorts.


Build off of these key pieces. Pair a striped shirt with jeans or white cotton pants. Or wear a plain white t-shirt with a pair of seersucker shorts.Look for shorts that fall just above your knees. They should fit snugly but not too tightly.
Bold stripes look great paired with a simple item like jeans or a pair of cotton shorts. So, don’t shy away from making a statement with stripes.
Go for lightweight fabrics like cotton or seersucker. But don’t be afraid to add in other colors to the standard navy and white nautical palate. Complementing hues like red, orange, brown, and gray can really add variety to your nautical look.
 You can easily add some nautical to your wardrobe with a key item like a blazer, a jacket or a coat.Pair a seersucker blazer with a pair of cotton shorts and a white t-shirt. Or dress up the blazer with a collared shirt and a pair of cotton pants.
Look for a smart sailing jacket in bright hues like royal blue, accented with red or brown. Make sure the jacket is slim fitting so it looks chic instead of frumpy. Roll up the sleeves to just below your elbow to style the look.
Go for a classic navy trench coat. A trench coat is a great investment piece, as it will look as good on the weekends with a striped shirt as it will during the week over a suit or more formal outfit. Don’t be afraid to add color with a pair of red cotton pants or a pair of striped running shoes.
 Boat shoes have a round toe, good traction, and are easy to slip on and off, perfect for the laid back nautical style. Brands like Tommy Hilfiger, Sperry Top Sider, and Bass make stylish looking boat shoes that can be dressed up or dressed down.Another classic nautical style is loafers. Look for a pair of loafers in neutral colors like brown or white. Avoid square toed loafers, as they can look too dressy. Instead, go for round toed loafers in soft leather or canvas., A fun and easy way to add some nautical style to your wardrobe is through accessories like a hat, a belt, or a tie.Top your nautical look with a straw hat or a slick fedora in a light woven material.
Tuck your shirt into your seersucker shorts or pants and wear a light leather belt. Or be bold with a bungee belt in complementing hues of orange and gold.
Add a striped tie to a plain white collared shirt for a nautical look that is appropriate for the office. Wear a tie bar with an anchor tip or a wave shape. But only wear the nautical tie or the nautical tie bar. You don’t want to end up overdoing the nautical look!
Add some nautical to a navy or gray suit with a pocket square with an anchor or ship print.

