 Before doing anything, you need to disconnect the tank from the motorcycle or other machinery. Without disconnecting it, you won’t be able to access it or safely clean it. Unstrap the tank and unscrew screws or bolts that secure it.


For lawnmowers and similar items, you’ll need to remove the fuel line and spark plugs.
For motorcycles, remove the petcock, gas cap, and all hoses that might be attached to it.;
, After disconnecting the fuel line, you’ll need to seal it. Without sealing it, not only can residual gasoline come out of the line, but dirt or other objects could wind up in the fuel line – causing problems for your engine.


Take some sort of smooth-faced clamp and attach it to the line near the carburetor.
Separate the line and the carburetor.
Position the line over a bucket and take off the clamp.
Allow the line to drain into the bucket., Pour any remaining fuel into a gasoline-safe container. If you can’t get everything out, use a suction hose or a similar device to remove fuel from the tank.


Allow the tank to dry completely.
Without draining any remaining fuel, you won’t be able to clean the engine properly. Thus, you need to make sure you get all fuel out of the tank., Take the time to properly examine the tank to look for any problems that might undermine its integrity. Defects, rust, or other problems could pose potential safety hazards or might endanger your engine.


Put the tank out in the open daylight so you can see inside. If you need more light, shine a flashlight into the tank.
Pay special attention to rust spots, wear, or defects in the material of the tank itself.
Make sure to look at the fuel filter to make sure it is clean. If it is not, it should be replaced., By using high pressure water, you’ll break lose any buildup or accumulation on the bottom of the tank. At the same time, you won’t be introducing chemicals – like soap – that could cause problems for your engine.


Set your hose and sprayer to a high-pressure setting.
You may need to get down and point the sprayer in various locations in the tank.
Consider using a pressure washer or blaster if you have substantial rust buildup in the tank.