


You should have set up and installed iTunes after you purchased your iPod Touch, but if you don’t have iTunes yet, then you can download it in just a few minutes. iTunes will allow you to download music and transfer it to your iPod.
Remember that you don’t have to buy songs from the iTunes store to put them in your iTunes—you can also just put a CD in your computer and download its songs into your iTunes account.;
,


If you already have an iTunes library and want to transfer the whole thing to your iPod, that’s easy. If not, look through your library or check out the iTunes store to find the music that you want to download.
If you want to download a song or an album from the store, just click on the price to the left of the song or album and wait for it to download into your iTunes.



Use your USB cable to connect your iPod Touch to your computer. If you haven’t set it up yet, then you’ll have to do so through iTunes before you can put music on it.
 Click on it, and a list of options will appear at the top of the screen.



This option will let you put music on your iPod Touch.



The music tab will give you two options for syncing your music to your iPod. Here are the two methods that you can select:

Sync selected playlists, artists, and genres. This is a good option if you just want to add a few songs or a playlist to your iPod Touch. All of the songs and playlists will have little checked boxes next to them; just uncheck those boxes to deselect the songs.

Sync entire library. This will sync all of the music in your iTunes library to your iPod. This is a good option if you have an empty iPod Touch and want to put all of your music on it.



This will apply the method that you selected and will either sync your selected songs and playlists or all of your music to your iPod Touch. Wait for them to download to your iPod Touch—if you’re syncing your entire library, it could take a while. You can disconnect your iPod Touch once the sync is complete, and start listening to your new music.

