 You can use different colors, such as orange, pink, and blue, to make this jar look like a nebula. You can also use nighttime colors, such as purple and blue, to make the jar look more like the night sky. Here's a list of what you will need:Mason jar
Water
Cups for mixing paint
Glow-in-the-dark paint (3 to 4 different colors)
1 bag of cotton balls
Glitter
Star-shaped glitter (optional)
Wooden stick or chopstick

, Wash it with some soap and water, and peel off the label. If there is any sticky residue, you can scrub it off using some cooking oil and a scouring pad. Be sure to wash the oil off with more soap and water. Wipe the jar down with some rubbing alcohol when you are done.
 Fill a cup with ½ cup (120 milliliters) of water. Add a few drops of glow-in-the-dark paint. Stir the water with a spoon until the paint is mixed in and there are no streaks. The more paint you add, the brighter your jar will be. The less paint you add, the lighter it will be. Repeat this step with a new cup for each color of paint that you are using.
 Gently unroll each cotton ball and fluff it up a little. You don't want it to be shaped like a ball.
 How thick you make the layer will depend on how many colors of paint you are using, and how many rows of color you want. Here are some guidelines to get you started:


If you are using 3 different colors, fill the jar 1/3 of the way with cotton balls.
If you are using 4 different colors, fill the jar ¼ of the way with cotton balls.
 You can use whatever color of glitter you want, but gold or silver will look the most real. You can also sprinkle in some star-shaped glitter as well for a more realistic effect.
 Stop when the paint water reaches the top of the cotton balls. If you need to, tap down on the cotton balls with a wooden stick or spoon. You want them to be just under the water. Don't worry if the glitter floats to the top of the water.
 Keep repeating these steps until you have used all your colors and the jar is full.
 Tap the cotton balls with the stick. You can even slide the stick between the cotton balls and the glass wall of the jar. You don't have to do this, but it will help blend the colors together.
 If you are going to be giving this to a small child, you may want to put super glue around the rim of the jar first, so that he or she doesn't open the jar and spill everything.
 If the paint is not glowing, you will need to leave it under a bright light for a bit longer.

