 If they don't agree, just act real good for a day or two, and then wait another day to ask them about the epic plan. They will probably agree. If they don't, just keep studying to get good grades, and help around with lots of chores. This will show them how much you care and they will probably let you.;
, Your best buds will giggle and munch with delight! Or make cupcakes or another yummy treat.
 Depending on if your friends are allowed to watch PG-13 or not, jumble up on some romance movies or comedies. Horror movies would also be good if you aren't scared easily. If you can't find a movie that all of you want to watch, then find a movie that everyone doesn't like and comment on it, but only if your friends want to. You could also ask your friends to bring movies so that way everyone will have at least 1 movie that they want to watch. Just don't watch too many movies, since your friends might want to talk and do other things instead of just watching movies.
 Borrow body lotion, gel, flat irons, eye shadow, foundation, mascara, lipstick, bronzer, and every other makeup on the planet! You can try doing one another's hair in beads or pick flowers outside to put in their hair. You may be allowed to spray their hair with temporary (and temporary only) hair dye of a fun color (confer with the parents first).
 Try not to read magazines like "Glamour" or "Cosmopolitan" because the advice is for women and won't help you at all, considering the fact that 11 year old's don't need "50 Tips for Getting a Hot Boyfriend" in a magazine. While including boys, make up, fashion, body problems, and inspirational stories, try reading things like "Twist" (celebrity fans), "Quizfest"(getting to know your friends), "Girls Life" (for advice on everything and top fashion tips), "Seventeen" (for ideas on what to do on almost everything with fashion inspiration), or "Teen Vogue" (high fashion and celebrity fans).
 Get the best prints ever, like leopard prints in pink or polka dots in raspberry red. You can try making collages from your favorite magazines and posting awesome articles on paper! You could even make some cool types of slime. Try watching some YouTube videos for inspiration., Put each other in the cutest clothes (DIY accessories is a must!) and have them strut on the runway. Before the show, host a catwalk walking class and teach each other how to walk like real models.
 It is a great way to get to know your friends better and have a little girly, feisty fun on the way! In the meantime, keep things to the minimum (no saying, "I dare you to hop on your foot twice") and keep things to the maximum (no saying, "I dare you to take off your bra") Keep things clean but fun!

, Make sure that each and every guest feels welcome and not left out.
 Let people go home always feeling like its the best time ever not make them think your leaving them out.
 You could even download games on an iPad or phone, or post pictures on social media (Instagram, Snapchat, etc.)

, (You can dance or sing or model along) Good CDs are One Direction, Justin Bieber, Taylor Swift, Drake, or anything else you and your friends like. If you don't want to do that, then try making a song with all of your friends and record that!

, You try to win or send every one home!  Instructions: get several paper plates and put one or two (same amount on each plate) gummy worms on each one. Then, spray some whipped cream on to each plate (you can add other toppings if you like). Spray enough to cover the gummy worms and give to each guest (including yourself). Once you all have a plate, have a race to see who can find their gummy worm first by sticking your face in to the whipped cream and grabbing the gummy worm with your mouth. It's a party game and a tasty snack!

