 Before the deployment starts, you and your partner need to sit down and develop a plan. You'll need to talk about how the two of you will manage your time, seek support, and cope during deployment.The two of you need to help one another plan on how to manage. For the person being deployed, this means focusing on the mission, seeking support from other soldiers or military officials, and managing stress overseas. For the person staying home, this means fostering support at home, staying busy, and managing feelings of stress or anxiety when communication is limited.
Try to have as honest and open a conversation as possible. Both of you should feel free to express your feelings, good or bad, about the impending separation. Feelings of jealousy and insecurity are normal when faced with a long separation.Make time to spend alone and talk. Spend some one-on-one time at home together communicating. If you have children, hire a sitter for the night so you and your partner can talk.;
, In the event of an emergency, you need to have an action plan. How will you contact one another? Who at home should be on call to help handle emergencies? These are questions you should answer before deployment.If you're staying at home, know the quickest way to get ahold of your partner. You should also have someone on call, like a friend or family member, that can help you through emergencies while your partner is away.
If you're leaving, know how your partner will be contacted in the event something happens to you. Talk to your partner about how you'll provide support from a distance in the event there's an emergency at home.
 Establishing groundwork for communication is important during deployment. You and your partner should have a game plan in mind in regards to how and how often you'll communicate.There are a variety of options for communication during military deployment. A phone is not always available, but things like e-mail, instant messaging, video chat, or regular mail are all options.
If possible, setting aside a single day of the week to try and talk through a phone or video call may be helpful. If your deployment is fairly routine, you may know when you'll have access to a computer or phone. You can promise to call or video chat around a specific time during those days.
You should also discuss what to do when communication is difficult. There may be times in deployment where access to things like telephones and computers is limited. Talk about what to do during these times. You can agree, for example, to resort to snail mail if necessary.
 You want to make sure both you and your partner have emotional support during deployment. It's a good idea to help one another form support networks prior to the beginning of deployment.For the party leaving, support may involve other soldiers or military members. You may also want to talk about other people you can communicate with long distance. In addition to being close with your partner, you probably have friends and family members that you have a close bond with. You should be able to rely on these people for support during deployment.
If you're staying at home, you and your partner should figure out who you'll lean on. Talk about the family members and friends you'll have while your partner is away. You may find your partner's friends and family members can provide support during your deployment as well.

