 The WhatsApp icon looks like a green box with a white speech balloon and a telephone in it. WhatsApp will open up to your Chats page unless you were using it before.


If WhatsApp opens up to a conversation or another page, tap the back button in the upper-left corner until you see the navigation bar. You will see the navigation bar at the bottom of your screen on an iPhone, or at the top of your screen on Android.;
,


If you're using an iPhone or iPad, tap the Settings button in the lower-right corner of your screen. It looks like a gear icon.
If you're using Android, tap the ⁝ button in the upper-right corner of your screen. This is your Menu button. You can open your settings by selecting Settings from this menu.
 This option will be next to a small key icon, and it will open your account settings.
, This option will show you your current settings for Status privacy on your Privacy menu. Tapping on it will give you the option to change your settings.
 WhatsApp will give you the option to change your Status privacy settings to My contacts, My contacts except..., or Only share with...


Select My contacts if you want all of your contacts to be able to view your Status updates.
Tap My contacts except... if you want to block some of your contacts from viewing your Status updates. Tapping on this option will bring up a list of your WhatsApp contacts, and let you select the ones that you want to hide your status updates from.
Tap Only share with... if you want to hand-pick and select who you're going to share your Status updates with. Tapping on this option will bring up a list of your contacts, and you will select the ones that you want to share your Status updates with.
 This will save your settings.


To confirm on an iPhone or iPad, tap Done in the upper-right corner of your screen.
To confirm on Android, tap the checkmark in the lower-right corner of your screen.
If you select My contacts, your settings will be saved automatically. You won't see a checkmark button.

