;
,, Regularly save your spreadsheet as you add data.



Set up your columns. Columns are the vertical partitions that move from top to bottom in Excel. Use the top row of horizontal cells to name your columns. These may include titles like date, name, address, amount payable, amount receivable, amount paid or total.
Set up your rows. Begin entering data that corresponds with your column headings in the second horizontal row and all the horizontal rows below it.
Decide if you want to create totals in a column to the right of your data or below a column in a row labeled "Total." Some people prefer for the final calculations to be listed a few rows below all of the entered numbers.
, Select "Format Cells."

, Decide how many decimal points you would like and click "Ok."


This will allow you to use numerical formulas on the data, rather than treating numbers as though they are text entries.
 Learning how to name the cells that contain your data will help you to write an Excel formula.


Columns are lettered at the top of your sheet. They start at "A" and continue through the alphabet, using double letters after "Z."
Rows run along the left side. They are numbered in sequential order.
 Identify the letter first and then the number. For example, "C2."


Writing "C2" in a formula will tell Excel to use the data in that specific cell.
Selecting an entire group of cells in the B column, will tell Excel to use a range of cells. For example, "C2:C6." The colon indicates it is a range of cells. The same method can be used with rows.
 This may be under the "Totals" column or at the end of a row.
 This runs horizontally at the top of your sheet. The function bar is a blank space next to the letters "fx."

,


You can also press the "fx" button. This will automatically load an equals sign and ask what equation you would like to perform.
 This is the number that will be divided. For example, "C2."

,, This is the number by which you will divide the first number.
 The answer will appear in the cell you selected.


For example, your formula may look like this: "=C2/C6"

