 After you first read a “Dear John” letter, you will likely feel upset. It is important to allow yourself time to process your emotions before you respond, so try taking a few days to cool down. Some things you might do to calm down and distract yourself from the letter include:


Going for a walk or run.
Taking a long relaxing bath.
Engaging in a favorite hobby.
Going out to coffee or dinner with a friend.
Using a relaxation technique, such as yoga, meditation, or deep breathing.;
, The first thing you want to do upon receiving a "Dear John" letter is to emotionally distance yourself from the letter itself. This will give you a chance to gain some clarity and respond to the letter in an honest, calm and intentional manner.


If you quickly respond with an emotionally charged letter, you will likely regret it later.
Step away from the letter and take a deep breath if you need a moment.
 Impersonal break-ups can be tough. Some people may feel awkward or unable to express themselves openly. Some people see writing a letter as a way to more fully explain their reasons for the break up. But here are some reasons why an impersonal break-up may be more likely:The person is far away.
The relationship has only been a few dates.
The relationship was not equally defined. Maybe one person saw it as more casual than the other.
The relationship has been highly stressful or toxic.
The person has anxiety and difficulty with in-person communication.
 When we receive bad news, no matter how nicely put those words are, it can be hard. If you feel yourself becoming angry, annoyed, anxious, or sad, then step away from the words, and find something to keep you calm.Consider doing something else for about an hour and then looking at the letter again after your intense emotions subside.
Resist the urge to get answers instantly. If you attempt to email, text, or call as soon as you finish reading the letter, you may not get a response or the response you're hoping for.
Find a friend or person that you trust. Use them to help provide guidance and be calming source of support.
 Think about the nature of your relationship with this person. Depending on how stressful and difficult it has been in the past for you, it may be better to see this letter as a resolution to end communication. On the other hand, writing a response may help you to get closure on the issue and make sure they know you received the letter.If you personally feel that a response will help you to move forward, write a response. If you feel that you are not yet emotionally ready to give a response, then take some time to reflect about how to move on.
Make sure that you think about your reason for wanting to respond as well. What do you hope to accomplish with your response? If you want to get a better understanding of what happened, then responding might be helpful. However, if you want respond to make the other person feel guilty, then responding might not be a good idea.
 Just because you received a letter, that does not necessarily mean that you need to write a letter back. Think about what form of communication may work best in this situation, as well as what works best for you. Consider these forms of communication as a way to respond:


Writing a letter
Sending an email
Talking on the phone or using video phones
Sending a text message
Meeting face-to-face

, The introduction of your letter should focus on things that you agree with in your sender's letter, such as a good time you had together or a challenge that you both see in the relationship. This is an important step because you are validating a mutual feeling or thought. This will help the person to see that you are understanding rather than adversarial.


Consider writing something positive like, "we had a great time together."
Or when you are in agreement of differences, "I understand that we don't have the same goals."

, Avoid using too many paragraphs to write your response. While it is important to express how you felt when you received the letter, do not go into great detail but rather express one particular feeling you had. If you felt shocked, state that you were shocked. You are not trying to defend yourself here, only to state the facts.This type of response will give you credibility because you are being honest. It is important to show your sincerity in your writing.
Avoid being defensive. Don't use this time to detail all the sender's faults. Use this time as a way to release yourself from this person.
One way to avoid being defensive is to use “I” language in your letter. For example, “I felt hurt when I read your letter.”

, You have a right to the same emotions that the sender of the letter has. If you are feeling angry, bitter, sad, worried, or any emotions from the breakup, then you may choose to mention this in the letter. Just try to keep your mention of these things brief and to the point.


For example, avoid share multiple examples of what you did because you were feeling angry after reading the letter. Instead, you might say something like, “I was furious after I read your letter. I had to go for a 10 mile run just to cool down.”
If your emotions are overwhelming, then it might be a good idea to find another outlet for them, such as running, writing in a journal, talking to a friend, or engaging in a favorite hobby., An important component of the letter should include something positive about the relationship. It needs to be sincere and not used as a way to manipulate the sender into changing his or her mind. Your goal here is to show your warmth, sincerity and appreciation of the person and that relationship.


If you only dwell in the negative, you will come off as immature and irrational.
Even if the Dear John Letter you received had points that you disagreed with, or used harsh words against you, reducing yourself to that level of negativity will likely make the situation worse and make you feel more upset.
 Showing gratitude for the sender's letter is a clear sign of maturity. While it may be difficult to be thankful for bad news, you are showing that you are level-headed and respectful to others. If the sender's letter shows thought and care, then it is important to acknowledge this.


If the sender's letter appears to show little effort, then you may not need actually say "thank you."
If you can't be positive or show thanks in your response, then consider just saying, "Goodbye and best wishes."

, When you're feeling upset or heartbroken, you may want to reach out to the person who's breaking up with you. You may want answers and want to know more about what happened and why. Before you hurry to get answers, take a step back. Don't let your anxious feelings overwhelm you. It may be hard but find ways to distract yourself from calling, writing, or text the person.
If you need to contact the sender for a reason other than to discuss the relationship, then be brief and to the point.
If you want to discuss your relationship specifically, it should be only if the person is still willing to communicate with you.
If you are interested in getting honest answers, it is best to talk with them on the phone or in person. Avoid using emails, texts, or chats to get answers.
 If you are very upset about how things have gone, consider writing a "hot letter" to this person as a way to let out your anger, frustration, and resentment. Do not send this letter. This is a therapeutic exercise to help you move on. This step is not recommended as a way to respond to your sender's letter in real life.
This letter should be like writing in a personal journal or diary. This is for your eyes only.
Avoid saving this email or letter. Once you have used this exercise, consider deleting or tearing up the letter.
 Make sure to talk with your friends, family, or people that you trust about what you're going through. Identify the people in your life who are positive, supportive, and motivating. Call those positive people in your life. Use them for motivation to keep you going strong.
Avoid negative people who are struggling with their own drama or problems. They may have little advice or support to offer.
 Reframe this situation in a positive way where you are in control of your future and your life. Do things that you love. Find ways to cope with your negative feelings so that you don't put them in your letter or response. Here are some healthy ways to cope:


Exercise. Go to the gym. Take walks. Get outdoors. Play sports.
Get a good night's rest. Take a hot shower or bath. Get a massage.
Do something creative. Read. Write. Draw. Play Music. Build.
Eat well. Try a new recipe. Go out for dinner.
Watch a movie. Catch up on your favorite shows.
Spend time with friends, family, or pets that you love.

