 Exactly when your baby is ready to roll over will depend on a lot of things. Some babies develop earlier, while others take a bit longer. In general, though, babies usually start to roll over at about four months and will show some physical signs that they’re ready. Watch for these.By this time, your baby should have more developed neck muscles and be able to support his or her head to look up.
Babies often start to push themselves up from the tummy to the shoulder at this age. Also, look for rocking back and forth when you’ve put your baby down on his back.;
, “Tummy-time” is exercise that will help your baby strengthen the muscles in the head, neck, arms, and abdomen. Putting babies on their tummies while awake and supervised will let them practice the skills they need to turn over. It also promotes behavior that will eventually lead to crawling, reaching, and playing.Babies can usually start tummy time when they are one or two months old, though some parents wait a while longer. Just talk to your doctor to make sure that it’s OK.Babies under one or two months can spend a few minutes on their tummy on mom or dad's stomach, chest, or lap.
First of all, lay out a towel, blanket, or soft mat on the ground to give your baby a comfy area. You can also hold tummy-time on your stomach or chest while you’re awake and lying down.
Always make sure to watch your baby during tummy-time, too. It’s usually fine for your baby to lie tummy-down while awake and supervised, but babies should be on their backs while sleeping to prevent Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS)

, Gently place your baby tummy-down on the blanket or matted area. Some doctors also suggest using a rolled up towel for extra support. Put this under your baby’s chest with the arms over the roll. Just make sure that your child’s chin is also past the roll so as not to obstruct his breathing.Start out with sessions lasting three to five minutes and work up gradually to between 45 minutes to 60 minutes per day. You can spread this time out, depending on your baby’s development and needs.
Pay close attention to when your baby gets tired or fussy and end the session, such as if the child starts to cry or lays down on the mat.
 Now that you’ve got your baby on the ground, it’s time to start tummy-time. Ideally, your baby should be encouraged during this time to lift up the head, react, reach, and eventually move and roll in response to your voice.Getting down on the floor with your baby is another great way to encourage tummy-time.


May eye contact and talk, for instance, so that your baby is motivated to look at you and participate. You can also sing and coo.
Use items to encourage the child to look at you and to reach, as well. For instance, try dangling a toy to have the infant lift his or her head up to look – this will strengthen the arm and neck muscles.
You might also put a small plastic mirror in front of your baby. This way, the child will be encouraged to look up at himself.
 You can also do these exercises with your baby positioned on the side. Just place the child on the blanket on one side, with your hand or a rolled up blanket supporting the back. Both the infant’s arms should be in front and the hips and knees slightly bent for comfort. This alternative position can make it easier to reach and play.Make sure to switch sides so that your baby uses both sides of his body. This will ensure that muscles are strengthened equally.

