 The reputation of your manufacturer plays a critical role in the success or failure of your business. The last thing you want to do is partner with a company that’s not well-respected in the industry or has a checkered history working with other supplement business owners. Visit their website to see if they’ve won any major industry awards for business ethics or manufacturing excellence. How do you go about making sure a company has a good reputation? According to Andrew Goldman of Nutricap Labs, ask manufacturers to provide you with references of previous clients whom you can contact to find out about their experience working with a particular manufacturer. You can also check the Better Business Bureau to see whether there are complaints against the company, how they have dealt with these complaints and the BBB’s rating of the company. You can also Google to find out what people are saying about this manufacturer on forums and other social media networks.;
, Have you ever heard the saying “You get what you pay for”? It never rings more true than in the supplement manufacturing industry. Cheaper quotes may mean the manufacturer plans on using inferior raw materials in your products. Keep in mind that sub-quality finished products will never pass the various and rigorous testing that is mandated by the FDA Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP’s). Unless you’re absolutely sure that you’re getting a high-quality supplement that can hold up to testing, a low price per bottle should be a red flag in your mind. And this leads us to …

, A product recall can do irreversible damage to your business – both from a financial and reputation standpoint. In the event that your product does end up being recalled though for some reason, make sure that your manufacturer has standard operating procedures (SOP’s) in place to ensure it is handled according to GMP guidelines.
 In addition to having your own insurance, it’s important that your supplement manufacturer can provide you with an insurance rider with your company name on it as initial insured. In the event something happens to your product (i.e. the product is damaged, destroyed, recalled, etc.), you need to ensure that you and your company are protected.
 Make sure your prospective manufacturer regularly attends and/or exhibits at industry trade shows like Natural Products Expo East and West and Supply Side East and West. This serves as a strong indication as to whether or not the manufacturer has a legitimate operation.
 This is not always possible, but you should check out the facility in-person or via a virtual tour to make sure they have the ability to provide you with all of the services they promote on their website, in their company literature, etc.
 The first inclination that something’s wrong with a company is when their customer service department fails to respond to your inquiry. This could indicate that a company is not legitimate or not properly structured from an operational standpoint. There’s nothing that instills more trust in prospective clients, like you, than when the frontline of a company is properly equipped to handle your calls, answer your questions and provide quotes in a timely manner.
 A nutraceutical manufacturer who has several years of experience producing high-quality supplements according to the GMP guidelines and has a strong reputation is one that you can feel good about partnering with.
 Make sure the company you are considering working with completes all of their manufacturing in a facility that is GMP Certified by a reputable third-party, such as the NSF. Ask to see a copy of their certificate to verify that they are indeed certified. Other industry-recognized certifications include TGA, the Natural Products Association and others. A manufacturer that holds these certifications and that actively seeks to renew them places a high priority on product quality –something that should be of the utmost importance to you as a supplement business owner.
 Contract manufacturers have come a long, long way from just offering inferior duplication of branded products. Your nutraceutical manufacturer should be able to keep up with the latest industry trends, innovations and technological updates. They should also be able to offer you helpful advice on how to plan for the future growth of your product line. As you grow, your supplement manufacturer must have the infrastructure to meet your growth projections. Scalability is critical to your business. A contract manufacturer needs to keep abreast of current rules and regulations and be able to comply to these changes promptly. During the transition to FDA GMPs (which took 3 years) many supplement manufacturers were not able to comply. You don’t want to be stuck with a supplement manufacturing partner who cannot meet regulatory challenges and keep up with the times. Remember, this is, hopefully, going to be a long partnership. You need to feel that a prospective manufacturer is being upfront and honest about his business. You need to feel a sense of comfort, too, so that if you need, you can call him up and pick his brain with business questions.
 You never want to be in a situation where your manufacturer cannot start production because they don’t have your raw materials in-house. Make sure they keep an adequate supply of raw materials on-hand so that your product gets manufactured in a timely manner.

