 To do this, kneel by the victim's head and hook your elbows under their shoulders, therefore sticking your arms under the person's back and armpits. Your head should be facing the victim's feet and you should have your feet planted on the ground so you can stand easily., Lift slowly, using your legs to support the person's weight. Avoid using the strength of your back to lift them or you may injure yourself. Raise them until their feet are just a foot or so away from being straightened into standing position and are still dragging on the ground a bit.
 This will help you get a firmer grip on the victim. Just move your weight to your right or dominant leg and stick it between the victim's legs for support. If your dominant leg is your left leg, use your left leg instead and follow the opposite of all of the positioning in the instructions.
 You should begin to do this as you place your right leg between the victim's legs. If your dominant leg is your right leg, then you should grab the victim's right hand with your left hand; if not, do the opposite. After you do that, you should drape the hand over your shoulder so you have more leverage, with your head planted under the their armpit and side.
 Keep your back as straight as possible when you do this. Place the victim's body over above your shoulders, so that their torso is relatively perpendicular to the ground. Try to distribute their weight as evenly as you can over your shoulders so that they don't tilt to one side.
 To do this, put your right arm between the victim's legs to reach behind his right knee. This will help you get a firmer grasp on the victim. Your left hand should still be holding on to the victim's right hand. Gripping the victim with both hands on his knee and arm will help you lift them., Keep your back straight. The left leg and arm of the person should now be hanging behind and the body should be supported by your shoulders. Hold onto the victim's right arm and leg with your right and left hands, respectively, as you stand up. Alternately, you can use your right arm to wrap around the victim's thighs and grab their right hand.
 Now that you have the victim draped safely over your back, you should look forward and move cautiously, using your free arm for balance. To do this, you'll need to adjust your weight. Gently adjust the weight to distribute evenly among both shoulders; this will enable you to carry the person for longer distances, possibly 50 feet (15 m) or more. Try to keep the victim's torso level to prevent further injury.

