 If you want to find a good price, you'll need to shop around. Spend some time familiarizing yourself with rates and pricing from different rental companies.


Major national companies, like UHaul, may be a good place to start if you've never rented a trailer before. This can give you a sense of what bigger companies typically charge for rentals.
You should also look into local companies, especially if you're just transferring your motorcycle across the state. Local rental companies may offer discounts for in-state transportation. Smaller companies may also have more accessible customer support and may be more willing to negotiate rates.;
, A simple way to start comparing rates is using a company's online rate estimator, if one is included on their website. It's usually free or low-cost and can be a great tool to help you find a rate that's in your budget. You usually enter the distance you're transporting your motorcycle, as well as its type, weight, and other details. The website may give you a rate right away. For bigger companies, however, you may have to wait a few days to get an e-mail with a rate estimate.Keep in mind rates may change depending on whether you're renting the trailer to transport the motorcycle yourself. If you're renting the trailer in addition to a UHaul, which you're having driven cross country for you, rates will generally be higher.
Some companies may not have online rate estimators. In this case, most companies will be willing to give you a quote if you call in their customer service line.
 If you have a flexible schedule, try playing around with dates. If you can move your motorcycle between September and May, rates will tend to be lower. Moving companies are very busy during the summer months, when many people move, and the cost of renting all moving-related equipment, including motorcycle trailers, will be sky high. If possible, rent a trailer sometime between September and May.If you need to move during the summer, consider if you could wait on transporting your motorcycle. If you can store it with a friend or family member, consider having the motorcycle transported a few months after your move to cut down on costs.
Even if you have to move during the busy months, try playing around with dates. You may save a bit of money on rental costs if you're renting starting on, say, a Monday rather than a Saturday. Fluctuations in rates based on small changes in dates are common with moving companies. Using an online estimator, see if you can shave off $30 or $50 by slightly tweaking your rental timeframe.
 You may be entitled to certain discounts or specials depending on certain factors. There may be a military discount with the company you're renting from, and most rental companies offer discounts to members of Triple A. Browse a company's website for discounts, as well as specials. If you rent during a certain month, for example, you may get 10 to 20% off your total., Many motorcycle transportation companies offer door-to-door shipping. This generally means your motorcycle will be picked up at your current residence and transported to your new home. While this may seem like a good deal, keep in mind door-to-door shipping services are not always possible depending on your location.Check local regulations before agreeing to door-to-door shipping. Trucks used to transport motorcycles can be up to 75 feet long. This may mean they're not allowed on residential streets. You may find, after paying for door-to-door shipping, you actually have to pick your motorcycle up at a nearby grocery store, school, or large business parking lot.

