 The least pain-inducing exercises for dogs with arthritis are low impact and high resistance exercises. Low impact exercises lessen the weight that is applied to the joints, making them more comfortable for dogs with joint pain. High resistance exercises, on the other hand, are exercises that provide high resistance to the muscles being exercised, making them more developed and larger without stressing the joints.


Examples of low impact and high resistance exercises include swimming and walking on an underwater treadmill. In an underwater treadmill exercise, the dog is placed on a treadmill that is enclosed in a glass container that can be filled up with water.;
, Underwater treadmills are a great way to exercise dogs with arthritis dogs, but they are often cost prohibitive for most owners.Ask your vet about local facilities or clinics that offer underwater treadmills or hydrotherapy exercises for dogs. Most large animal clinics or hospitals offer this service.Ideally, you can exercise your dog on an underwater treadmill every day.


Start with short walks that last about 10 minutes and gradually increase their duration as your dog gets used to the exercise. As your dog gets stronger, they can walk for longer periods of time.
Underwater treadmills have adjustable speeds and have water temperature controls, because heat increases blood circulation, which reduces joint swelling and pain., Swimming is a great low impact way to exercise your pup.Take your dog to a lake, pond, or dog-friendly pool for a swim. You can let them swim on their own accord or throw a buoyant toy for them to retrieve. If your dog isn’t a strong swimmer, consider purchasing a doggie life vest to help keep them buoyant. You can teach them to swim with or without a doggie life vest.
 Take your pet for a short walk to get them moving. Start off with short walks, and gradually increase their length over time if your dog isn’t in pain. Start off with walks that are 10-15 minutes long once or twice a day. Softer surfaces, like grass or even carpeted floors, are better than rough surfaces like concrete. You also want to walk them on flat areas without any hills.Do not run or jog with your arthritic dog.
Avoid taking them on walks in the early morning or at night since colder temperatures can exacerbate joint pain.

