 If there are any parts you are struggling with, practice them until you are confident that you can get them right. If you cannot get them right, ask your dance instructor for extra practice. You may also ask to modify certain parts of the dance. If you can, practice to the music in order to achieve perfect timing. Be sure to pay attention to the technical parts of the dance too, not just the routine itself. These parts include posture, turnout, lift etc.


Practice daily in the week or two leading up to the recital, and ask your instructor to watch you practice. This will make sure you know the routine by heart and can perform it perfectly.;
, The night before your performance, collect everything you need to take with you and put it in the same place. Use your dance bag or another large bag so that it's easy to transport. This way you won't be frantically running around through your house looking for things and causing yourself more stress right before you're supposed to go onstage. Make a checklist: dance shoes, costume, makeup, tights, water, snacks, change of clothes. Consider putting this in a highly visible spot, in your car, or taping a note to your door so you don't forget it.
 If the performance is in the afternoon or evening, make sure to eat a good breakfast and lunch, and have a snack an hour or two before you go onstage. Don't overeat, as this can make you feel bloated and slow, but make sure that you provide your body with enough fuel to get you comfortably through the performance.
 Make sure you arrive at the theater or studio, wherever the performance will be held, well before your performance so that you can thoroughly warm up and stretch before you go onstage. Dancing is a very physical activity and you could pull a muscle or otherwise hurt yourself if you try to perform before you're ready, so make sure you warm up slowly, stretch each muscle group, and get yourself completely ready before you begin dancing.
 This can include dark eyeliner, eyeshadow to match your costume, blush, and of course bright lipstick. It's okay if it seems heavy, as it is much harder to see from the audience. Proper stage makeup will accentuate your features and make your face and expression stand out, and it can make a difference in the way the audience sees your performance.
 Whether your costume is an elaborate dress or simply jeans and a T-shirt, make sure it fits well and allows you total freedom of movement. Try it on and practice your routine with it a couple of days before the performance, so you'll know if you have to make any costume changes. Before the performance, get dressed and warm up in your costume to make sure everything fits as planned. Keep a couple of safety pins on hand in case anything goes wrong.
 It is always important to be confident in yourself. Don't let the nerves get to you. You know that you can do your routine because you practiced (and practiced, and practiced, and practiced). This is your chance to shine and show people how talented you are. If you mess up just keep on going. The audience doesn't know the routine, and they won't have a clue. The best thing about going up on stage by yourself? Nobody can tell if you're doing it wrong.
 Don't contort your face with the effort of a difficult move. A dancer's job is to perform and make even the most difficult of moves appear effortless and graceful. Take pride in your performance.
 As difficult or stressful as your solo might be, know that you've put a lot of work into it and deserve to enjoy it. Dancing should be fun, so once you're onstage, relax, put all the work and stress behind you, and simply enjoy the dance.

