 Before you bleach your hair you should apply a deep conditioner to help protect it and keep it as healthy as possible. Bleach will greatly dry out your hair, so adding as much moisture to your hair as possible before you bleach it is an important step. That added moisture will lessen the damaging effects of the bleach.Wash your hair a few days before you bleach it, but try to hold off until after you bleach it to wash it again. Bleaching freshly washed hair can irritate your scalp, so it's best to bleach hair that has more natural oils in it.
You can use a few tablespoons of olive oil or coconut oil as an alternative to deep conditioner. These products will still condition your hair, giving it the moisture it needs.
 Put on an old t-shirt or towel to prevent bleaching your clothes and gather the ingredients and tools you will need: a small bucket or a color bowl to mix the bleach, a tint brush, and rubber gloves.
 You can purchase bleach for your hair at a local drugstore or cosmetics store. You'll also need to buy some developer, which helps to lift hair color quickly. Follow the directions on the label to mix the bleach and developer together.The higher volume of developer will lift more levels of color out of your hair. A lower volume developer will lift less levels of color out of your hair, leaving it a darker shade after you have finished bleaching it. If you want to take it easy and bleach your hair slowly, it's best to use a lower volume developer. Salons usually use a 20-volume developer.
A bleach and developer mixture is what salons typically use to bleach hair. You can definitely a purchase a boxed-dye mix, but you can't customize it to suit the needs of your hair. It's beneficial to buy the items separately. The cost will be about the same and you'll have better luck protecting your hair., Some people have allergic reactions to certain hair products, so you'll need to test a portion of your hair to make sure the bleach doesn't harm you. Take the mixture and using a toner brush, apply to a one to two inch strand of hair on the bottom layer of your hair at the back of your head. Leave the mixture on for 30 to 45 minutes and then rinse it out.


If you haven't experienced any reaction to the bleach you can proceed to bleach your hair.
 To achieve the best coverage and even bleach on your hair, separate it into four sections. Part your hair down the middle of your head or along your part, and then part your hair horizontally across your head. Then pull the front sections of hair around your face away from the rest of your hair. You can then clip your hair up to get it out of the way.
 Start at the back sections of your hair, because they don't absorb bleach as well as the top so they will need more time to sit. Gather a piece of hair about a quarter inch thick and separate it from the rest of your hair. Then, use a tint brush to apply the bleach mixture, covering the roots last because the roots tend to process faster than the rest of your hair. Make sure you have evenly saturated the hair.


Be careful not to get the bleach on part of your body or on your scalp as this can irritate your skin and cause a burning sensation. Make sure when you bleach the roots that you lift your hair up from your head so that you avoid brushing the bleach onto your scalp.
 After you have applied your bleach to several sections of your hair, take a piece of foil about five to six inches wide and lay some of your bleached hair on top of it. Then, fold the foil up so that your hair isn't exposed.


You don't have to use the foiling technique, but it can be helpful because it keeps the rest of your hair away from the hair that you have already bleached or if you're doing highlights and want to keep the bleach off of the rest of your hair.
If you feel the foiling method may be too tedious, try using a plastic cap. It's much easier on your scalp since the foils can get heavy and it'll be easier to see how well the bleach lifts your hair.
 Once you have covered all of your hair with bleach, let the mixture sit for about 30 minutes. Check it often to ensure it is lightening to the right degree. You may need more or less time, depending on how well your hair takes to the bleach. Then rinse your hair out with water and apply a purple shampoo. Let the shampoo sit for the amount of time recommended on the label, and then rinse it out.To prevent any extreme hair damage, every 10 minutes, perform a pull test. You can do this easily by simply pulling gently on a few strands of hair from different sections. If any significant amount of hair breaks off or looks and feels "gooey" (it's probably fried), rinse the bleach out of your hair immediately and wash with a gentle shampoo and condition. You'll need to seek professional help from a colorist. Be sure to do your research before coloring your hair yourself!
Because your brown hair has naturally warm hues, it will likely have a brassy color after you've bleached it. Purple shampoo helps remove the brassy color and neutralize yellow undertones. If you plan to use toner you don't have to use purple shampoo, but it does help remove those awkward tints to your hair. You can find this shampoo in the shampoo or hair dye section of your local drug or cosmetic store. You can also likely find purple shampoo in the brands John Frieda and Clairol Professional in your local grocery store.If you chose not to use foil, make sure you cover your head with a shower cap, or something else that will prevent it from being exposed to the air -- you don't want your bleach to dry out.
 If you are happy with the color of your hair, you can proceed to condition it. However, if you want to remove even more brassiness, you can apply a toner to your hair. Towel dry your hair and comb it out with a wide tooth comb. Then, mix your toner with a 20-volume developer and apply evenly in your hair. Cover your hair again and let the toner sit for twenty to thirty minutes.


To find the appropriate toner you can look at a toner wheel. On the wheel find the color that most matches the hues in your hair, and then purchase a toner in the color that is on the exact opposite side of the toner wheel.The amount of toner you mix with the developer will depend upon the type of toner you buy. Consult the directions for that specific toner before mixing it together.
Make sure that you don't condition your hair before you apply the toner as that will make it more difficult for the toner to stick to your hair.
If you plan to bleach your hair another time, wait to apply the toner until the last time you have bleached your hair.
 Once the toner has set, rinse it out with water and apply a deep conditioner. This has been stated several times but it's very important to do this to protect the health of your hair. You can also apply hair conditioning masks to provide even more moisture to your hair.
 If you want to go a lighter shade with your bleach, you can repeat this entire bleaching process a second and third time. Make sure that you wait at least two weeks between each bleach so that your hair has time to recover. Then, apply the bleach in the same way and condition to moisturize your hair inbetween each treatment to keep it healthy.