 This will help you to make good decisions about what is worth paying to see and what is not really affordable.
 There are many ways to experience all that Japan has to offer without having to pay much. Just a few of the things you might like to do:


Visit Akihabara (known as "Akiba" for short) in Tokyo. This electronics district has all the latest otaku (geek) trends and simply taking it all in can be an exciting experience.
Visit Japan's beaches. There are lots of beaches on both mainland Japan and on the islands of Okinawa. If the weather is good, these are a fascinating way to spend some time.
Visit Shibuya, the shopping center for Tokyo youth. Here you'll see many trendy Japanese, along with emerging trends. Bring your camera along.
Take time to check out the architecture. Tokyo has a smorgasbord of amazing buildings to examine and photograph.
See what festivals are happening while you're visiting. Getting caught up in the excitement of festivities can be a great way to remember your time in Japan.
Visit temples and shrines. There are so many that you could make your entire trip revolve around these beautiful, peaceful and enlightening places.
Take time to see Japanese gardens. Some may charge, some may be free but you'll find plenty to see and enjoy as you take a rest from the hectic pace outside of the garden.
Go hiking. Provided you can get to the good hiking locations, this can be a very affordable way to see more of Japan. The huts on hiking trails tend to be priced reasonably and there are amazing things to see, from volcanoes on Japan's southern island of Kyushu to the peaks of the Japan Alps in Central Honshu.
Save money on Tokyo's museums by getting a Grutt Pass, which will get you free or discounted access to around 75 museums in Tokyo., One price stores come in many types in Japan, corresponding roughly to $1, $3, $5 and $10 stores. They have more expensive one price stores as well. Many items in these stores look like they were far more expensive and make great gifts for yourself and others. Look for THE DAISO, Seiriya and 3 Coins, but there are countless others.

