 Keep yourself feeling full by incorporating foods that have a low energy density, or fewer calories spread out over a higher volume of food. These foods will typically be higher in fiber and lower in fat, and can help you feel full longer by physically putting more food in your body without too many extra calories.Vegetables such as salad greens, broccoli, cauliflower, and asparagus are all low in calories relative to their volume. Use veggies as fillings, toppings, or as part of salad.
Stick to fresh fruits. Fruit juices, dried fruits, and fruits packed in syrup typically have more concentrated sugars, and thus a higher energy density.Whole grains such as oats, quinoa, or brown rice are high in fiber as well as other important nutrients, and can help keep you full and healthy in moderation.;
, Foods that are low on the glycemic index (GI) scale take longer for your body to break down, and so can help you stay full for a greater period of time. Try to avoid overly-processed carbohydrates such as white bread and instead opt for whole-grains, plain nuts, legumes, and seeds.Try to pair low-GI carbohydrates with other nutrient-dense foods to make sure you stay full and still get what your body needs.
For example, you may make a snack out of a hard-boiled egg, which offers protein, and half an apple, which provides low-GI carbs.
Consider reducing highly processed foods like white bread, pastries, cookies and crackers to once a week, or if possible, eliminating them entirely.
 It's natural to have cravings throughout the day, and ignoring them may only push you to make less healthy food choices later on in the day. Instead, keep healthy snacks around for when cravings strike. You can even plan them out as a part of your daily meal plan if you get regular cravings.Snacks like unbuttered popcorn and roasted edamame will help keep you full in between meals without contributing too many calories to your overall intake, and while curbing saturated and trans fats as well as added sugars.Fiber-rich snacks like berries and pieces of fruit, and unsalted, oven-baked sweet potato chips can also help keep you full longer., While overindulging can derail your diet, completely restricting yourself from foods you enjoy can push you toward making unhealthy choices, too. Incorporate small treats into your diet, such as a single scoop of ice cream or one slice of pizza. Spread three or four small treats out over the week to help you stay focused without feeling constrained.Pair your indulgences with wholesome, high nutrient foods like fruit or vegetables. For instance, one slice of pizza with a big salad that includes seeds or other healthy sources of fat and fiber. Try having your scoop of ice cream with a cup of berries or a chopped orange.
Remember to keep treats small and occasional. Allow yourself a couple of cheat meals throughout your week rather than a full cheat day, and plan them ahead so that you don’t overindulge.
 You are more likely to choose healthy, filling meals when you plan them in advance, rather than making in-the-moment decisions. Take time once a week to plan your meals for the week, including snacks and treats. Focus on incorporating filling, healthy foods into each meal, and use your meal plan to make a shopping list to ensure you bring home robust foods.It may also help to have a small snack before going grocery shopping. This helps you feel full in the store and can keep you from making impulsive, hunger-driven decisions.
 Slow eating doesn’t work in all cases, but many people report feeling full after eating less when they focus on chewing slowly. This gives your body more time to allow your digestive hormones to interact with your brain, signaling that you’re full before you take another bite.One trick to help you eat slower is to put your fork down between each bite of food. Do not pick it up again until you have fully chewed and swallowed the last bite.
Another good trick is to take a drink of water between bites. This will also improve your digestion.
 An eight ounce glass of water and an eight ounce glass of soda are going to take up relatively the same amount of space in your stomach. The soda, though, brings in unnecessary calories and sugar, and does not hydrate as well as water. Cut high-calorie beverages such as sodas, prepared coffee drinks, and other caloric beverages.If you want to add flavor to your water, try squeezing in some fresh lemon or lime juice, or infusing your water with chopped up fruit pieces. Alternatively, you may opt to drink unsweetened tea or iced tea. Be careful since sweetened teas may even have more sugar than soda.
 Some sauces, such as ketchup and barbeque sauce, are high calorie and do little to help you feel full. Opt for lower calorie flavor enhancers such as fresh herbs, ground spices, and sauces like mustard, horseradish, and hot sauce.Add fresh herbs to meats, salads, and roasted vegetables to give them rich, complex flavors. Rosemary goes well with most meats, and herbs like cilantro can help a salad taste extra fresh.
 Regular exercise has a number of benefits, including aiding in burning excess calories. Try to get between 30 and 60 minutes of moderately vigorous exercise four to six days a week. Incorporate both cardiovascular exercise and strength training to keep your body healthy.Regular exercise may allow you to eat a little more and still create a calorie deficit, since you are expending more energy during your workout.
Be sure to track your exercise and the estimated calories burned so that you do not overestimate how much you can eat. There are a number of smartphone apps that can help you track both your daily meals and exercise.
 The average adult should get seven to nine hours of sleep each night. A lack of sleep may be linked to constant snacking and overeating, and could sabotage planned meals by causing cravings for fatty and sugary foods., Stress is another factor that can contribute to overeating, encouraging unhealthy choices as opposed to healthy, filling meals and snacks. Take time every day to reflect, meditate, walk in nature, or find another way to disengage from the stress of your daily life.It may be helpful to set limits in stressful stimuli. If your work email is connected to your phone, for example, you may decide not to look at your phone starting two hours before you go to bed.
Try a progressive muscle relaxation to help you let go. Lie down flat on your back, close your eyes, and starting at the feet focus on tensing then relaxing each muscle group, eventually working your way up to the top of your head., If you are struggling staying full on balanced, moderate diet of around 1,600 to 2,400 calories a day, there may be underlying medical issues that need to be addressed. Schedule an appointment with your doctor if you think there may be non-dietary reasons you are struggling to lose weight.Your doctor will be able to test your hormone levels as well as other biological factors that may be contributing to your struggle.

