 Different nations have different laws governing how and if you can clean asbestos. For instance, the United States allows individuals to clean asbestos-contaminated materials from the interior but not the exterior of their homes. When cleaning asbestos from public places or other buildings, you might need to be a certified asbestos professional. Check with your local or national environmental department before undertaking an asbestos-cleaning project.You can find these laws by contacting your local environmental department or agency.;
, When cleaning asbestos, a single disposable paper dust mask is not enough. Instead, use a full or half face-piece, negative pressure, air-purifying respirator with replaceable high-efficiency filters. Alternately, use a half or full facepiece powered air purifying respirator with replaceable high-efficiency filters.Additionally, wear disposable rubber gloves and a disposable coverall.
Cover your eyes with safety goggles.
Wear rubber boots.Do not handle asbestos-containing materials with your bare hands.
 Before cleaning asbestos, let others know you’ll be doing so. This will prevent them from coming into contact with asbestos. If you’re in a high-traffic area or a public space, ensure you block the area off using safety tape or by some other means (“Do not enter” signs, for instance) to prevent others from wandering into the area you’re cleaning.If you’re cleaning asbestos outside, let neighbors know what you’ll be doing. Advise them to close their doors and windows., If you are not an asbestos professional or if you do not feel confident enough to navigate the system of laws governing asbestos cleaning procedures in your jurisdiction, you might want to get a professional to clean asbestos for you. This ensure that you stay out of harm’s way, and that someone with experience will effectively clean asbestos for you.Before hiring an asbestos professional, contact the local agency that governs worker safety, your local environmental department or agency, and your local business bureau. Ask if the contractor has any safety violations or legal actions against them. If the individual or firm in question has any violations or pending legal actions against them, seek another contractor.
If you live in a location where asbestos contractors are required to obtain certification and training before cleaning asbestos, ask for proof of this training and certification before hiring them. If the contractor lacks proof of training and accreditation, seek another.

