 You want the best sides of your fabric turned inwards to face each other. If you’re not sewing your stuffed animal, you don’t need to pin the sides together.


Remember: for this method, thicker, stronger fabrics work better., The two easiest no-sew ways to attach them are with hot glue or with staples. If your stuffed animal is for a small child, choose glue. Staples can be choking hazards or cause cuts.


If you’re using hot glue, run a thin line of glue along the sides of your animal a quarter to one-half inch away from the edge. Press the sides together, and let the glue dry and cool completely before moving on.To staple, just staple around the sides leaving, again, a quarter to one-half inch of space at the edge. Place the staples close together without leaving gaps in between.
In both methods, leave about an inch open so that you’ll be able to stuff your animal.
Alternatively, you can use fabric glue in place of hot glue. You’ll simply need to let it dry for several hours before manipulating it.
 Through the gap you left in the side, you should pull the fabric through. Be especially careful not to pull out any of your staples or put holes in your hot glue edge.


When you turn your animal inside out, the raw edges will be hidden, and the good side of your fabric will now be visible.
 Once you turn your fabric, you’ll need to begin filling your animal. You want to fill it without straining the staples or glue. For this project, you can find stuffing at local craft stores.


Use your hands to push the stuffing in as much as you can, and use the end of a wooden spoon, a dowel, or a chopstick to help push the stuffing into all the hard-to-reach corners of your animal., After you’ve stuffed your animal, you’ll want to use a few staples or another line of glue to seal up the small hole in your animal. Even if you used staples around the perimeter of your animal, consider using glue for this small hole so that you won’t have any visible staples.


Tuck the raw edges of the fabric in so that they don’t show.
 After you’ve finished the basics, you can add more character to your creation to make it unique and special. Decorations come in all kinds of forms and can be made from fabric scraps, things you have around the house like buttons, or even just drawn on with markers.


Glue on buttons or googly eyes.Again, be careful with these around small children, as they can be choking hazards.
Use a fabric paint or fabric markers to draw on other features.
You can even use scrap fabric to hot glue or staple together clothes for your stuffed animal.

