 Doctors are often hesitant to bring up a patient's weight, as it's a sensitive topic and patients sometimes take offense at being confronted about weight.Even if your doctor is concerned, they may hesitate to raise the issue; therefore, do not be afraid to address it yourself.


It can be intimidating to bring up the subject of weight. If you've gained weight recently, you may feel insecure or embarrassed. Try to remember you should put your health first.
Make an appointment specifically to talk about your weight, or you mention at the end of an appointment that you would like to make a follow up specifically to talk about weight. This is a sensitive issue and should be given the time it deserves, not just tacked on at the end of your appointment.
If your doctor doesn't want to make it a priority for a visit, find a new doctor.;
, You want to leave your doctor's office having a full understanding of the impact of weight gain on health, the reasons you're gaining weight, and steps you can take to reverse the process. Make sure to ask thorough, probing questions when discussing weight gain with your doctor.Weight gain can increase your risk for a lot of health issues, so make sure your current health is okay. Ask your doctor if your blood pressure was normal and whether they recommend any tests, like checking your cholesterol levels, to assess your overall health.
You should also ask your doctor whether you need to lose weight. Ask about how to cultivate a healthier lifestyle through exercise and healthy eating.
Ask about your risk factors as well. If you've put on weight, you'll increase your risk of certain health problems. If you have a family history of things like heart disease, you may have a greater risk of developing medical complications due to weight gain. You should talk this over with your doctor.
 People who find it difficult to lose weight or challenging to maintain a healthy weight may have obstacles preventing them from losing. It is important to explain any setbacks to your physician in order for the doctor to make informed recommendations. If your weight gain is very recent, and you have not undergone any major lifestyle changes, it may be a medical issue. Let your doctor know if your weight gain is inexplicable. Say something like, "I've gained 20 pounds in the last month and a half, but I'm not eating different or exercising less." Make note and mention any other changes in your body, mood, or sleep, as this will help uncover other reasons for weight gain.
Your doctor may want to test for something, like a thyroid disorder, to try to determine the cause of your weight gain.
Medication can also sometimes cause weight gain. Bring up any new medications you're taking. They may be the culprit of your weight gain. Your doctor may suggest a different type of medication or adjust your dosage.
You may be struggling to maintain a lifestyle that allows for a healthy weight. If this is the case, let your doctor know. For example, "Since my divorce, I've been struggling with self motivation and, honestly, I've been drinking a lot. I know I need to stop, but I can't seem to get back on track." Your doctor may refer you to a therapist in this situation in order to help you manage stress in a healthier fashion.
 It's very important you and your doctor understand one another. If you're struggling to follow the conversation, do not hesitate to ask a question. Your doctor is invested in keeping you healthy, so they will be happy to clear up any confusion.Your doctor may use medical terms you do not understand, or terms you're not entirely familiar with. You can stop and ask a question when necessary. For example, "Sorry, I don't mean to interrupt, but can you explain BMI to me? I'm not completely sure what it means."
You also may have questions regarding some of your doctor's suggestions. If you're not sure how to make the lifestyle changes your doctor recommends, ask for more specifics. For example, "I'm fine cutting back on sugar, but what do you mean 'watch out for hidden sugars'? How can I do that? What are sugars listed as on food labels?"
If your doctor is not receptive to your questions or isn't taking your concerns seriously, then this is not the right doctor for you. Find someone who will take the time to explain things to you and answer your questions.

