 The process for backing up your Android will vary significantly depending on what device you're using, but you can back up essential information to your Google account on most devices.
 The exact wording may vary a little depending on what device you're using.
 This will backup your device settings and preferences to your Google account. This backup does not count against your Google Drive storage space.The Google account backup saves your contacts, calendars, app data, Wi-Fi passwords, and some basic phone settings. It will not backup photos and SMS messages.
If you don't have a Google account associated with the backup process, you can add an existing one or create a new free one.
 Besides the Google backup services, your device may also have a backup service provided by the manufacturer, such as Samsung or LG. This service can be found in the same "Backup & reset" menu, usually at the top.The process and data backed up will vary depending on the manufacturer and device. Follow the prompts to create a backup either on your device or stored in the cloud.
 The Google Photos app allows you to store all of your photos on your Google account for free at high quality. You can also store your photos in their original quality by using your Google Drive storage. All Google accounts come with 15 GB of free storage.


Download the Google Photos app from the Play Store if you don't have it already. Open it, tap the Menu button, and select "Settings."
Tap "Back up & sync" and toggle Backup on at the top of the screen. Sign in with your Google account if you aren't already.
Tap "Upload size" to select what quality you want to use when uploading images. High quality pictures will have slightly reduced quality but there is no limit to how many you can upload. Original pictures are unaltered but count against your Google Drive storage.
Tap "Back up all" to begin backing up your photos. All of the pictures from your Camera folder will be backed up to your Google account. You may want to connect to Wi-Fi before you begin the backup.
 A common way to back up all of your Android data is to connect it to a computer and copy all of the contents of your phone.


Connect your Android via USB cable to your Windows or Mac computer. If you're using a Mac, you may need to install Android Fire Transfer (android.com/filetransfer/).
Open your Android device in your explorer. You can press ⊞ Win+E to open this in Windows.
Copy all of the contents to a new folder on your computer. Select all of the folders on your Android device and drag them to a new folder on your computer. This will begin copying all of the data to your computer, including pictures, videos, app data, and more. Don't disconnect your Android during the copy process.
 There are a variety of third party apps available that can backup your Android device. These are more useful if your Android is rooted and you want to backup your custom ROM, but they can be useful for non-rooted devices as well. A backup app may not be necessary for many users, as the Google backup, manufacturer backup, and Google Photos will saves virtually all of your data.Some popular backup apps include Helium, Ultimate Backup, Titanium Backup, and Easy Backup & Restore.

