 Note that fasting as a Christian means to humble yourself before Him. It is a way to glorify our Lord. Keep these aspects in mind while you fast. Don't confuse this with any other reasons for fasting such as weight loss, etc. Center it around Jesus.;
, Pray, confessing every one of your sins, and inviting the Holy Spirit to lead your life. Let Jesus know you wish to know Him personally. Acknowledge that He lived without sin, died in our place, on the cross for our sins and rose 3 days later, freeing us from condemnation, and giving us His free gift of eternal life. Humble yourself to ask forgiveness from everyone you have hurt; ask forgiveness from God. Forgive those who have hurt you. You do not want to enter into a fast holding grudges, carrying envy, pride, anger or hurt. The enemy will try to use those things to distract you from your fast.
 These may include the ability to forgive, His strength or wisdom, His peace, the capacity to love unconditionally, etc. Praise Him for these attributes! Surrender your life and thank Him for all He has done for you!

, You may wish to try a shorter fast, and start slowly at first, if you have not previously fasted. You can also pray and ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you how long you should fast.
 You may feel that the Holy Spirit calls you to a specific type of fast. A partial fast may mean giving up only certain types of foods. Juice fasts remove the pleasure of chewing any type of solid food, yet fruit and vegetable juices are permitted.
, Worship Him and praise Him for His attributes. Read God’s Word, and meditate that God will lend me His Wisdom, so that I can input His Word into my life, and I can gain a fuller understanding of it. Pray for God’s Will to be done, and for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Ask God to lead you in spreading His Glory into the world we live in.
 Walk outside, hand in hand with nature, while noticing God’s wondrous creation. Thank Him for everything He has created as you walk. Ask Him to give you a spirit of thanksgiving and appreciation.
 Pray for church leaders to preach His Word as God intended, so that your friends and family members will grow closer to Him or accept Him into their lives; pray for government leaders to come to Him, and ask Him for His Will.
,,, Afterwards, progressively initiate additional foods into your eating.

