 Eating healthy is really important if you want to be a healthy teen. You don't need to go on a diet, just pay attention to what you're putting in your body.


If you only ever eat sugary breakfast cereals and candy bars you aren't going to be healthy. Depending on your body and what works best for you, you can eat three meals a day or 5-6 mini-meals a day. NEVER skip meals. Try healthy alternatives, instead of having a bowl of ice-cream, opt for a frozen yogurt. Or try having apple slices instead of potato chips.
Drink more water. This is basically the most important thing of all. If you drink more water you will be much healthier. It flushes the toxins out of your body and gives your skin a healthy glow. It also keeps your skin hydrated and helps prevent spots. It also helps if you have acne. As a general rule of thumb, try to drink a lot to the point where your urine is almost completely clear.;
, Whether it's walking in the park, or doing a couple of crunches do at least 20 minutes of physical activity several times a week.


You should not exercise every day, when you work out you break your muscles down. It's the rebuilding that makes them stronger. If you don't give them time to rebuild, you're going to seriously hurt yourself.
Exercise will make you stronger and tone your muscles. You can go to the gym and swim or run on the treadmill, buy a few work out DVDs, or just go for a jog around the block.
Whatever it is, exercising will make you healthier and happier about your body. It also reduces stress and helps to calm the mind!

, During puberty you'll find you need more sleep than you did when you were younger. Sure it's tempting to stay up late chatting with friends on the phone or computer, but the next morning you'll be miserable


You need to get a minimum of 8 hours of sleep every single night. To find out how many hours you personally should be sleeping, on a weekend go to bed at the time you do on a school night and don't set your alarm. When you wake up count how many hours you were asleep and get that many hours every night.
It may be tough if you get back late and have to wake up early on a normal school day, but if you put the extra effort in of an early night you will feel much more refreshed the next morning. This will aid your concentration and you will be in a much happier and friendly mood.

