 There are five vowels in Japanese, and these are generally consistent in pronunciation. Unlike English, where vowels can be read many different ways depending on context, in Romaji you can most always expect:


The "a" to sound like the "a" in "father."
The "i" to sound like the "ee" in "feet."
The "u" to sound like the "oo" in "fool."
The "e" to sound like the "a" in "tape."
The "o" to sound like the "oa" in "boat.";
, Aside from vowels, Romaji mostly follows the rules of English pronunciation, but there are a few special characteristics you'll want to keep in mind. For example, long vowels in Romaji are often marked by a long bar above the vowel (as in ā, ī, ū, ē, and ō), but in some cases may be represented by a double vowel (as in aa, ii, uu, ei, and ou). Furthermore:


Some Romaji systems use an apostrophe to indicate syllable boundaries, especially before the sound "n" (ん). For example, the word shin'ya (しんや) is three syllables「shi (し) • n (ん) • ya (や)」whereas shinya (しにゃ) is only two「shi (し) • nya (にゃ)」.
Doubled consonants represent a short, abrupt pause when reading aloud. This pause is important and can completely change the meaning of a word, like in sakki (just now) and saki (previous, prior)., Japanese is a metrical language. Each syllable is approximately the same length, excluding long vowels, which are held for two syllables. Breaking Romaji into syllables will help you figure out common word endings and boundaries, will improve the flow of your reading, and will help prepare you to learn hiragana and katakana.


Generally, you can expect an alternating consonant (C) vowel (V) structure in Japanese, as in CVCVCV or kodomo (children), where each CV alternation forms a syllable.
Some Japanese sounds have clusters of consonants followed by a vowel. Some common examples are tsu (つ), kya (きゃ), sho (しょ), and cha (ちゃ). These form a single syllable, each., Speaking in a different language frequently involves using muscles in and around your mouth differently than you do in your native tongue. Practicing difficult or uncommon sounds in Japanese will help them become more natural in both your reading and speaking. Some words you might use for practice include:



Kyaku (きゃく ; guest), with the syllable breaks: kya • ku

Kaisha (かいしゃ ; company), with the syllable breaks: ka • i • sha

Pan'ya (ぱんや ; bakery), with the syllable breaks: pa • n • ya

Tsukue (つくえ ; desk), with the syllable breaks: tsu • ku • e, When you read Romaji regularly, the flow of Japanese will become more familiar to you and the sound patterns easier to grasp. As you read, keep a notebook handy and write down words you don't know to look up in a dictionary later.Review your new word notebook often so the words become ingrained in your mind. For example, you may want to glance over new words every morning and evening.
If you don't have a textbook to practice reading Romaji, there are plenty of resources available online. Try a general online keyword search for "Japanese romaji reading resources."

