 Wear comfortable yet stylish clothes that you feel confident in and make sure your hair is styled properly. Guys, take care of your facial hair & spritz your best body spray. Ladies, make sure your make up is on point. As there is a high probability that pictures are gonna be taken on the day, you wanna look back and not cringe at the pics. See tips section for makeup suggestions.;
, This is especially important if you are travelling via public transport such as buses, trains, subways or the Underground as it can get so busy during peak times. You want to be there relatively on time so you don't miss out on the fun. Better to be there before time, as you can make links with the other early birds, and who knows? Maybe something awesome will happen that might not have otherwise such as free CDs, magazines, etc.
 Take with you business cards that have your contact details in case people want to get in touch with you again for your services.
 Things such as intimate live performances, people you meet & the general atmosphere are important to record at the meet & greet. This is because at times these events go by in a blur, so you want to be able to remember as much as you can. In addition, you can post it up on your social media websites to share with others too.
 This is super important because they want to know you because you're part of their fan base. They're just as curious to learn who you are as you are about them. That's why they've set up the meet & greet in the first place. Introduce yourself by name, age and where you travelled from. Other things they like to know about you are what you do for a living, hobbies & interest, etc.
 All those things you want to know about the person, for example any tips that have or about their life. As long as it isn't too personal and nosey, take the opportunity to learn from them and simply enjoy being around them!

, However exciting it is to finally be face to face with mad cool people you've only ever previously seen in the digital world, if you become obnoxiously fan-girly over them a) they won't take you seriously if you ask them anything special and b) you will most likely do something that's regrettably embarrassing.
 Sadly, you won't ever see most of these people again, so a lot of the time it doesn't matter what they think about you or say to you at the end of the day. However if they truly seem like nice people, get them to follow you on social media such as Twitter or Instagram so you can still keep in touch.
 Ofttimes, you become more memorable to the person hosting the meet & greet as this is the time that you can bond with them to the point of actual friendship. Just don't overstay your welcome. If they're showing signs of being ready to leave, then say goodbye and part ways.

