 The other sections on this page contain tests which you can take at home. These can give you a little information if you have no other options, but they are not a good replacement for a doctor's diagnosis, according to the Alzheimer's Association., Some drugs, medical conditions, and family history (indicating genetic problems) can put you at higher risk of dementia. Others mimic some symptoms of dementia, such as memory loss, but can be reversed if the doctor discovers the cause. Be ready to give your doctor the following information:Your diet, alcohol use, and drug use. Bring the bottles of any medication you are taking.
Other known medical issues.
Changes in your behavior (especially related to social situations or eating habits).
Which of your biologically related family members have had dementia or dementia-like symptoms, if any.
 Since dementia can be caused by reduced blood flow to the brain, the physical checkup should include a blood pressure reading, taking your pulse, and a temperature measurement.Your doctor may also test your balance, reflexes, and eye movement, or perform a variety of other tests depending on your exact symptoms.
 There are many types of mental exams used to test for dementia, some of which are included in this article. Some common questions include:State the day, month, and year.
Draw a clock face at twenty past eight.
Count backward from 100 by 7s.
 If your doctor does not request blood samples or other lab tests, you might want to ask about thyroid hormone tests and vitamin B12 tests, since these are common tests that can potentially narrow down the cause of your symptoms.There are many other tests that could be requested based on your specific medical history, but those are not necessary for every patient.
 If you are showing some symptoms but the cause is not clear, the doctor may recommend a brain scan to investigate possibilities besides dementia. CT scans, MRI scans, and EEG tests are the most common types of scans used to help diagnose dementia-like symptoms.If your doctor is considering an MRI, let her know about any implants or alterations that cannot be removed, such as tattoos, replacement joints, pacemakers, or shrapnel fragments., Genetic testing is controversial, as even a gene linked to increased risk of dementia does not necessarily mean you will be affected. Still, if there is a history of dementia in your family, especially early-onset dementia, a genetic test could be useful to you or your doctor.