 Start by finding out where you should think about applying. The more recognized and accomplished the program, the more likely it is for you to get the best possible education and for your degree to impress potential employers in the future.


You’ll want to start this process several months before you plan on applying so that you can make the most informed decision about where to apply and have sufficient time to put together your application(s).
U.S. News & World Report produces an annual ranking of the top MHA programs that is worth consulting. Each school’s score (out of 5) is determined by surveying faculty at peer institutions, so the rankings reflect the perspective of industry insiders.There is also a nonprofit organization MHADegree.org that has compiled a comprehensive set of free online resources for students who are interested in pursuing MHA degrees, including a current list of the top programs and a search tool that can help you find MHA programs in your area.;
, Once you see which programs are the strongest, pay a visit to each of their websites by either following the links available on the rankings sites or doing an online search for the degree and school. This will give you a chance to familiarize yourself with each school and the basic differences (such as locations, format, timing, and cost) among their MHA programs.


If you can’t find what you’re looking for online, contact the program administrator for more information.
 Schools that offer MHA grad programs are located all over the map. Think about which options offer the most attractive and/or convenient places to pursue your graduate education.If you are not willing to move, you will need to select an MHA program that is either located in your immediate area or conducted remotely. If you are ready to move, pick a school in a place where you would like to live.
 MHA programs are available in either on-campus or online formats. While choosing from among the best degree programs is always a good idea, you also want to make sure that the program you select fits with your lifestyle and learning style.If you desire in-person interactions with your teachers and fellow students and/or thrive in settings that offer hands-on learning experiences, go for an on-campus MHA program. If you would rather not have a set schedule of classes or would prefer to study at your own pace from your own home office, you should opt for an online degree program.

Online degree programs are increasingly popular due to their accessibility, flexibility, and lower tuition costs. Even though online degree programs have been seen as less rigorous or reputable in the past, today, you’ll find plenty of online programs among the top-ranked MHA degrees.
 Once you’ve narrowed down your options, consider the start date and duration of each program. Ask yourself when you’d like to start, how quickly you would like to complete the degree, and if you are able to commit yourself full-time to studying or not.


Most MHA programs will have a few yearly options for when you can begin. Usually, you can choose between starting in the Fall, Spring, or Summer terms.
The typical MHA program lasts for about two years if you’re a full-time student. If you would like to complete your degree more quickly, apply to an accelerated program, but keep in mind that the demands on you as a student will be more intensive. If you would like to keep working while you earn your degree, find a program that offers a part-time enrollment option. Keep in mind that going part-time will double your time to degree.
 Now that you’ve figured out which programs you would ideally like to attend, figure out how much you’d have to pay to do so. The amount will vary from school to school. Be sure that you pick programs that fit into your budget.


Ideally, you want to get the most bang for your buck. If you’re deciding between two programs both fit your needs, pick the one that’s more affordable since it’s a better value.
Most students cannot pay for their degrees out-of-pocket. Find out which types of student loans you are eligible for, and decide if you are comfortable with the repayment terms and amount of debt that you’ll be assuming for each program.See if there are scholarships or grants available to cover tuition in each program. If a particular school offers scholarships or grants, it may be worth applying there for the sake of reducing the cost of your education.
 Use all the above criteria to decide which programs you’ll apply to. Since admissions are competitive, it’s always a good idea to apply to more than one program.


If you’re on a budget, narrow down the number of schools you’re applying to according to what you can afford to pay in application fees. Keep in mind that you will also have to pay for transcripts and any required standardized testing.
It’s also advisable to include a range of programs, in terms of their competitiveness, on your list. For instance, you may want to apply to at least one “safety” school on your list (that is, a program that you feel confident that you’ll be admitted to) and one pie-in-the-sky school (that is, a dream program to which you are less likely to be admitted). Doing this will increase your chances of having a successful and satisfying outcome to your application process, since you’re almost guaranteed to get in somewhere but still have the chance of getting into your top choice.
 Each MHA program will have a distinct set of requirements for applicants. Be sure to you fulfill all of them before start your application.


While prerequisites will vary from school to school, most will require you to have a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and minimum grade point average from your undergraduate studies (usually a 3.0).
Most programs require that this minimum grade point average be in your overall undergraduate career; however, some only require the GPA to be within your major area of study or within your final years of study. If you’re concerned, check to see which policy applies in the case of your program.
Some schools may also require or prefer previous academic or professional experience in a healthcare-related field like Health Science, Health Administration, or Health Information Technology. If there is a requirement for work experience in the healthcare industry, check with the graduate administrator to see if your job history qualifies.
 Keep track of the due date for each program’s application, and give yourself enough to time to submit all applications materials before then. Once you’ve fulfilled all the prerequisites, give yourself at least three months to assemble all the elements of your application.
 Many programs require you to submit your scores from the Graduate Record Exam (GRE), which tests verbal, written, and quantitative skills. If you’ve already taken it, your score is generally admissible for five years.The GRE is a computer-based test that you must register to take in advance at a designated testing center. When you register, pick a date that will leave you enough time to study in preparation for the test using the resources that the testing organization provides, keeping in mind that it takes 10-15 days for your scores to sent to schools.
It’s best to decide where you’re applying in advance of the test since you will be able to choose where to send your scores upon completing it.
If you are not a native speaker, your program may also require you to take a test, like TOEFL or IELTS, to prove your proficiency in the language of instruction.
 Most programs require two to three letters of recommendation for your application. You should ask people who have a good first-hand knowledge of your work and are likely to strongly recommend you as an excellent candidate for graduate study. At least one of your recommendations should be from a past professor or someone similarly able to speak directly to your academic aptitude, and at least one letter should be from a supervisor or someone able to offer personal insight into your work in relation to the healthcare industry.


You should ask for recommendations at least a month before the application due date to give your referee adequate time to plan on completing it.
If someone agrees to write a recommendation for you, be sure to send them information immediately about when and how to submit their references to each program. It’s also a good idea to send them your resume so that they have access to your general work and academic history to supplement their personal knowledge of your work.
Send a friendly reminder to your referees via email at least a week before your applications are due to ensure they remember to submit their letters. It can be as simple as: “Dear Dr. Williams, I’m just sending a quick reminder that my application for the MHA program is due on September 15. Let me know if you have any questions or concerns about submitting your recommendation by then. Thank you!”

, All programs will require you to submit official transcripts from any institution from which you have earned a degree.


Ask your university’s registrar how long it generally takes to process a transcript request. Most schools now offer electronic and paper versions of official transcripts. If you order paper transcripts, be sure to allow enough time to send them through the mail. Electronic versions generally have a quick turnaround time of only a week or two but can only be sent directly to the program to which you’re applying.
 This is one of the most important elements of your application. It’s your chance to make a convincing case for why you should be admitted to their program. The statement should cover why you want to earn a Masters in Health Administration and how the degree will help you fulfill your career objectives.


Your statement will be more likely to stand out if you insert some of your own personality into it. Try including a personal anecdote that illustrates why you’re so committed to furthering your studies in healthcare management. For instance, if you or one of your loved ones was saved by well-managed medical care, you may want to mention how that influenced your career aspirations. Or, if you are currently a nurse, you can explain how your work experiences have inspired you to explore the administrative side of healthcare.
Have more than one person proofread your statement before you submit it. Admissions officers will favor students who have flawless written communication skills.
 If you’re applying to more than one program, be sure that you create a unique statement for each school. The core of your letter can be the same, but take some time to ensure that each version matches the requirements and speaks to the value of the specific program to which it’s addressed.


The minimum and maximum lengths for your personal statement may vary by school. Be sure to check on each program’s application requirements and adjust your statement accordingly.
For each school-specific personal statement, briefly explain why you’re especially interested in their particular program. You may, for instance, want to mention members of the faculty who you’d love to learn from or elements of the curriculum that particularly excite you. This will show that you’ve done your homework and understand the strengths of their degree program.
 You will need to include a current resume in your application that provides an overview of your education and work experience.


Since you’re applying to grad school, put your education first.
Make sure that your work experience shows that you’re a good candidate for an MHA program. Highlight jobs and skills that relate to healthcare and/or business administration. For example, if you’re a nurse, you can mention your familiarity with healthcare policy or management of a team in the description. If you’re a human resources director, you could include your knowledge of benefits programs alongside your management experience.
Don’t forget to include anything else that distinguishes you as an excellent candidate, such as professional or academic honors, awards, memberships, and affiliations. If you have an impressive record of volunteer work, be sure to add a “Service” section to your resume.
 When you’ve completed your personal statement and resume, make sure you have the other materials in place to finalize your application. The requirements will vary from school to school, but you’ll generally need to submit scores from any required standardized test, letters of recommendation, and official transcripts from any previous postsecondary degree programs along with your resume and personal statement.
 Most schools have an online application system that requires you to create an account. Once you have an account, log in to upload each part of your application. The online system will inform you once your application is complete and allow you to press send.


Programs will inform you via email when they have received your completed application and when they have made a decision on your admission, so be sure you enter the correct address.

