 Download a bankruptcy form and read through it before you proceed so you have a good idea of the information and documents you will need.


Bankruptcy is a legal process through the federal bankruptcy courts that allows you to eliminate some of your debts, or pay them back with court supervision and protection.Bankruptcy is the easiest way to stop wage garnishment, because once you file for bankruptcy the court places an automatic stay on any garnishments, and the creditor can no longer collect on the judgment that way.However, in many cases you won't be able to get back the money that was already garnished. You may be able to recover amounts transferred to the creditor within 90 days of the date you filed bankruptcy., Because bankruptcy law is complex and you have a lot at stake, it is in your best interest to work with an attorney.


If you file your petition without legal assistance and make a mistake because you don't know the law, you can lose your property.For example, you could lose your house because you didn't know it could be exempted under the federal bankruptcy law.
Additionally, if you make a mistake in filing bankruptcy, your case could be dismissed and it could be more difficult for you to file again in the future.An experienced bankruptcy attorney can review your case and tell you whether filing for bankruptcy is right for you.Filing bankruptcy is a major decision that you probably shouldn't make solely for the purpose of stopping a single wage garnishment. There are other alternatives to filing for bankruptcy that can allow you to get a better handle on your financial situation.
 The state of Georgia requires you to complete credit counseling before you can file for bankruptcy.


Your credit counseling must be completed within six months before you file for bankruptcy, with an agency approved by the U.S. trustee in your area.A list of approved credit counseling agencies in Georgia can be found at http://www.justice.gov/ust/eo/bapcpa/ccde/CC_Files/CC_Approved_Agencies_HTML/cc_georgia/cc_georgia.htm.
 As part of your petition, you must file an in-depth list of your finances over the past two years.You also must include a number of documents including copies of your tax returns for the past two years, deeds to any real estate you own, car titles, and agreements for any loans you might have.Required documentation also includes a list of all property you own, including personal property, and a list of all of your living expenses., Once you've completed all the necessary paperwork, you must file it at the correct Georgia district bankruptcy court.


Georgia has three federal judicial districts: the northern district, the middle district, and the southern district. The correct district is the one where you have been living for the majority of the 180-day period before you file, or the district where you have a residence, if you've been living somewhere else such as a military base temporarily.Along with your two-page petition, you also must file a number of schedules that describe your current financial status and financial transactions within the past two years.When you file your petition, you must pay a filing fee of around $300, depending on the type of bankruptcy you file. You cannot apply to have this fee waived, although you may be able to pay it in installments.Once you file your petition, an automatic stay is entered immediately which prevents creditors from contacting you in any way and stops all garnishments or foreclosures., Keep up with each step of your bankruptcy case to ensure that the stay isn't lifted on the garnishment.


After filing your petition, you also must complete additional debtor counseling before your debts are finally discharged.