 Deliberate price fixing rarely occurs in flashy markets. Flashy markets are typically innovative markets, and innovation gives businesses advantages over other businesses, reinforcing the competition in the market. Price fixing is much more common in “boring industries” like materials suppliers.For example, it would be surprising to find price fixing among several prominent smartphone manufacturers. It would not be surprising to find price fixing among the mining companies mining the rare metals needed for the manufacture of smartphones.
 When new technologies are being invented and applied in different ways, companies compete intensely against one another. When the pace of change and innovation slows, offerings across that industry become more similar to one another. It becomes more difficult to gain an advantage over the other companies through competition, so the impulse is to cooperate with them in order for all the parties in the market to make money.For example, manufacturers of copper wire, nails, concrete block, and drywall are all manufacturing products which are fairly standardized across the industry. While there might be slight variation in the quality of different brands of copper wire, it’s nothing like the difference between the Nintendo DS and the Gizmondo.
 Pay special attention to markets with just a few large players. These are called oligopolies, and there’s a natural tendency towards collusion (cartelization) in such circumstances. When a market consolidates into just a few players, it becomes more and more expensive for one company to best the others through competition—they can make more money by cooperating with one another than they can through competing with one another.By way of example, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, is an oligopoly opening colluding with one another to set limits on the production of oil, which controls the price. Since so few countries are oil exporters (a natural oligopoly) and no one has the authority to stop them, they naturally gravitated towards collusion and price fixing.

