 There is conflicting consensus about the use of hydrogen peroxide in non-commercial products to whiten teeth.Using non-tested mixtures with hydrogen peroxide on your teeth can cause oral sensitivity and other abnormalities on your gums.Talk to your dentist before you try whitening your teeth with hydrogen peroxide or any mixtures with it.Be aware that while these natural methods may be less expensive, they could cause damage that is expensive to correct.
Recognize that these solutions only clean surface stains and may not be as effective as commercially available hydrogen peroxide products.
Make sure to use the lowest concentration hydrogen peroxide possible to help protect your gums and oral cavity., There is some evidence that rinsing with a hydrogen peroxide and water mouthwash can be safe when used over a longer period of time. It may also whiten your teeth and help prevent stains.Swish a mixture in your mouth daily to help whiten your teeth and ward off bacteria.


Use 2–3.5% hydrogen peroxide, which you can get at your local pharmacy. Using anything higher in your mouth cavity can be dangerous.Pour 1 cup of the peroxide into a cup and mix it with 1 cup of distilled water.Swish around your mouth for 30 seconds to a minute.
Spit out the solution when you’re finished or if the solutions hurts. Rinse your mouth with water.
Avoid swallowing the mouthwash, which could cause health problems.Consider buying a commercially available mouthwash with hydrogen peroxide.
 Using a paste of hydrogen peroxide and baking soda can whiten your teeth and soothe sore gums.Brush with the paste daily or use it a couple of times a week like a mask.Make sure you’re using 2–3.5% hydrogen peroxide.
Put a couple of teaspoons of baking soda into a dish. Add a small amount of the peroxide and mix it with the baking soda. Keep adding a small amount of peroxide until you have a thick-ish paste.
Brush the paste onto your teeth in small, circular motions for two minutes.You can also apply it with your fingertips to stimulate your gums.Brush with the paste for a couple of minutes or leave it on your teeth for a few minutes for best results.Rinse the solution off of your teeth by swishing with water from the bathroom sink.
Rinse the paste off of your teeth., In addition to using your natural products, avoid anything that might stain your teeth if you can. Brushing or rinsing right after you consume them may help reduce staining.Things that can stain your teeth or make them more prone to staining are:


Coffee, tea, red wineWhite wine and clear sodas, which can make your teeth more prone to staining
Berries such as blueberries, blackberries, strawberries, and raspberries.