 Some regions offer curbside pickup for recycling, while other communities feature municipal or commercial drop-off sites. Ask your neighbors, visit the website for your city or county, or run a web search for "recycling in ." Find out what you can and cannot recycle through these programs.


Find out if there's anything that your local recycling center will not recycle. Some centers, for instance, are not equipped to handle certain types of plastic. Every recycling program is different.
Find out whether you need to sort your recycling. Some centers require you to separate out different materials before dropping them off, while other centers will sort through mixed waste to pick out the recyclable items. As a general rule, drop-off sites require you to sort your recycling, while curbside pickup programs will take a mix., If your community features some sort of municipal recycling pickup, make sure that you have a city- or county-issued recycling bin. Place your recyclable waste into the "recyclables" bin, and place your non-recyclable waste into the "garbage" or "landfill" bin. Find out when your community's trash pickup day is. When you place your trash out on the curb, put the recycling bin out as well.


Some regions even offer a curbside compost pickup! Learn about the difference between composting and recycling.
If your recycling is not picked up on trash day, try to get in contact with someone from the city's recycling program. Call the city manager, or run a web search to find a contact number for the recycling center. Find out why your bins were not picked up, and ask about what you'll need to do to get them to the recycling center.
 If you plan to take your recyclable items into a commercial or municipal drop-off point, then you will probably need to separate the different materials from one another. Establish separate bins for metal, plastic, paper, and glass. This way, when you drop off the recycling bins, you won't have to do any additional sorting – and neither will the workers at the recycling center.


You can place the items into bags – but remember that plastic bags are not recyclable! You'll need to take the waste out of the bags before you drop if off.
Make sure that everyone in your household knows which items can and cannot be recycled. Try making an informational sign or handout to post near the recycling bin.

