


Before lead can be welded, it must be cleaned. This is especially important if you are replacing an existing piece of lead, such as an old pipe. Use a sharp knife to remove any debris or crusty lead from the area where the lead will be welded. In addition, you may want to consider using a piece of steel wool to completely polish the area.;
,


Flux is a waxy acid paste which helps to clean and secure two pieces of lead together. Typically, flux is applied with a small, clean, dry paintbrush. Carefully brush a small amount of flux onto both of the pieces of lead that are to be welded together. Apply the flux rather liberally for best results.



Once you've coated the end of the lead that you'll join to another piece with the flux, you will need to heat it with a blow torch. Melting lead increases its ability to be connected to other fixtures.
Keeping the blow torch at a horizontal angle, apply the flame to the end of the piece of lead. For best results, constantly move the heat source back and forth across the area being heated.
Unlike other types of metals, lead can melt quite rapidly. When direct heat is applied, lead can actually become the consistency of very soft butter. In contrast, when a blow torch is moved over and across the area to be heated, as described above, the area simply "sweats," and become soft and manageable.



Once the lead has been softened, solder must be added to aid in joining it to the new piece of lead. Use a pallet knife to carefully apply the solder to the softened piece of lead. Make sure that the solder is on all sides for the best connection.



Once the solder has been added, you can carefully connect the new piece of lead to the appropriate area on the old product. Make the connection as accurate and secure as possible to maintain the life expectancy of the product.



As a final step in the lead welding process, it is important to wipe over the newly-created connection with a piece of glass paper coated with flux. This not only helps secure the connection even further, but polishes the area, providing a more professional appearance.

