 If your child completes a task well and in a timely manner, use age-appropriate language to let them know what a great job they did. When they complete a task without being told, let them know how impressed you are.If your younger child puts their dirty clothes in the hamper without being told, tell them, “I am so proud of you! You did such a great job, and you’re really showing me what a big kid you’re becoming!”
If your preteen or teen finishes their chore, try saying, “Hey, it makes me happy to see you handling your responsibilities in such a mature way. Thanks for remembering that today’s your day to clean your room.”

, Write down your child’s assigned tasks, and include spaces for gold stars or fun stickers. If they complete their chores on time and without being told for a certain number of consecutive days, they get a reward.For instance, if they make their bed in the morning, put their shoes and coat where they belong, and load the dishwasher, they get a gold star for that day.
If they get five gold star days in a row, they get a day off from chores, a small toy, a dollar bonus on their allowance, or other appropriate incentive.
 Try to find ways to create a scavenger hide using small rewards. Put quarters under lamps, coffee table books, and other places where your child dusts to encourage them to do their job thoroughly. Hide a candy bar, action figure, or other age appropriate treat at the bottom of clean clothes they’re supposed to fold.Try to use the scavenger hunt technique to encourage your child to complete their tasks without cutting any corners.
Mix up your hiding places so they don’t just dig around the bottom of the laundry basket without actually folding clothes.
 Deciding on an allowance amount and whether to offer one at all depends on affordability, their age, and other personal variables. If you do opt to give your child an allowance, make sure they have to earn it instead of getting a set amount automatically.Make sure they know that they might they might lose a percentage of their allowance if they have to be told more than once to do something or are sloppy about completing a task.
Be aware that they might decide they’re fine with losing a dollar a week if it means they don’t have to spend a little extra time being thorough. If an allowance system seems to be encouraging laziness instead of industriousness, consider having a conversation with them about it.
Try saying, “An allowance is supposed to encourage you to be proud of and enjoy what you’ve earned, not cut corners. We’re going to take a break from the allowance. We’ll talk about bringing it back a month from now if you can do your chores completely and without being told more than once.”

