 This is especially important if you’ve only kissed once. Was there something about the situation that might have meant the two of you didn’t bring your best game? This can be the case if the two of you were drunk, short on time or in a particularly awkward situation. Next time the two of you kiss, prepare beforehand.Make sure the two of you are comfortable, like on a cozy couch or a bed.
Dim the lights to set the right atmosphere.
Light candles and play romantic music.;
, Next time you kiss your partner, be proactive and drop hints about how you like being kissed. This is really important early, as it can prevent bad habits from developing. Make your kissing style known, and hopefully your partner will replicate it. If your partner doesn’t have as much experience as you, this can really help them develop their kissing ability., You can turn a potentially uncomfortable conversation into a playful demonstration. Focus on specific kissing styles you’d like your partner to emulate. Outline them verbally, then demonstrate.Open by telling your partner: “This is the kind of kissing I like” and demonstrate.
An example of a specific thing you can try and correct would go like this. Say: “This is how I like using my tongue.” and demonstrate.
For example, if you prefer to be caressed a certain way while kissed, demonstrate this on your partner.
 If there’s something specific your partner does that bothers you, use this method to bring it to light. The first time you tell them you don’t like something, this is the first strike. If you have to go through this process two more times, that’s two more strikes. If you get to strike three, it’s time to pull away and talk about what’s going on.For example, if your partner uses too much tongue, pull away, say “This is how I prefer to be kissed” as your first strike, then resume.
 The best way to make sure you both get the best out of any kissing venture is to actively practice. Set some time aside during each date specifically for making out with your partner. This will give you plenty of time to drop hints, and the practice might just help your partner shake some of the habits you’re not a fan of.