 A great way to incorporate garlic into your diet is to make a soup that has a lot of garlic in it. Depending on your personal preference, you can use either a vegetable or chicken-based broth. It is always better to make your own soup broth with fresh, natural ingredients.


If you’re using a commercial stock base or a bouillon cube, be sure to opt for low-sodium broth. You should also double-check the nutrition label for the sodium content of the broth or bouillon cube. Ideally, this amount should be less than 140 mg per serving., You can make a natural chicken broth using lean chicken. This helps you control the amount of sodium that goes into your broth. Use chicken leg quarters because they have a higher ratio of meat to bone. Remove any visible skin or fat from the meat. Then, measure approximately two to three cups of water in a large cooker and add the chicken pieces.Using this small amount of water will give you a richer broth.
 To the chicken and water, add a chopped medium onion, a tomato, two to three celery stalks, two to three carrots, and any other vegetables for flavor. You can also add herbs such as parsley or thyme for seasoning. Do not add salt.


If you’re using a slow cooker, cover and let it cook on low-medium heat for six to eight hours, or on high for four hours. If you are using a stove or burner, heat until it boils, then let it simmer on low heat for one hour., For a natural vegetable broth, use a variety of vegetables such as onions, parsnips, carrots, celery, leeks, mushrooms, and tomatoes. Lightly brown the vegetables in olive oil or canola oil, then add two to three cups of water. Bring the broth to a boil, then reduce heat to low-medium and let it simmer for 1 1/2 hours.You can add whatever vegetables you like. The flavor of the final product will depend on what vegetables you add to the mixture.
 If you’re using a bouillon cube or soup base, measure approximately two cups of water and pour it into a pan or bowl. Boil the water using either a stove or microwave. Add the soup base cube and stir until it dissolves.


You can skip the next step if you use a bouillon cube to make the broth. Just pour a portion of the warm broth into a cup or soup bowl.
 Once you cook the chicken broth, you need to remove the chicken and bones. Pull them out of the broth with tongs and set the chicken aside to eat later. Next, pour the remaining soup mixture through a strainer into large bowl to remove the vegetables from the broth. Pour a portion of the broth into a cup or soup bowl.


If you made vegetable broth, just strain the vegetables and pour the mixture into a large bowl.
 Using a garlic press, crush two whole medium cloves of garlic into the broth. Make sure to do this while the broth is still warm. Prolonged exposure to heat destroys the active compounds in garlic. It is recommended that you use fresh cloves to gain the most benefits of alliin, the active ingredient in garlic. This compound is released by mincing or chewing garlic.


Some studies suggest that powdered garlic may not be as effective.Once you add the garlic, stir it into the broth and drink immediately.
If you want something a little more substantial that broth, you can add a few cooked whole-grain noodles or brown rice to the soup to give it some texture and consistency.
 This soup is useful for the prevention against viruses during cold and flu season. You can eat a portion of the soup one to two times daily. Drinking this warm soup when afflicted with a cold produces an anti-inflammatory effect and increases movement of nasal fluids, which clears the nasal passages and eases congestion.

