 For some, miswak is just a way to keep the teeth clean. However, for observant Muslims, miswak often plays a more serious role in religious worship. Muslims are required to wash themselves in a ritual form of purification (wudu) before certain acts of worship (most commonly, the daily prayers known as salat). Though cleaning the teeth isn't explicitly required as part of a Muslim's wudu ritual, it is considered optional and is often strongly encouraged. Thus, for serious Muslims, the use of a stick for performing miswak prior to prayer is something that can occur multiple times per day.
 Achieving a state of purity before prayer is very important for Muslims. The Quran explicitly states that "loves those who purify themselves."Cleaning oneself shows devotion to God, observance of Islamic scriptures, and emulation of Muhammad the prophet, who himself practiced miswak and recommended that others do so.


In addition, Miswak usage before prayer is often seen to make the prayer more worthy or desirable in God's eyes. According to one Hadith, "The preference for prayer in which a 'siwak' (miswak) is used to prayer in which it is not used is seventy times.", Though use of miswak for oral purity is not discussed at great length in the Quran, it is referenced many times in the Hadiths (the scriptural accounts of the practices and sayings of the prophet Muhammad). Below are just a few quotes from the Hadiths where miswak usage is mentioned as being especially desirable or praiseworthy in the eyes of Muhammad:"The Messenger of Allah said, 'Had I not thought it difficult for my nation, I would have commanded them to use the miswak before every Salat.'"
"The first thing that the Messenger of Allah (may Allah bless him and grant him peace) did on entering the house, was Miswak.”
“Ablution is part of faith and using a Miswak is part of ablution.”
“There is a cure for every illness in Miswak besides death.”

, If you are an observant Muslim but you live somewhere it is difficult to get a genuine miswak stick or you have misgivings about using a twig to clean your teeth, don't worry! Many Muslims achieve the same level of oral purity by using an ordinary toothbrush (with or without toothpaste) as they would with traditional miswak practices. The most important aspect of wudu is to sincerely intend to purify yourself in the eyes of God and to make the best possible effort to do so. The precise tool you use to clean your teeth isn't nearly as important as the simple fact that you're cleaning your teeth as a sign of devotion to God.


Islamic practices even make special allowances for people who don't have any oral cleaning tools available to them before they pray. In this case, it's generally recommended to do the best job you can with your index finger.