 First and foremost, when you begin laying out in the sun, only get 1-2 hours of exposure at a time. Skip a day or two before laying out again. Melanin, the pigment in your body that colors your skin, is activated when UVA and UVB rays from the sun hit your skin. When this happens, more melanin is produced as a form of sun block, or protection from sun damage. In this process your skin gets darker, producing a tan.The melanin in your body is not in unlimited supply, however, and takes a couple of days to reproduce enough to protect you from getting burned. So, when developing your base tan, take it slowly, and don’t tan every day.Getting just one blistering sunburn while growing up doubles a person's chances of getting melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer. And a person's risk of melanoma also doubles by getting more than five normal sunburns throughout their life.Typically, everyone reaches a plateau in his or her tanning. They simply don’t get any darker.To maintain your tan, continue to regularly lay out and follow the steps discussed below.;
, Exfoliating will remove dead skin, which blocks the sun’s rays. It also reduces your skin’s dryness, and dry skin doesn’t soak up the sun well. When exfoliating, use a loofah, a sponge or a fine-grade exfoliating bar of soap and scrub lightly all over your body while in the shower or bath. Apply a moisturizer after you dry off.Don’t use harsh and abrasive exfoliators, or you’ll end up rubbing off some of your tan or end up with splotches on your body.Don’t exfoliate after getting out of the sun. If you shower after going to the pool, for instance, exfoliate the next morning when you bathe.
And don’t exfoliate every day. Twice a week is sufficient. Much more will strip away natural oils, leaving your skin overly dry., Applying sunscreen before stretching out on your beach towel might sound counterproductive, but using sunscreen will let you tan more gradually and, therefore, make your tan last longer. About 20-30 minutes before you get in the sun, apply a sunscreen of SPF 15-45 when you first start tanning. The SPF factor you use depends on your skin type, or how easily you burn.Once you get a base tan, you can reduce your SPF factor but not below 10.
If you plan to get in the water, make sure you use a water-proof sunscreen, or reapply it after you get out.
Using sunscreen is also beneficial because it will keep you from burning, which can cause serious damage to your skin (not to mention cancer) and almost always results in peeling and flaking. If this happens, you have to start all over again.
Don’t forget to use a lip balm with sunscreen, too.
 When tanning outside, it’s important to protect your eyes by wearing a hat or sunglasses with UV protection. Your eyes can get burned, too, causing serious and lasting damage.
 Flip from your front to your back regularly so you get an even tan.When tanning your back, lay your arms palm-side up and vice versa. If it’s the beginning of the summer and you’re just starting to tan, you won’t (or shouldn’t) be out in the sun for more than two hours at a time. Remember, a gradual tan is a lasting tan. So, switch sides every 15-30 minutes. You'll also want to raise your arms above your head off and on to tan the undersides of your arms and your armpits.


If you start to feel drowsy, it’s time to get out of the sun. Or, if that’s not possible, get in the shade to avoid sunburn.
 Moisturizing your skin may be one of the most crucial elements of getting and extending the life of your tan because it keeps your skin from drying out, which is intensified by UV rays. Moisturize more than once per day, especially before you go to sleep and after showering. Apply a lighter moisturizer to the majority of your body during the day, and lather on a thick moisturizer before bed and on those body parts that move and bend a lot, such as your hands, elbows, ankles, knees and feet.Carry a smaller bottle with you to reapply to these “problem” areas frequently throughout the day.
If you’re prone to acne on your face, use a moisturizer that is oil-free and says “noncomedogenic,” meaning it won’t clog your pores., Here again, you want to avoid letting your skin become too dry so that it can absorb the sun’s rays. It also helps your body get rid of toxins, which will make your skin healthier and help your tan stick around longer. One way to do this is by staying hydrated from the inside. Drink plenty of fluids every day, and increase your water intake if you feel excessively thirsty or if your urine is a dark yellow in color.Regular moisturizing and drinking plenty of fluids is killing two birds with one stone when it comes to keeping your skin hydrated and tan-ready.
 Finally, another trick to getting a great tan is to work out before you lay out. Doing so increases your blood circulation, which then stimulates melanin production.So instead of driving to the public pool, jog or run there before diving right in.


There are also “tingle” tanning lotions you can apply before tanning that claim to bring more oxygen to the surface of the skin, thereby increasing circulation and exciting melanin to darken your tan.