 Be clear as to what you want to achieve by undertaking a running program. It it general fitness? Running in a race? Keeping up with your grandkids in the backyard?


Set benchmarks that you can “check off” along the way. For instance, jogging for 30 minutes straight, 45 minutes, and so on, or sprinting 40 yards, 60 yards, and up to 100 yards.
Having clearly-stated goals and benchmarks along the way can help keep you motivated to stick to the program.
 Especially if you are older, out of shape, or have underlying medical conditions, consult with a physician regarding your plans to undertake a running program. A realistic assessment of your current fitness level will help you craft an appropriate program.Don’t assume you are too old or too out of shape to run, however. Almost anyone can take on and benefit from a running -- or a run / walk -- program.
 Running gear is not overly expensive, and investing in the right equipment will make your workouts more efficient and your body less susceptible to injury.Choose running shoes, not cross trainers, basketball shoes, etc. Consider visiting a running store where you can be properly fitted for running shoes. Like a race car with bad tires, the performance of a runner with improper footwear will suffer.
Select lightweight, moisture wicking clothing that will keep you cool and dry in warm weather, and lightweight, breathable layers to keep you warm enough in colder weather. Don’t skimp on socks, either -- keep your feet cool and dry. Women will need a comfortable sports bra as well.
 To get the most out of a running program, you need to fuel your body properly and cut out unhealthy habits that will limit your progress.


Running burns a lot of calories, so you want to eat lots of high-energy foods like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains -- basically, the kinds of foods you should be eating more of anyway. Lean proteins like chicken, fish, beans, and lowfat yogurt are also good choices. You don’t need to change your diet to be a runner per se; you need to change it to be healthier.Drink lots of water. Hydrate your body before, during, and after workouts.
If you smoke, try to quit. This is a good idea no matter what, of course, but smoking damages the heart and lungs, which are essential for running.
 Make time for running beforehand instead of trying to squeeze it in each day or week. Each week, lay out a daily schedule for your running program, including the variations in your program, actual workout time, and warm up and cool down time.If you can visualize how each element of your program fits together, it may make it easier for you to internalize that each routine, each session, and each day are interconnected and important. Skipping a run may not be so easy to rationalize, then.
 You will likely begin your program with boundless enthusiasm and then feel it wane as you realize that it takes a long time to achieve results. Find out what helps you stay the course and fight to rise above the plateaus you will hit along the way.


Work with one or more partners. Experience the benefits of camaraderie, commiseration, competition, and good old-fashioned peer pressure. Training alongside another runner or a few may offer the pull or the push you need to keep going.
Visualize your goal while running. Picture yourself beating your younger brother at the beach sprint during your family vacation this year, or crossing the finish line at the half-marathon. Just stay aware enough that you don't run into something or someone.
Try listening to music. Does easy listening or heavy metal get you in the right frame of mind to run? Try different styles and see if any work best for you. But again, don't let music become a dangerous distraction.
Sign up for a charity run. The better your progress in training, the more good you will do on race day. Help yourself while helping others.

