 Generally, medical malpractice exists when a patient is injured because a doctor or medical professional didn’t perform their duties competently. There are four elements to medical malpractice, and you must prove all of them:Doctor-patient relationship. There must be a doctor-patient relationship, which means you must have hired the doctor or other medical professional and they agreed to be hired by you.

Negligence. The doctor must have treated you incompetently. This means that they did not meet the recognized medical standard of care.

Causation. The incompetent treatment must have caused your injury. If your injury was caused by an underlying condition, then the doctor isn’t responsible for your injury.

Damages. You also must have suffered harm in order to sue for medical malpractice. A bumbling doctor could have been grossly incompetent. However, if they didn’t harm you, then you don’t have a lawsuit.;
, This element is usually easy to establish and not contested.You can use your medical records to show that you received ongoing treatment from a doctor.Also your state law might define “healthcare provider,” but usually includes doctors, nurses, dentists, and lab technicians.


A doctor-patient relationship might be contested if the doctor claims the relationship had ended. In this case, the doctor will need to produce evidence, such as a signed letter terminating the relationship.
A doctor might also claim no relationship existed if they saw you choking at a restaurant but declined to help you. The doctor has no duty to assist a stranger. However, if the doctor volunteers to help you, then they have created a doctor-patient relationship., Generally, the standard of care can be defined as the care “a reasonably competent doctor would provide under the same or similar circumstances.” The circumstances may include the following:The accepted, customary practices in the geographic area. This is called the “local rule.”
The quality of the facilities and equipment available. For example, if a hospital lacks certain equipment, a doctor can’t be expected to use it to treat you.
Whether the person you sue is a specialist, such as an anesthesiologist, radiologist, cardiologist, pediatrician, or other specialist. Specialists have a higher standard of care: they must provide the same care a reasonably competent specialist would provide under similar circumstances., The law only holds you responsible for your actions. Accordingly, a doctor’s negligence must cause the patient’s injuries. There must be a reasonably clear link between the doctor’s actions (or inactions) and the patient’s injury.Often, doctors will claim that the patient’s underlying medical condition caused the injury. For example, if a patient loses the function of her kidneys after the doctor prescribes certain medicine, the doctor could claim an underlying condition is to blame.
There may also be intervening causes. For example, if a patient is a drug user, then their kidney complications could result from the drug use and not from the doctor’s treatment.
 Medical malpractice lawsuits compensate for specific injuries you suffered. You will need documentation to show the injury. You can typically get compensated for the following:Lost earnings: if you missed work because of the injury, then you can be compensated.
Lost earning capacity: your injury might prevent you from pursuing certain career opportunities in the future. For example, a model who is disfigured could sue for lost earning potential.
Medical bills: you can be compensated for medical treatment you sought to treat your injuries.
Pain and suffering: this is a little vague, but you can receive compensation based on how severe and permanent your injury is.
 Each state defines medical malpractice slightly differently.The nuances will matter when you go to court and try to prove that the doctor committed medical malpractice. One way to understand your state’s definition is to contact a lawyer who specializes in medical malpractice.


You can get a referral to a doctor who specializes in medical malpractice by contacting your local or state bar association. You can find the nearest association here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx

Schedule a consultation and ask how much it costs. At the consultation, you can talk about your state’s definition of medical malpractice and what you will need to win your lawsuit.
 Your state might have passed a medical malpractice law. You should search for it and read it. You can generally find state laws online. Type “medical malpractice law” and “your state” into a search engine and look for a state government website.
 A large amount of medical malpractice law is created by judges. Accordingly, you can find your state’s specific definition of medical malpractice by reading court opinions issued by your state’s appellate courts.


You can find cases on Google Scholar at https://scholar.google.com/. Click on “case law” and then “select courts.” Select the state you are suing in and click “Done.”
Type “medical malpractice” into the search bar and then click the search icon.
Google Scholar does not list the court opinions in any helpful order. It feels random. However, you should read through many of the opinions. The words “medical malpractice” should be highlighted so that you can easily find the relevant part of the court’s opinion.
 At trial, the judge will need to read the jury a set of instructions that describe the law. Most states have pattern instructions, which are uniform instructions that have been approved usually by the state’s Supreme Court. These instructions accurately summarize your state’s medical malpractice law.


You can find your state’s pattern jury instructions online. Type “your state” and “medical malpractice jury instructions” into your favorite search engine. For example, Illinois posts its pattern instructions online.You also might be able to find pattern jury instructions at your nearest law library. This could be in your courthouse or at a nearby law school.
 The general definition of medical malpractice should be the same in every state. However, states might define elements differently. You should check to see.


For example, in Pennsylvania, the courts define “causation” loosely. It is enough to show that the doctor’s actions “increased the risk” of illness or injury.Some states define "negligence" by following the local rule, which means the doctor must have the same skills and knowledge as doctors in the location where they practice. However, some states use a national standard.Some states also allow a doctor to claim that treatment does not qualify as negligent if a respected minority of doctors would approve of it.
 Usually, a doctor will make a mistake which led to your injury. You should identify what error in judgment the doctor made. Common errors include the following:Failure to diagnose you properly. For example, the doctor missed a diagnosis or gave a wrong diagnosis. If a proper diagnosis would have led to a better outcome, then you can probably sue for medical malpractice.
Improper treatment. For example, the doctor does not treat an illness or injury in the same way a competent doctor would. Alternately, the doctor might have selected the correct treatment but administered it negligently.
Not warning a patient of risks. A doctor must get informed consent, which means warning a patient of the possible risks of a course of treatment. The doctor might have failed to disclose these risks. If you would not have gone through with the treatment once properly advised, then you might have a case for medical malpractice.
 You must prove medical malpractice by a “preponderance of the evidence.” This means that it is “more likely than not” that each element has been established.Accordingly, you need supporting evidence.


Get copies of all medical records and medical files, including notes made by doctors and other medical professionals.
You can also rely on your own memories. Write down what the doctor told you and how you responded.
To prove damages, find pay stubs or other proof of income. Also gather medical bills or receipts for any money spent treating the injury.
 You need an expert witness to testify at trial. Typically, the expert will be a practicing doctor or retired doctor. Your lawyer can find experts for you. This person will testify about the following:The medical standard of care. The expert will testify as to how a competent doctor would have treated the patient in the same circumstances.
Whether the doctor satisfied that standard or was negligent. Here, the expert will offer an expert opinion.
Whether the doctor’s negligence caused your injury.
 In many states, you need to have your case pre-approved by a medical malpractice board. You will need an expert witness to write an affidavit stating that the doctor’s care fell below the recognized medical standard of care. You will then get a certificate from the board if they agree. This certificate allows you to sue in court.See Sue for Medical Malpractice for more information.

