 You need to find out if your situation is an isolated incident or if it's likely that many others have had a similar problem.


In many cases, the injuries suffered by each individual are so minor that they wouldn't be inclined to sue the company on their own.For example, you might have wrongfully been charged processing fees to purchase a concert ticket that only amounted to a few dollars out of your pocket. It would cost you more to sue the company for that money than you would stand to gain. However, if hundreds of thousands of people were similarly charged, the lawsuit could be worth millions of dollars.
Another common example of a class action lawsuit is a product that turns out to be defective, such as a bad seal on an auto part that causes the car to malfunction. In that case, many people may have relatively minor injuries, while others may have had car accidents that resulted in more serious injuries and property damage.
To get a class certified, you and your attorney must be able to prove that your injuries or losses are representative of similar injuries or losses suffered by a large number of people. The issues of both fact and law must be the same or similar for everyone in the potential class.For example, if you were injured as a result of an undisclosed side effect in a prescription drug you took, you could potentially have a class certified if others were similarly injured because of the same side effect., An attorney who specializes in and has experience with class action lawsuits will be vital to your effort.


Typically class action attorneys offer a free consultation to evaluate your case and determine whether a lawsuit is appropriate, and whether a class action in particular is feasible.
Class action attorneys typically don't expect payment up front. Rather, they take the case on contingency and are paid a percentage of the settlement, or of the award if you go to trial and win.
For this reason, you want to look for an attorney who has specific experience litigating class actions, not just individual personal injury or products liability suits. Class actions require an attorney to have significant resources available to research and litigate the case, and typically don't result in a quick recovery.
 If you've found legal counsel, your next step is to get others on board with your suit so you have enough people for the court to certify the class.


Once the class is certified, you must make reasonable efforts to contact all potential members of the class, and this usually includes trying to notify people using a variety of general media including television, newspapers and magazines, or the internet.A good deal of marketing may be necessary to find affected members of the public who want to join the class. Some law firms run commercials on television, while others use online advertising and social media to get the word out.
 Although you may receive a larger recovery if you act as lead plaintiff, you also must spend a lot of time and effort on the lawsuit.


To get your class certified, your injuries or losses must be typical of everyone else in the class, and you and your attorney must have a plan to litigate the issue and be able to represent the interests of the entire class.Keep in mind that you can't be a lead plaintiff if you have a conflict of interest with other class members.Lead plaintiffs have the best interests of the entire class at heart and want the larger wrong to be remedied – they aren't in it just for themselves.
As lead plaintiff, you will be consulted by the class action attorney and have decision-making authority regarding litigation strategy and whether to accept any settlement offered.In return for this work, however, you probably will be entitled to additional compensation than you would get if you were any other member of the class. Judges have broad discretion to award additional compensation to lead plaintiffs for the work they've put into the case.
 Even after the class is certified, you must continue to provide information and help coordinate efforts to communicate with class members and negotiate a possible settlement.


Suing as a class means all of the people involved in the case can pool their resources.In addition to any documents or evidence you are able to provide, other class action members may come forward with their own information, which can strengthen your case.
Class action lawsuits often involve in-depth research that is far more extensive than that required in similar individual lawsuits. For this reason, your attorney may call on you frequently for updates or to get additional information about your injuries and experience.As lead plaintiff, your attorney also will consult you for approval on litigation strategies and whether to accept, reject, or make a counter-offer if the company you're suing issues a settlement offer.