


Top, down, starting with hair. Shampoo/condition once every two days. Shampooing every day dries out the hair, which we all know results in dry, frizzing hair! Use systems made specifically for certain hair types: wavy, straight, curly, dry, frizzy, dyed, etc. Also use glossing spray, shine serum, anti-frizz serum, and styling wax or hair styling mousse. Note: If your hair looks glossy because it's greasy, that's totally different, and it may need to be washed.
Your hair needs to look adorable every single day. Experiment to see what works with your face and style. You may be sporty, which may seem like it calls for a ponytail. But come on, a ponytail every day? No way! Try having your clique wear the same style as you to look extra trendy. Also, if you have curly hair, straighten it every once in a while! (and vice versa, of course!) However, don't get into the habit of using damaging hair tools! Curl your hair, or scrunch it! It looks so cute, and gives you beachy waves if done right! If you are having trouble finding styles, YouTube is a great place to start.
Use cute accessories to make your clique look even better. Make sure the colors don't clash with your outfit, but don't be too matchy matchy. You want to look cute and put together, but not "my Mommy picked out my outfit and bought me my multi-colored hair scrunchies so each outfit would match a scrunchy!" That's just... no. Please, never.;
, Zits are a part of growing up. Don't scratch, pick, or pop your pimples... that just makes them even redder! Make sure you wash your face every day, and use appropriate cleansers/creams if necessary. Only you know your skin's needs, to answer their calls! To cover up the pimples, find a match of your skin color and do your best to conceal them. Red faces look awful... been there, done that! If you have a gross pimple, and the only thing you can do is pop it, do it on Friday, so it has the weekend to heal. Proactive works quite well. Only a few days and if you don't have zits, Proactive also prevents acne.


Make-up. Never over-do it. Make it very natural so that it looks like you aren't wearing any, even if you are. Just some lip color, foundation, concealer, blush, eyeshadow, and mascara are all that's needed. You don't even need eyeshadow! Avoid the stage make-up look for every day. Also, stay away from the clown look! Choose a natural lip color, and blend the blush on the apples of your cheeks. Little, perfectly defined red circles just look ridiculous. Or, if your parents don't allow make-up, that's okay. The point is to have a natural look.
 You need to always smell amazing. Shower everyday and use good smelling shower gel. Have complementing body lotion. Use a decent smelling perfume or body spray, or avoid scent altogether.


You must be very toned. Do something active! From just running with your buds every day to folk dancing to participating in a highly competitive sports team, the calories are burning and the bod is getting better. Exercise every day for at least half an hour! Not only does it keep you fit, but you will feel more confident and happy!

, Nothing shouts, "I'm trying to be popular!" more than suddenly switching your wardrobe from Walmart to Forever 21. If you don't usually wear "popular" clothes, start small, maybe with a bit of jewelry from Justice. Work your way up, slowly but steadily. The same goes for makeup, too.
 It may help to follow the two week rule: Don't wear a piece of clothing for at least two weeks after you wear it the first time. If you go to a school that has a uniform, try to jazz up your look by adding an accessory or a piece of jewelry. Don't be afraid to shop at stores outside where everybody else is shopping. If you find cute stuff, consider buying it. People will admire your unique style. When they ask where you got your amazing wardrobe, don't spill. Say "I don't remember," or "Some place near my aunt's house." If you must say something, be very vague. We don't want everybody to start having your excellent taste in style, now, do we?


Always know the latest trends. Others will begin to notice your style and look up to you for trends so be sure to deliver. For trends, read fashion magazines. Same goes for accessories. Always add accessories to all of your outfits: purses, jewelry, hats, scarves, belts, etc. However, don't overuse! Same with shoes... own enough that you wear at least three different pairs of shoes throughout the course of the week. Don't wear Uggs every single day... mix it up!
Don't be afraid to break away from trends! If you look just like everyone else, no one will notice you! A good way to stay in fashion is to mix your own style with trends... or even start your own trend!

, Read news magazines. Talk to your clique about what's going on in the world. Also, get to know at least 3 people a day, in and out of school, and on social networking sites. Make them trust you, and they will talk like there is no tomorrow about anything you want to hear.

