 Take 2 boneless, skinless chicken breasts and cut each one into two or three pieces. Use paper towels to dry off the chicken pieces. Sprinkle one tablespoon of flour over the chicken, so the pieces are lightly coated.If you'd like extra flavor, you can also add a few shakes of paprika to the flour.;
, Pour 1 tablespoon of olive oil into a frying pan and turn the heat to medium. Add the chicken pieces once the oil is hot and let the chicken cook for about five minutes. Turn them once while they're cooking, so the pieces brown on both sides. Remove the chicken to a medium-sized saucepan.The chicken will finish cooking once you've added the rest of the ingredients.
 Keep the skillet on the stove once you've removed the chicken. Finely chop one medium onion and add it to the skillet. Slice 1 1/3 cup (100 g) of mushrooms and add this to the onions. Stir the vegetables and cook them over medium heat for about 6 minutes.The onions should soften and the mushrooms will release some of their liquid.
 Scoop the sauteed vegetables into the saucepan with the chicken. Turn off the heat to the empty skillet and pour in 2/3 cup (150 ml) of dry white wine. Stir the wine, so bits of the cooked vegetables and chicken from the bottom of the skillet are stirred into the wine. Pour the wine into the saucepan with the chicken.For the white wine, consider using chardonnay, pinot grigio, or a sauvignon blanc.
 Place the saucepan with the chicken marengo mixture on the stove. Stir in 2/3 cup (150 ml) of vegetable or chicken stock, 2 crushed garlic cloves, and 3 tablespoons of tomato purée. Turn the heat on to medium-high, so the mixture begins to boil., Turn the heat down to medium-low, so it bubbles gently. Put the lid on the saucepan and simmer the chicken marengo for 30 minutes. Take the lid off and let it simmer for 30 more minutes, so the liquid evaporates and the dish thickens.If the liquid is evaporating quickly, you may need to reduce the cooking time or turn the heat down.
 Once the marengo has almost finished simmering, cook a pot of rice to serve with it. You can also fry up a couple of eggs to serve with the dish. To serve the chicken marengo, scoop some of the cooked rice into a serving dish, top with the chicken marengo, lay a fried egg on top of it and sprinkle it with a little fresh parsley.You can also serve the chicken marengo with cooked noodles or crusty bread, if you prefer.

