 If there is a chance that you might run into a snake, take care to be very observant. If you are going on a hike or camping, you should be conscious of your surroundings. Be aware of where snakes are most likely to appear.When you are hiking, stay on the trail as much as possible. You might still encounter a snake, but it is less likely than if you wander off of the trail.
Avoid tall grass. These areas are very appealing to many types of snakes.
Snakes like to hide under rocks and logs. Be careful when walking near these areas. Keep your eyes open and be on the lookout for snakes.
You should also use caution when rock climbing. Snakes like to hide in nooks and crannies. Look before placing your hand somewhere on the rock.;
, Ideally, being mindful of your environment will help you to stay away from snakes. However, that is not always possible. If you do encounter a snake, there are several things you can do to remain safe.Try not to panic. Staying calm can help you make the right decisions and help you to stay safe.
Don't make any sudden movements in the direction of the snake. Just remain calm, and try not to startle the animal.
Remember that the snake was not out looking for you. It likely was just trying to find a place to get warm.
 One of the most effective ways to survive an encounter with a snake is to not engage. If you come across a snake in your path, walk away. If you can't turn and go the other direction, make sure to give the snake a wide berth as you circle around it.Remember that most snakes have no desire to be around people. That is why you rarely see them.
If you see a snake in your yard or garden, just stay away from it. It is likely that the snake will flee when it sees you.
Sometimes you might encounter an aggressive snake or one that is cornered. The same advice applies. Do not try to capture the snake. Just head the other direction.
 Loud sounds can help you to drive a snake from your path. Snakes don't have ears, but they are very sensitive to vibrations. Loud sounds are likely to make a snake flee to a more quiet place.Raise your voice. Try shouting, "Go away, snake!" or simply just yelling.
Stomp your feet loudly. You can also try banging some sticks together.
If you have a snake visiting your yard or garden, noise should help you get rid of him. Turn on the lawn mower nearby as a way to make some noise.

