 Look over Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. Talk to your friends about your week, but don't spend too much time on there, overthinking the week and worrying about the week to come, or even worrying about plans for the weekend. If you catch yourself obsessing, get off the internet!

, Not TV, but a good movie. You watch TV everyday, but you don't have time to enjoy a nice film. There are lots of types: romantic, comedy, thriller, whatever you're in the mood for. It's up to you. You may even want to have a nice cup of tea or hot cocoa (or iced tea or water, depending on the weather) while watching it, just to get in the mood.
 Then go put on some music and listen to it. Don't do nothing else, but to listen, dance, and sing to your favorite jams. Free yourself.
 Write about silly stuff. You may start doing it as a joke, but may end up realizing something important you had inside of you. It's always important to know ourselves and our deepest feelings, because sometimes we don't hear ourselves when we have such a busy week.
 You can also eat with your family. It may be a whole grain chicken sandwich, or if you're feeling fancy, some sushi. Anything you enjoy but doesn't bloat you, because you don't want to go with a full stomach to bed.
 Meditation and yoga are great ways to get rid of all those unwanted thoughts and pains from the week. Indulging in a little before you go to bed can help you clear your mind so you'll sleep better and leave you feeling less stressed about your week.


When you're doing meditation, choose a comfortable spot and position. Close your eyes and breathe deeply. As you breathe in and out, notice your breath. If you find thoughts are straying across your mind, acknowledge them and let them drift away like clouds. Do this for 15 minutes and you'll be sure to feel more calm and relaxed.
 Put on some moisturizer and lotion on your body. Take a shower. Just make anything to feel clean and get in the mood for a good night sleep.
 Turn off any alarms and let your body relax and detox of all the stress in the week. It needs a rest too.

