 This can actually work with either fruit or vegetable baby food; however, many people like the idea of ‘hiding’ veggies in this way. Get a cut of meat, season it, place it in a Ziploc bag, add a few jars of baby food, gently shake the bag to coat the meat, and let it sit overnight in the fridge prior to cooking., Ramp up the health factor in your run-of-the-mill soup by adding a jar or two of either meat or vegetable baby food. For example, in a vegetable soup you could add a jar of chicken baby food for additional texture and protein. Or, you could add a jar of mushed peas to make the broth taste richer.This is an especially good strategy to use if you have a picky eater who refuses to try certain vegetables. You can introduce the flavors to them in this subtle way and perhaps they will come to enjoy the taste.
 In addition to adding an egg in your meatloaf or hamburger mixture, throw in a jar of vegetable baby food as well. It will help to bind the ingredients together and it will contribute additional flavors and nutrients. For example, in a meatball recipe you might include a jar of green beans., Create an omelet or scrambled egg station with various toppings including cheese, meats, veggies, and baby food. If you add the baby food with these other items, you won’t even be able to taste it and you will get the nutritional benefit. Try to stick with baby foods with a more subtle taste such as mixed vegetables.


Add the baby food in to your egg mixture little by little to avoid creating a runny mess. Keep an eye on the eggs to make sure that the baby food doesn’t just burn to the outside and actually mixes in with other ingredients.
This is another moment where you can invite your kids to help cook. Set out the ingredient options and let them decide what to add to their eggs.
 After you’ve finished cooking the pasta or rice, and before you add any sauce, mix in some vegetable baby food. It will bind rather quickly with the rice or pasta, adding flavor instantly. Try to pick a baby food that will work well with your sauce selection. For example, a squash baby food pairs well with a spaghetti sauce.

