 Make homemade matzo part of a conventional breakfast by serving it the way you would other bread items. Toast a piece briefly to heat it and provide some extra crunch, then slather it with butter, honey, jam or preserves. The subtle smoothness of these additives will make a wonderful complement to the crunchy texture and subdued flavor of the matzo.Warm the pre-baked matzo in the oven just long enough to brown the edges.
Pair breakfast matzo with Greek yogurt, fresh fruit or oatmeal.;
, If you don’t care for sweets in the morning, try your matzo with items like bacon, eggs and avocado or sliced heirloom tomatoes. The warm, crispy bread will provide a delicious contrast to the hearty breakfast meats and veggies. Just make sure you steer clear of additives that are off-limits if you're kosher.Substitute English muffins for matzo toast when whipping up a classic Eggs Benedict.Use matzo to create a quick low-carb version of French toast or biscuits and gravy.
 For a more inventive take on the traditional treat, experiment with salty, fatty flavors. Top each piece with cheese, cucumbers, lox or fresh herbs like dill or scallions. These types of items will make for a more filling matzo suited for lunchtime.Go easy on the salty toppings if you already salted the matzo when it first came out of the oven.
Since matzo toast is so brittle, eating it open-faced will be the easiest way to go.
 A couple squares of matzo covered in creamy nut butter, granola or fruit slices can make the perfect midday pick-me-up. It could just as easily serve as an alternative to chips with your hummus. Think of the flatbread as a vessel for exploring new ways to enjoy your favorite foods.Matzo has a very mild taste, so get as imaginative as you want when choosing toppings and ingredients you think will pair well from a textural standpoint.
 If you have a sweet tooth, you could even turn your matzo toast into a special indulgent treat. Sandwich the crisp bread with toasted marshmallows and chocolate like s’mores, or knead the raw dough together with cinnamon and brown sugar and bake to make irresistible pull-apart monkey bread. The thin, dense wafers lend themselves perfectly for an after-dinner nibble.It may help to soften the bread with a little water or milk to get it to cooperate in different dessert recipes.Use matzo dough in place of yeasty ingredients so you can enjoy your favorite confections during Passover.
 Add two cups (140g) of flour to the bowl, then gradually pour in one cup (240ml) of water. Stir the mixture slowly with a spatula until it begins to thicken into a sticky dough. Continue mixing the matzo dough into one large ball.If the dough seems overly gluey, stir in more flour one or two teaspoons at a time as needed.
Remember to use cold water. Warm or tepid water may cause the dough to take on a strange consistency.
 Dust your work surface and both hands with a light coating of flour. Remove the dough from the mixing bowl and knead it by stretching it out and folding it over on itself repeatedly. Work quickly—as you handle the dough, the flour will begin to break down, eventually causing it to ferment and rise.Try not to knead the dough for longer than about one minute. You’ll be working against the clock to an extent to keep the bread from leavening.If you’re preparing a large batch, ask for help kneading and rolling the dough.
 Cut the kneaded dough ball in half using a dough cutter, or simply pull it apart with your hands. Stretch and knead these smaller sections, then repeat this process two more times so that you end up with eight pieces. Sprinkle a little more flour onto your work surface, then smooth the dough balls flat with a rolling pin.Each of the finished pieces should be 6-8 inches in diameter and rolled as thinly as possible.
After rolling out the matzo, perforate the dough with a fork to prevent air from becoming trapped in it., Matzo needs to be baked at a high temperature to keep it from expanding. Go ahead and begin preheating the oven a little ahead of time so that it will be sufficiently hot by the time you’re ready to pop in the dough.Set the oven to convection heat to ensure that it stays a consistent temperature throughout.
 Use both hands to peel the matzo off the work surface. The dough will be very thin, so transfer it carefully to avoid tearing it. Fit as many pieces onto the baking sheet as you can, making sure the edges don’t overlap.To achieve an ideal texture, try baking on a pizza stone. This will help absorb excess moisture from the dough, resulting in crispier bread.You may need to put the matzo through the oven in rounds if you have dough leftover after the first batch.
 Slide the matzo into the oven on the upper rack nearest the heat source. It won’t take long for the bread to begin browning, so keep a close eye on it. At around the two minute mark, take the baking sheet out of the oven, flip over each piece and bake for another 1-2 minutes.The matzo is done when it’s pillowy and golden-brown in the center with dark edges.Be careful not to let it burn. The thin dough cooks through very quickly, and will likely only require about half as much time on the second side.
 Once the matzo is ready to come out of the oven, brush it with a light coating of olive oil, then sprinkle it with kosher salt and let it cool before eating or storing. You can also drizzle it with honey or a mixture of yogurt and water for a softer, sweeter finish.You can also infuse the bread with more potent flavors like shallots and roasted garlic while it’s still hot from the oven.Adding spices and other flavorings to matzo dough prior to baking is not consistent with kosher laws. Keep this in mind when seasoning the bread.

