 Check the reviews in the New York Times or New York magazine theater section. Often a person will choose a play because a certain actor is performing, however the actor may be doing something out of his or her ordinary genre. Uninformed theater goers were disappointed to find Nathan Lane in the slow drama Butley some years ago.


Actors change often. Make sure the actor you want to see will still be appearing on the date you plan to attend. Check the play’s website to be sure.
Consider off Broadway and smaller productions. Wouldn’t it have been fun to see Rent or In the Heights in a small theater downtown? Also some of your favorite actors are performing on Broadway for theater production groups like the Manhattan Theater Club (David Hyde Pierce), The Roundabout Theater (Martin Short ) or The Labyrinth (Philip Seymour Hoffman). These productions companies are not for profit and have small budgets so they often depend on word of mouth for advertising.;
, Check websites like Playbill.com or TDF.org for discounts. The more popular plays like Wicked or Jersey Boys don’t need to offer discounts since they are generally sold out well in advance.


If you are in NYC and want to purchase for a same day performance check the TKTS discount booth locations for tickets. The Times Square location is always the most crowded. The South Street Seaport location is less so. The third location in Downtown Brooklyn is the least crowded. More information on the TKTS booths can be found at tdf.org.
Always check sites like StubHub.com for tickets. NEVER BUY FROM A TICKET SCALPER ON THE STREET. These tickets are always counterfeit. Scalpers prey on tourists desperate to see the hottest shows.
If you don’t mind paying full price, go directly to the theater. Being polite to the theater’s box office personnel goes a long way. Be flexible and don’t be too demanding. Often “house seat” tickets are put on sale a few hours before a show. “House seats” are tickets set aside for the actors or producers of the show and are almost always the best seats in the theater. If they go unused they are sold to the general public the day of the show and are rarely discounted.
Going solo is often your best chance for last minute tickets. Also January and February offer the best discounts. Snowstorms and holiday weekends are also a great time for hard to get last minute tickets.
 This is a matter of personal preference. Choosing a seat at the theater is akin to choosing one at a movie. Some people insist on sitting in the middle of a row for a good view. Others, given the cramped seating of Broadway theaters, insist on aisle seats for legroom.And just like seeing a movie, being in the first few orchestra rows are not necessarily the best seats in the house.


The first few rows of the balcony can be just as good as any in the orchestra. The back rows are sometimes less crowded and opportunities to stretch out are greater.
 If your play begins at 8pm make the reservation for 6:15pm at the latest. The theater district restaurants are well oiled machines when it comes to seating and serving theater goers. They can get you out in plenty of time. Still it doesn’t hurt to tell your server you have a curtain to make. Please avoid garlic and enjoying too much alcohol before the show.


Be aware that many restaurants in the theater district close early on Sundays. So be sure to eat before you attend a Sunday matinee.
Dress however you wish, but remember comfort. Jeans and a tee shirt are fine, so is a cocktail dress and a tuxedo. Be considerate of your fellow theater goers by showering and avoiding perfume.
In the winter months don’t wear a coat you can’t afford to get dirty. There isn’t a lot of room and chances are your overcoat will be on the floor beneath your chair.
When you enter the theater, ask if there is an intermission. Know the location of the restrooms and keep in mind that they tend to be very crowded during intermission. Don’t dilly dally when intermission begins, get to the candy counter or the restroom quickly.
 Don’t just silence it. Also your candy wrapper makes more noise than you think. Unwrap it before the performance begins. Avoid talking or singing along. The audience paid to hear Patti LuPone sing not you. Avoid clapping when your favorite actor comes on stage for the first time. It tends to break the rhythm of the play and the actor’s concentration.


If you have trouble hearing ask an usher for a headphone device to help. Having the person next to you repeat the actor’s lines over and over is annoying.
 Of course it is okay to wait by the stage door for autographs. Remember though that the actors are there six nights a week (and twice on Saturdays and Wednesdays). Their routine is often to leave the theater quickly to avoid, what else, the Broadway theater traffic.

