 Gossip will only hurt your friendship. If someone tries to talk badly about your friend, ask them to stop. Refuse to listen if people say that your friend is trashing you. Even if it’s true, it’s not going to help you patch things up.


Say, “I’m not interested in hearing that.”

, Start with a clean slate. Once your issues have been resolved, don’t keep punishing your friend, acting cold, or bringing up mistakes they made as ammo in other fights. Let go and move on.


Focus on the future.
If you find yourself in a similar issue as before, give your friend the benefit of the doubt instead of jumping to conclusions.
 When you’re first rebuilding a friendship, it can feel awkward. Spending time with a group will allow you guys to spend time together with a buffer while emotions are still raw.Ask your entire friend group to go out to dinner.
Find community or school events, and pick one that connects to a shared interest.
 If your friend has met someone new, don’t see it as the end of your friendship. One of you will be the first to find a partner or a new good friend. If your friend does before you do, it can be hard to accept your new dynamic, but know that it happens to everyone.Don’t see it as a rejection. Your friend is not trying to replace you. They just found someone else they click with.
Your relationship may change, but it’s not over.
Reach out to the new person. Keep an open mind and try to get to know the other person. If it’s a new boyfriend or girlfriend, be excited for your friend’s happiness and let them feel like they can confide in you.
 If your friend has a new situation in their life that keeps them from you, such as a sick relative, a new baby, or additional work/school responsibilities, find ways that you can easily fit into their day. Since your friend’s life is changing, your time together may need to change, too. Show them that you still fit into their life.Visit your friend during your lunch hour.
Join your friend in an activity you know they attend regularly, such as a class at the gym.
If your friend is in a new relationship, remind your friend that you need one-on-one time. Say, “Your new boyfriend is great, but can we grab lunch just the two of us this weekend?”

, Spend time rekindling your friendship doing something you guys both love, preferably something unique to your friendship. This will remind you of good times you’ve had together and help both of you move past the issues that had come between you. For example, if you both love singing, go out for karaoke.