 St John's wort is a dietary supplement so the quality of the product will vary. Dietary supplements are not regulated the same way as pharmaceutical drugs. For safety and quality purposes, only purchase St. John's wort from brands that have been inspected by independent commercial laboratories.The following brands have met all the necessary quality criteria:CVS Pharmacy St. John's Wort
Kira® St. John's Wort Lichtwer Pharma Exclusive LI 160® Formula
Nature's Way Perika St. John's Wort
Rite Aid St. John's Wort
Vitamin Shoppe St. John's Wort Extract

, St John's wort is usually taken in liquid or capsule form. The most common dosage is 300 to 400 mg three times a day.Always read the label to determine how many milligrams are in each capsule. Also read the list of additional ingredients. Dietary supplements are often packaged with other ingredients, and you want the purest form of St. John's wort.


Do not take different forms of St. John's wort at the same time. For example, do not take one dose as a liquid and your next dose as a capsule.Using the recommended brand will ensure that you are getting a properly formulated capsule.
Look for formulations that have hypericin or hyperforin on the label. These are the most heavily researched active components of St. John's wort., St. John's wort may cause increased sensitivity to sunlight. Wear sunscreen daily while you are taking St. John's wort. An SPF of 30 or higher is recommended.Other side effects can include anxiety, dry mouth, dizziness, gastrointestinal symptoms, fatigue, headache, or sexual dysfunction.Stop taking the medicine and see your doctor if you experience any of these side effects.
 St. John's wort interacts with some drugs. The herb affects the way the body processes or breaks down many drugs. In some cases, it may speed or slow a drug's breakdown. Drugs that can be affected include:Antidepressants
Birth control pills
Cyclosporine, which prevents the body from rejecting transplanted organs
Digoxin, which strengthens heart muscle contractions
Indinavir and possibly other drugs used to control HIV infection
Irinotecan and possibly other drugs used to treat cancer
Seizure control drugs such as phenytoin and phenobarbital
Warfarin and related anticoagulants
General anesthesia used during surgery

, Do not take St.John's wort if you're trying to become pregnant either. High doses can damage your reproductive eggs. If you have mood swings while you are pregnant, talk to your doctor before you take St. John's wort. Also ask your doctor if it is safe for you to take St. John's wort while you are breastfeeding, it may have a negative effect on your baby.