 Learn these before you try a crossover. You'll need to be able to dribble with both hands and pass the ball between them, without looking at the ball.;
, The goal of the crossover is to fool the defending player so you can slip past. If you plan to move to the left, start by dribbling with your right hand. If you plan to move to the right, dribble on your left side instead.


Dribble hard to keep possession. The ball should return to your hand right away after it hits the floor.
This is most convincing when you start out on your best side, dribbling with your dominant hand.
 For this trick to work, you have to sell it with your body language. Keep your eyes focused in the direction you don't plan on moving. Keep your feet and shoulders aligned toward that direction as well, but be ready to pivot at a moment's notice.


Make occasional eye contact with the defender.
Keep your knees bent. Straight legs will slow you down.
 Hesitate for a split second, then make a tiny lunge in the direction you've been looking. Ideally, the defender will reflexively move to block you, leaving him off-balance.


Lift the leg on the side you're pretending to move.
 When the defender moves toward you, reverse the feinting motion. Drop the ball down out of their reach, and hunch low to the ground. The ball should land directly below your nose. For the rest of the crossover, the ball should remain below your waist, and preferably below your knees.
 Keeping your hands below your waist, cross the ball to your undefended side. You can either pass the ball between your legs, or just in front of your knee. Keep your head up as you do this.


This is the most difficult part of the crossover. Practice while standing still, with your legs apart and your eyes on the ball. Once you've mastered that, practice with your eyes straight ahead. Finish by practicing while jogging, then running.
 The hand that was originally dribbling should follow through after passing, barely touching your opposite knee. If you can make this part of one, smooth motion with the crossover, you probably have the correct technique.

