 Before starting any new diet or eating pattern, talk to your doctor first. This is especially true if you're planning on fasting as a method of weight loss.


Your doctor will need to clear you and say you're healthy and stable enough to diet with a fasting program. Not everyone should do a fasting diet.
If you have a chronic disease like diabetes or high blood pressure, fasting may be inappropriate for you.
Also talk to your doctor about any specific risks fasting could cause considering any current health issues or medications you're taking.
Many fasting diets have been relabeled as "detox diets," indicating that limited food intake can help clear the body/liver of impurities. There is limited scientific evidence that this is true.;
, Although physical activity is great for your overall health and will help support your weight loss, it might not be a good idea to do large quantities or high-intensity exercise while you're fasting.When you're exercising, your body burns glucose and glycogen (your body's stored form of energy) to fuel itself through exercise; however, on a fast, you're not supplying any glucose to your body which can make exercise more difficult.
If you haven't eaten in awhile, your body will burn more calories from fat, but it will also break down protein — the building blocks of your muscles — as a source of energy as well.This may stimulate your body to enter "starvation" mode. Your body will respond to reduced caloric intake by holding onto fat stores. Thus, the reason for fasting (weight loss) is greatly slowed, and any ingestion of food will be stored as fat.
During a day of fasting or longer stretch of fasting, stick to lower intensity exercises. You can do a light yoga session or a walk. These require little energy and it won't leave you feeling overly exhausted afterwards.
Leave your higher intensity or long workouts for a day where you've eaten (or once your fast is over). This will make sure that your body stays healthy and has enough fuel to power that type of exercise.
 Most fasting programs will allow you to drink fluids during your fast. In addition, it's not wise to fast without at least having water for more than 24 hours.Water is essential to the health and normal functioning of your body. Even 24 hours without water can cause symptoms of dehydration, which include decreased urine output, dried, cracked skin, headaches, renal failure, fatigue.
Make sure that you aim for at least 64 oz (1.9 L) or eight glasses of clear, hydrating fluids each day. Since you're not eating any foods, you may even want to strive for a total of 11–13 glasses of fluids daily.Because you're not consuming other foods and you may be limiting your total fluid, avoid caffeinated beverages, as these may cause you to lose more fluids when you urinate.Stick to sugar-free, caffeine-free drinks like water, flavored water, sparkling water and decaf coffee or tea.
 Some fasting diets or programs suggest adding in supplements to help either "cleanse" your body or promote quicker weight loss. Be very careful whenever ingesting a supplement, as these are not regulated substances.


The FDA does not provide any regulation to vitamin, mineral, herbal or other dietary supplements.Side effects or adverse events are only reported after consumers have taken supplements and reported the issues to the FDA.
Look for vitamins that are verified or certified by the USP or NSF. This means that the supplement has been tested and verified by an outside company and that it contains the ingredients listed on the label and in the advertised amounts.A common supplement added to a fasting program is fiber. Although fiber is a great supplement to have, too much of it or adding it too quickly to your diet can cause abdominal distress.Vitamin and mineral supplements may also be recommended. Low to moderate doses of most vitamins are generally safe; however, always talk to your primary care physician first.
 One thing many people note while fasting is that they feel a more tired or groggy. Make sure you get adequate rest so your body can cope with your fasting program.Most health professionals suggest that healthy adults need to aim for about seven to nine hours of sleep each night.Aim to get to bed earlier and wake up later if possible.
If you choose to fast — either for one day a week or multiple days (it is not recommended to fast for longer than three to five days) — taking an afternoon nap might not be a bad idea. It can give your mind a break and help rejuvenate your body.
 At first glance, following a fasting diet may seem simple or easy to do. While the concept of not eating may be simple, going without food can majorly affect your body and brain and cause some unpleasant symptoms.


Usually, a day or two of fasting won't cause any harm — especially if you're a healthy adult. However, you may notice that you feel hungry, feel irritable, are preoccupied with food, get dehydrated, have headaches or get sleepy in the afternoon.Sometimes, multiple days of fasting come with a resolution of symptoms; however, you still may noticed decreased energy and fatigue during the day.Track your symptoms and keep an eye on how your body is responding to the fasting diet of your choice. If symptoms are interfering with work or are uncomfortable, discontinue fasting.
Also keep in touch with your doctor if you notice any unusual symptoms.
 Journaling is a powerful tool that has helped many lose and maintain weight loss efforts by identifying self-sabotaging behaviors and thoughts. Many people who journal with weight loss do better than those who do not. In addition, you may find journaling helpful while following a fast.


Fasting will cause you to think a lot more about food, your eating habits and your appetite or feelings of hunger. Journal about these things as you make your way through your fast.
Many people notice that fasting helps improve their relationship with food. When they are forced to go without eating, they may realize how often they want to eat or feel hungry.If you journal and keep notes on what you've learned about yourself and your eating habits, you may be able to use this information to help you learn how to maintain your weight and manage your appetite.
 Fasting longer than a few days is typically not recommended. This is especially true if you're following a fast that allows no food. Follow a short fast instead for the safest program.There are many different types of fasts and fasting diets. Choose the one that is the safest and most well-suited for you.
Try fasting just for a few hours in a day. You can try fasting for 12 hours and then having a small meal after.
Also try fasting by just limiting yourself to 500 calories per day instead of your normal eating routine.
You may even want to consider doing intermittent fasting. Most intermittent fasting program suggest fasting only one or two days a week. This may be easier to follow and comes with less risk.
 Each fasting program or diet is different and will vary in what they do or do not allow on their fasting days. Make sure your pantry and refrigerator are stocked with the appropriate types of foods or beverages.


If you're following a fast that only allows water, there are still other things that you can have. You can try adding flavorings to your water, drinking decaf coffee or tea or even sipping on hot broth.
If you're following a juice diet, either purchase a few containers of 100% juice or consider purchasing fruit and veggies and making homemade juice with a blender or juicer at home.
If you are allowed to eat certain foods, make a grocery list of those items and purchase them each week so you have them on hand for your allowed meals.
 Each fasting program will have different instructions on what you can have and when you can have it. Make sure you follow exactly what's recommended to see the best results and keep your body healthy.


It's important to follow the recommended schedule during your fast. This is especially true if the program dictates when you should drink and what type of beverage you should have. This will help you stay hydrated.
In addition, the more consistent you are, the better your results will be and the quicker your body will adjust to the fasting diet.
 After you've completed your fasting program, make sure to ease yourself back into eating. Try to aim to go back to a balanced and nutritious diet.It might be tempting to go "wild" after coming off from your fast. You may end your fast feeling hungry and looking forward to eating, but try your best to control your cravings and desire to eat.
Try to stick to moderate portions at every meal and only eat until you're satisfied — not overly full or stuffed. Measure out 1 or 2 cups per meal total or stop when you're satisfied.
Also try to limit snacking and grazing. It can be difficult going back to eating after a fast, so try to control how often you reach for snacks now that you're eating again.
 Lean protein is essential to losing weight but also to maintaining weight as well. Make sure to include adequate sources of protein so you're meeting your daily minimum.If you're consuming a 3 – 4 oz serving of lean protein at each meal, you're most likely meeting your daily protein needs.Stick to lean protein sources the most often. These are naturally lower in calories. Try: poultry, eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, beans, low-fat dairy or tofu.
 Like lean sources of protein, both fruits and vegetables are naturally low in calories. Incorporating the recommended five to nine servings per day can also help maintain the weight you lost during a fast.Aim to make at least half of your meals and snacks either a fruit, vegetable or both. This will help ensure you meet the daily guidelines.
Measure out about 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens or about 1/2 cup of fruit per serving.
 Whole grains are a great food to add back to your diet after a fast. They help keep you satisfied and make it easy to maintain the weight you lost during your fast.


Aim to include one to two servings of 100% whole grains each day. Measure out about 1/2 cup of cooked grains or 1 oz of grains.Go for 100% whole grains as these foods are high in fiber and other essential nutrients. Refined grains are stripped of all these beneficial nutrients during their processing.Try 100% whole grains like: quinoa, brown rice, farro, whole wheat pasta or whole wheat bread.
 After you've completed your fast, get back into your normal physical activity routine. You may have laid off on some more intense workouts, but now that you're eating regular foods and meals, you can safely return to these types of workouts.


Aim for 150 minutes of moderate cardiovascular or aerobic activity each week. Include activities like jogging, swimming, dancing or using the elliptical.Also return to your weight lifting or strength training routine. Include at least one to two days of strength training each week and ensure you work each major muscle group. Lift weights, do yoga or try pilates during the week.