 Scrubbing, especially with an "exfoliating" sponge or washcloth, can actually make your whitehead problem worse because it irritates your skin. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends that you just use your fingertips and wash with a gentle, non-abrasive cleaner.Massaging the soap into your skin with your fingers will still provide a deep clean.
 Skincare products such as astringents, masks, toners, and exfoliating soaps can actually irritate your skin and make it more prone to developing whiteheads.


Applying rubbing alcohol can also irritate your skin and cause whiteheads to develop.
Skincare products that contain oil are also not a good idea if you have acne-prone skin. Many cosmetics and sunblock lotions contain oil that can clog pores and lead to whiteheads. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends that you use products that say "oil-free," "will not clog pores," or "noncomedogenic."Avoid heavy foundations and cream cosmetics if possible. These tend to be the worst culprits for blocking pores., Oil-free makeup is better for your skin than the oily stuff, but it can still cause trouble if it blocks your acne medications from working. Apply your medications first, then your makeup, for the best effect.
 In addition to avoiding skincare products that contain oil, you can also help prevent breakouts by not using greasy or oil-containing hair products and not touching or picking at your face (your fingers have natural skin oils and bacteria on them that can cause breakouts).
 While it can be hard to resist wanting to eliminate whiteheads by picking or popping them, doing so can actually further inflame the skin, make the whitehead problem worse, potentially cause infection, and delay skin healing. Keep your fingers away!, You can find oil-absorbent blotting paper at many pharmacies and beauty supply stores. If you have very oily skin, using blotting paper can help absorb some of the excess oil without causing irritation.
 Tanning beds and laying out to tan are popular, but they're not good news for your skin. Using tanning beds can increase your risk of skin cancer by 75 percent. In addition, certain acne medications make your skin more sensitive to sunlight, which can increase skin damage if you tan., It might be tempting to stop using topical acne medications once they've done their job. Dermatologists recommend that you continue using at least one topical medication even after your skin clears to prevent further breakouts. Remember: an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure!