 Hold the hanger with one hand at its center. Push the center of the hanger up toward the hanger hook but not too far in; there should still be a gap. This will narrow the hanger to a sort of sausage shape.
 Use your other hand to reshape each end of the hanger into a butterfly wing shape.


Pull the wing parts out, then down.
Make adjustments as needed, to get a wing-like appearance to both ends of the hanger. (The shape is up to you; be creative or imitate an exact butterfly wing shape.)

, Try to avoid the hook end poking out––tuck it in as neatly as you can.
, (Do the same for both hangers.)


Pull right over the wing. Be careful when pulling over the hook part and try not to rip a hole in it. If it does rip, don't worry too much, just don't let it keep ripping––dab a bit of nail polish on it to stop this from happening.
Knot each end of the stocking onto the hanger. Be sure that the stocking is pulled nice and tight; this makes painting it easier later. When tying the knot, knot before each of stocking ends so as to avoid the blocked part of the stocking from forming part of the wings (these will be snipped off shortly).
Pull the stocking tight from the hook in the center, to even up the edges and to prevent any loose stocking from amassing in the center curve. Then gather this bit tightly with string or ribbon.
The stocking should now sit snugly on the hanger. Repeat for the next hanger.
 Trim close to the knot and discard the trimmed parts of the stocking.
 Bend up at a sharp angle to create an opened effect to the wings. They should stand out when worn.


Do any additional reshaping as required, to ensure that they look like butterfly wings.
 Using the folded hooks to create the center, wrap around the hooks with tape to keep in place.
 Glue the ribbon end to the wrapped tape.
 There are several choices here:


Use fabric paint. Use stripes, dots, patterns, etc. that copy those of real butterflies. Or do random colors and shapes.
Dip the stockings in food coloring.
 This can be anything you like, from glitter and artificial gems to buttons, sequins and other bits and bobs from the craft box.


Artificial flowers are another nice choice, especially added to the center part of the wings.
 You may wish to color or match the elastic to the color of the wings, although this is not necessary. The width of the elastic is also up to you––just make sure it is comfortable and won't cut into the wearer.


Make two large enough circles of elastic to go over the wearer's arms. Knot the circles to keep them intact; trim off any excess.
Slide the knotted circles over a wing each side.
 Adjust to hide the knot, as needed.

