 Is this card for a child or an adult? How long have you known the recipient? Do you want to make a silly card or a sophisticated one? Take a moment to think about this person, what they like, and what you enjoy about being their friend.;
, Set up a workstation with all your tools and supplies. For a simple handmade birthday card, you'll need:


Construction paper, cardstock, or any paper you have.
Coloring utensils such as markers, crayons, and colored pencils.
Glue (optional)
Stickers (optional)
Glitter (optional)
Ribbon (optional)

, The paper possibilities are virtually endless. You can use any paper you have around the house or use colored paper. Pick whatever kind of paper is easiest and most fun. Here are some options to consider:


Printer paper is easy to work with and you might have some on hand.
Cardstock or construction paper is a heavier and will feel more like a store bought card.
Scrapbook paper might include patterns or borders to start you off with more than just a blank slate.
 You can create a traditional folded card, or a flat postcard style card. You can even fold your card in half and then half again. Here are a few things to think about:


If you are using printer paper, you will probably want to make a folded card. Printer paper is thin and flimsy, so folding it will make it a bit sturdier.
If you are using cardstock or construction paper you can easily fold it or cut it into a flat postcard style birthday card.
 If you decide to fold your card, place your paper on a table in profile layout and fold it in half to bring the top and bottom edges together.


Line up the edges of the paper and make the fold slowly to keep the edges as even as possible.
If you'd like, you can take your folded card in profile layout and fold it in half again, bringing the top and bottom edges together to make a sturdier card.
Make a sharp clean crease if you are folding construction paper.
If you decide to use scrapbook paper, decide whether or not to fold it based on its thickness.
 Take a ruler and measure out a card between 3 1/2 and 4 1/4 inches high and between 5 and 6 inches long.This is the size of a standard postcard.


You can get creative with the dimensions of your card and make the edges curvy.
If you want to make a postcard style birthday card and have thin scrapbook paper, you can glue it to a piece of cardstock to make it stronger.
 Once you have selected your paper and your card format, it's time to get started on creating your simple birthday card. You can use a thick marker or a combination of different colors to write, "Happy Birthday!" on the front of your card. If you prefer not to hand write it, you can also print the words using a word processor and cut them out for your card, or use the printed piece of paper as your template.


You can make the words big and center them on the front of your card, or write them small based on your preference. There is no wrong way to do it, but since it is a birthday card, it should say, "Happy Birthday" somewhere!

, The great thing about making cards by hand is that you can create them specifically for their recipient. Print put a picture of the two of you. Draw a birthday cake with the appropriate amount of candles. You can even write the beginning of a phrase that will end on the inside or back of your card. Try something like:


I hope you have a great day today. Celebrate! It's your birthday!
Happy birthday to a great friend. I like your birthday. Without it, I would not have such a great friend. Have an awesome birthday!
I want to wish a happy birthday to one of the coolest people I know. Happy birthday to you!
Add a fun memory that you and your recipient share. Use the front of your card to start the story and finish it in the inside or back of the card. For example, "Remember last year when we went rock climbing on your birthday? I can't wait for our next adventure, Happy Birthday!"

, Think about your relationship with this person and some of the fun memories you share. You can write an inside joke or congratulate them on accomplishments they have made in the last year.


Use this space to tell them something light and fun that you would like them to know.
Wish them the best for next year too!

, Depending on how much room you have, you may want to draw some more pictures or include another photo. Draw pictures of candles, balloons, birthday cakes, or cartoon characters of you and your recipient.


Look up a line from your favorite poem, or find a funny riddle to include., Include your full name, first name, or whatever name your recipient knows you by. Include a phone number, email address, or mailing address if you would like to offer your recipient an easy way to keep in touch with you.

