 Instead of stresses, concerns, worries, and strife, the airhead fills their head with fantasies. When you're at work, school, or even doing something more mundane, like going to the grocery store, you should opt out of responsibility with daydreaming. Imagine what it would be like to jam out on your Stratocaster with Hendrix at the Fillmore, or catch a sick wave off Point Reyes. Live in your mind and make it awesome.


Stuck in class? Not when you've got your imagination. Imagine yourself walking out in the woods, or kissing your crush, or what kind of grilled cheese you're going to make when you get home.
Daydreaming doesn't make you a failure or a slacker. Einstein's special theory of relativity? It started with a daydream, wondering what it would be like to travel beside a beam of light traveling through space. This led to what might be the most famous scientific paper ever written, "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies," which explored the daydream in depth.;
, Ambitions? Plans? Not for the airhead. Watch every sunset, smell every flower, nod at every passer-by. Be in the moment, man. Don't stress about things like jobs, college, or "careers." Don't worry about issues or politics. That stuff will all work itself out. Have fun.


If you struggle with always being obsessed over the future, getting nervous about an upcoming test, or graduation, or what you're going to do this weekend, take some time to meditate. Just sit. Relax. Try to still your mind for 15 or 20 minutes at a time, watching your thoughts float by.
Don't worry about the past either. Forget whatever you've done that was bad and focus on being here, now, thinking about today. Airheads are not angry, hateful, or rude. Airheads don't hold lasting grudges. An airhead's range of emotions go from happy to mildly disappointed to happy again.
 Plastered on the airhead's face should be a grin. Why not? Push away dark thoughts, stresses, and only focus on the fun things in your life. Even if you're on your way to work, you might as well grin. It'll be over soon, and then it'll be the weekend, and you can party.


Try to get along with everyone. An airhead doesn't play favorites or find people to antagonize. To be an airhead, try your best to look at everyone as being the same, for better or worse. If you want to be air-headed, you should go out of your way to say hello to strangers, striking up conversations with all sorts of people.
 An airhead handles everything–heavy subjects, successes, failures–with total indifference. An airhead doesn't need to express "deep" emotions, preferring to stay blissfully ignorant of stresses and cares. Think of it as zen calm.


Practice your platitudes. If a friend is going through a rough patch, or has just experienced some kind of turmoil, it's best for the airhead to rely upon cliches and overly simplistic wisdom: "That's too bad. Sometimes you just gotta go through the darkness to enjoy the light, know what I mean?", An airhead never needs to be anywhere on time. What's the point? What's time anyway, but a bunch of little ticks on a machine? Leave the watch at home and operate on your own internal chronometer.
 Your friends just texted to say they're heading to the beach tomorrow, but you've got to work? Call in sick. Beach bashes with friends are too good to miss out on because you've got to be stuck in the kitchen, or the office, or class. Carpe that diem.


You'll have to walk a fine line between responsibility and fun. You want to be able to work enough to maintain the airhead lifestyle you like, but not so much you tax yourself. Try to work just enough to keep l-i-v-i-n.
Try your best to find a job that you enjoy, so working will be as much like fun as possible. Check out the next method for advice about airhead employment.
 Airheads are great to have around at all kinds of social functions, and are ready to throw down and party at a moment's notice. If you want to be an airhead, you've got to commit to being ready for fun.


Don't plan out parties ahead of time, just go with the flow. Go hangout at the bar or in another high-traffic area on a Friday night to see where the night leads. Be a leaf in the partying wind. Throw your own party if you can't find a good one.
Keep a party bag on you at all times. Keep an energy drink, a sports drink for rehydration, some gum, some cash in case you wind up at a cash-only bar or need a cab ride, your toothbrush, your cellphone charger, and anything else necessary for partying. If you're serious enough, you might even need your passport.
 The real secret of the airhead? There's more going on in there than meets the eye. Real airheads surprise friends and acquaintances with moments of sudden brilliance. Airhead-ness is often just a mask that covers an inner well of enlightened dignity. At least, sometimes it is.


Keep surprise talents hidden until opportune moments. Maybe you've learned how to play the banjo extremely well, but have told no one. Wait until one shows up at a party, then play "Clinch Mountain Backstep" like a banjo wizard. When everyone says, "Why didn't you ever tell us you played banjo?" a good airhead response would be, "Nobody asked."
Airheads are often vague about the past, or what goes on in their lives. There's a certain mystery to airheads: where did they come from? What do they do? If someone asks you these questions, give vague answers: "I'm just passing through, I guess. Having fun."

, To lighten your load, find out how little you can possibly work to make enough to keep yourself in a responsibility-free lifestyle for as long as possible. Crunch a few numbers and find out what you need to make, then cut your hours until you're just on the level. How much money do you need every month for rent, food, and other expenses? Bonus airhead points if you can find some way to work from home. Doing work on the computer in your PJs? Now you're talking.


Give some consideration to changing your living situation and trying to live as cheaply as possible. It might be hard to be an airhead and own your own home, but splitting a loft space with five or six others will help keep the rent low and your living expenses manageable. You'll be out partying all the time, anyway, so who cares about roommates? More people to have fun with.
 If you're the kind of airhead who needs people around to make things a bit more fun and provide entertainment, find work where you'll be able to socialize as part of your job. If you can be having fun at work, it won't have to be like work at all.



Bartenders have to be able to do a lot very quickly, negotiating drinks and customers all at once, but if you work the day shift, things tend to be a lot quieter. Your tips may be smaller, but you'll be able to chat with customers and pour drinks at a leisurely pace.
Consider anything in the service industry. Waiting tables, selling shoes, anything in which you're dealing with customers might be a good option for the airhead. No big decisions need to be made, just the ability to pay attention and listen, both airhead qualities.
 Sunning yourself while working? That's every airhead's fantasy. Try to cultivate talents and skills that will allow you to work in the great outdoors. Some good low-stress outdoor jobs for the airhead might include:


Gardener
Surfer
Trail guide
Fishing guide
Landscaper

, Traveling on someone else's dime, touring around the world, listening to live music every night? The music industry is full of airheads, and you don't even need to be on stage to be a part of it. There are lots of employment opportunities that could be easily filled by an airhead such as yourself. Consider studying music production, live sound, or other related subjects and look for jobs such as:


Live sound technician
Roadie
Disc jockey
Guitar tech
Producer

, Airhead or genius? If you like making things with your hands, thinking conceptual about art, or just enjoy drawing, build some necessary skills to do what you love. It'll take some work to hone your skills, studying the fundamentals of painting, drawing, sculpture, and other necessary skills, but then you'll be able to break free and start breaking those rules. Making dioramas from rotten banana peels? Making flags from thong tags? Making busts from chocolate and lard? It's art, if you know what you're doing.


Secure a studio space nearby where you're living, or think about trying to find "live-work" studios, which are usually low-cost and will help keep your overhead low. You might have a drafty loft with a bed in it, but there'll be plenty of room for you to work and collect materials.
Research arts residencies that will allow you to live in a community of like-minded artists and dreamers, where you might even be paid to spend time working on your craft. Residencies like the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, the Skowhegan School of Painting, and Djerassi Resident Artists Institute all offer space to work and live, doled out for free. What could be more conducive to the airhead than that?

, An airhead needs to be as free from commitment and responsibility as possible, to stay focused mainly on the self. Keeping pets, having children, climbing corporate ladders: these things are difficult for airheads to wrap their brains around. If you want to live this kind of lifestyle for as long as possible, it's important not to get locked into long-term commitments and consequences that mean you'll have to settle down and stop living day-to-day.
 An airhead isn't "dumb," an airhead is someone who is free from worry, focused more on fun than responsibility. That doesn't make you dumb, and you shouldn't affect an ignorant persona to attract other airheads. Make arguments, have opinions, and put your intelligence on display. Being true to yourself is what being an airhead is all about, ultimately.


It's not cool, sexy, or funny to be anti-intellectual. It's just dumb. Be informed about the issues you care about and show genuine interest when someone who is informed is talking. Don't put down others if they're not automatically air-headed about everything.
 Smoking, drinking, and partying hard are all stereotypical airhead behaviors. You can avoid them entirely or indulge occasionally–it's up to you–but you need to find a healthy medium between too much and too little. Having fun might be important, but you need to take care of yourself to ensure a long life of partying to come, and avoid self-destructive behaviors that might be mistaken for fun.


Set partying rules for yourself and stick to them strictly. Maybe, "No weeknight partying after the age of 25" is a rule you can enforce, or the "2 am means go home" rule. Keep a list of your partying decrees and keep it with you. Make it part of your airhead thing.
If your partying is inhibiting your ability to work, keep relationships, or stay healthy, you need to cut back significantly. If you suspect you have a drinking problem, or are struggling with other addictions, get the help you need.
 The difference between an airhead and a slacker is that airheads can take care of themselves, so we forgive their sometimes empty-headed behavior as a personality quirk. If those quirks get in the way of your ability to feed, house, and clothe yourself, however, it's a problem. If you're going to be an airhead, it's absolutely essential that you also be able to take care of yourself and provide for yourself in basic ways. You don't have to be a homesteader or a survivalist, but you do need to be able to pay your own way through the world.


Airheads have a reputation for mess–who's got time to clean?–but Try to stay on top of your living space to avoid a hoarders-type scenario. No free-roaming ferrets or uncleaned cat boxes, please, especially if you've got housemates. Be an adult.
At a certain age, it's important that you move out of your parents house and start taking on your own responsibilities. It's nice to have a support net if you're struggling to get on your feet, but take active steps to make any return-moves as quick and temporary as possible. Having someone do your laundry and make you cereal at at 25 should be embarrassing for anyone, airheads included.
 While the occasional Hot Pocket might be a great guilty pleasure, it probably shouldn't make up a substantial part of your diet, unless you want to be the kind of airhead with cholesterol problems by the time you're 30. Balance your carefree lifestyle and your partying with healthy food choices, exercise, and smart lifestyle decisions.



Learn to cook for yourself and focus less on buying packaged frozen food or eating out. Focus on getting enough fiber and nutrient-rich vegetables into your diet, and cutting out snack foods and high-fat treats.
Find some kind of fun, carefree exercise routine that you enjoy. It seems likely that airheads won't be super-fans of CrossFit or other high-intensity exercises, but maybe playing ultimate frisbee, going on long nature hikes, or taking dance-aerobics would be more up your alley.
If you've dabbled with tobacco use, Try to quit as soon as possible. Lots of young people might experiment with it before getting concerned about their health, but it can be a scary thought to push 30 and realize you've been smoking for 10 years. It gets harder and harder to quit.
 Too many airheads together can be a leaderless ship–someone's gotta steer! Try to associate with a variety of people, some more of the Type-A personality variety, who'll round out your friendship group and allow you to settle back into the laid-back airhead role you prefer to take on. Find the "yin" to your "yang," so you can complement the others' personalities nicely.


Ambitious people will likely be jealous of your ability to relax, have fun, and stay carefree as you get older, meaning that you'll be a fun outlet for them. Likewise, career-minded friends can offer the benefit of tutoring you on skills they've already develops for themselves, like opening retirement accounts, applying to graduate schools, or filing taxes.

