 In order to make your hair grow out faster, you need to keep your hair as healthy and hydrated as possible. Applying heat, dye, and certain hair products to your hair in excess can cause individual strands to dry and break, thereby hindering your hair's overall ability to grow.


If you need to smooth frizzy, flyaway hair, use a mini flat-iron and focus only on the areas in need of flattening. Do not flat-iron your entire hair unless necessary.
Switch to hydrating hair products, like cream-serums, and stay away from any containing harsh chemicals.
You should also avoid washing your hair more than necessary. Skip at least one day in between washings, and on occasion, try skipping two days.;
, Conditioner, on the other hand, helps lock moisture into your hair and makes it healthier. To stimulate hair growth faster, you should condition your hair after every shampooing while you are in the process of growing it out.


If you use a rinse-out conditioner, you can prevent your hair from looking weighed down in between washings.
On the other hand, if your hair gets especially dry, consider using a leave-in conditioner to provide extra protection and hydration.
 Oils can help moisturize your hair and create a barrier against drying agents in the air that could otherwise damage exposed strands. Coconut oil is, perhaps, the most commonly used oil when it comes to hair treatment.


Massage a few drops of coconut oil or another oil into your scalp, working it through all of your strands, as well. Let it sit undisturbed for 20 to 30 minutes before rinsing the oil out with warm water.
Repeat this procedure once a week if you have hair that gets oily easily or twice a week if your hair gets dry easily.
 Before going to bed each night, treat your scalp to a brief massage. Rub the scalp with your fingertips, working in circular motions, until you cover the entire scalp. Doing this is thought to help stimulate hair growth.


Try massaging the scalp for a full 5 to 10 minutes before going to sleep. This process is thought to stimulate blood flow, which could help your hair grow, as well.
 You may not realize it, but the overall physical state of your body can have a dramatic effect on the condition of your hair. If you are unhealthy, it might take longer for your pixie cut to grow out.


For best results, eat plenty of foods that provide nutrients involved in the hair growth cycle. Get enough protein, iron, and zinc.A few specific foods that are worth working into your diet include walnuts, salmon, eggs, spinach, and blueberries.
 It might seem counter-intuitive, but making a regular trip to the hair salon to have your hair trimmed is actually a key component of successfully growing your pixie cut out. If you do not go to the salon, split ends will develop and worsen, leading to lifeless hair.


If you do not trim your split ends near the beginning of the process, you may notice that your hair will begin to "bulge" out around the ear.Once you notice split ends developing, trim about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) off your hair.
 A decorative headband can hide any sections of hair that have grown to an awkward length, but because it also doubles as a fun accessory, your hairstyle can still look playful, chic, and purposeful.


Use a thin headband to create a sleek look. With this type of band, you can slick your bangs completely back and use the headband to hold them in place.
For a more fashionable, fun look, try a thicker headband with a fun pattern or embellishment. Depending on the decorative element used, you can use the band to hold your bangs back or to distract the eye from the length of your hair.
Avoid undecorated cotton headbands. These tend to look too casual and may make it appear as though you simply forgot to take the headband out before stepping out.
 You can use clips and pins to sweep any misplaced strands out of the way while adding a touch of something special to your look. Since there are so many types of hair clips available, you can make this look work for just about any occasion, spanning the style gamut from flirty to sophisticated.


When your hair gets long enough to gather into a bundle, try using a sparkly hair pin to pin them off the the side or back, creating a sort of pseudo-ponytail.
You can also use pins and clips to sweep back long bangs.
If you do not need pins and clips for a practical use, you can still slip a sparkly clip into your hair at the side just to add a bit of flair to your everyday look.
 If you are unable to create a hair style you feel satisfied with for the day, cover up your untamable locks with a pretty hat or head scarf. Both options can create classy, stylish looks when done well.


Think outside the box when choosing the right hat. Instead of grabbing that ragged baseball cap in your coat closet, reach for something with a little more class, like a beret, cloche, fedora, bucket, or newsboy hat. Play with material and pattern to achieve a look that matches well with your personality and the shape of your face.
Wrap a scarf around your hair. A silky scarf with a beautiful print is another great option for when you want to cover your hair instead of styling or accessorizing it. Unlike a hat, however, a headscarf almost always adds a touch of classic, quiet sophistication to your look, especially if you choose one made from an elegant material.
 If you want long hair and want it now, check into buying hair extensions. Ask your hairdresser for more information about extensions, and for best results, have the hairdresser put long-lasting ones in.
 As your hair grows out, it will naturally begin to get longer in the back while remaining short in the front. To avoid looking like your hair is “business in the front, party in the back,” get some of the hair in the back of your head to be trimmed, even when there are little to no split ends in them.


To avoid the mullet look during the first stage of growth, when the front of your hair is trying to catch up to the back, see your hairdresser every four weeks for a neck trim., The right hair color can liven up your hair during the initial stages of odd growth patterns, and it can also provide a good distraction from parts of your hair style you are less than eager to show off.


Note, however, that you should not dye your hair frequently during this process. Hair dye uses harsh chemicals that can damage your hair over time, and damaging your hair will only cause it to grow more slowly, thereby delaying the end result.
If distraction is your main goal, consider choosing a bold color, like fiery red, pink, blue, or plum. Keep this color throughout the first phase of growth, until your hair reaches bob length.
If you want something to pretty up your hair without utilizing the full power of distraction, you could go for highlights or lowlights that accent your natural hair color and fade away naturally as your hair grows out.
 If your bangs or the front strands of hair become too long, you can braid your bangs off to the side. This can create a cute look while simultaneously getting them out of the way.


Start with a deep side part.
Gradually French braid your bangs, working them into the rest of your hair as they reach toward the side and back.
Hide the ends with a decorative clip or by slipping them behind your ear.
 When your hair wants to start flying all over the place on its own, encourage it. Use gel or mousse to create a spiky, edgy style for the day, focusing on creating angles that frame your face as effectively as possible.


At home, try teasing your hair to give it a fuller, wilder look. Hold it in place with a spritz of hairspray or dry shampoo, or keep it pinned in place with fun hair clips.
If you like the wild look, talk to your stylist about incorporating the look into your next cut. You could try for a piece-y, wavy bob that hides imperfections or a choppy pixie or bob with layers designed to frame the face., Once your bangs get rather long, you can create a deep side part on one side of your head and brush all the bangs forward. Use a brush to sweep the bangs off into a chic, elegant, and asymmetrical bang.


The part should be roughly aligned to one of your ears.
Sweep your bangs over the opposite side of your face and hold them in place with a light spray of dry shampoo.They should sneak just above or just over the eye.
You could also insert two bobby pins over the ends of the side-swept bangs, crossing them together in the shape of an "x," to hold the bangs in place more securely.
 When all else fails, tie your hair back in a simple ponytail. This might be hard to do initially, but as your hair grows out to a satisfactory enough length, you can form a mess low ponytail at the base of the scalp.When working a ponytail, part the hair down the center and slick it back. Use hair elastics designed to avoid breaking your hair, and tie as much hair as you can gather into a low ponytail at the base of your neck.
Even if you use hair elastics designed to minimize breakage, you should still avoid doing this too often because tying your hair back can cause more split ends in the long-run.

