 Before you begin writing a love letter, you should spend some time brainstorming. This means gathering your thoughts so you can better express yourself when writing the physical letter. To start, ask yourself some questions.


Who are you writing the letter to? Think about how you know this girl. Is she someone you admire from school who you've never spoken to? Is she a barista at a local coffee shop who you admire but are unsure how to approach?
What do you like about this person? As you begin thinking about the letter's recipient, think about why you're infatuated with her. What about her do you admire and why? Go beyond mere physical beauty. For example, if you're writing about a barista you have a crush on you might admire her hairstyle and eyes. However, try to push beyond this. What about her personality is intriguing to you? Is she always particularly polite with customers? Does she always smile at people, even if they don't smile back?Can you think of any specific incidents? People are attracted to people who notice them. If you can think of a specific moment when you realized you had feelings for this person, that would be great to include in the letter. Try to jog your memory and think of a specific moment when you began to develop romantic feelings., It can be hard to write to someone you do not know. Even if you admire this person very much, you will not have as much information at your disposal as you would writing to someone you have an existing relationship with. Therefore, focus on the energy over the message. Even if your feelings are vague, the fact you wrote a letter at all speaks volumes.Writing someone a love letter takes courage and commitment. You have to sit down and physically write out your feelings. Delivering the letter carries a risk of rejection, especially if the recipient is very much a stranger to you. Therefore, the effort you took to write the letter in and of itself may be seen as impressive by the recipient.Remember your intention if you feel nervous or frustrated when writing the letter. You want to let this stranger know you admire her. The energy behind that intention is more important than finding the perfect words and phrases. Allow your intent to guide you as you begin to express your feelings., If you're still struggling to think of ideas, focus on the past, present, and future. This can get your creative juices flowing. When did you meet this person? What is your relationship now? What do you hope for in the future? Some details may be inexact when writing a love letter to a stranger but you may find some inspiration considering these factors.


When did you first notice this person? Did she sit ahead of you in algebra class and you noticed the smell of her conditioner? Did you order a latte from her when you were having a bad day and notice she drew a smiley face on the side of your cup? While your meeting may have been brief, and while she may not remember, you might have noticed something you can include in your letter.How does this person affect you now? While you may not have a relationship in the present, you may still gain something valuable from day-to-day interactions with this person. For example, maybe it's nice to see her through the window as you pass by your local Starbucks. Maybe it's nice to overhear the music she's listening to before the bell rings for class.Finally, think of the future. Where do you want to go from here? Maybe you just wanted to express your feelings rather than bottling them up. However, maybe you're hoping you could meet this person and the two of you could get to know each other. Think about what you want from this letter when considering the future., When you feel ready to write the letter, begin by stating your intent. This can be brief, as short as a single sentence. However, it's an important sentence. You want the recipient to know this is a letter expressing some deep feelings so she'll pay attention to its content. For example, you could say something like, "We don't know each other, but I'm writing to tell you I've admired you for quite some time. We have an algebra class together in a lecture hall on campus, and I think your taste in music is amazing."

