 Cardiovascular or “cardio” exercise is arguably the best single type of exercise in terms of how well it reduces your chances of dying young, since it works your lungs and heart above all else. The most basic types of cardio exercise are walking, jogging, and running, but many other types of exercise have a cardio component as well, including swimming, martial arts, and biking.


Try to work at vigorous cardiovascular exercise for 30 minutes or more every day. If you can't manage 30 minutes, fifteen minutes is still better than nothing. Less than fifteen minutes has little effect on your health.
A cardio exercise machine, such as a treadmill or exercise bike, may be used in lieu of actually jogging or biking, if needed.
 As opposed to cardio exercise, weightlifting (also called resistance training) works the muscles in your body, such as those in your arms, legs, chest, and abdomen. Proper weightlifting is done by finding your maximum lift for a given exercise, then repeating a lift at about 80% of that weight to help build strength. Because you're asking a lot of your muscles whenever you lift weights, most experts agree that it's best to alternate your lifting, doing any particular lift no more than 4 days out of the week.


You can choose to do all your lifting on a given day, and skip it entirely the next, or you can focus on one area of your body one day and the other the next.
 Your core is your torso, particularly your lower back and stomach. This is the foundation of strength elsewhere in your body, so it should be a top priority in any fitness regimen that includes weight training. Standing lifts, such as clean lifts and overhead presses, will work your core, as will sit-up exercises and many others.


Your core is more than just your abs. Combine sit-ups, push-ups, planks, and other such simple exercises into a comprehensive core routine to work your entire torso for the best results.
 Next to your core, your legs are the pillars of your strength. Strong legs give you more stability and safety when doing other kinds of lifts, too.


Learn to do a back squat. This basic bar exercise is a great way to work many muscles in your body at once. It particularly works your hips and legs, but is also good for your core strength.

Start in a weight frame with the rack set at about chest level, and a bar with weights resting in the rack and across your shoulders, behind your head.
Look straight ahead and grip the bar firmly, with your hands farther apart than your shoulders.
Take one step back to remove the weight bar from the rack. With your feet flat and shoulder-width apart, take a deep breath and hold it as you rest the weight on your shoulders and bend your knees, lowering the bar smoothly.
Squat so that your knees and toes roughly line up, with the weight coming down onto your heels. Maintain a straight back and bend at the hips instead. Pause briefly at the bottom of the squat.
Push off through your heels and drive the weight back upward, exhaling as you do so. Return the bar to the rack.
 Though strong arms don't support strength elsewhere in the body, they're still useful and important to develop.


Learn to do a bench press. This is a classic upper torso and arm exercise that's great for building upper-body strength. You'll start by reclining back on a weight bench, with the weight bar in a rack above your head.

Lift the bar off the rack and center it over your upper chest, arms outstretched.
Take a deep breath, hold it, and smoothly lower the bar to your chest.
Pause just long enough to change direction, then exhale and smoothly lift the bar away from your chest until your elbows almost lock.
Pause for a second, then carefully return the bar to the rack.



