 If you know the company you would like to work for, you can go to the "Careers" section of the company's website to apply for a position. If you are unsure of where you would like to work, you should go to a job search engine such as Monster, Career Builder, Indeed, or Simply Hired.You should be as specific as possible in your job search. This will make your search be more efficient.Specify the job title or job description by putting quotation marks around the keywords. For example, you could enter "retail," "sales," or "cashier" in the search box.
You can often specify your location by state, city, or by distance from a certain zip code.
If you are applying to local or independent store, you may have to go to the store to complete an application.;
, The job description will tell you what kind of person the company is looking for and if you are a good fit. Focus on the qualifications section which includes required and preferred skills. You should apply if you meet the required qualifications. You can still get the position if you do not have all of the preferred qualifications/skills.The first three qualifications listed are usually the most important.If the job description is looking for someone that is a team player, any experience you have working on a group project or belonging to a club or sports team would be a match for the skill they are looking for.
If the job description is looking for someone who is friendly and confident, you should demonstrate this during your interview. This includes smiling, making eye contact, giving a firm handshake, and generally being pleasant through any communication you have with the company.
Focus on the skills you have gained through your previous experiences and not necessarily your actual job titles or positions. Many skills are transferable.
 Your resume should include your contact information, employment history, education, and any relevant skills. Make sure that your resume is tailored to the job you are applying for.If you are applying to be a cashier, your resume may highlight your ability to communicate with people and any experience you have with handling money.


Make sure your resume is easy to follow and error free.
Include keywords and skills from the job description in your resume. If the job description uses the phrase "team player," you should use a phrase like "team player," "worked on a team," or "contributed to a team" in your resume.
 Three skills that are important for retail jobs are leadership, being responsible, and good people skills.Even if you have never had a retail job before, you have probably developed these skills through other experiences. These skills are often called "soft skills."


Volunteering in the community, babysitting, involvement in sports teams or clubs, having a leadership role in a project or group activity are all examples that you have developed these skills.
 A cover letter is a great way to introduce yourself and cover any topics that you cannot convey in your resume. Your cover letter should not be more than one page and should be tailored to the job you are applying for. It should include a heading, introduction, body, and a closing. Your cover letter should not just repeat what is in your resume. It needs to tell the employer who you are, and why they should hire you.


The heading should contain your contact information, date, and the address of the company.
In the introduction, greet the recipient of the letter, state the position you are applying for and why you are a good match for the position and company.The body is where you can provide specific examples of the skills you have and how you used these skills. You might say "During my time as a X, I met people from all walks of life and learned how to communicate with all types of people."
The closing of the letter should reiterate why you are a good candidate for the job, thank the person for reading your application material, and mention that you look forward to speaking with them in the future. You should also sign your name at the end.A cover letter may be especially helpful if you have no prior retail experience, but have developed soft skills that would help you be successful in retail. The cover letter is an ideal place to talk about those skills.
 You should practice discussing your work experience, why you want to work for the company, and what skills do you have that would be an asset to the company. You should know your resume inside and out. You should also be prepared to answer some questions specific to working in retail.You should also do some research on the company prior to the interview.
You may be asked: "Do you work well with people?" "Do you have reliable transportation?" "How would you handle a rude customer?" "Can you describe a time when you provided good customer service?" and many other situational questions like these.You should anticipate the type of questions you will be asked and develop some answers. It may help to do a mock interview with one of your friends.
A good answer for "Do you work well with people?" would include not only saying yes, but also a specific example of a time when you worked on something with other people. The other people could be classmates or coworkers from another job.
A good answer for "How would you handle an upset customer?" would include listening to the customer's concern and working with the customer to resolve the issue. Also mention that you would make sure the resolution was still inline with the policies and regulations of the company.
It will be helpful if you keep a few specific examples in the back of your mind about a time you provided good customer service and any situation in which you were able to resolve a problem with your coworkers, a customer, or a manager. Note that a customer isn't always a person physically shopping in a store - it could be a client to a previous employer or any communication with a user of the company's product (including a website).
 Your appearance is the first thing that the interviewer will notice about you, and they will likely form opinions about you based on the way you look and present yourself.This includes not only your dress, but the way you carry yourself as well.


Dress professionally and neatly to show the employer that you are serious about the job. Men should wear pressed collared dress shirts, dress slacks, tie, and polished dress shoes. Women should wear a nice blouse, slacks or skirt and dress shoes.Your shoe choice should reflect the job that you are applying for. If you are interviewing at a high-end fashion or lingerie store, high heels would be appropriate for a woman. If you are applying to a hardware or department store, a nice pair of flats would be appropriate.
 Remember that the interview process is a two way street. You should be evaluating if the company is a good fit for you as well.Asking questions also shows the interviewer that you are serious about working at the company.


Questions you may want to ask include: "How many hours a week am I expected to work?" "Will I be required to work nights and/or weekends?" "How are employees reviewed and evaluated?" "What would a typical day be like in this position?", Following up is the last step of the interview process. You should send a follow up letter within 24 hours. Make sure that you send the follow up letter during business hours Most interviewers prefer an email, but you can send a handwritten thank you note as well.Make sure you proofread the letter before you send it. You are being evaluated every time you communicate with the interviewer.
Your letter should thank the interviewer for their time, mention something that was discussed during the interview, and reiterate why you are a good fit for the position.