 Set the foreground color to white, and the background color to black. A quick way to do this is to press the D key (for Default colors), and the X key (swapping the foreground and background colors).
 As with the above method, set the background content to be Background Color.
 Draw a squarish shape in the middle of the image.
 At the top of the window, select Fill, and choose white. Select the Line attribute, and set it to none, as shown.
 Right-click on the name of the new shape layer (Rounded Rectangle 1, by default), and select Rasterize Layer from the contextual menu.
 Ensure the shape layer is still selected. From the Filter menu, select Stylize, and then then Wind.
 Choose the following settings in the Wind window: Wind and From the Right, then click OK.
 This adds to the Wind effect. Your rectangle should look something like this:

, Click on the Image menu, then Image Rotation, then 90° CW.
 A window will open. Set the brush size to about 25, initially, then click and drag on the lines made by the wind to distort them into what a flame may look like. Vary the brush size for a more realistic flame look. Once you have done this, click OK.
 Click on Filter, then Blur, then Gaussian Blur, and set the radius to 1 pixel.


Duplicate the layer twice. You can do this either by dragging the first layer onto the New Layer icon at the bottom of the Layers window, or by pressing Command + J (PC: Ctrl + J) twice.
Make the top 2 layers invisible by clicking on the eye next to them.
 From the Adjustments window, select the Hue/Saturation icon.
 Click on the clipping layer icon at the bottom of the Adjustments window. This will limit the effects of the Hue/Saturation layer to only the layer directly below it.
 Be sure to enable the Colorize checkbox first. Hue is set to 0, Saturation to 100, and Lightness to -50, giving you a rich red color. It should look like this:

, Add another Hue/Saturation adjustment layer as before, and set the clipping as you did with the bottom layer. Change the properties of the top adjustment layer to Hue: 50, Saturation: 100, Lightness: -50. This will make it a yellow color.
 Click on Filter, then Blur, then Gaussian Blur. Set the radius to 7 pixels. Your image should look something like this, at this point:

, Select the top Layer and change the layer type by clicking in the drop-down menu that usually reads Normal and select Overlay.
 The work is done, and your masterpiece is completed!

