 The basic windshield wiper stretch is done from a supine position (i.e., lying face up) on the floor. Bend your knees so that your feet are resting flat on the floor, and extend your arms straight out to either side.Check the position of your shoulder blades. Your shoulders should be rolled back, with your shoulder blades flat against the floor. Keep your shoulder blades pressed against the floor for the entire stretch.;
, For the starting position of the windshield wiper stretch, your thighs will be perpendicular to the floor with your knees in the air. Make sure your lower back is pressed into the floor. Move your hips around to find a comfortable position., Keeping your shoulder blades pressed firmly to the floor, engage your core and twist your spine to drop your knees to the left side of your body. Keep your movement slow and controlled.Try to maintain the same 90-degree angle between your torso and your thighs as you lower your legs.
You can lower all the way to the ground if you can do so comfortably and maintain correct body position. Otherwise you might want to get a yoga block or folded towel for your knees to rest on.
 After holding the stretch for 15 to 20 seconds, raise your legs back up until they are perpendicular with the floor. Try to keep your knees together, and maintain control over the movement., From the starting position, lower your knees to the opposite side. Hold the stretch for the same period of time, then return back to start. Pay attention to how the stretch feels on each side. Significant differences in range of motion may indicate you have a muscle imbalance on one side.A complete windshield wiper stretch is done from one side to the other. You can repeat the stretch three to five times, holding the stretch for 15 to 20 seconds.
You also can do a more dynamic version of the windshield wiper stretch, in which you drop your legs from one side to the other in a continual movement, synchronizing your breath with the movement. Inhale as you lower your legs, and exhale as you raise them back to start.
 You can alter the positioning of your legs to make the stretch gentler if you have particularly tight hips, or are recovering from a more recent injury.For a gentler stretch, simply let both knees fall together. Flex your feet to protect your knees, feeling the stretch in your hips. Use a yoga block to rest your knees on if you can't lower them all the way to the floor and maintain proper form.
To challenge your hips with a deeper stretch, cross the lower ankle over the top of the outer thigh as you drop your knees over to either side.

