 After the surgery, you won’t be able to eat anything crunchy or chewy. You’ll also probably not be in the mood to go grocery shopping. Prepare by purchasing plenty of soft food before your surgery. You'll need to have enough to last you for at least 24 hours. However, you'll probably want enough for several days while the swelling goes down. You can begin to introduce other foods when you feel that you can tolerate them. Avoid anything that could get caught in the wound until the wound is healed.


Puree things like smoothies or soups in a blender. Strain through a filter before consuming to make sure there are no seeds or herbs that will get caught in the wound.
Stay away from spicy foods. They can irritate the wound.
Choose plenty of cold foods. They'll feel soothing after the surgery.
Some foods that are great for after oral surgery are:

Yogurt (frozen or non-frozen)
Apple sauce
Brothy soups (without any chunks)
Mashed potatoes
Scrambled eggs
Hummus
Congee
Pudding
Ice cream

;
, You should not plan to drive after the surgery. Plan for a friend to take you home when the surgery is finished. Even if you don’t undergo general anesthesia, you will likely feel too woozy from the surgery to drive.If you usually take public transportation, you may not need someone to accompany you. However, you may still want a buddy. They can make sure you’re comfortable on the trip home.
Don’t plan to walk or bike home yourself. If you live a short distance from the dentist’s office, arrange for a cab or a friend to pick you up.
 You’ll need about 48 hours for the swelling to go down. However, the entire recovery can take several weeks. Plan for at least two days that you’ll be able to stay home from work. Let your boss know that you’re having surgery and you may need to take off a few additional days if your recovery is slower than average.Avoid all strenuous physical activity for a few days after the surgery. This may mean arranging for childcare or a pet sitter during your recovery.
You may need friends or family to take care of chores for a day or two. Consider whether you’ll need someone to do things like take the garbage out, water the garden, or shovel snow from your sidewalk.
 Both of these things can be purchased at your local pharmacy. Your dentist may give you a supply of gauze and a prescription for pain relievers. However, it’s always good to be prepared with your own.Buy sterilized gauze pads that are safe to put in your mouth. Ask your pharmacist for a recommendation.
Choose a pain reliever that doesn’t contain caffeine. Caffeine should be avoided while recovering from surgery.
You can also keep teabags on hand. They can help control bleeding. Soak one in warm water and then squeeze it dry. Hold it on the wound for 20-30 minutes.
 You may be resting for a while after the surgery. Create a cozy space in your home where you'll be able to rest comfortably. You should have plenty of pillows and blankets, as well as entertainment.


Take out books from the library, or download some books on tape to listen to while you recover.
Choose movies or TV shows that you'll want to watch while you're resting. Have them ready to go so you won't have to worry after the surgery.
 Recovering at home can feel boring and even lonely sometimes. Before the surgery, line up visiting times with friends and family. Let them know you'll want visitors, and schedule times when they can come by.


Let your friends know you may be a little bit out of it, but that you'll still be grateful for their company.
Don't plan to do too much with your visitors. Simply watching a movie or listening to music together are relaxing ways to enjoy each others company.
 Surgery can seem scary if you don’t know what to expect. Your dentist should be happy to explain the process to you before they begin. Ask any questions you have; this may set your mind at ease.Make sure you don’t have any infections currently. If you do, tell your dentist about them. The surgery may need to be rescheduled.
 Most wisdom tooth removals only require local anaesthetic. This means that you’ll be awake during the surgery. In some cases, your dentist may give you sedation anaesthesia or general anaesthesia.Sedation anaesthesia suppresses your consciousness. It’s delivered intravenously and will leave you with a limited memory of the surgery.
General anaesthesia may be inhaled through the nose or delivered intravenously. General anaesthesia will put you completely asleep and you’ll be unconscious throughout the procedure.
All anaesthesia carries a small degree of risk. However, when used properly, anaesthesia is considered extremely safe.
 You may experience some pressure or discomfort during the surgery, but you should not feel pain. If you do feel pain during the surgery, it means that the anaesthetic is not working. Let your dentist know immediately. If your dentist has given you only a local anaesthetic, close your eyes during the procedure. This may take your mind off the procedure somewhat.
 Keep your head somewhat elevated to help slow the bleeding. If you choose to lie down, use a few pillows to keep your head up.Keeping your head elevated may make sleeping less comfortable. However, it helps the bleeding stop.
If it’s hard to sleep with your head elevated, do something else to help you relax. You can watch TV, listen to the radio, or read a book or magazine., You don’t want to irritate the wound or spread bacteria throughout your mouth. After 24 hours, you can brush your teeth gently, avoiding the surgical wound., After 24 hours, you should begin to rinse your mouth regularly with saltwater. Do this every two hours, and after you eat. Keep this up for a week as the wound heals. You can make saltwater by dissolving 1tsp of salt in 1 8oz glass of warm water.
 Avoid sugary drinks and caffeine while recovering. Within the first 24 hours, avoid carbonated beverages and hot beverages as well.Never drink through a straw after oral surgery. This can dislodge a blood clot from the socket.
 This can be difficult if you’re a regular smoker. Tobacco use can lengthen the recovery process. It also increases the risk of complications from the surgery. If you chew tobacco, avoid doing so for at least a week after surgery.
You may want to use a nicotine patch to help curb cravings if necessary.
 Your doctor may have prescribed a specific pain reliever. If they did, take that medication as recommended. If you didn’t receive a prescription, take over-the-counter pain relievers as needed.Ask your dentist which over-the-counter pain relievers they recommend.
 In the first 24 hours, you can put an ice pack on the outside of your cheek. This will help reduce swelling and pain. After 24 hours, use damp heat on your cheek, such as a warm wash cloth.Dry heat (such as heating pads) can dehydrate the area, which is not good for healing. Always try to use a form of heat that won’t dehydrate you.
Ice and heat are best when applied for at least 15 or 20 minutes. However, you can continue applying them as much as feels good.

