 Everyone shows and receives love differently. Some people place more importance on verbal affirmations and quality time while others want their partner to shower them gifts, physical affection, or small favors.Gauge what kinds things he likes by observing what he asks of you. It may also help to simply ask him if you’re not sure. Make an effort to act accordingly.


For example, some men feel loved when you spend time doing activities together like playing basketball or going to a movie. Others feel most loved when you have deep conversations or show affection with hugs and kisses. If you’re not sure, ask. Try saying, “Do you want to play basketball or should we just hang here and talk?”
Your boyfriend may be the type that likes to receive gifts. Find small ways to show that you are thinking of him. Try buying him a nice shirt or picking up his favorite candy from the store.;
, Sex is often an important part of a romantic relationship. Men are especially likely to feel loved when the sexual connection is genuine and consistent.Make time to cultivate passionate moments in the bedroom.Think of all the things that attract you to him and fantasize about him. Express your desires when you are alone together.Men usually want to please their significant others in bed. Let him know when you like something that he does between the sheets. Try starting off with things like, “I love it when you…”
Avoid criticism. Your boyfriend may feel hurt by any negative comments about his sexual performance. Instead, tell him what he is doing right., Keep your relationship thriving by going out to do something that you both enjoy. Explore your common interests as pair. Doing things outside of your daily routine will keep your relationship alive and evolving. Go out for a nice dinner, see a movie, or check out a new museum.Keep it romantic. Go the extra mile to make a reservation at his favorite restaurant, dress nicely, or hold his hand. These kinds of small gestures are thoughtful and affectionate ways to show that you want him to feel loved.

