 Enunciate each word so people can understand you easily. Practice talking at a steady conversational pace, making each sound distinct and clear.


Tongue twisters are a good way to practice enunciation. Try repeating "See these thick trees, a tricky thicket indeed." keeping each sound distinct.
Try eating peanut butter, then practice saying ordinary sentences. The increased stickiness in your mouth forces you to concentrate on your pronunciation.;
, Even presidents and public figures often sprinkle their speech with wells, ums, ers, likes, and you-knows, but you can do better. These words slow down the conversation and make you appear hesitant or uncertain. Practice thinking of the whole sentence before you open your mouth, then say it at an even, conversational pace without pausing or using these "filler sounds."


Keep a jar in your home, and drop a coin into it every time you use one of these words. Let other members of your household trade this money in for favors — for example, they can return $5 from the jar and make you cook dinner.
 There's no need to pick up five-dollar words that no one uses in everyday speech. Instead, think of vague words that you overuse, and come up with more specific, useful terms. Here are a few common examples:


Instead of "good," "cool," or "awesome," describe the situation more accurately. Talk about a "relaxing day," a "thrilling vacation," or a "friendly, hard-working person."
Instead of "crappy," "awful," or "terrible," consider whether you mean "exhausted," "depressing," or "revolting."
Don't just say "I loved that movie!" or "I hate this weather." Express an actual opinion, such as "The jokes and action sequences were perfectly paced. They kept me laughing and excited the whole time."

, Clearly, knowledge of a topic helps you converse in an intelligent way, but don't go overboard and memorize encyclopedia articles. When you learn a new fact, ask yourself these questions so you can build off of it, instead of just repeating it:


Why is this fact relevant? Should people change their behavior or opinions after hearing it? (For example, does new witness testimony in a court case affect the popular narrative about what happened?)
Is there solid evidence for this fact, and was it collected by an unbiased source? Is there a different conclusion you could reach from that evidence? (For instance, why is GMO food considered dangerous? Is there any evidence, and who collected it?)
Are there related, unanswered questions you think should be explored?

, Don't try to dominate the conversation or show off your intelligence. Demonstrate your curiosity and interest in other topics by letting other people speak, and asking specific questions that show you were listening and thinking about the topic.


Use specific, honest questions, not just "Why?" or "How?" For instance, say "I don't know much about welding, but it sounds interesting. What's the last job you worked on?"

, Some people try to project confidence and invent facts and opinions on the spot, even if they've never heard of the topic before. This is a high-risk tactic, since listeners will often respond with irritation instead of admiration. Asking questions and learning from more knowledgeable people will let you contribute more to the conversation.


If someone asks you a question you don't know the answer to, say "I don't know, but I can find out and get back to you."
If no one in the conversation knows about the topic, you can try an educated guess, but be honest. For instance, say "I haven't been following this topic in the news, but I wouldn't be surprised if the Senator's talk about political reform disappears after he's re-elected."

, When talking to strangers, stick to lighthearted, inoffensive jokes, or avoid them entirely. When talking to friends, try to learn what type of humor they appreciate. Some people think puns are witty and entertaining, while others can't stand them.
 It's not always necessary to be a stickler for grammar, especially among people who use slang and non-standard dialects. You should still learn the rules of grammar so you can make a better impression in job interviews, public presentations, and other situations where traditional, "proper" language is expected. Visit these articles to learn more:


Learn when to use "I" and "me."
Avoid informal language in writing.
Correct common grammar mistakes.

