 You’ll want to pick a time when neither you nor your parents are distracted. It should be a quiet time when you can talk one-on-one, or alone with both of them. Long car rides, quiet evenings, doing chores together, and long walks are all good opportunities to bring up the subject.If your parent(s) are busy, ask when is a good time. Say something like "I have something really important to talk to you about. When would be a good time for us to have a private conversation?"

, Sometimes, parents make the mistake of not taking their children seriously about depression. You can get their full attention by letting them know that this is serious right off the bat.


You might convey seriousness by saying, “I have a really big problem, and I need help," or "This is hard for me to talk about. I really need you to listen."
In some cases, the opportunity to talk—and the seriousness of the issue—may present itself naturally. For instance, you might start crying and just blurt out your feelings, or you might be extremely frustrated with school and they ask you if there’s a problem., Using “I” statements help you communicate your feelings without making your parents defensive or putting them on guard. For instance, saying “Your fighting is making me sad” may make your parents feel like they need to defend themselves, which makes them less likely to listen. Instead, make it all about you and what you’re feeling.


”I” statements may sound like "I feel really exhausted and gloomy. It's hard to get out of bed" or "I know I've been cranky lately. I get really mad at myself, and I hate myself sometimes. I keep wishing that I could die."

, Now that they know how it is affecting you, say its name. Talk to them about any research you did, and offer to show them any articles you found helpful. Show them wikiHow articles like Deal with Depression and Know if You Have Depression if this helps.


"I found some articles about depression. It sounds a lot like what I'm going through, and I think I may have it."

, Don’t just bring up the subject of depression and expect your parents to know how to handle it. Make sure they know you are worried about your condition and that you want to get help.You might say, “I think I need to make an appointment with Dr. Rogers for an evaluation.”
A doctor can help you figure out whether you have depression for sure. Seeing your doctor is also typically the first step in getting treatment, or being referred to a mental health provider who can treat you.
 There’s a change your parents won’t respond to the news how you would like. They may react with disbelief, self-blame, anger, or fear. Keep in mind that although you have been battling with depression for a while, they are just learning about it. Give them some time to digest the news and figure out how they truly feel.If they are confused, say "It took me a long time to understand depression, too." Remember that this is not your fault. You did the right thing, and this is the best way for them to find out.
If your parents don’t take your claims seriously, keep telling them (or another adult) until they take action.Depression is serious, regardless of whether your parents believe you.

