 Most people sign up for a personal trainer with a mission in mind, and it’s important to determine your client’s purpose. You will motivate a 20-year-old man who wants to gain muscle differently than a 60-year-old woman who wants to lose weight. Get to know your client so that you can conceptualize a plan for them and figure out what will keep them going.


A lot of times, clients will be starting at square one. They may make self-deprecating comments like, “Obviously I need to lose a lot of weight so I’m not so fat anymore.” Try to steer them away from this discouraging way of speaking by keeping the conversation positive– focus on how great it will be to reach goals and make positive changes.Remind them of how great their results will be, not how far they have to go. Tell them that they are in good hands, and this is a great starting spot!;
, If they say they want to lose “a lot of weight,” ask them for a specific number and a date they want to reach it. If they want to gain muscle, ask them which areas they want to focus on (and later, set specific weightlifting goals). If they are training for an athletic event, have them set a specific time or placing they want to achieve.Have them write down their goals so they can read them everyday.The more specific their goal is, the easier you can help them get the “eye of the tiger,” using tunnel vision to focus on that goal, and that goal alone!


If your client has a long-term goal, like wanting to lose 100 pounds in one year, it’s crucial to help them also set mini-goals in the mean time. Big, long-term goals can discourage clients. It’s easy to lose motivation when your deadline is months away. Help them set monthly, and even weekly, targets to keep them on track., As a personal trainer, it is your job to keep track of everything. Write down how many repetitions, minutes, and rounds they do of everything. Monitor how much weight they’re lifting, how much weight they’re losing, and which milestones they’re hitting.Part of your duty as a trainer is taking care of distractions so your client can focus on their workout.
When your client needs a motivational boost, pull the records out and show them just how far they’ve come since day one or since your last major check-in.
Use fitness testing, physical measurements, and before-and-after photographs to help your client see how far they’ve come.

