 Use a table saw or hand saw to cut boards to the length you would like your coffee table to be. 32 inches (81 cm) is a good length to try, if you’re not sure what size to make it. Cut four standard boards approximately two inches thick and eight inches wide, known as 2x8s, to this length to serve as the top of your table.You can also use 2x4s or other boards. Just cut enough so that the overall width of your coffee table, when the boards are laid side-by-side, will be to your liking.
It is also possible to make a coffee table top from a single, wide slab of suitable wood. However, this might be harder to find at your local hardware store.;
, Put wood glue on the long, two-inch thick sides of the boards you are using for the top, and slide them together so that they form one large, flat surface. Make sure that the ends line up evenly. Use long clamps to hold them in place while the glue dries.You only have to glue the sides of the boards that are touching each other.
 Cut 2x4 boards so that you have two lengths of 32 inches (81 cm) each. Position them so that they lie across all of the boards that you glued together to make the top. Place one on each side a couple of inches from the narrower edge of the top. The narrow ends of the 2x4s should be flush with the long sides of the coffee table top. Attach them to the top using wood screws., This step is optional, but can add a bit of extra charm to your project. Cut two 2x4 boards the length of your table, and two more its width. Cut the ends of each board on their narrow side at a 45 degree angle. Glue the boards to the sides of your coffee table top so that they are flush with the top. Clamp them in place, and nail or screw them to the top once the glue has dried., Using 4x4s, cut four pieces to the height you would like your coffee table to be. Approximately 17 inches (43 cm) should be a comfortable height. You will also need to cut two pieces of plywood to 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) by 26 inches (66 cm). Finally, cut two pieces of 2x4 to the length of 19 inches (48 cm)., Take one of the pieces of plywood you cut and attach one leg to each end, screwing the plywood down on the top (square end) of each leg. Position one of the 2x4 pieces you cut 4.5 inches (11 cm) from the bottom of the other end of the legs. Screw through the legs into the 2x4 so that it sits between the two legs. Repeat this step for the other set of legs., You can choose to paint your table in a vibrant color, use varnish for a natural look, or choose a stain to give it a rich, rustic look. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions, and paint/stain all of the pieces of your table, allowing plenty of time for them to dry before continuing.Usually, manufacturers will recommend sanding the wood surface before you finish it with paint or stain.
For a classy look, you can use a light-colored stain for the tabletop, and a darker one for its legs.
 When everything is dry, turn the tabletop over so that the bottom with the 2x4s is facing up. Turn the legs over so that the plywood attaching them at the top is sitting on top of the 2x4s. Attach the legs by driving screws through the plywood into the 2x4s. Turn everything over, and your table is done!Make sure that the legs are evenly spaced on the bottom of the tabletop before you screw them into place.

