 However, the traditional American modernized tank is a tiny aquarium with bright gravel and stuffed with decorations. For keeping these fish healthy it is not suggested to keep them like this, let alone all their babies. Of course, most people have better tanks than this and know what they're doing. But, some beginners don't. At the very minimum a ten gallon tank should suffice for about one or two pairs of guppies. And it must be filtered and heated.;
, Plants and special additives can speed up the process. When cycling the tank aquarium salt is not a necessity but a suggestion. Fancy guppies are bred in Asia, in nearly sea water strength water. They grow big beautiful and healthy and they are fed live foods. Then they are shipped across the country, rubbing their slime coats off in the small bags, dumped in freshwater, and fed bland flake food. You can now see why fancy guppies are so delicate. Aquarium salt helps them with stress, it helps them regain needed electrolytes and regain their slime coat. This is why it is suggested. When setting up the rest of the tank, caves or over turned flower pots make a nice shelter for baby guppies and or guppies that are being picked on, in normal territorial squabbles. If you want to breed Fancy guppies for fun, fish shows, or any other reason you will need plants. Java moss is a favorite of fancy guppy fry to hide in, because Fancy guppies will eat their own young. If you don't want to end up with a million babies then get all males or all females. However, don't be surprised that if you do this they change sex and breed anyway! They have been known to do that on some occasions.
 I know some of you are like, can't we just sit the bag in the water for like an hour? In general yes if you are in a hurry you could do it the bag way. First sit the bag in the water for 30 minutes to an hour. Then scoop some of your tank water in the bag and wait another hour. Both options are fine but if you want healthy guppies drip acclamation is the way to go. Your guppies will thank you. But under no circumstances can you just dump your fish into the tank.
 However if you are looking into serious breeding you should feed your guppies un-encapsulated brine eggs for maximum coloration to show and to create top quality healthy strains. You should have either a special nursery tank for the mommy to be or a little breeding trap that clasps onto the main tank. For people who are trying to breed certain color strains, you have to separate the chosen breeding stock alone together or the female could mess up the entire strain with the wrong male. Baby guppies will readily eat powdered flake food and you can switch to un-encapsulated brine shrimp eggs if you so choose.
 Whether you are an accidental breeder, a serious one, or a beginner hobbyist who is starting out with these little jewels.

