 No matter the skill level of the wrestler, he should still wear something to protect his head while wrestling. Wearing the proper headgear can help protect against head injuries.Some people believe that the headgear is too bulky or gets in the way. Wrestlers should try to learn how to wrestle with the headgear despite of that because it can reduce the risk of injury.
Helmets and headgear don’t completely protect someone from getting a concussion. However, they help reduce the risk.;
, If wrestlers don’t already wear a mouth guard while wrestling, they should consider using one. A recent study has shown that wearing properly fitting mouth guards can help reduce the risk of concussions.Mouth guards are supposed to help absorb shock from a blow to the head, help stabilize the head and neck, and help reduce head injury due to a blow to the jaw.
Wrestlers should consider getting a fitted mouth guard from a dentist instead of buying one at a sports store. Custom mouth guards are thicker, which is more effective at protecting the person wearing it. They also fit the mouth better, so they are more comfortable.
 Following the rules of the match helps protect the wrestler and his opponent during a match. That means wrestlers should refrain from being overly aggressive or trying to get away with illegal moves.Some moves have been made illegal because of their tendency to cause concussions. For example, USA Wrestling banned the reverse lift for all but the best wrestlers because it caused more head injuries than other moves.Wrestling in an aggressive or wild way without thinking about proper form and technique can lead to head injuries., Proper education can help reduce the risk of concussions, especially for younger wrestlers. Coaches should get a physician to talk to the team or organization about the seriousness of concussions.During this session, the physician can help make the wrestlers, coaches, parents, and trainers aware of initial concussion side effects, along with ones that show up 12 to 48 hours afterwards.
Wrestlers should also be taught the effects of multiple concussions and wrestling with a concussion.

