 The task of moving large appliances can be complicated by a route cluttered with anything that could slow you down. This is especially problematic when moving to a new residence. Other appliances, furniture, or boxes that are in the way can impede your safety, and disrupt your schedule. Establish a route wide enough to safely transport the appliance outside.;
, Plan for the type of vehicle you will need to move appliances. Failure to measure the interior cargo space of your vehicle can interfere with the move. Call for rates on rental trucks or trailers. Because larger vehicles usually cost more, it's important to determine the size you need beforehand.
 A hand truck, or dolly, is essential in preventing injury to your back or other joints and muscles when moving large appliances. If you are renting a moving truck, many companies supply hand trucks. Make sure the tires of the dolly are properly inflated. Use caution to prevent scraping or scratching the appliance, walls, or doors.
 Safety precautions are an essential part of moving bulky and heavy objects. Plan ahead to employ proper protective equipment, including slip resistant steel-toed boots and leather gloves. Lift by bending your knees, especially when lifting off of a porch or on to a truck or trailer. You shouldn't attempt to move appliances alone.
 Unplug the electrical cords from the wall sockets. After turning off the water inlets, unfasten and drain the water hoses from washing machines and ice-makers on refrigerators. To prevent danger from asphyxiation or fire, take extra precautions to ensure natural gas lines are closed before disconnecting from any gas operated appliances.


Prevent the appliances from sliding or tipping over with ratchet straps or tie-downs. Use blankets when transporting appliances to keep them free from surface scratches.
 Depending on the size of the vehicle, consider planning a route with the least amount of traffic flow. Major thoroughfares could be more congested, but if time is crucial a slower route might also mean more stop signs and narrower streets. Also think about neighborhoods with small children and pets, which could be a safety issue in a large truck.

