 Purchase a broad-spectrum (also called a full-spectrum) sunscreen that will block both UVA and UVB rays. Get a sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 50, the higher the better. Then, apply the cream to your skin at least 20 minutes before heading outside. This allows the sunscreen to begin working before you are actually exposed to the sun, thus preventing burning.As you consider various sunscreen brands, consider what activities you’ll be doing that will require protection. If you will be in the water, then you’ll want a sunscreen that is water-resistant. If you are hiking, you may need a sunscreen that includes insect repellant.
 You should aim to reapply your sunscreen at least every 90 minutes. This interval may need to be shortened if you are sweating heavily or spending time in the water. When you reapply, don’t rush. Make sure to coat all exposed parts of your body.For each application you can estimate using a nickel-sized portion on your facial area and two shot glasses worth of lotion on your body.
 It is almost impossible to apply sunscreen to your scalp and that makes this area very susceptible to burning. To prevent a painful head burn, wear a solid hat when venturing outdoors for extended periods of time. This will also offer some protection for your face as well., Your body will often tell you when it has had enough of the sun. Pause in your activities for a moment and evaluate your condition. Does your skin feel overly warm? Are you starting to notice feelings of tightness? Are you experiencing any pain at this point? If you answer “yes” to any of these questions, head indoors.
 If you are outside with other people you can always ask them to look you over. However, the reflection from the sun on your skin can often mask the visual signs of a burn, so it may be difficult for them to accurately gauge if you are headed in that direction.
 It can take up to six months for your skin to fully heal after a sunburn. If you are burned again during this interval, the healing process can come to a standstill. While you are healing, be careful with your body and limit your time in the sun.