 One way to protect your skin is to keep it out of the sun's rays. When you head outside, especially in the harsh light of summer, try wearing a hat to protect your face.Sun damage makes your skin look older over time. It can make it appear leathery, dry, or discolored.;
, Showers that are too hot or too long can make your skin dry because they wash away your skin's natural oils. Try to take as short a shower as you can. Also, instead of very hot water, stick with warm water to protect your facial skin., Strong soaps, like hot showers, can take too much oil from your skin. These oils keep you naturally hydrated. Without them, your face appears older. Look for soaps that say "moisturizing" or for "sensitive skin.", When you get out of the shower, it's tempting to scrub your face and body dry with your towel. However, being too rough isn't good for your skin, plus blotting helps moisture stay on your skin, where it can be absorbed., To protect yourself against the sun, it's important to put on sunscreen every day. Every time you go outside, the sun has a chance to damage your skin, so putting sunscreen on in the morning can help protect you against that damage.Pick one that has an SPF of at least 30 and protects against UVB and UVA rays., Pick a moisturizer designed for your skin type. That is, if you have oily skin, pick one for oily skin; on the other hand, if you have dry skin, choose one that is labelled for dry skin. Apply it to your face after you shower. It can also be helpful to apply it at night.You can also choose a daily moisturizer that has an SPF, meaning you only have to put on one cream in the morning., You already know that smoking is bad for your lungs, but you may not know that it's also hard on your skin. It can make your skin look older because it causes problems with the elastin and collagen in your skin., If you have acne, you may feel like it keeps your face from being fresh-looking. By treating your acne, you'll help your skin look smoother and fresh.To treat acne, you can start by washing your face twice a day with a mild acne cleanser. You can also use acne lotions or creams. If you're still having problems, ask your doctor about prescription creams or cleansers to help clear up your acne.Also, ask about birth control if you have flare-ups around your period. Sometimes, acne is caused by a rise in hormones, so using birth control can help even out your hormones and reduce acne.