 Your body needs plenty of hemoglobin to create red blood cells. The easiest way for your body to get hemoglobin is iron. Since red blood cells are essentially what makes up your hematocrit level, avoid eating iron-rich foods, such as the following:Green leafy vegetables, like spinach and broccoli
Chicken, turkey, ham
Beef, veal
Fish, clams, mussels
Foods enriched with iron, like breakfast cereals

However, remember that if your hematocrit levels are low, it means that there isn’t enough oxygen in your cells to fully function. Your hematocrit level needs to be normal and stable, not low. Talk to your doctor about how stringently you should avoid iron – less serious cases need only reduce consumption.

;
, The effect of dehydration in your body will result in higher hematocrit levels, a higher whole blood volume, and higher plasma volume as there's less liquid in your body to dilute your blood. This means when you are severely dehydrated, your hematocrit level will be sky high; on the other hand, if you have a sufficient amount of water in your body, your hematocrit level will remain within normal.


Coconut water, unconcentrated juice drinks (like apple and pineapple juices), and sports drinks (like Gatorade or Powerade) are all great options.
Remember that drinking 8 to 12 glasses every day will do wonders for your body. Make it a habit to increase your fluid intake, especially if you are in the middle of doing something very strenuous.
 Drinking caffeine and alcoholic drinks are discouraged because both of them are diuretics. They stimulate urination and can cause dehydration even though you're consistently drinking. To keep your hematocrit levels low, skip the soda, wine, hard liquor, and beer, and stick to water or unsweetened juices.


By drinking more fluids, the concentration of the blood will be diluted because the body also stores fluid in our bloodstream, thus lowering the concentration level of the hematocrit. Aim for an intake of 2 liters (0.5 US gal) a day or more to keep a normal hematocrit level.
 Recent studies have shown that eating 1/2 to a whole grapefruit every day can lower your hematocrit levels.The higher your levels, the more effective grapefruit will be. Include a half with your breakfast and half the other half as a snack at midday.


This is because naringin, a flavonoid seen in high concentrations in grapefruit, can lead to phagocytosis, which is a process that naturally removes red blood cells from your blood, converting them into other uses.
 These help protect the body from free radicals which are thought to cause cancer and other blood related diseases. When you consume supplements or foods that are rich in anti-oxidants, transport of oxygen in your body is easier. Good sources of these are prunes, beans, and berries.


Anti-oxidants help in a number of ways, but the most important thing to note when it comes to lowering your hematocrit level is that it can help in providing oxygen to the blood so that it can properly circulate in your body. It does not only help in avoiding diseases but will also help in promoting good health.
 Again, this is all about the amount of oxygen needed for your body to fully function. Never allow yourself to become severely exhausted because it will only mean that the oxygen levels in your blood are being used up to the extremes. Take it one step at a time. If you feel faint or dizzy, stop immediately.


Take a break when you are out on a run or exercising in the gym. Never push yourself more than you know you're capable of. Keep this in mind for daily strenuous activities, too – it's easy to forget when you're out for a swim or a hike that the same principles apply.
Talk to your doctor about what he or she thinks is an appropriate exercise regimen for you. Every person is different; your level of fitness will determine how much exercise your body can handle.
 According to the NHS Blood and Transplant, the frequency of giving blood should be a maximum of 4 times a year or an interval of 12 weeks between blood donations. Only do this as a last result and only if you have consulted your physician. If he or she does approve of this measure here's why it's helpful:


This can cleanse your blood as your body tries to replenish the amount of blood that it has lost, making the circulating blood fresh.
This removes excess iron in your body. An excessive amount of iron is thought to be the cause of atherosclerosis or the hardening of your arteries. When you donate blood, about 250 mg of iron will be removed from your body cutting your risk of developing cardiovascular diseases.
 Again, only do this as a last resort because it can have other untoward effects. Make sure that you consult your doctor about taking aspirin as a means to lower your hematocrit levels because the only way for mini aspirin to help in lowering your hematocrit level is when it causes gastrointestinal bleeding.


Aspirin is an anti-platelet drug. Platelets help a lot when it comes to clotting in the event of an injury. When you take mini aspirin as a means to lower your hematocrit level, know that it can thin out your blood completely which can result to your blood's inability to clot, light headedness and other neurological deficits.
 Areas with high elevation have a lower oxygen concentration than areas with lower elevation. An area of more than 8,000 feet (2,438.4 m) above sea level is considered to have ”thinner oxygen." People living in these areas generally have high hematocrit. Moving to a lower altitude residence will help return your hematocrit count to normal.


As an adaptation to the environment, the bone marrow which is responsible of producing RBCs produces more RBCs to compensate for the low oxygen level of the body and as a result, there is a high concentration level of hematocrit in the body.
 Nicotine in cigarettes and other tobacco products impairs the blood circulation by altering the oxygen carrying capacity of your red blood cells. The body compensates for the problem of having low oxygen levels by having the bone marrow produce more RBCs, thus increasing the level of hematocrit in your body. Stopping smoking or consuming any other tobacco product will help lower your hematocrit level.Quitting smoking is also best for your heart, lungs, skin, hair, and your entire body. Aside from that, it's also better for those around you. If doing it for your hematocrit isn't enough, do it for these reasons.
 Elevated hematocrit levels maybe related to a different disease entirely, namely variations in cancer and a potential tumor. Tumors and cancer – especially in the bone marrow – create an uncontrolled production of blood cells.Do not jump to any conclusions if you have a high hematocrit count. Consulting your doctor is the best way to know how to reduce your hematocrit level effectively and the only way to know why your hematocrit level is high.
 These two symptoms are the result of an excessive number of RBCs in the blood making the blood concentrated. As a signal and compensatory mechanism, headache and dizziness can result from high hematocrit levels.


Concentrated blood is viscous – meanings that it's thick and sticky and doesn't flow as well. In return, the delivery of oxygen to the brain is slightly decreased. A lack of oxygen in the brain can turn very serious quite quickly.
 This is an overall bodily response to viscous blood that has difficulty in delivering oxygen and nutrients to the entire body. If weakness is something you're feeling 24/7, talk to your doctor as soon as possible.


Fatigue can be a sign of any number of ailments, not just high hematocrit levels. To know what your fatigue is a symptom of, see your doctor. Only a medical professional can then point you on the right route.
 Those with high hematocrit counts often suffer from "tachypnea." This is just a medical term that refers to a fast breathing pattern of more than 20 cycles per minute. This is a short-term compensatory mechanism of the body in response to a poor delivery of oxygen.


Again, in isolation, this is not a symptom to worry about. Only if you find your breathing is hastened more often than not and for no good reason should this be cause for alarm.
 High hematocrit levels may cause bruising because of the concentrated blood flowing through your blood vessels. Concentrated, viscous blood is prone to blood clots all over the body. Bruising appears as a violet to black in color anywhere on the body. Some are painless and some are painful.


Bruising is a normal result of injury. The bruises that you should pay attention to – especially when considering hematocrit counts – are the bruises that seem to have no cause. If you have bruises that appear out of nowhere, these could be hematocritic bruises.
 A high hematocrit count can lead to a number of inexplicable things going on in your skin. The blood flowing right beneath your skin, when it lacks oxygen, can mess with the functioning of your sense receptors. Here's how:



Itching. Itching is caused by the histamine secreted by the body in reaction to a high hematocrit level. Histamine is a chemical messenger involved in inflammation and allergy. Itching occurs primarily on the distal part or extremities such as hands and feet.

Paresthesia. This is a condition of having a tingling, prickling or burning sensation on the soles of the hands and feet. This is primarily a result of poor blood circulation. A high hematocrit level makes the blood more viscous due to the concentration of RBCs in the blood plasma. This is also common in diabetic clients that have poor circulation.

