 There are more than 150 dog breeds recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC).These breeds are organized into seven groups based upon characteristics and function of the dogs.


Remember that these 150 breeds are only the tip of the iceberg. There are over 400 breeds worldwide.;
, The toy breeds are the smallest breeds of dogs. They can be long haired or short haired, with floppy ears or erect ears, and all fur colors imaginable. Their primary purpose (function) is to be companions to their human owners. They are ideal pets for dog lovers that live in small homes or apartments in cities.


These dogs are usually weigh 10 pounds or less. Due to their smaller size, they generally cost less to own than larger breeds of dogs and can be physically easier to control.
Popular toy breeds include Chihuahuas, toy poodles, Pekinese, Papillion, pugs, and Yorkshire terriers.
 Terriers can also come in all colors and hair coat lengths, although generally their coats are wiry.They were originally bred to hunt rodents and other vermin. They are generally smaller dogs, which were ideal for fitting into tight spots and rodent burrows. However, some of the dogs are a bit bigger and could tackle larger varmints, such as badgers.


Popular terrier breeds include Jack Russell terrier, American Pit Bull Terrier, West Highland Terrier, Cairn terrier, and Fox Terrier.
Terriers have the reputation as being tough and tenacious (aka stubborn) and generally aren’t the best dog for a first time dog owner due to this trait. They need a firm, yet kind, hand in instilling discipline and training otherwise they will try to run the household.
 The hound breeds were developed to assist their humans in hunting. They differ from other hunting dogs in that they hunt more independent of their humans tracking their prey by sight or scent. There are various sizes and shapes of hounds but the main characteristic is their hunting ability. This is a varied group of dog ranging from the enormous Irish wolfhound to the diminutive dachshund.The bloodhound is an example of a hound that tracks by scent. Beagles, bassets, and fox hound are also breeds of scent hounds. Sight hounds are generally lean and fast, tracking prey with their eyes. Salukis, greyhounds, and whippets are good examples of sight hounds,

, The herding breeds have been bred to help farmers and shepherds round up and protect livestock. These hard working dogs work in all sorts of weather and over rough terrain. They generally are high energy breed who need plenty of exercise and a job to do; otherwise they can become bored and destructive.


These dogs are driven to herd, to the point that they will herd children and adults if they have no livestock to control! That being said they will need to be trained not to herd people and given another outlet for their drive and instinct. They make good candidates to be trained for agility or other athletic canine sports.
Popular herding dogs include the Australian Cattle Dog (Blue Heeler), Border Collie, Belgian Malinois, Collies, and Corgis.
 The sporting breeds of dog are the hunting dogs that hunt under the direction of their owners, generally hunting game with a gun. These are divided into the spaniels, the retrievers, and the pointers and setters. Some dogs retrieve game from land or water, other breeds flush game from tall grasses or brush, while others find the game and “point” with nose where the game is hiding.


The Labrador retriever is the epitome of this group. Additionally, it consistently ranks at the top of the short list for the most popular breed of dog in the USA. Not without reason, as generally this dog makes a great family pet in addition to a fine hunting companion.
Other group examples include the Springer spaniel, Golden retriever, English setter, and German Shorthair pointer.
 The working breeds of dogs have been bred to protect and guard humans and their property. They also serve as military and police dogs or as service dogs to disabled or blind persons. In addition, some of these sturdy dogs pull sleds. Because of the nature of their “jobs” the working dog is a large to giant dog ready and able to perform their duties in all kinds of condition.


The Great Pyrenees, a great livestock protector and huge white dog, is one breed in the working group. Alaskan malamutes, Great Danes, Rottweilers, St. Bernard’s and Doberman Pinchers are other popular breeds in the working group.
 The non-sporting breed is a catch-all group for the breeds that don’t fall into the other six categories. This a varied group with no one specific task, function or characteristic. They also come in all kinds of sizes, hair coat length and color.


The Dalmatian, or firehouse dog, is in this group. Its white with black spots coat helps it be easily recognized. The Lhasa Apso—a long haired, small dog—is a popular little companion. The Bulldog, with its thick jowls, stocky build, and tough guy persona is also in the non-sporting group. As you can tell from these three examples, this group has a huge variety of dogs in it.
Other popular dogs in this group include the Bichon Frise, American Eskimo, the French bulldog, the Boston terrier, the Chow Chow, and the Poodle.
Some may question why a dog like the Boston terrier isn't in the terrier group. This is because the breed was not originally bred to hunt rodents, but instead was bred relatively recently from existing breeds.

