 Asylum is a benefit that allows certain foreign nationals to remain lawfully in the United States for an indefinite amount of time. Once the person granted asylum has been in the United States for a year, he or she can apply for a green card, which grants lawful permanent residence.Asylum can be “affirmative” or “defensive.” With affirmative asylum, you apply on your own initiative. With defensive asylum, you apply once you are in custody of the United States. Defensive asylum is a method to prevent your removal from the United States.;
, To be eligible for asylum, you generally must already be arriving or already physically present in the United States.. You also must have suffered from (or fear that you will suffer from) persecution. This persecution must have been based on at least one of the following:


Race
Religion
Nationality
Membership in a particular social group
Political opinion

, For affirmative asylum, you may include your spouse and an unmarried child under the age of 21 in your application. If the child is 21 or older, he or she would have to apply for and be granted asylum.


If you are a minor, then you may apply for asylum yourself., You must make an application for asylum within one year of arriving in the United States, unless there has been a material change of circumstances. For example, if your home country suddenly has a war in which your ethnic group is being targeted, then you could claim that circumstances have changed and now warrant your application.


If there has been a change of circumstances, then you need to file for asylum within a “reasonable” amount of time.What qualifies as “reasonable” is difficult to determine. Accordingly, you should not wait.
 Otherwise-eligible asylum applicants may be barred from seeking asylum if they participated in the persecution of any person on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular group.Other bars include:


Conviction of a serious crime (which includes aggravated felonies)
Committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the United States
Pose a danger to the security of the U.S.
Were already firmly resettled in another country before arriving in the United States

, When you submit your application for asylum, you must present evidence that shows the general conditions in the country you are fleeing as well as any specific fact that you are relying on in your claim.For example, you can use newspaper articles, affidavits from witnesses or experts, photographs, or periodicals to show that persecution against a group is happening in your country.
Other forms of evidence can include doctor’s statements, journals, official documents, or personal statements/live testimony of witnesses.
If you have difficulty discussing harm that you have suffered in the past (such as torture, rape, etc.), then you can have a health professional write a report explaining this difficulty.
 Along with your application, you must submit a passport-sized photo of yourself and each family member included in your application. These photographs must have been taken within 30 days of the date you filed the application. On the back of each photograph, print the person’s complete name and the A-Number (if applicable).You should also make three copies of all passports or other travel documents like Arrival-Departure Records or other immigration documents., If you are including family members in your application, then you must submit one additional copy of the application for each family member. You also need documentary evidence that establishes the family relationship:To include a spouse, include three copies of your marriage certificate and three copies of proof of any prior marriages.
To include children, submit three copies of each child’s birth certificate.
If you cannot access these documents, then you need secondary evidence such as medical records, religious records, or school records. If you use secondary evidence, you must explain why marriage records or birth certificates are unavailable.
You may also submit one sworn affidavit from at least one person. The affidavit can be provided by relatives or non-relatives. Affiants do not need to be U.S. citizens or permanent residents.

Affidavits must fully explain the circumstances or event in question and explain how the person acquired knowledge of the events. For example, a sibling may have attended your wedding and can explain that fact.
Affidavits must also be sworn or affirmed and show the full name, address, and date and place of birth of the affiant. The affiant must also state the relationship between the two of you.
 To make the strongest case, you may want to meet with an immigration attorney who can advise you. You have a right to bring a lawyer to your asylum interview and any subsequent immigration proceedings.You may also want to meet with a lawyer if you have a conviction and are unsure if it is a disqualifying bar to your application.


For tips on how to locate an immigration attorney, see Find an Immigration Lawyer.
If costs are a concern, then you can find a list of free or reduced-cost attorneys by calling 1-800-870-3676.You may also seek assistance from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, by calling 202-296-5191., If you are arriving into the United States, then you can tell the Customs or Border Patrol worker that you want to apply for asylum., You will need to fill out Form I-589, “Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal.” You can get the form sent to you by calling 1-800-870-3676.Any information that you provide on the form is legally protected from disclosure.You can also download the form at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-589.pdf.
The instructions, which you should read before filling out the form, are available at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-589instr.pdf.
 You must put your application in a particular order. Complete the form and gather all documents. Put them in the following order:


Your original Form I-589
One photograph stapled to the form at Part D
Form G-28, signed by you and any attorney/representative that you have
The originals of all supplementary sheets and statements
One copy of any additional supporting documentation
One copy of the evidence of your relationship to your spouse or unmarried child
Two copies of the items listed above in your original package (except for the photograph)

, After you assemble your application, you should make two copies for your records. You should also make two copies to submit along with the original to USCIS.In total, you will submit three copies to USCIS.


If you are including family members, remember to make one additional copy for each family member. If you are including two family members, you would submit five total copies of the complete application.
 There is no fee to apply for political asylum in the U.S.The appropriate office you file with depends on the following:If you are in immigration court, then you will file with the court that has jurisdiction over your case.
Depending on where you live, you will file with certain service centers. To find which service center you should mail your materials to, visit the USCIS website at http://www.uscis.gov/i-589.
 All applicants (including spouses and children over 14) must give fingerprints. After you have submitted your application, you will be given instructions on where to go., After you file an asylum application, you will have to meet for an interview with an Asylum Officer. Typically, the interview should be scheduled to be held within 45 days of your application filing date. However, because the USCIS has a current backlog, the agency is prioritizing interviews in the following manner:First, applicants that were scheduled for an interview but had to reschedule.
Second, applications filed by children.
Third, all other pending asylum applications, which will be scheduled in the order they are received.
 The interview will typically last an hour, although it may vary depending on your case. You will take an oath promising to tell the truth. The Asylum Officer will verify your identity and ask you questions about your biography and the reasons you are applying for asylum. You must bring the following to your interview:Bring a form of identification, such as a passport.
Also bring a copy of your Form I-589 and originals of documents you submitted with your Form I-589 (such as marriage certificates, birth certificates, etc.)
If you included a spouse and/or child under the age of 21, then they must also appear.
Be sure to bring an interpreter if you do not speak English fluently. USCIS will not provide an interpreter., A decision should be made on your asylum application within 180 days of the date it was filed.Because of the backlog in processing applications and scheduling interviews, you may have to wait longer.
 Generally, you cannot apply for asylum if you are denied entry into the country because you lack proper documentation or if you are barred from seeking asylum (e.g., you committed an aggravated felony). However, there are two processes that you can use if you do not want to be returned to your country of origin because you fear persecution. These processes are commonly called “defensive” asylum.



Credible fear screening. If you have been denied entry because you lack proper identification, then you may seek asylum before an Immigration Judge if you have a “credible fear” of persecution or torture. A credible fear is a “significant possibility” that you can establish that you have been persecuted or have a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular group.If you establish credible fear, then you may ultimately apply for asylum before a judge.Reasonable fear screening. If you are scheduled to be removed from the United States because you illegally re-entered the country, committed an aggravated felony, or for some other reason that bars your continued stay in the country, you can try to halt your return to your country of origin by claiming that you have a “reasonable fear” of persecution.Even if you establish reasonable fear of persecution, you will not be able to apply for asylum. However, you can still seek “withholding of removal” or protection under the Convention Against Torture. Each offers more limited relief than asylum. For example, although the United States cannot return you to your home country, it could settle you in a safe alternate country.Furthermore, if you seek a reasonable fear determination, then you cannot include your spouse or children. They must make their own claim that they reasonably fear persecution., You must make the request to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE). You must state that you fear returning to your home country because of persecution or torture., You will need legal help. After you tell a government official that you fear returning to your country of origin, you will be given a list of free or low-cost legal service providers.You should contact a lawyer as soon as possible because your interview with an Asylum Officer could happen quickly. For example, if you state that you have a “credible fear” of persecution, then you may only have 48 hours before you must take part in an interview with an Asylum Officer.If you seek relief for a “reasonable fear,” then your interview could happen within 10 days., The Asylum Officer you meet with will ask questions to determine whether or not you have a “credible” or “reasonable” fear of persecution. If the Officer agrees that you do, then you will be referred to a judge.


Those who alleged a “credible fear” will be eligible to apply for asylum before the judge.Those who alleged a “reasonable fear” will not be able to apply for asylum. However, they can ask for a withholding of removal.Even if the Asylum Officer doesn’t find that you have a “credible” or “reasonable” fear of persecution, you can request review of that determination by an Immigration Judge., When you appear before the judge, you must prove that you are at risk of persecution. Your burden will depend on whether you are claiming “credible fear” or “reasonable fear.”


If you claim credible fear, then you have the burden of proving that you are eligible for asylum.You would prove this in the same manner as someone applying for affirmative asylum.
If you are claiming reasonable fear of persecution, you have the burden of proving that it is “more likely than not” that your life or freedom would be threatened in the proposed country because of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. You may also prove that you fear being tortured in that country.