 The ribs and grooves should be minimal and not very pronounced.You can get a traditional orange pumpkin, or a white one for something more original. Avoid the decorative "Cinderella" style pumpkins, however. They are the kind that are flattened, a little like doughnuts. The ribs and grooves are too deep and will get in the way.


If the pumpkin is dirty, wipe it down with a damp cloth.;
, Most people cut the top part out, but some people like to cut the bottom out so that they can place the pumpkin over a candle like a lantern. Whichever you choose to do, make sure that it is big enough so that you can reach inside the pumpkin to scoop out the seeds. Here are some tips for cutting the lid out:If you are cutting the top part out: angle your knife towards the stem to prevent the lid from sinking into the pumpkin.
If you are cutting the top part out: cut a V-shaped notch into the lid. This will help with placement when you put the lid back on.
If you are cutting the bottom part out: angle your knife straight down into the pumpkin. Don't cut a notch, and discard the part you cut out.
 You can use the plastic scoop that came with your pumpkin carving kit, a large metal spoon, or even an ice cream scoop to do this. Discard the fibrous pulp, but consider saving the seeds. You can dry them, roast them, and then eat them.
 Use long, even strokes, and discard the pulp each time. Keep going around the pumpkin until you are back where you started. This will get rid of any last bits of pulp or fiber.


The best type of spoon to use for this is one that has a thin, "sharp" edge.
Use the longest part of the spoon rather than the pointy tip. This will allow you to cover more surface area and leave behind fewer grooves.
 Avoid plastic ones or flimsy ones, as they are more likely to break.You can use any shape you want. Stars are one of the most popular shapes, but you can also use other fall-inspired shapes as well, including pumpkins, bats, and leaves. You can also use other shapes that have nothing to do with fall, such as animals.


Smaller cookie cutters are less-likely to warp than bigger ones., If you are going to have a child help you carve the pumpkin, consider tapping the cookie cutter gently with a hammer or mallet until it pierces the skin. This will keep the cookie cutter steady while you child does the rest., Place a wooden block over the cookie cutter, then tap the wooden block with your hammer. The wooden block will help distribute the pressure more evenly. Keep in mind that some parts of the cookie cutter won't go into the pumpkin all the way; this is simply due to the pumpkin's curved surface.Don't pound the cookie cutter all the way in. Leave at least ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeter) sticking out.If your pumpkin has thinner walls, the cookie cutter will likely go all the way through. If your pumpkin has thicker walls, the cookie cutter may not go all the way through, and you'll need to finish cutting the shape out by hand., If the cookie cutter is stuck, use a pair of needle-nose pliers to wriggle it out.Use the pliers to grip different sides of the cookie cutter when pulling it out, rather than just tugging on one side constantly.
 You can also use the little saw that came with your pumpkin carving kit. Use short, up-and-down sawing motions to do this, making sure to cut all the way through the pumpkin., Stick your hand inside the pumpkin and place your fingers against the shape, then push on it firmly until it pops out. If you can't get the shape out, tap it gently with a regular hammer (not a rubber mallet, if you were using one earlier) until it pops out., Sometimes, there may be bits of fiber stuck to the inside edges of your shape. If you see this, carefully pull them away with your fingers, or scrape them away using a metal spoon., Leave at least 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) of space between each shape. This will prevent the pumpkin from becoming too weak and breaking., If you cut the top part out of your pumpkin, place the tea light inside it, light it, then place the lid on tip. If you cut the bottom part out of your pumpkin, place your tea light down on the sidewalk, light it, then place the pumpkin over it.


You don't have to use real candles if you don't want to. Consider using a battery-operated one instead. Some can look very realistic!
Another alternative to candles is a glow stick. They are safe and come in many different colors.

