 The beginning of your policy should include a strong statement that the company has no tolerance for discriminatory actions or behavior in the workplace.Let it be known that discriminatory or abusive behavior will not be tolerated in your company, and that all employees have the right to work in a discrimination- and harassment-free environment.In the event an employee complaint does escalate to the point where he or she files a complaint with a state or federal agency, your written policy serves as evidence that you took reasonable care to keep the workplace free of discrimination.Include discrimination in hiring or promotion, and make sure managers and supervisors understand that they cannot discriminate in new hires based on protected characteristics.;
, Make sure your employees know exactly what types of discrimination are unlawful.


Federal law generally protects employees from workplace discrimination on the basis of age, sex, disability, genetic information, national origin, pregnancy, race or skin color, and religion.It's important to check your state's law as well, since some states offer protection against discrimination for classes or groups that are not yet recognized by federal law.
For example, although there is no federal law prohibiting discrimination in the workplace on the basis of sexual orientation, nearly half of all states and many municipalities have laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.You might want to include a statement at the end of your list that includes protection against "any other category protected by federal, state, or local law." This keeps your policy in line with the law and keeps you from having to make changes and reprint your policy manuals every time the law changes.If you are a manager or supervisor, pay close attention to how these characteristics may come into play when you are hiring someone new or terminating someone's employment.For example, if you are looking for a new secretary, you cannot include a statement that you prefer female candidates – even if you are female and believe you get along better with female assistants. Federal law prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex.
 Provide a list of types of behavior or actions along with examples to help employees better understand the policy.


Keep in mind that some acts that could be considered discriminatory, such as displaying a swimsuit calendar or telling an off-color joke, could be seen as harmless fun to some of your employees.
Make it clear that saying "I didn't mean anything by it" or "it was a joke" does not constitute a defense to an allegation of discrimination.
Include a statement that the examples you provide are not an exhaustive list.Advise your employees to follow the rule "when in doubt, leave it out." If they have any questions about whether something might be offensive or discriminatory, they should err on the side of caution and keep it away from the workplace.
 Employees should know how to report discrimination and what will happen after it is reported.Make sure your policy is simple and straightforward. If employees have to deal with a lot of red tape or jump through hoops to make their concerns known, your policy won't be effective.
Provide reasonable deadlines by which the employee can expect some sort of response or investigation of their complaint.
Include a mechanism through which all sides of the story can be heard, and emphasize that no action will be taken to discipline an employee without a thorough investigation and solid evidence that he or she violated your anti-discrimination policy.
You also might include a list of options available to alleviate the situation during the investigation process. For example, a complaining employee may be able to transfer to another shift or department to remove him or her from the allegedly discriminatory person.
Consider including penalties for filing false or frivolous allegations against other employees. This can prevent people from using the anti-discrimination policy to threaten or manipulate other employees, and sends the message that all employees will be treated fairly in the complaint resolution process.
 Your consequences should be realistic and capable of being implemented for every employee or manager consistently.While a "three strikes and you're out" type of policy may be appropriate for unintentional instances of discrimination, you probably should include more severe consequences for intentional or blatant discriminatory acts.
In cases where discrimination cross the line to actual criminal behavior, immediate termination may be the only appropriate sanction.For example, if a male employee followed a female employee into the restroom and fondled her, you have a situation where the female employee could potentially have criminal charges pressed against the male employee. Not only should acts such as this not be tolerated, but anyone who commits such acts should not be allowed to remain on your staff.
You also should include sanctions for acts of retaliation against employees who file discrimination complaints. Retaliation against employees who report discrimination is prohibited by federal law., Make sure employees know from the very beginning what is expected from them and the types of behavior that won't be tolerated.Written handbooks with anti-discrimination policies provide a general awareness of workplace discrimination and how your company deals with it.Written policy manuals are required under the law of many states.Having a uniform orientation program ensures every employee has received the same information regarding the rules of the workplace and your standards of conduct and professionalism.Make sure all new hires understand that the written information contained in their handbook supersedes anything they might be told by a supervisor or other employee. Just because one person is able to "get away with" something doesn't mean the behavior is appropriate or condoned by the company.
If you're a manager or a supervisor, make sure you understand the handbook and discrimination policies, and are able to answer questions from employees. Ask questions if there's something you don't understand.
 Continuing education and training keeps the issue in the forefront of employees' minds and demonstrates your commitment to anti-discrimination.


The EEOC has representatives you can schedule to visit your workplace and have a talk on federal anti-discrimination law and workplace discrimination.Quizzes and hands-on activities not only give you confidence that your employees understand your policy, but provide evidence that workplace discrimination is something taken seriously by your company.
Managers and supervisors in particular should know not only how to identify discrimination but also how to handle incidences of discrimination they observe in the workplace, regardless of whether an employee complains.Part of avoiding workplace discrimination lawsuits is being proactive about situations that could potentially be offensive or discriminatory. If you are a manager or supervisor, part of your job is to deal with these situations before they escalate into problems.
 Federal law requires you to make reasonable accommodations for employees' needs related to protected traits or characteristics.For example, if you have an employee who cannot stand for more than 30 minutes at a time, and she is working at a cash register where employees regularly stand for their entire shifts, you must make a stool available for her when she is working so she can sit.Accommodations aren't just related to physical disabilities. For example, if you have a female employee whose religion requires her to wear a head covering, she generally must be allowed to wear that at work regardless of your dress code.If you are a manager or supervisor and an employee asks for an accommodation, you should do what you can to provide it as soon as possible. Avoid questioning the employee's need or making any derogatory remarks – if you dispute that the employee actually needs that accommodation, bring it up with your boss.
 The EEOC has posters and brochures that you can place in employee break rooms and other areas.


These materials typically are available at no cost, and many have been translated into languages other than English. The EEOC makes them available for free download at http://www1.eeoc.gov/eeoc/publications/index.cfm, or you can order posters and other materials at http://www1.eeoc.gov/eeoc/publications/order.cfm.
Having your complaint procedure and information about workplace discrimination displayed prominently sends the signal that anti-discrimination is part of doing business, and that their complaints will be handled with professionalism and respect. This can decrease the anxiety some employees may feel about filing a complaint, especially against a supervisor.
 Having more than one person to take reports of discrimination gives employees options if they don't feel comfortable talking to a particular individual.


For example, you may have a female employee who has a sexual discrimination complaint against a male employee, and feels more comfortable talking about it with another female.
The people who handle complaints typically should be supervisors or managers, but you also want to make it clear that employees can go to any supervisor or manager with a complaint and he or she will make sure the situation is thoroughly investigated.
You also may want to have someone outside the company to whom employees can go with complaints, especially if you have a small or family company in which the managerial employees or related or close-knit.
If you are a manager or supervisor and an employee reports an incident of discrimination to you – even if you haven't been designated formally to accept such complaints on behalf of the company – you should handle it professionally. Ask the reporting employee if you can bring someone in to help you if you don't think you're capable of dealing with the situation on your own, or if you lack the specific authority to do anything about it.
 Keeping a written record of everything said related to a discrimination complaint can ensure that stories don't get twisted later.As you're interviewing an employee, take notes on what he or she said. After the interview is over, read your notes back to the employee and get his or her assent that you've recorded the statement correctly.Keep all materials regarding the same complaint in a single file. If there are records of the alleged discrimination, such as emails or job postings, put copies of those in the file as well.Include a log sheet on which each step taken in the investigation is recorded, along with the date and time the step took place., Avoid the urge to write off a discrimination complaint, regardless of how trivial it actually seems.You won't always have to launch a full-blown investigation to get to the bottom of a situation. The allegations may have come about as the result of a simple misunderstanding.However, this doesn't mean you shouldn't take the complaint seriously and work towards a resolution that satisfies everyone involved.
Even if you think the complaint is silly, avoid making the person feel like he or she made a mistake by filing a report, or that you are defending the alleged discriminator. It's important to maintain objectivity. If you feel you cannot do this, perhaps because you are personally close to the alleged discriminator, you might want to bring someone else in to investigate the matter., Make sure employees understand that any information related to a discrimination complaint will not be disclosed or discussed in any other context.


Details about discrimination reports should only be shared with other employees or members of the company on a need-to-know basis, and the identity of employees involved in the incident should be kept private as much as possible.For example, if you allow an employee to switch shifts and have to let human resources know about the change, you don't have to tell staff in human resources that the employee is being transferred because he or she filed a complaint of discrimination.
Keep in mind that employees who are victims of discrimination may feel vulnerable and fear retribution or additional teasing or harassment because they filed a complaint.Protecting those employees means taking steps to ensure discrimination complaints don't become the subject of gossip among employees.
 Employees may not believe that you are taking complaints seriously if you drag your feet in investigating the issue.


Prompt investigation is key if you want to avoid workplace discrimination lawsuits. A complaint provides you with advance notice that there's an issue, and gives you the opportunity to resolve the problem before it escalates any further.The quicker and more efficiently you resolve the complaint, the greater your ability to ease tensions, increase workplace morale, and encourage employees to have confidence in you and your company.If the employee ends up filing a complaint with a state agency or the EEOC, your investigation can provide defenses and decrease your liability., Your anti-discrimination policy will have no value if you allow some employees to slide on violations.


If you bend the rules to favor certain employees, you are treating your employees unfairly. This can open you up to additional liability if a workplace discrimination lawsuit is filed.If you are a supervisor or manager, keep in mind that all employees must be held to the same standard, regardless of their role in the company or your relationship to them.
Even if you have confidence the situation has been resolved, follow up with the employee who filed the complaint after a few weeks have passed. You want to make sure that the conduct fully ceased and that the employee has not experienced any blowback or retribution as a result of the incident.