 The SAT's Critical Reading questions test how well you can understand sentences, paragraphs, and essays. You can expect:Two 25-minute sections and a 20-minute one (70 minutes total)
48 questions that require you to read written passages to find the answer. These passages can be about lots of different things. Art, history, and science are three common topics. You don't need to know about these topics before the test.
19 questions that require you to complete sentences with the appropriate word/concept.
Some questions will test your vocabulary. Others will require you to comment on a reading selection (e.g., "Which of these words best describes the author's tone?");
, The math section is just what it sounds like — a chance for you to show how well you do math problems. You can (and should) use a calculator for the math section. All scientific calculators and most graphing calculators are eligible.You can expect:Two 25-minute sections and a 20-minute one (70 minutes total)
44 multiple-choice questions
10 questions that require you to write out your answer.
Problems are taken from four main focus areas:



Numbers and operations
Algebra and Functions
Geometry and measurement
Statistics and probability




For this section, you're provided with a selection of important geometrical formulas. Click here to see this sheet., Though it's called the "Writing" section, there's only one place where you'll actually have to write. Most of the section is actually made up of multiple-choice questions that test your ability to think and judge pieces of writing like a good writer. You can expect:One 25-minute written essay, one 25-minute multiple choice segment, and one 10-minute multiple choice segment (60 minutes total)
The essay requires you to read and respond to a short prompt. Generally, the prompt presents a philosophical or moral question without a "right" answer. It's your job to choose a stance and give a strong argument.
The multiple choice questions require you to communicate ideas clearly and intelligently. You will need to pick fixes for pieces of writing that contain errors.
 Don't waste time and energy stressing over subjects that won't even appear on the test. Breathe easy — you don't need to worry about any of the following:


Specific facts, names, dates, and places. You'll probably be required to read passages from history, science, and the humanities, but all the information you'll need will be in the passage itself.
Scientific concepts. You don't need to worry about anything you covered in Chemistry, Biology, or Physics. You'll probably encounter passages about one or more of these topics, but you'll be judged on your ability to interpret and analyze the passages — not your ability to write chemical equations, diagram a cell, etc.
Logic and abstract reasoning. You won't be asked to piece your way through complex logic problems or create new philosophical proofs out of thin air. The SAT is designed to test your ability in skills you'd use at school.
 The best way to get a feel for the types of questions you'll find in this section is to do them. Luckily, it's easy to find practice questions online. A few helpful links are below.


The official SAT site has practice questions here.Majortests.com has practice questions here.Khanacademy has practice questions here., The passages in the Reading Comprehension section can cover a huge range of subjects. It's impossible to learn everything you might conceivably read during the test beforehand. Don't waste your practice time trying to become an expert in art, history, and so on. Instead, practice reading things that you aren't already familiar with. Here are just a few ideas:


Read short snippets or articles from science and art magazines, then have a friend ask you questions about them. Try to get a good mix of specific and abstract questions, like "What was the article about?" and "How would you describe the author's tone?" You can usually read these kinds of publications for free at your local library.
Pick a page from a book you haven't read, then try to write in your own words what seems to be happening. If there are characters on this page, try to describe their moods.
 Unfortunately, some of the questions in the Reading Comprehension section hinge on whether or not you know what certain words mean. Try to spend some of your time familiarizing yourself with "fancy," academic words — adjectives are an especially smart choice.


For good sources of vocabulary SAT prep, use Word Dynamo on Dictionary.com, Knewton SAT prep, or College Board Vocabulary Prep. You can even make your own flashcards with SAT vocabulary lists, quizzing yourself when you have free time.
A good idea is to get familiar with the Greek and Latin roots that form the basis for many complicated words. Once you know these, it's easier to guess what words mean even if you've never heard them before. A good list is available here., Reading the passages in the section is vital for answering the questions. However, since the time you spend reading is time you can't use to answer questions, you'll want to get through the passages reasonably fast. If you're not the quickest reader, try to keep your pace up by focusing on the main concepts in each paragraph. It's better to get through the passage quickly and understand the general ideas in it than to get through it slowly and have only a slightly better understanding.


A good rule to get the general point of a passage is to read the whole beginning paragraph, then read the first sentence of each of the body paragraphs, and finish by reading the whole concluding paragraph.Some questions will reference a certain line in the passage. If you can find the answer by reading only this line, go with it. However, don't be afraid to read a sentence or two on either side of the line to get a better understanding.
If you don't understand a question, try going back and reading the paragraph(s) where the ideas in the question are discussed.
 Practicing the sorts of questions that will show up in the math section is a must. This will help sharpen your math skills and re-acquaint you with math topics that you may not have seen for a while. A few helpful links are below:


Official SAT math practice problems are available here.Practice problems from Majortests.com are available here.Khanacademy math practice problems are available here., When it comes to math problems, a single missed word can lead you to an incorrect answer. Be sure you understand what each question is asking you to do before you answer. You don't want to lose points on math problems you know how to solve because you overlooked something in the problem itself.


One smart rule is to look for key words and phrases that change your answer. These include things like "other," "besides," "more," "less," "extra," "in addition to," and so on.
For example, let's say you get this problem: A circle is divided by two lines that intersect in its center. One of the angles formed measures 33 degrees. How many other angles measure 33 degrees?



In this problem, there is just one other angle with this measurement, so don't pick two (the total number of 33 degree angles).
 Use what you know about math to remove answers as soon as you realize that they can't possibly be correct. This saves you time and makes it more likely that you'll get the right answer if you have to guess.


For example, let's say that you're asked to find the absolute value of x2 -3x + 4. You can instantly rule out any answer that's negative — absolute values always give positive results.
 In the SAT, you are allowed to write in your test booklet. It gets thrown away when you're done.Feel free to write, sketch or scribble anything you need to help you solve the problem. You don't get more points if you return your test booklet with no writing in it. You also get a small reference sheet with important geometrical formulas on it that you'll need to answer some of the questions.


You can consult this sheet as much as you want, but it's up to you to know which formulas to use when the time comes, so it's a good idea to practice questions that use these formulas anyway.
 You don't want to waste valuable time fiddling with a calculator you've never used before. Try to have at least a basic familiarity with your calculator before you take the test. If you can bring the calculator you practiced with, all the better.


You don't need to know how to use every single function on your calculator, but you should at least know how to do all the basic operations, how to enter exponents, and how to use scientific notation features. Being able to use an answer recall/memory feature can also be helpful.
 Just like for math and reading, practice makes perfect for the SAT writing section. A few helpful resources are below:


The essay prompts from the most recent SAT are available here.Official "Improving Sentences" multiple-choice practice problems are available here., Nothing's worse than churning your way 90% of the way through an essay only to find out at the end that you don't really know what your main point is. Avoid this by using a small amount of your essay-writing time (just a minute or two) to sketch out a broad, general outline. You can always make changes as you're writing. Having a plan will help you stay on-track and divide your limited time carefully.


Start by picking a stance on the problem the essay prompt gives you. This doesn't have to be something you passionately agree with — just something you can argue well. Next, write a few claims, facts, and ideas that support your argument. These will form the basis for your body paragraphs. Your conclusion can be a re-statement of your main idea.
 The essay isn't an opportunity to show off flashy writing tricks and creative twists of phrase. The main thing you are being judged on is your ability to clearly and effectively argue a specific point. Making the grader laugh or cry with your beautiful prose unfortunately won't have an effect on your score. Just use your time to make your argument and support it with logic and facts.


Short, descriptive sentences are fine here. Try not to worry about how "pretty" or "complex" each sentence is. Instead, worry about how strong your argument is. Plain, clear sentences that make logical points are better than gorgeous sentences that go nowhere.
 A good SAT essay doesn't just make claims. It backs up its claims with examples that illustrate how those claims are correct. Be sure to incorporate specific examples into your writing. These form a major portion of the essay's score.The examples can be from your schoolwork, personal reading you've done, people you've met, and even your own life experiences. The source isn't important, but the example's ability to support your argument is.
 Don't forget that the writing section isn't just about the essay. Many of the multiple-choice questions in the writing section test your ability to improve sentences and paragraphs that have errors in them. Getting a little experience editing flawed writing can be a big benefit — this helps you get in the critical editor's mindset.


Editing your own essays for school projects is one great way to do this, but if you need more practice, ask to edit your friends' or siblings' work. You'll be doing them a favor and helping yourself prepare for the test.
 As noted above, the best way to get better at taking the SAT is to take it. While individual practice problems can help you gain the skills and knowledge you need to do well, taking the whole test — all at once — is a valuable experience. Taking a practice test doesn't just help you learn what you need to know. It gets you used to having to sit still and focus on your work for over three hours. It also teaches you how to get through the questions as quickly as possible and how to pace yourself.


The official SAT Practice test is available here for free.It's easy to find others online and in test prep booklets.
 Almost everyone who takes the SAT will make at least some mistakes. The first few times you take practice tests, note which sections you do the worst on. Focus on practicing these sorts of questions most of all. You won't want to ignore the other sections, but you will want to use your study time as effectively as possible.
 You should always be aware of the clock as you're taking your test. Taking practice tests will help you get used to this. There are also other things you can do to manage your time effectively. See below:


Keep the total number of questions in the section in mind. This info is written at the start of each section. If you know you have five minutes left and you're on question 20 of 25, you're in good shape.
Do the easy questions first, then the hard ones. If you get to a hard problem, skip it and come back. If you do the hard ones first, you might not even get to easy problems that you could have answered quickly. In general, the questions in each section get harder as they go on. The "easiest" questions are generally:
Reading Comprehension: Sentence completion (not passage-based questions)
Math: Basic arithmetic/algebra word problems
Writing: Identifying sentence errors

, Don't psyche yourself out — with a little practice and hard work, you can do your absolute best on the SAT. Even if this isn't as good as you'd like, it's not the end of the world. Here are just a few things to keep in mind:


The SAT is just one thing that colleges look at when considering your application. Your grades, extracurricular activities, recommendations, and projects outside of school also play a factor. A bad SAT score won't keep you out of college on its own.
The SAT isn't a test of how smart you are. It can't tell you whether you're a good artist, whether you can think critically, or how high your emotional intelligence is. It can only tell you how good you are at a few school skills.

