 It doesn't get any more Midwestern than tater tots and ground beef. It also doesn't get any easier or more nostalgic. Childhood comfort food at its finest.



Brown a pound of lean ground beef over medium-high, seasoning to your taste. If you like it a little spicy, add some chili powder or cayenne. It's also common to add garlic and onions.

Add a can of condensed cream-of-mushroom soup, when the meat is cooked, and add two cans of whatever vegetables you like. Green beans are common, as well as peas, corn, or some combination of the above. Frozen vegetables are likewise fine.

Spoon the ground beef mixture into a casserole dish and top with a bag of frozen tater-tots, then bake at 350 degrees for about an hour, or until the tater tots are golden brown and crispy. Serve it up with tabasco, and it's winter in Minnesota.
 Moussaka is a lot like lasagna, but with potato and eggplant instead of noodles, and meat sauce and béchamel instead of marinara and mozzarella. It's delicious.



Start with a basic meat sauce, made with a pound of browned ground beef, garlic, and onions, spiced with cinnamon and oregano, as well as salt and pepper to taste. Add a half cup of red wine, a half can of tomato paste, and some lemon zest. Simmer uncovered for about 20 minutes, then turn off the heat.

Peel 2-3 small-to-medium eggplant, and 2-3 medium-sized potatoes, then slice into equal rounds, about a quarter-inch thick. Boil the potato rounds in salted water for about 7 minutes, until fork-tender, and grill the eggplant slices, or sauté them in the skillet to cook them through. It's usually best to salt the eggplant and allow them to sit for about 15 minutes before cooking them, to release some of the moisture.

In a skillet, make a roux by whisking about a half-cup of flour in about a half stick of butter over medium heat, then thicken with 3-4 cups of milk, whisking vigorously. In a separate bowl, beat two eggs, then slowly add them to the hot mixture, once thickened, to temper it. Add nutmeg and salt, to taste.

Layer the bottom of a casserole dish with potato rounds, eggplant rounds, and meat sauce, alternating however you wish. Top the mixture with some parmesan cheese, if you wish, and the white sauce, then bake at 350 for about 45 minutes, until the top is nicely browned.
 For a tortillas-and-black beans variant on lasagna, you can mix up a spicy casserole with hearty black beans, chorizo, and chili sauce.



Brown up a pound of chopped chorizo in a skillet over medium-high heat, then remove. If you don't like chorizo, regular sausage would be a fine alternative.

In the same skillet, sauté a chopped onion and 2-3 cloves of minced garlic, adding two teaspoons of ground cumin and one of cinnamon, when the onions become translucent.

Add about three cups of cooked black beans to the skillet, with a cup of chicken stock, and return the chorizo to the mix. Reduce the heat and simmer for about 10 or 15 minutes, testing for salt.In a casserole dish, spoon some green chili sauce on the bottom, then layer several corn tortillas in a layer on top. Spoon some of the black bean mixture over the tortillas, then add a sprinkling of shredded monterey jack cheese, or the cheese of your choice. Continue alternating layers until the dish is full, and top with extra shredded cheese. Bake covered for 20 minutes and uncovered for another 20, at 350. Serve with sour cream.
 It may not be healthy, but it's the cornerstone of a country breakfast. Next to fried eggs and a bowl of hominy grits, it's hard to beat cheesy hash-brown casserole.



In a mixing bowl, combine a cup of sour cream, a half cup of melted butter, a can of condensed cream-of-mushroom soup, 2 cups of shredded cheddar cheese (or your favorite cheese), and a teaspoon each of salt and pepper. Mix together thoroughly, then stir in two pounds of shredded potatoes. It's common to use the frozen kind for this dish, but if you shred up your own, rinse the shredded potato in water and squeeze them out thoroughly before adding.

Spoon the mixture into a casserole dish, and top with the secret weapon: crumbled corn flakes cereal. Bake uncovered for 40 minutes, or until golden brown and bubbly.

