 Aside from the known side effects of caffeine, it is important to note that your metabolism, level of caffeine use, and other dietary factors can affect how your body reacts to caffeine use during exercise. In fact, some people’s fitness performance is decreased by caffeine.When starting to use caffeine before exercising, start small and work your way up. Pay attention to how your body feels, and discontinue using caffeine if you repeatedly experience abdominal cramps or diarrhea.
 Though you are not at great risk of being dehydrated by caffeine consumption alone, it’s always important to drink plenty of water. Shoot for at least 64 ounces a day (2 liters, or half a gallon). A helpful way to remember doing so is drinking an 8-ounce glass of water eight times a day., If you are consuming 200 mg or more of caffeine per day, you will likely experience withdrawal symptoms if you skip a day. In fact, you may experience headaches, depression, and anxiety for more than a week if you stop drinking caffeine cold turkey.If trying to wind down, slowly reduce the amount of caffeine you consume each day.
 Even if you’re accustomed to claiming that caffeine doesn’t keep you up at night, rest assured that it does interfere with the quality of your sleep. Not getting enough deep sleep will not only leave you feeling tired during the day (and depending on caffeine to feel awake), it will also keep you from excelling in terms of physical fitness., Though it is not commonly considered to be a performance-enhancing drug, there is an upper limit established by some athletic competition organizations. For instance, the International Olympic Committee considers concentrations of 12 mg/liter of urine to indicate a deliberate “doping” attempt. However, you would need to consume roughly 1000 mg of caffeine (which, assuming 1 ounce of coffee has 10 mg of caffeine, would be 12.5 8-oz cups of coffee), an amount you should never take at once, or even over the course of one day.Individual factors may affect your body’s caffeine absorption. Accordingly, just a few hundred milligrams of caffeine may put some people at risk of testing in the 12 mg/liter range, though this is highly unlikely.

