 All kinds of fruit can be frozen safely, and stored for up to a year. Some fruits taste great frozen, while others you might want to thaw first. It is entirely up to your tastebuds to decide.Bananas.
Papaya.
Berry fruits, e.g. strawberries, raspberries, blackberries.
Kiwi.
Oranges.
Pineapple.
Blueberries.
Seedless grapes.;
, These are always popular when frozen, because they take on a texture like ice cream. Peel the bananas and cut them in half. Wrap in plastic (optional), lay flat on a baking tray and place into the freezer. They will take about two hours to freeze, but ideally you should leave them in the freezer overnight.


If you have children, insert a popsicle stick before freezing, to help small hands hold them.
 Clean and remove the green leaves and stems of strawberries and freeze for several hours. You can also freeze blueberries, raspberries, and blackberries. Allow them to thaw for about 10 minutes prior to serving.
 Cut oranges into quarters, and watermelon into bite-sized pieces. Wrap the fruit in plastic food wrap and arrange it on a plate or tray. Freeze for several hours.
 Cut fruit into chunks and slide onto a kebab stick. Place in the freezer and remove when frozen. They should take about two to three hours to freeze. This makes an excellent barbecue or poolside snack in the heat of summer.


Strawberries and bananas make a great combination.
Watermelon and grapes make a tasty summer treat.
Orange and mango cubes make a fancy, tropical treat.
 Grapes are low in calories and are packed with vitamins and antioxidants. When frozen, they become pleasantly crunchy with smooth, sorbet-like centers.Rinse a large bunch of grapes under cool or lukewarm water, and pat dry with a paper towel. They don't need to be completely dry.
Place your grapes in a sealed plastic bag, and freeze them overnight.
You can also put frozen grapes directly in a glass of white wine instead of an ice cube., Cut two mangoes into bite-sized cubes and put them in a sealed plastic bag and freeze them. Enjoy them plain, or drizzle a small amount of lime juice over them. They should be frozen in about two hours.Kiwi are also delicious when prepared this way.

