 You too are in need of being forgiven by people you might have hurt in some way. You too need forgiveness from a perfect God.;
, Perhaps this person was abused at some point in his or her life.
 This person might long have forgotten the injury inflicted on you, while you are allowing anger to seep the life out of you.
 Think of the forgiveness He offers you through His son, Jesus... a totally free gift, which neither you nor I deserve! He asks us to pass this forgiveness on to our fellow human beings; not an easy task, yet He asks it of us and He knows that if we do that, we will find incredible peace and freedom! Cast your care onto the Lord.
 It is God's domain. Only He knows what this person actually deserves. Inflicting revenge will only make you feel better for a fleeting moment. Ultimately, it will make you feel much worse. Remember that people usually reap what they sow.
 You are not saying that what was done is OK. You are not saying you are in agreement. You can still condemn the sin, but you are placing the sinner in God's hands. You are affirming that only God is equipped to rightly judge his or her soul.
 The Lord requires us to forgive, so that our hearts can be clean before Him. But we can only trust again and reconcile as it might be appropriate ("As much as it depends on you, be at peace with all men" - Rm 12.18). For true reconciliation, both parties have to take responsibility and do their part. Otherwise we would be in an unhealthy "unequal yoking". Sometimes it's best to forgive, but to move on and let your peace return to you. Getting back together with the other person may not be a good option.
 If the offensive behavior is criminal it may be appropriate to notify the authorities. This becomes especially important when the behavior is ongoing and others are at risk. Each situation has to be considered on it merits, including your safety. Remember that forgiving sometimes just doesn't stop behavior. God may take you through a difficult time, not necessarily end it because you have forgiven.
 God sacrificed his only son so that you could enjoy your life.

