 Organizations such as the Association of Certified Financial Crime Specialists offer training and support for those interested in becoming financial crime specialists. Once you become a member and obtain your certification, the organization can provide further benefits for your career.Professional organizations can help connect you with employment opportunities and mentors.
Membership of an organization can be required in order to take the certification exam.
 In order to become a financial crime specialist, you need to complete a certain number of classes offered through the professional organization that you join. ACFCS’ education requirement uses a credit system, in which certain degrees are worth a given number of credits. These credits can be put toward your eligibility.For example, to be eligible to become a financial crime specialist, you need 40 credits. Holding a bachelor’s degree earns you 10 credits.
A high school diploma or GED is worth 5 credits. An associates degree is worth 7 credits. A post-graduate degree is worth 15.
Courses offered through the professional organization may be online, or offered through your employer.
 Work experience is also required to become a certified financial crime specialist. ACFCS uses its same credit system to assess the value of relevant work experience.


ACFCS awards 5 credits per year that you’ve worked in the field. Any employment that you've had in the field of financial crime investigation counts toward these credits.
There is no limit to how far back your experience can go to be eligible for credit.
 ACFCS and other organizations offer training that includes online seminars, conferences, panels, and e-learning. These trainings earn you credits toward your certification eligibility.ACFCS will accept trainings from some other organizations, as long as it’s directly related to financial crime, such as fraud and money laundering.
To receive the credits for your training, you need to obtain a certificate or proof of attendance at the event.
 The CFCS certification exam is the first exam to set the standard for professionals going into the financial crime field. The exam is considered very rigorous.You must complete the professional organization’s requirements and pass the exam to become certified.
There are numerous testing centers in various locations.
Topics of the exam include anti-corruption, fraud, tax evasion, cybersecurity, and asset recovery.

