 Choose a diary, scrapbook or a folder with a flat front, as it is easier to work on even surfaces than the uneven ones.

Even if you want to decorate an old diary, just make sure to place it under a heavy pile of books overnight so that it flattens the surface and gives you a perfect area to work on. For an old file, you could simply take the pages out, work on it and put the papers back when you are done decorating it. This way you could even try this DIY on an old, grungy file or diary you want to preserve.;
, Take a spoon and make a slant cut from the bigger part going down towards the smaller part.


It might feel a bit difficult to cut as the spoons are of hard texture but once you get used to it really won’t matter.






Cut around 8 to 10 spoons and keep them aside







,


Make a cut from both sides moving from the circular part towards the “v” part.






This will give you the petals for smaller flowers.
 This will make the body of the butterfly.


Take a spoon and repeat the cutting process, from the centre of the big part making a curve to the end. Do the same for the other side.






For its head, cut the smaller part curving it in the shape of a circle.
 Place the petals to and wings where you want them to be. Cover the empty areas with small flowers.


Once you are satisfied with the layout it’s time to move to the next step.
 Small details like polka dots or lines would definitely make them look more attractive. Even small strokes of shading with two entirely different colours makes them look artistic and exquisite., This may be done in variety of ways. You can either spray-paint it, simply paint it, paste a colourful or a patterned sheet or either use different pieces of colourful sheets to cutout and create clouds, sky, grass, plants, trees, water or literally anything that comes in your mind.
 Now it’s time to paste everything in its place. Put the flower petals (same technique for smaller and bigger ones) in sequence and start pasting them one by one, so that you don’t make a mistake and leave little spaces between them. Do the same with butterflies, first paste the body and head and then finally the wings., After the pasting part is over, it’s only the little sequins that are left to placed. Carefully make a small circle with glue in the centre of the flower and then put the sequins on it quickly, arranging them in a circle accordingly with the glue., After the glue is dry and the sequins are set into their places, it’s time to add some detail-work to the diary. You can use different pens (sparkle, florescent or markers) to make curved lines on the body of the butterfly, or add little antennas and eyes to it also. You can also make some grass details or outline the grass and the clouds, make raindrops or a sun or anything else.

