 People have a tendency to judge quickly after a first date. When deciding your feelings, have some perspective. It's only one date. Whether you felt so-so about it, or had a great time, this is just one encounter and you can't make any sweeping decisions yet.If there was very little spark, do not decide it isn't worth pursuing. Unless there were very obvious reg flags, consider giving the person a second chance if you had a decent time.
If it went well, remember it was only one date and the other person may not have felt the same way. You're not in a relationship yet, so try to take things one day at a time before leaping to conclusions about where the relationship's going.;
, It's important to examine your feelings about the person after a date, but overanalyzing can do more harm than good. Try not to obsess over the meaning of every hand touch, hug, or other gesture. While small things can sometimes indicate a character trait, they can also be meaningless.For example, if your date checked a text during dinner, you may be wondering if this means they're an inconsiderate person. If this only happened once throughout the whole date, they may have been checking the time or waiting on an important call. For now, try not to think about the text incident too much.
 Sometimes, you know for sure you want a second date, but sometimes it's more confusing. There is no pressure to go on a second date if you don't want to, but it's worth giving someone a chance if you had a decent time. However, if you were very uncomfortable or didn't have any fun, you may want to move on to someone else., Sometimes, red flags show up early. If your date engaged in behaviors that seemed rude or inappropriate on more than one occasion, this may be a sign this person is not worth pursuing.For example, maybe they rolled their eyes or laughed at a serious comment you made. Maybe they barely engaged in conversation. Maybe they just made you uncomfortable throughout the night.
Trust your instinct. Don't keep seeing someone if they have a bad vibe.
 If you felt no attraction to the person at all whatsoever, a second date may not be worth it. However, keep in mind you may not be wildly attracted to the person right away, especially if you're nervous. If you felt the person was decent looking, even if you weren't swept off your feet, it may be worth a second date to see if attraction develops.