 Before you attempt to say "I love you" in Vietnamese, take some time to familiarize yourself with basic pronunciation. This can aid you in the ability to correctly say the phrase.


Vowels are key in learning to pronounce Vietnamese, particularly for the phrase "I love you." There are roughly 11 vowel sounds in the Vietnamese language.One group of vowels is broken down under the letter "a." The vowel "a" without any pronunciation marks is pronounced like "far" in English. With the pronunciation mark "ă," the vowel is pronounced like "father." With the pronunciation mark "â", it's pronounced like "but."A second group of vowel is broken down under "e." The vowel "e" without a pronunciation mark is pronounced as it is in "red." With the pronunciation mark "ê," it's pronounced like the letter "a" in "may."The vowel group "o" has three different pronunciations. "O" without a pronunciation mark is pronounced like the "a" in "law." With the pronunciation mark "ô," it's pronounced like the "o" in "spoke." With the pronunciation mark "ơ" it's pronounced like the "i" in "sir."The "u" vowel group is broken down into two pronunciations. "U" without a pronunciation mark is pronounced like the double o in "boo." With the pronunciation mark "ư" it's pronounced like the first half of "uh-uh."The letters "i" and "y" are pronounced like the "e" in "me.";
, Saying "I love you" in Vietnamese is very different than saying it in English. There are many different ways to say "I love you" in Vietnamese depending on age, gender, and your relationship with that person. Before attempting to say "I love you" in Vietnamese, make sure you understand you cannot use one phrase for saying "I love you" to different people., Another factor that affects how to say "I love you" is how you address yourself. Vietnamese does not have a single version of the word "I" or "me." How you address yourself depends on the context of the situation.


How you address yourself in Vietnamese depends on how the person you're speaking to would address you. Family members address one another in accordance to region, level of formality, and whether or not you are of the same age. For others, you address people based on region and age.

