 Professional tracks require formal and often lengthy education programs and subsequent residencies or apprenticeships, while non-professional options may have short-term training programs or certificate sessions. Professional degrees, such as counselors, nurses, physicians, and psychiatrists, require considerable educational commitments before entering the workforce.
Non-professional career tracks may offer you similar exposure and job satisfaction without the same education or training commitment. These options include peer counselors, life coaches, administrators, medical assistants, hotline workers, mental health technicians, and support group monitoring.;
, If you have the time and the willpower to pursue a career in the medical environment, read about all of your options before selecting a single path, as there are several options.


Even in the medical field, the amount of exposure you will have to people with mental illness may vary considerably, and you have to be prepared for the lifestyle and commitment each career path will require.
 These are both lengthy graduate-level education programs that also require training after the program finishes. Although salaries can be excellent, the work-life balance you have may vary considerably depending on the environment in which you work. Physicians can find employment providing emergency mental health care to individuals admitted to a hospital or provide medical supervision of patients in rehabilitation or psychiatric facilities. They can also work to find ideal medication regimens for individuals with mental health needs.
Psychiatrists can offer professional treatment for individuals suffering from mental illnesses, addictions, and imbalances. They can provide a variety of therapies and prescribe medications to help resolve or even eliminate the symptoms of certain disorders. In addition, psychiatrists can find employment in private or group practices or larger mental health facilities such as psychiatric hospitals.
 Becoming a nursing or medical assistant can be a fast and less expensive way to get into the mental health field on the medical side. Although physician assistant programs are longer and often more competitive, they are also considerably faster than becoming a medical or psychiatric doctor.


Assistants in the medical field spend considerable time interacting with patients. By finding work in a psychiatric hospital or unit, or by working at a mental health office, assistants can regularly care for individuals with mental health needs.
Duties of assistants often include taking anthropometric and hematologic measurements, conducting intake questionnaires, explaining to patients what they can expect during the visit, updating medical files, and directly assisting the doctor during procedures and emergencies.
Advanced degrees, such as physician assistants and nurse practitioners, can see patients individually and can prescribe medication.
 If the nitty-gritty nature of the medical field does not appeal to you, many important mental health career options exist outside of hospitals and clinics.


Social workers, career counselors, counselors, counseling psychologists, addiction counselors, and charity organizers can offer invaluable services to clients with mental health needs.
Social workers and counselors are often a master's level, licensed practitioner who specializes in offering talk-therapy or other types of psychotherapies. Social workers and counselors can also have a PhD. in their field, making them experts in specific areas of mental health therapy.
Counseling psychologists and clinical psychologists are doctoral level, licensed practitioners who have advanced degrees and research experience in psychology. They also provide talk-therapy and psychotherapy to help their patients.
 Social work, family counseling, and mental health therapy may require licensure and a formal education program in some areas.


Many education programs may be completed in less time than a regular undergraduate degree, but some (like social work and counseling) can be pursued up to a master's or doctoral level.
Check your state’s requirements before opening shop as a counselor, advisor, or therapist to make sure you are not practicing illegally.
 While you can’t volunteer as a physician to truly get an idea of what the career entails, you can often volunteer in social work and community mental health centers to learn about other careers.


To obtain volunteer opportunities, call homeless shelters, rehabilitation centers, social work and career counseling offices, the local office for veterans’ services, and even the local public school.
Ask if they need assistance with case management, intake forms, fielding phone calls, safeguarding the office, or hosting support group sessions. You may find that many places happy to receive the help and to offer you experience immediately.
 If you have the stomach and the nerve to manage high-energy, stressful situations, emergency mental health services or crisis counseling may be ideal for you.


Look into programs and positions for emergency medical technicians, crisis hotline counselors, and orderly work.
 The therapy process can be very mysterious if never experienced. Actually receiving counseling is an excellent way to experience psychotherapy first hand and better understand what you might be doing for a career. Even if you feel that there is nothing "wrong" in your life, counseling can enrich your life and help you find clarity — you may even uncover which mental health career is right for you!

, Offered in short sessions, this training will teach you the basics of identifying and intervening in mental health crises.


If the nature of the work appeals to you, consider seeking out education programs for emergency technicians and use that training to apply for work in mental health facilities, hospitals, crisis hotlines, or emergency response teams.
 Many mental health call centers and community centers are staffed by volunteers, but centers like these often need reliable employees to talk patients through mental health crises until medical emergency teams can arrive on scene.


If you choose to attempt crisis counseling, be aware that phone calls can range from self-harming teens to violent addicts to suicidal elderly. Many of your interactions with individuals will be stressful, high-pressure situations that may include graphic language and uncomfortable discussions.
 In many cases, organizations that work with mentally ill individuals have increased safety precautions. If you have the physical strength and the desire to work in safety, you may be able to find work protecting staff and patients through trained restraint and submission techniques.


Specialty schools, rehabilitation centers, psychiatric units, and community centers are often eager to have a staff member able to manage the physical end of outbursts from mentally ill clients. Situations like these can be messy, violent, intimidating, and dangerous, and are not for everyone.
 If you are eager to be in the mental health field but uneasy about working with patients or in treatment centers, try taking a job in the world of advocacy and awareness.


Many charitable and nonprofit groups exist with the sole purpose of spreading positive messages about mental health. Groups like this focus on helping those in need find care without fear of stigma, and de-mystifying the face of mental illness.
 Organizations, such as To Write Love on Her Arms and Bring Change 2 Mind, are highly active online and in cities across North America.


Social media organizations are often in need of writers, photographers, web designers, marketing and graphic design specialists, fundraising staff, and event planners.
 Many international mental health groups offer speaking tours, concerts, sticker and poster campaigns, radio commercial outreach, and awareness events around the world.


Look into jobs coordinating events, networking with hospitals or other non-profits, organizing school activities (like free counseling or a celebrity guest speaker), promoting relevant books and movies, or publicizing their events.
 Once you have written down all of your realistic options for a mental health career and considered options that are available to you, you can begin to narrow down the list so that you can make a final decision.


Take the positive and negative aspects of each option into consideration and weigh your decision carefully. Listen to your gut feelings here, as ultimately you will know best what will make you happiest.
 Once you have a small list of options, spend time time getting a better sense of which option is right for you.


If possible, shadow someone who already performs that type of work to get a feel for what a day is like with that career.
If that is not possible, spend more time online digging around for information about the job.
Take note of the type of activities you will need to perform (the good, the bad, and the ugly), the salary you can expect initially and long-term, the type of environment you will work in, whether that career niche is in-demand, what your schedule will look like, and any other features about a career that are important to you.
 Write down what you consider positive and negative features for each option. Once you have a list of pros and cons, look for the options that have the most pros or the most important pros relative to cons. You can then rule out options that do not interest you based on your research and your preference for certain features.
 Review the remaining options and examine whether each should still be considered based on what is most important to you.For instance, if you really want a job with regular patient interaction, you may want to exclude options like hospital administration.
 Once you have eliminated options that were unappealing or would not offer features you deem indispensable, try to rank the choices that remain.


Use your gut feelings when thinking about what would make you happy and not so happy about having a career in each of your options., Even if you have never thought of yourself as a social worker or a doctor, don't let that prevent you from keeping that option on the table if it made your short list and you can imagine yourself enjoying the job.


If you have the willpower, pretty much any career option can be available to you.
 Part of selecting the right mental health career is knowing about yourself and what you want out of a career. If you are not enthusiastic about a potential career choice, take it off your list and only focus on opportunities that you believe will give you fulfillment. It would be awful to redirect your career, potentially paying large sums of money for an education, only to find out that your new job bores you to death.Try to make sure that you have a passion for the career you are going to work toward. You can be more certain that you are passionate about your future job by shadowing someone who currently does that job or by doing your best to vividly imagine all aspects of the job you would do throughout the week.
 You will likely be happiest if you choose an option that will provide a chance for you to grow, advance, and succeed as your abilities and interests change.
 If your first choice becomes impossible due to denied admissions or a lack of financial resources, remember that there are many paths to the ideal career in mental health.


Consider making yourself more attractive to educational programs or potential employers in the field. Pursue unpaid opportunities for mental health experience or training, such as Mental Health First Aid certification or volunteer training at a local hospital or crisis center.
Try gradually building up your experience base in the mental health field and visit a career counselor to help tailor your resume to appeal to mental health organizations.
Your experience may reflect more relevant skills for potential jobs than you realize; describe your experience as a university resident assistant as including behavioral monitoring and youth counseling, or your time as a bartender as helping you gain people skills and an unrivaled ability to listen.
 If you are currently in a related field, consider pursuing a lateral job move to a position more closely related to mental health.


For instance, apply for positions that will move you from welfare case management to substance abuse case management or from math teacher to youth group home resident assistant.

