 Use a rubber curry brush to groom your pet daily to weekly. Brush its fur in circular motions to enhance its circulation and distribute its skin’s natural oils. Go over your dog's back, the top of its neck, and the front of its legs; brush gently on more sensitive areas such as the bottom of its neck, stomach, or back of its legs.Besides keeping your Pittie’s coat healthy and lustrous, brushing helps control shedding and dust by removing hair and dead skin cells.;
, Use a damp, clean cloth to wipe your APBT’s fur after brushing. Be sure to move from its neck to tail, following the grain of its fur. Press firmly enough to remove any lingering hair or dirt, but do not rub.Rubbing or scrubbing your Pittie’s fur will encourage any dirt or debris in its coat to cling to its skin instead of removing it.
 Pitties have perky ears that are susceptible to infections, especially if they’re cropped. Keep your pet’s ears clear of wax and dirt by cleaning them with a mild canine ear cleaner.Drip just enough cleaner into your APBT’s ear canal to fill it. Then, massage the base of your pet’s ear for 10-20 seconds, making circular motions with your pointer and middle fingers. Repeat with your dog’s other ear.Once you’ve massaged both ears, let your dog shake its head to release the cleaning solution and whatever debris it has loosened. Gently wipe any liquid, dirt, and wax out of its ears using a clean cotton ball.To prevent any damage to your pet’s inner ear, avoid using cotton swabs or poking into its ear canal.
While you’re at it, be sure to watch out for any symptoms of infection, such as redness, rashes, swelling, discharge, or foul smells. If you do notice any of these signs, make an appointment with your vet., Regular oral hygiene is important to keeping your Pittie clear of bad breath, tartar buildup, and bacterial infections. Start by getting canine toothpaste and an angled canine toothbrush that is sized appropriately for your APBT.Push up your APBT’s lips to expose its teeth, and brush them quickly with a gentle circular motion along the gumline. You only need to do the front-side of your dog’s teeth.Do not use human toothpaste. It can be poisonous or harmful to dogs, especially if it contains fluoride or baking soda.
Dog toothpaste doesn’t need to be rinsed and comes in meaty flavors that your pet will enjoy. It’ll make this grooming task much easier for you and your pooch.
You can also help prevent plaque buildup by feeding your dog dry kibble and giving it dental chews.
 Clipping your APBT’s claws will keep them from cracking or scratching. The frequency will depend on your dog’s activity level and environment. Use a scissor-like Miller’s Forge trimmer designed for medium-sized dogs, and have some styptic powder handy to treat any cuts.Pick a time when your dog is tired and relaxed, such as after a walk or feeding. That way, it’ll be less likely to squirm.
Go paw by paw. Take one of your dog's paws, holding the foot firmly by the ankle in the palm of your hand.Look for the “quick,” a nerve ending that’s usually visible in the underside of your pet’s claw as a tiny red tube. You should only clip the tip that extends beyond the nerve. Play it safe by erring on the side of leaving too much rather than painfully cutting the quick.If your Pittie doesn’t like to have its paws touched or is squeamish, clipping its nails might be a two-person job. Have one person hold your dog and speak to it reassuringly while the other trims. If that doesn’t work, consider leaving this task to a professional.If you accidentally cut the quick or see blood, firmly press the styptic powder into the end of your Pittie’s nail to stop the bleeding. Keep your dog still and reassure it that it's all right.