 Studies show that talking elevates a person’s blood pressure. Listening brings it back down. Listening relaxes us, which allows us to pay attention to our surroundings (and those in it).Perceptive listening goes beyond actively listening, which focuses on listening to another person, reflecting on what he or she says, and sharing your thoughts.


It also requires you to think about what the other person is thinking and how he or she acts while talking.It demands focus and being mindful of and present in the conversation by paying close attention to cues from the other person and providing feedback relevant to the discussion.
 The need to interpret information limits people in their ability to understand what a message means. These interpretations are often dictated by a person’s life experiences. Therefore, they are also limited by these experiences.


This leaves a lot of room for error in understanding what another person means., Listening is not an involuntary, automatic response to hearing what someone is saying. It involves a conscious effort on your part and requires practice. Foremost is that you respect the speaker as a human being who deserves to be heard. An effective listener will validate and empower others. This improves the relationship and often leads to future discussions that are straight forward and detailed. Here are some tips to being a more effective listener.


Focus your attention, shut out distractions and listen closely to what’s said. You cannot assess a statement's logic or the speaker’s true intentions if you're unfocused.Respond to what’s said so the speaker feels heard and believes you understand what he or she is saying. This feedback also allows you to clear up any misinterpretations in your processing.
Don’t interrupt when providing feedback. Wait for natural breaks in the conversation and for cues from the speaker, such as “Does that make sense?”
Ask questions at appropriate times to draw out what the speaker might not have said otherwise.Pay attention to the speaker’s mannerisms and tone, and what they might mean. Consider the context within which the message is delivered and observe what is not said. Meaning is not always openly expressed.Don’t fill silences simply to avoid them. Give the person time to think through what he or she is thinking and wants to say.
Be open-minded to messages that you do not agree with (e.g., prejudicial comments and opposing viewpoints). Allow the speaker to fully explain him or herself.
Seek to understand and interpret a message’s meaning by using the cues you’ve been paying attention to and by drawing on your experiences.
Make a conscious and active effort to remember what’s said. Retaining information is necessary for assessing its relationship to other aspects of the conversation – in the moment. It’s also needed to later process the information, which alone can alter your perception and handling of related situations., Try not to ask “why” questions because this can make people feel defensive. Avoid advising the person about what you think should be done unless you’re asked. Don’t make quick reassurances, such as, “Don’t worry about that.” The latter can indicate you're not fully listening or taking the discussion seriously., Listen to the sounds around you and observe how they make you feel. Notice when you aren’t noticing sounds and stop, close your eyes, relax and focus. The more you do this, the more you will become aware of the world around you. This will also help you detect odd, unusual and pleasing sounds and become more perceptive about their meanings, in addition to the situations that might accompany them.