 You'll need two pieces of 1x6 lumber. One should be cut to 5 1/2" in length, the other should be cut to 6 1/4" in length. Connect them so that they overlap and the top ends end up being roughly equal height. Glue them together and allow them to dry.


Once it is dry, nail or drill through one and into the other to secure them firmly (use 2 nails/screws, equally spaced).





;
, Cut a back panel from a piece of plywood to be 7" square. Glue along the back edge of the bottom pieces and them press the square into place. Once it dries, screw at four equally spaced positions, passing through the back piece and into the edge of the bottom pieces.


It may help to pre-drill the holes for the screws.
 Lie the birdhouse down on a stable work surface, which the back flat against the surface. Take two roof panels, cut from 1x6 boards. One will need to be cut to 9" in length, the other will need to be 8 1/4". Fit the pieces so that they overlap and sit flush with the sides and back panel. Glue and then screw them into place, using 4 equally spaced screws, as before. 

, Get 4 L brackets and install them at the centers of the four corners of the box you've formed (connecting the sides and roof pieces). Make sure the screws used to install the brackets are not too long; they should go only to the mid-point of the wood.
 Using a 1 3/8-" hole saw, drill into the front piece, such that the top of the hole is 2 1/2" down from the top point.
 Find a dowel rod, as close to 1/4" as possible. This will be cut to size and used as a perch. Drill a hole using a bit appropriate for the size dowel you purchased about 1/2" from the bottom of the entrance hole.


The dowel will need to be at least 3" long.
 Glue the edges of the side pieces and roof pieces, then fit the front piece into place and add 8 screws to attach it, two evenly placed screws for each side and roof piece.
 Sand the edges and the entrance hole so that they’re smooth.
 Screw in two eye bolts at equal points at the very top of the birdhouse. It may help to pre-drill the holes.
 Cut your dowel rod to 3" and add glue. Place it in the perch hole. Allow to dry.
 If you intend this house to be used by wild birds, paint it in muted colors, like brown or green, as wild birds prefer these colors. Add any other desired finishing touches and hang the house.


Enjoy!







