 There is a big difference between being confrontational and expressing yourself honestly and assertively. One is aggressive, the other is calm but firm. If you have problems with being confrontational, give yourself the best chance to stay calm by practicing. Know what you want to say beforehand.Think of the points that you want to get across to others. Say them out loud or write them down so that they are imprinted in your memory.
Practice until you have your points planned out like a script. This way, you can check yourself if you get derailed and come back to the script.
 Another good way to be assertive but not confrontational is to use “I” statements. “I” statements let you speak for yourself – that is, they express your thoughts and opinions without coming off as accusatory or putting words into someone else’s mouth. Favor these sentences rather than those starting with “you.”For instance, say something like “I’m not inclined to agree” rather than “You’re wrong.” Or, “I feel under pressure right now” rather than “You’re always attacking me.”
“I” statements are also useful in expressing your wants or desires, i.e. “I’d like some help around the house” instead of “You never help me with housework.” Or, “I would appreciate more support from you” rather than “You only look out for yourself.”

, To become less confrontational, you will need to develop the ability to take and give feedback respectfully. This can take self-control and openness. More than anything, avoid the temptation to lash out and to criticize when a friend, loved one, or co-worker is trying to give you feedback.Resist the urge to criticize a person who is giving you feedback or an opinion, i.e. “You’re just being a jerk, Tim” or “I can’t believe that you, of all people, would say that to me.”
Also try to avoid deflecting criticism back onto a person, i.e. “What are you talking about, Jim, you do the same thing all the time!”

, Avoiding confrontation will require you to be more patient and less reactive. Don’t immediately read criticism as an attack and try to give your friends, peers, and loved ones the benefit of the doubt. They are most likely not trying to provoke you.


Ask yourself why you feel under attack. Is it because you feel offended? Do you feel ganged up on? Are you lashing out because of frustration?Think a bit about who is giving you feedback. Family members and loved ones will probably not attack you but are trying to help out of love.

