 Determine the price at which you could purchase a share under the terms of your employee stock-based compensation plan. This is known as the par value or the grant price for stock options. Repeat this process for each "batch" of stock if you received stock-based compensation at different price points. This information should be listed in your employment contract or can be found by contacting your HR department.

For example, an employee might have a grant price of $10. This represents how much he or she would pay for a share, regardless of the current market price., If you choose to exercise your options at any point, you need to record the full market value of the stock shares at the time at which you exercised the options. This is because the difference between the market price and the grant date at the exercise date is taxable as income if you do not hold the stock for a long enough period of time.

This period of time, generally one or two years, is determined by federal and state law and varies between states and options plans.For example, if your grant price is $10 and the current market price at the date of exercise is $50, you would need to calculate the difference, which here is $40 per share. 

If you sell before the waiting period is over, you will be responsible for paying income tax on that difference. This would be calculated as your marginal tax rate times the total amount of the compensation. 

So, if you exercised 100 options, you would need to pay income tax on the per share difference ($40) times 100 shares, which would be $4,000., When you sell the stock provided by your stock compensation plan, you must pay capital gains on your returns from the sale. These taxes are all that you will owe on your stock compensation gains if you have already reached the end of the required waiting period when you sell. Capital gains are determined as the difference between the market value at exercise and the market value at the selling date.For example, if you sold the 100 shares from the previous example when the price hit $70, you would experience a taxable capital gain or $20 per share, or $2,000., Make sure to disclose all capital gains and losses on your income taxes. You should also include any stock sold before the required waiting period. Speak to a financial professional if you are unsure of when this waiting period ends. Failure to properly to report these gains can result in fines or criminal penalties.
