 You may be dying to be back with your ex-boyfriend, but the worst thing you can do is hang around him incessantly, call him, or wink at him in class until he gets the picture. If you're always around, he probably does get the picture, but it won't be one that he likes. Instead, you should take a breather and stop hanging around him, at least for a few weeks or longer.


You can decide whether you want to cut off contact completely, or if that's impossible because of school.
Stop calling or texting him. Even if you think of something funny that reminds you of him, it's better to hold off.
Try to avoid seeing him at all, even when you're hanging out with mutual friends. If you do catch yourselves at the same party, you don't have to be rude to him, but you shouldn't spend too much time talking to him.
You don't have to be rude to take a break from your ex. If you do run into him, you don't have to run away, but you don't have to linger and talk about nothing either.;
, While you distance yourself from your boyfriend, you'll be in a good position to reflect on the problems in the relationship. If you want to get your man back, then you have to figure out what it was that went wrong, so you don't do it all over again. The problem could be simple, or it could take a bit longer to figure out. Here are some of the things that could have gone wrong:


Maybe you were too jealous or controlling, and he couldn't handle it anymore.
Maybe you didn't spend enough time together.
Maybe he felt like you weren't caring or affectionate enough.
Maybe he felt like you were too clingy and were always around.
Maybe there was a situational change, like one of you having to move to a different town, or maybe he was leaving for college in just a few months and wanted to break it off.
Maybe you were just always fighting and didn't get along.
 Once you figure out what went wrong in the relationship - which could be a combination of problems instead of just one - it's time to think about how you can make things different next time. You don't want to make your ex-boyfriend want you back if you'll just run into the same problems and drama all over again.


You need to work on making some big changes, whether it's controlling an aspect of your personality that led to the downfall of the relationship, or to think about how you can change the dynamics of the relationship if it started again.
If the problem was that you were jealous, you need to think about how you can be less jealous.
If he thought you were too bossy or controlling, you need to tone down that aspect of your personality.
If you fought all the time, you can think about how you can be less combative.
If the problem had to do more with him, then you can think about how you can be together again without this issue -- maybe he'll be willing to change. But if he's not willing to change and you know this will be an issue long term, then you should consider whether or not it's worth it to get him back.
 Take some time to work out whatever problem may have ended your relationship, and just spend time enjoying your own company or hanging out with friends. Make a list of three flaws that you'd like to change about yourself, and slowly start to address them. It takes a lifetime to grow as a person, but even taking small steps to become your ideal steps can help your relationship.


If you have some quality "me time," your ex will start to wonder where you are. If you're busy focusing on yourself, that will make him think about you even more.
Spend time with your girlfriends, working out, or pursuing your favorite hobbies.
Take some time to work on yourself, but not too much time. If you spend months addressing your issues and completely fall out of the picture, your ex may have moved on.

