 Whether you are going on vacation, to the beach, the bar, or the club a money clip might be more practical than a wallet. Consider the practical uses of a money clip and when best to use it before making a purchase.A wallet offers a lot of storage and organization for places like work, school, and taking the family out, but it is imperfect because of its bulky size.
When you have a wallet in your pocket it can be painful to your anatomy and look awkward in your pants.
Money clips are more flexible and force you to take only what is necessary. This will help keep you better organized.
Using a money clip offers better security. Criminals can spot a money clip in your front pocket compared to a bulky wallet in your back pocket. Moreover, nosey neighbors won’t be able to look inside your wallet when you pull it out to pay for something.
 Money clips come in all sizes and fashions. Choosing which one is best for you depends upon your style and what you are doing. Prices range from cheap to very expensive. Some money clips make it easier to travel while other make it impossible to carry magnetized cards.Metal money clips are typically a solid piece of metal folded in half to easily secure money and cards between the two pieces of metal. Metal clips are made from brass, stainless steel, silver, gold, and platinum. They are often inflexible, making it difficult to hold both cards and money.
Titanium clips are rare and expensive and usually can be found in silver or black. It is a light metal and hypoallergenic.
Carbon fiber is gaining popularity because of its ability to be shaped with advanced molding techniques. They are strong and durable, and can be opened beyond their parallel position making it easy to use. Carbon fiber can also pass through metal detectors without setting off the alarm.
Magnetic clips are designed by two strong, flat, and rectangular or round magnets covered in leather. A small piece of leather is often inserted between the magnets so that they can swivel into an open and closed position. Although strong and flexible, they are not recommended for carrying credit cards or other magnetized cards.
A money clip wallet is specifically designed to carry both bill notes and credit cards. Sometimes they are referred to as hybrid wallets.
 In today’s world, there exists a variety of money clips beyond the traditional metal clip. They have become smaller, fashionable, and functional. In addition to the materials being used, there are many other types to choose from.The two-pronged clip is the traditional clip made from plastic or metal. Simply put, they squeeze the money and cards between two pieces of metal. Sometimes they are described as a “clothes pin” or a big “paperclip.” Typically unsophisticated and plain in style, they offer the most affordability.
The card holder is bulky and looks like a square pocket, but they offer ample space for both cards and cash. Usually made of fabric, they can attach to your smart phone for ease of access.
Money bands are made from plastic or an elastic band that are designed to easily swap your cards and cash back and forth with ease. A band can also be bulky but it is flexible and ideal for strange-shaped items you need to take along with you. Most are simple in style.
A double-sided clip is similar to the two-pronged clip but it has an extra prong located on its backside for more options. Often made from metal, they offer more places to store you necessities.
Magnetic clips are made from leather with magnets located within the leather to help keep it shut. Avoid clipping credit cards, driver licenses, or any other cards with magnetic strips or they will be destroyed.

