 There are several authors who have synthesized multiple ancient Greek authors in order to create compendiums of mythology. Some books to consider include:



Jenny March's The Penguin Book of Classical Myths (2009) – Professor March's work provides a clear, easy to read retelling of the major myths, alongside the latest scholarship on their origins, development, and meanings.

Richard Buxton's The Complete World of Greek Mythology (2004) – Buxton offers an overview of mythology, placing the myths in their social and cultural context. His book is also packed with extras such as genealogical tables and beautiful illustrations.

Edith Hamilton’s Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes (1942) – Hamilton draws on all the great Greek writers, and some Roman ones, too, in compiling her introductory text that covers all the key gods and myths.

Timothy Gantz’s Early Greek Myth: A Guide to Literary and Artistic Sources (1993) – Gant’s book is the most scholarly, and also the densest introduction to Greek mythology. He draws on both early Greek writers and art in order to recreate the myths as they were in the days of Homer and Aeschylus.Robert Graves’s The Greek Myths (1956) – Graves is a sort of anti-Gantz. He is a wonderful writer, and his myths make for an easy and enjoyable introduction to Greek mythology. His scholarship, on the other hand, is decidedly sub-par, and his theories of the origins of Greek mythology and the relations between its cast of characters have been more or less all disproven.
 If you are truly interested in Greek mythology, you should go beyond modern re-tellings to the original sources. Though still called Apollodorus’s library, it has more recently been concluded that this 2nd century AD compilation of myths was not in fact written by Apollodorus of Athens. Regardless of its authorship, this compendium brings together most of the major Greek myths and orders them in a way that is still used by the writers of compendiums today.You can find an indexed translation online at http://www.theoi.com/Text/Apollodorus1.html.
 A Greek poet from the 8th century BC, his Theogony details the origins and genealogy of the gods, while his poem Works and Days give insight into daily life in ancient Greece. For an award-winning recent translation, check out poet Daryl Hine's Works of Hesiod and the Homeric Myths. Hesiod's works can also be found online at http://www.theoi.com/Text/HesiodTheogony.html.
 The two greatest epics of Greek mythology – The Iliad and The Odyssey – were written in the 8th or 7th century BC and are both ascribed to the poet Homer. While they focus on the Trojan War and the journeys of Odysseus, respectively, they also include asides that touch on many other classical myths.


Robert Fagles has produced the authoritative translation of both The Iliad and The Odyssey.
You can find online translations of The Iliad at http://www.theoi.com/Text/HomerIliad1.html and of The Odyssey at http://www.theoi.com/Text/HomerOdyssey1.html.
You can also find the original Greek, along with translations, at http://homer.library.northwestern.edu/.
 An Alexandrian born in 295BC, Apollonius’s Argonautica is the best-known version of Jason’s adventures.It is available online at http://www.theoi.com/Text/ApolloniusRhodius1.html.
 Aeschylus, Euripides, and Sophocles were contemporaries who produced tragic plays of profound psychological insight that have influenced writers to this day and which continue to be performed.Aeschylus – Born around 525BC, the most famous of his seven surviving plays are Prometheus Bound and the Oresteia Trilogy: Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers, and The Eumenides. Find his works at http://www.theoi.com/Text/AeschylusPrometheus.html.

Euripides – Born around 486BC and of humble origins, his plays are unique in that his characters often question the gods and fight against their fates.Nineteen of his plays survive. Some of the most famous include The Bacchae, The Trojan Women, Medea, Electra, and Orestes. Find his works online at http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/collection?collection=Perseus%3Acollection%3AGreco-Roman.

Sophocles – Also born around 486BC, he was a priest of Asclepius who has seven extant plays, including Oedipus, Electra, and Oedipus at Colonus. His works are online at http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/collection?collection=Perseus%3Acollection%3AGreco-Roman.
 The Greek theater was not exclusively about grim topics like men marrying their mothers or serving their children to the gods. Aristophanes, born about 450BC, is the sole surviving comic playwright of the age.Eleven of his plays survive intact, including The Clouds, The Birds, and The Wasps. You can find his work online at http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/collection?collection=Perseus%3Acollection%3AGreco-Roman.

