 Babies and young children do not like the ordinary and mundane. The only way to make a child crack a smile is to do something funny! Use that crazy voice or make that hilarious Grinch expression everyone loves to leave your young compatriot in stitches.;
, Simply engaging in conversation with a young child can reveal multitudes about his or her personality. You can discover whether she likes to play soccer, read, play with Barbie dolls, or jump rope by just asking her what her hobbies are.
 Begin doing something you suspect may be interesting to a child (like Play-doh). Most children are very curious and will eventually gravitate toward you if they see you doing something interesting. If the child is under age of four, most activities will appear fun as long as you are smiling!

, The great outdoors is a fabulous place for children to play. Suggest a day at the park or community swimming pool. It is safe to say that the majority of children are thrilled to go swimming. Just be sure to provide the proper supervision levels, depending on the child's age (a two-year-old requires constant supervision, while a 12-year-old can fend for himself with intermediate supervision).
 Children seem to find nothing more amusing than adults clambering over themselves or running into sliding glass doors. My younger sister gets a kick out of fall-down videos, and many children agree!

, Disney movies never fail, and it is a sure thing that a child will have a favorite picked out.
 Most of us love the experience of going to the movie theater, enjoying popcorn and candy, and watching a movie. Children are no exception. Treat them to a film you know they would enjoy,but make sure it is appropriate for children.
 When walking, there is nothing more heartfelt or affectionate than when a child unexpectedly reaches for your hand while strolling down the street. Don't pull away if a young child does this. It means he/she likes you!

, As mentioned above, most children love anything Disney, and are very particular about which movies they prefer. Drive to the mall and let them get lost amongst the endless piles of limited edition Disney Beanie Babies!

, Dr. Seuss works every time! Whimsical yet highly educational, don't worry if you stumble over words when you read aloud. Dr. Seuss provides a fun way to bond with a child while simultaneously improving your pronunciation skills. Try the Lorax!

, Children can be very bashful, but they can also be extraordinarily outspoken. Don't be afraid to approach a child simply because he is shy. He will open up to you, but you might have to wait a little bit.
 Coloring books are fun for kids and adults alike. Teach your young friend how to color inside the lines, and she will teach you the importance of staying outside the lines!

, Children love animals. If your dog is child-friendly, it is certain that your young companion will love him. Just make sure to clear it with the parents before you bring your dog over for a visit.
 Nothing evokes more awe and excitement in a child than being surrounded by an underwater environment. She will frolic among the fish for hours while you breathlessly try to keep up with her.
 Young children are just as fragile, if not more so, than adults when it comes to emotions. Maintain an honest relationship with a child, even when they upset you, but keep in mind that a child's mind is tender as well as malleable. Refrain from cussing or engaging in behavior you wouldn't want the child to emulate.
 Children don't do well with rigid structure. Learn to go with the flow, and you will have fulfilling and exciting interactions with young children!

