 Put on a tank top under the brace. A tank top that is the same colour as your back brace will make the back brace stand out a little less under a shirt made from a fine material. Many people find seamless, spaghetti strapped vest tops made from Lycra/nylon (like leggings) more comfortable than ribbed cotton. Experiment!;
, This also applies to choosing more formal tops.
, Place a bright flower near your face, in your hair or on a belt around your hips to draw attention away from your bulky brace and towards your best features.
 Dark colours and busy pattern will smooth out your profile. You can also experiment with fabrics that are too clingy for wearing directly over your brace, such as satin. Blazers are particularly adaptable and are fashionable as well! For warmth and style, cropped jackets are sometimes very flattering. Hoodies are really popular but should be chosen with care. Ones that are lined or made from a thicker fabric will skim over the brace and are a fun way to experiment with colours and slogans that you might otherwise wear on t-shirts.
 Wearing peasant blouses, longer tops and short dresses will hide your bum and are great to wear with leggings which are comfortable and convenient to wear with a brace, as well as drawing attention to your legs if they are one of your favourite features! Trousers with flap style pockets will round out your bum and give you curves.
 Choose jeans with added Lycra for more stretch , experiment with high and low waistbands to find what you feel most comfortable in, consider going up a size to accommodate the brace (you can easily have excess material trimmed and pinned by a dressmaker for little expense), opt for jeans with flap pockets, try out a bootleg cut to visually balance the brace, try out Jeggings for comfort and fashion

, If you have long hair wear it flowing down your back, hiding the brace and distracting attention away from it. If you don't have long hair or want a change, wearing it across your shoulder in a plait will draw attention to your face and away from the brace. Piling your hair up and slick ponytails are also great ways of bringing attention to your face and hair.

