 There are many ointments, creams, and shampoos available that promise hair loss prevention or hair regrowth. But many of these products are not scientifically verified or considered effective by the medical community. Before you try hair loss products, speak to your doctor about its effectiveness and other treatment options available to you.Your doctor may recommend oral medications or even laser treatments to help with hair loss or regrowth.
Male and female pattern baldness aren’t usually treated by doctors because they are considered a natural part of aging and don’t pose a health risk.
If you want treatment for pattern baldness for cosmetic reasons, there are two medications available: finasteride and minoxidil (brand name: Rogaine). But these treatments do not work for everyone and only work for as long as they are used. They can also be expensive.
Spironolactone may be effective for some women.
There are also surgical options for hair loss, including hair transplants and artificial implants. But this is considered a serious operation and should be done by a licensed physician. Talk to your doctor before you consider hair transplants or implants.
 Sometimes doctors prescribe medicines that can cause hair loss. Chemotherapy drugs for cancer are probably the medicines most known for causing hair loss. But hair loss can also be a side effect of some medicines used to treat acne, bipolar disorder, and ADHD.Diet pills that contain amphetamines can also cause hair loss.
Never simply stop taking your medication. Instead, discuss your treatment options with your doctor and see if you can switch to a medication that does not cause hair loss.If you suffer from a condition like diabetes or thyroid disease, taking proper care of your disorder should reduce or prevent your hair loss.
 These include:Hair loss in an unusual pattern, like a many patches or in just one area of your scalp.
If you are losing hair rapidly, especially if you are in your teens.
There is any pain or itching on your scalp and you are losing hair.
The skin on the scalp is red, scaly, or looks abnormal.
You have been gaining weight or have muscle weakness, get cold easily, and tire easily.
Try to find a dermatologist who specializes or has specific training in hair loss.
 Your dermatologist should review your medical history and do an exam of your hair and scalp to diagnose the cause of your hair loss. She may also run other tests like:A blood test to rule out disease.
Microscopic examination of a plucked hair.
A skin biopsy.
 During your exam, your dermatologist may also ask you questions such as:Are you losing hair only from your scalp or from other parts of your body as well?
Do you notice a pattern to the hair loss, like a receding hairline or thinning on the crown, or is the hair loss throughout your head?
Do you dye your hair?
Do you blow dry your hair? If so, how often?
What kind of shampoo do you use on your hair? What other hair products, like gels or sprays, do you put on your hair?
Have you had a recent illness or high fever?
Have you been under unusual stress lately?
Do you have any nervous habits like hair pulling or scalp rubbing?
Do you take any medications, including over-the-counter drugs?

, Hormonal conditions like (uncontrolled) diabetes or thyroid disease can interfere with hair production and cause hair loss. Individuals with lupus can also lose their hair.As well, the hormone imbalance that happens in polycystic ovary syndrome can cause hair loss in women.If you suffer from an eating disorder, like anorexia or bulimia, you may lose your hair. This happens because your body is not getting enough protein, vitamins, and minerals to support hair growth.
Fungal infections, such as tinea capitis, can cause hair loss in children. It often causes scaling of the scalp and broken hairs with patchy hair loss and can be treated with oral medications and special shampoos.Alopecia areata is a condition in which the immune system attacks hair follicles and can lead to severe hair loss. Your dermatologist may treat this with oral, topical, or injected medications.Some people who are vegetarians also lose their hair if they don’t get enough protein from non-meat sources. Some athletes are at a higher risk for hair loss because they are more likely to develop iron-deficiency anemia. Anemia can then result in hair loss.
Pregnancy or recently giving birth can be associated with hair loss.
If you suffer from trichotillomania, or a compulsion to pull out your own hair, you should seek assistance from a mental health specialist.

