 Use nail polish remover and a cotton bowl or cloth to remove any polish you already have on your nails. Make sure to remove all of the polish. Once the polish is removed, clean your nails with warm water and soap. Then, dry them thoroughly with a towel., The base coat is what helps the polish stick to your nails. Apply it like regular fingernail polish. When applying the base coat, make sure that you do not get any on your cuticles or skin. If you do, remove it from your cuticles and skin with regular nail polish remover.








The base coat is sold separately. You can purchase it online, or at your local beauty supply store.Nails, Inc. recommends that you use their 2 in 1 base and top coat polish, but any formula will work., Use a large piece of construction paper or newspaper to protect the surface you are spraying over. Then place your hand flat on the paper. You want to make sure your hand is flat so the polish sprays evenly., Hold the can four to five inches (10 to 13 centimeters) away from your nails. Then, in a slight zigzag motion, spray a quick coat over your nails. The formula is very pigmented, so you only need one coat.








It is ok if the color gets on your skin as long as you remembered to remove any base coat from your skin.
 Before painting the top coat, let the polish dry for a minute or two. Then proceed to apply the top coat. Again, make sure that you do not get any top coat on your cuticles or skin. Let the top coat dry for a minute, as well.
 Once the top coat is dry, proceed to the nearest sink. Use warm, soapy water to remove any excess paint from your skin. Rub or scrub the polish to remove it from your skin.








Do not wait too long before removing the excess polish because the longer you wait, the harder it will be to remove.
Repeat steps one through three on your second hand.
 If you really want the polish to stick, spray a second coat of polish. Spray the second coat a minute or two after the first coat has dried. Then, apply the top coat and proceed to wash off the excess polish after the top coat has dried.








Use nail polish remover to remove stubborn traces of the excess polish from your fingers.
 Although Nails Inc. recommends that you use their 2-in-1 base and top coat, the coat runs a little thin. Therefore, extend the wear of your manicure by topping it off with another layer of a long-lasting top coat.








Try Sally Hansen Insta-Dri Anti-Chip, OPI Rapid Dry, Deborah Lippman Addicted to Speed, Revlon Extra Life No Chip, or your favorite top coat for the best results., This way you can avoid chipping and smudging your nails after you apply the polish. Additionally, apply the nail polish at the end of your beauty routine. In other words, it should be the last thing you do before you step out the door (yes, apply the polish even after you have put your shoes on).