 This method teaches techniques to the mother to manage labor pain without drugs and teaches the father to be an effective birth coach. The focus is on relaxation techniques, good nutrition, and regular exercise during pregnancy. Classes take 12 weeks to complete and are taught by certified instructors.;
, Lamaze is the most used natural birthing method in the US. It focuses on breathing patterns, massage, relaxation and distraction techniques, and teaches how to care for your new baby.The class requires at least 12 hours of instruction over a period of weeks.
Instructors also prepare mothers for changing birthing plans at the last minute and discuss options for pain management. Lamaze neither supports nor discourages the use of pain medications, leaving it up to the discretion of mother and doctor., This method promotes simple lessons for improving movement, balance and coordination that teach women how to accommodate for the changing size, shape and flexibility of their bodies throughout pregnancy. The philosophy for managing labor pain rests on knowing your own body well and how to move it efficiently, safely and comfortable under varying circumstances.

Classes should be taken once a week, ideally.
This technique can be used with or without pain medications.
The technique is taught to anyone who wants to take classes, not just expectant mothers.
 For this method, women work with a qualified educator to learn self-hypnosis techniques and study how good nutrition and appropriate exercise can make labor easier. They teach a combination of breathing exercises and relaxation techniques, including meditation and visualization.Women typically attend five 2 ½ hour classes.
If you are late in your pregnancy, practitioners may be able to make special arrangements.
 Sticking to a careful, consistent exercise regime will help you prepare for labor. There are a few exercises that can help you practice movements you will use during delivery to make it as easy as possible. Tailor sitting teaches you how to sit during labor to best support your back and pelvis. Kegel exercises strengthen your pelvic organs. Squatting during labor helps open your pelvis to give the baby more room, but can tire moms quickly. Pelvic tilts can relieve backaches and ease delivery.To practice tailor sitting, sit on the floor with your back straight and your legs out straight. Press your knees gently into the floor with your elbows. Hold the stretch for 10 second and repeat 5 to 10 times.
Kegels imitate the effort you would make in stopping and starting urination. Do slow Kegels by contracting your pelvic muscles for 3 to 10 seconds. Relax, and repeat up to 10 times. For fast Kegels, contract and relax your pelvic muscles quickly 25 to 50 times. Relax for 4 seconds and repeat. Do up to four sets.
To practice squatting, do a wall slide. Stand with your back against the wall and your feet 6 inches in front of you, shoulder width apart. Slowing slide down the wall into a squat, with your thighs parallel to the floor. Hold for 5 to 10 seconds and then slide back up slowly. Repeat 5 to 10 times.
Pelvic tilts are easiest done on your hands and knees on the floor. First pull in your abdominal muscles while arching your back like a cat. Hold for several seconds. Release the stretch, returning to a flat position. Repeat 3 to 4 times, up to 10 repetitions total.

