 Sulphur is bought as a powder form for about 4 dollars at a pharmacy. You must use Sublimed Sulfur - medicinal grade (NOT MSM, that you get at the health food store), seems to work with most dogs in reducing Valley Fever (and the titers). You can order it through your pharmacy.


For a 60 to 80 Lb dog - use one ounce divided into eight (8) portions (then capsuled), one portion is then given every 12 hours for four days.
For example, if your dogs weigh roughly half of this, cut everything in half.;
, Sometimes the pharmacy will capsule the sulfur for you (...and then sometimes they give you a hard time about using sulfur on a dog). Your Vet will also say "Absolutely NOT." You may want to listen to their opinion however.
 As a matter of fact, the dog's titer could go back up. USE SUBLIMED SULPHUR.
 It has also been found out that if you give a combination of vitamins and herbs that build the immune system and are known for combating fungal infections, you may have greater results with the sulfur. Here's the list:


Vitamin C (Ester-C): Try to slowly build your dog up to 3000 IU a day (if tolerated, at least 500 to 1000 IU a day) Use the Ester-C, I use the powdered form. This is an immune builder. Try something like Powdered ESTER-C.... one teaspoon yields a whopping 3000 IU, so be careful how you measure it out.
Acidophilus: Get a good brand, keep it in the refrigerator. Nature's Way Primadophilus,. is a good one and it's really potent.

One in the morning and evening for the first week, then just one a day after that.


Garlic: you might want to try the 'odorless' kind. Get a potent one. NOTE: Between the garlic and the sulfur, get ready for enormous smelly gas. A small price to pay for a cure.

Two in the morning, two in the evening. An effective anti-fungal as well as immune builder. (reduce this amount based on dogs weight compared to these amounts being suggested for a 60 pound dog).


Pau d'Arco: This is an herb, is well known for it's anti-fungal properties (also anti-cancer properties).

Two in the morning, two in the evening.


Echinacea & Astragalus: these are herbs. Known for immune building.

One to two in the morning, one to two in the evening for two weeks, then stop for two weeks. Keep doing this rotation.


Pycnogenol & Grape Seed Extract: These are herbal extractions. They are extremely potent anti-oxidants.

One in the morning, one in the evening.
 Any of these will help the limping that the lesions from the Valley Fever causes.
 You will need to keep the dog's immune system in it's prime for at least six months. Take a break on weekends. I don't give vitamins and herbs on weekends. It is suggested that breaks are good so that the immune systems doesn't become "dependent" on these substances.
