 One way to get college credit in high school is to sign up for AP classes. The Advanced Placement Program (AP) is through The College Board. The program allows high school students to take classes with college level work in a high school setting. At the end of the year, you take a test given by The College Board, and if you make a high enough score, you can receive high school credit.AP courses are generally given for seniors and juniors. There are AP classes in almost every general subject area.
Some high schools may be limited to which AP courses they offer students.
AP tests cost $93 each.;
, International Baccalaureate (IB) is a program offered to high school students at select schools where they can take college-level courses for credit. After completing the courses, you can take an exam to earn credit. Some colleges give credit to students who receive an IB diploma.The IB program is not available at all schools. To find a school that offers the IB program, go to the IB website and search for schools in your area.Not all colleges accept IB scores. Learn which schools honor IB credit before joining the IB program.
 The College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) exams are exams you take to demonstrate what you know to earn college credit. The exams require you to show a college level mastery of a subject. There are 33 different CLEP exams you can take in areas generally covered in the first couple of years of college.The amount of college credit you receive depends on your score on the test.
CLEP exams are only accepted by around 3,000 colleges.
You have to take the exam through a test center. Each test costs $80., Excelsior College Examinations (ECEs) are college-level proficiency exams. You do not take a class to prepare for this course, but demonstrate your knowledge of college level material. There are ECEs in various subject matter and the tests are taken at testing centers.There are study aids and practice exams you can use to prepare for this exam.
Hundreds of colleges accept ECE scores. Do some research to find out if your intended college accepts these test scores.ECEs cost $110 per test.