 Most jobs in nurseries and greenhouses require both physical strength and a general understanding of all aspects of horticulture. Some of the basic requirements of working in a greenhouse include:


Physical strength: Most of the work greenhouse workers do requires only moderate physical exertion. Typically, duties include pruning plants, transplanting seedlings and cultivating flowers. But greenhouse workers often have to carry heavy bags of soil and other material throughout the day. They also may be required to unload flower pallets.
Botanical knowledge: Most greenhouse workers can expect to get on-the-job training, but a basic understanding of plant care is beneficial. This work includes proper fertilization and watering of plants, and controlling pests.
Customer-service skills: Greenhouse workers can expect to interact with customers, answering plant-care questions and performing basic sales functions.
Other considerations: Greenhouse workers face certain health concerns, mostly involving the handling of pesticides in a relatively enclosed area.;
, A horticultural certificate represents a comprehensive understanding of plant care. The course of study covers most aspects of the nursery business and blends hands-on learning with classroom work. Courses concentrate on:


Botany: In botany courses, students learn basic plant biology, including plant structure, growth, reproduction and disease. This knowledge provides a foundation for further study.
Plant recognition: This field of study acquaints students with a broad range of plant life, ranging from flowers to conifers. It also helps them identify types of weeds so that they can determine the proper course of action for their eradication.
Plant propagation and care: This is usually a series of classes that focus on optimizing plant health. Topics can include planting strategies, pruning, cultivation and maximizing yield.
Ecology: Most horticulture programs emphasize ecological concerns. Separate courses focus on soil management, responsible irrigation practices, and safe, effective pest-control options.
Greenhouse practices: Students learn all the technical skills needed in greenhouse operation. This includes instruction on how equipment works and emphasizes sustainable greenhouse practices.
 Part of the appeal of greenhouse jobs is that most require no previous experience. However, applicants usually have a high school diploma. Greenhouse positions are plentiful, and job satisfaction among workers is steady.
 The skills you learn working in a greenhouse are, for the most part, transferable to other industries. Greenhouses, like nurseries, generally are wholesale businesses. The major difference between the two is that nurseries mostly grow trees and shrubs, while greenhouses primarily sell flowers and plants. But the duties in each are similar. You may also be able to apply your greenhouse-industry experience and education in landscape design, ornamental horticulture and crop management.

