 Before even beginning a job search, examine the strength of your resume. The formatting should be clean and professional. It must be well organized.If you are a recent graduate from an accounting degree program but have no relevant work experience, place your education credentials near the top of your resume. Highlight school-related activities such as accounting societies or clubs.
Your resume should be no more than one page. Use your cover-letter and interviews to elaborate on details, not your resume.
 If you are a current student or a recent alumnus of a university, you should take full advantage of the career-building resources hosted there. Chief among these resources is the career fair. You should be going to these by your junior year.The career fair is a great opportunity to learn more about the field and to make connections in the professional world.
Schools with prominent accounting programs or schools in major cities will often have a separate career fair just for accounting jobs.
Before attending the career fair, research the attending companies as thoroughly as possible. Knowing basic facts such as market capitalization, core strengths, and prominent clients will help you in your discussions with recruiters. If you can find out through their website which positions are available, you can explain why you'd be a good fit for their specific opening.
Its a good idea to follow up via a quick email with anyone you talk to at a career fair, thanking them for their insights and time. This will help them to remember you if you end up applying for jobs with their companies.
 There are many professional organizations within this field, including the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA), the Professional Accounting Society of America (PASA), and the American Accounting Association (AAA).You can often join an organization like this through a university's accounting department. These organizations host networking events that will allow you to meet and impress potential employers. Membership in an accounting organization also improves your resume.