 This is one of the most important safety gears ever invented. It protects the head, particularly the face and the brain from impact caused by a possible motorcycle crash. The helmet’s visor when closed, also deflects insects and other types of debris that may get caught in the eye while riding. Most countries have enforced laws that make it illegal to ride a motorcycle without a helmet. Cheap helmets are typically made of a plastic shell, while more expensive ones are made of carbon fiber and fiberglass.

Make sure to buy a helmet that fits your head properly. A new helmet should fit your head snugly. It should not be too tight or painful when worn.;
,  These are not your typical fashion leather jackets. It protects the skin from abrasion from a possible motorcycle accident. High quality motorcycle jackets are mostly water resistant and have the ability to withstand wind blast. Some are padded and are made of impact absorbing materials that are intended to protect the back, chest, elbows and shoulders.

Always make sure to buy a jacket that fits snugly and doesn’t restrict arm movement.
 The hands are very important when riding a motorcycle so they also deserve to have some sort of protection. Leather gloves don’t only look fashionable, they also protect the hand from abrasion and impact in case of a motorcycle crash. They also enable the rider to get a better grip of the motorcycle handlebars. It is very important to buy a set of weatherproof gloves; this type of gloves can withstand wind blast and can keep the hand warm even in cold, winter months.

Make sure to buy one that fits your hand perfectly and doesn’t restrict the fingers from operating the bike controls.
 It is not enough to wear jeans when riding a motorcycle. Wearing a proper motorcycle pants is important. This type of safety gear is abrasion resistant and is equipped with armors that protect the hips, knees and shins. Never wear lose motorcycle pants.

The riding pants should be able to fit the rider snugly and should not restrict leg movement.
 This type of footwear should protect the ankles and the other delicate bones of the feet in case of an accident. Riding boots should have an ankle support, a tough heal and toe box, a non-slip sole and a material that is oil-resistant.

Always purchase one that fits your feet to the tee.
Make sure that they are laced up properly, to prevent them from flying off while riding.
 Some riders prefer wearing extra body protection like knee pads, elbow pads and back protectors. They are separate, strap-on items that offer extensive protection of the other portions of the body.