 Double-click on the program to launch it. It can be accessed from the Start menu or from the shortcut on your desktop.;
, From the program header toolbar, click on downward arrow beside the gears icons on the far right for Preferences.
 From the drop-down menu, select “Get plugins to enhance calibre.” A User Plugins window will appear listing all the available plugins for Calibre.
 Scroll through the list of plugins and select “iOS reader applications.” The plugin will be highlighted. Click the “Install” button at the bottom.


Confirm installation on the next box by clicking the “Yes” button. The plugin will be installed.
 After the plugin is installed, it will now be located under the list of installed plugins.


Filter the list by using the “Filter list of plugins” drop-down list and selecting “Installed.”

, Scroll through the list and select “iOS reader applications.” The plugin will be highlighted.
 Click on the “Customize plugin” button found on the lower left corner.
 Under the “General options” tab, select “Marvin” from the drop-down list for “Preferred iOS reader application.”


Click the “OK” button to save.
 For the plugin to take effect, you have to restart Calibre. Click the close button for the program, and launch it again.
 Use the appropriate data cable to connect your iPad to your PC.
 Look for the Marvin app on your device and tap on it to launch it. The app icon has a red background with a big “M” on it.


Marvin will start and load your library.
 On Marvin’s main screen, tap the “Get books” link on the lower right corner. A small menu will pop out displaying the available options to get books into Marvin.


Options will include calibre, Dropbox, OPDS, and Web.
 Tap the first logo for Calibre. Calibre connector will run and will be displayed on the middle of your screen. Marvin will connect with Calibre on your PC., Once successfully connected, the Calibre connector will display a “Ready” status. Go to Calibre on your PC. Marvin will be added on the header toolbar, right beside the Library menu.

Marvin and Calibre are now connected.
 From your Calibre library on the middle section of the software, select the eBooks by clicking on them. They will be highlighted.
 From the header toolbar, click on the “Send to device” button. The selected eBooks will be uploaded to Marvin on your iPad.
 Go to the Marvin app on your iPad, and tap the “Disconnect” button in the middle of the Calibre connector.

It is important that you do this and not just pull the data cables out.
 You won’t need Calibre now that the eBooks are in Marvin. Go ahead and close the program from your computer.
 On Marvin’s main screen, tap the “Library” button in the upper right corner. The list of eBooks in you Marvin library will be listed.
 The eBooks you've uploaded or synced from Part 4 should be included in your Marvin library now.
 Tap on the title of the eBook you’d like to read.


Since you've already uploaded or synced the eBooks from Calibre, you can bring your iPad anywhere and read the eBooks without getting tied to your computer desk.

