 You can do this by taking a look at your total monthly income (or average income, if your monthly income varies). Then, decide on a reasonable amount of money to spend. Keep in mind that the total monthly expenditures—including your rent or mortgage and utilities payments—should never exceed your total income.For example, if you have a monthly income of $2,000, you may decide that you need to spend $1,700 a month and add the extra $300 to your savings account.
It will likely be impractical to pay for your utilities—gas, water, electricity, and internet—and rent in cash. Since these are also essential expenditures, it’s OK to pay them online by check.;
, It will be much easier to track your expenditures—and to see which areas of your budget you’re likely to overspend on—if you divide your monthly budget into several smaller categories.Examples of budget categories and the amount of money slotted for each (per month) could look like:


Entertainment: $50
Groceries: $400
Books and Clothing: $100
Restaurants and Bars: $150
Miscellaneous: $50

, An envelope-based approach to the cash budget will help you keep all of your cash in a known location, and allow you to easily track your monthly expenditures in each category. Gather as many envelopes as you have categories in your budget, and label them clearly: “Groceries,” “Entertainment,” etc.Business-sized envelopes will be available at a variety of locations. You can purchase envelopes at your local post office, at a grocery store, or at a local drugstore.
 Once your envelopes are labeled, insert the amount of cash that you’ve indicated on your monthly budget.You’ll likely need to withdraw the cash from an ATM, or withdraw cash from your checking account at a branch of your bank.


Once the envelopes have cash in them, you’ll need to treat them with care. For example, don’t leave a cash-filled envelope sitting in your car.
For some, it’s easier to break the money up by week. So, if you’ve budgeted $400 per month for groceries, you can place $100 in the “Groceries” envelope every week. This will prevent you from spending the full $400 in two weeks, and then having no grocery money for the rest of the month.
 When you go shopping, bring your envelope into the store with you. For various psychological reasons, it can be more difficult to spend cash than to swipe your credit card. This is one of the reasons that a cash-only budget can decrease excessive spending: you’ll be more inclined to conserve your money than you would be when using a credit card.Alternately, if you’d rather not walk through stores with envelopes full of cash, you can pull the amount of cash you think you’ll need from the respective envelope before you leave the house.
 Since you’ve given yourself a limited amount of money per category, you’ll need to make your most important purchases first. If you spend budgeted money frivolously, you may not have enough cash left in your envelope to make necessary purchases later in the month.For example, if you splurge and buy an $80 jacket at the beginning of the month, you won’t have enough money left to buy a needed pair of $60 shoes later in the month.


A cash-only budget is a great way to discourage frivolous spending, because you can physically see the money that you’re spending. Once the money in your monthly (or weekly) envelope for a certain category has gone, you can make no more purchases in that category.
 If you shop impulsively and buy anything that looks appealing, you’ll exhaust your monthly cash budget quickly. Before you make an impulse purchase—say, for an expensive meal or bottle of wine, or for a book or movie you’ve never heard of—consider how much of your cash it will use up and if your monthly budget can recover.Budgeting with cash can help you avoid this type of impulse buy. Plan out what you’re going to buy before you start to shop.
 If you use up all of your cash from a specific envelope—say, “Entertainment”—it can be tempting to reach into another envelope—say, “Groceries”—and pull out a few bills. Doing this will only hurt you in the long run, however, as you may need the cash you took from “Groceries” later in the month.If you have money left over in an envelope at the end of a month, you have two choices: either save the money (e.g. deposit it into your savings account), or roll it over into the next month’s budget for the same category.
 Just because you’re using a cash-based budget doesn’t mean that you should spend 100% of your monthly income. To prepare for the future—large expenditures, unexpected medical bills, etc.—you should set aside a portion of your total income each month in a savings account. Start out setting aside $50 or $100 a month, and plan to increase your saving to 25% of your total income.


That said, it’s fine to make adjustments to the categories of your budget after some planning. If you discover that $400 a month is simply too little for groceries, raise the amount to $450 or $500.
If you’re planning well ahead, you can even set aside a portion of your monthly income for your retirement.You can earmark this money in your budget. If you plan to set aside $50 monthly for retirement, do not withdraw this cash from the bank, but divert it to a savings account.
 It can be a challenging transition to switch from primarily using credit cards and online purchases, to only using cash. Don’t be too hard on yourself if you exceed your budget in the first couple of months. You’ll also need to make various adjustments to the process of your cash-only budget to make it work best for you. That said, you may not want to restrict yourself to a cash budget permanently. Even if you only use a cash budget for 4–6 months, you’ll learn a lot about where your money goes, and how to hold yourself to an effective monthly budget.
 Even if you’re spending only cash, you should still consider your financial future and think about your credit score. Fortunately, using a cash-only budget should not damage your credit score. As long as you continue to pay off your credit card bills on time and make timely payments on any mortgages or loans you’ve taken out, your credit score shouldn’t suffer.


However, if you’re looking to build and improve your credit score, cash won’t help you with that. Other than diligently paying off loans, there is no way to raise your credit score with a cash-only budget.