 Every cleanse out there is going to start by suggesting you abstain from toxic substances. If you are eating nothing but raw fruits and vegetables, but still drinking vodka and smoking cigarettes you’re not really doing yourself a service. Begin by eliminating alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs. You may even find that taking a break from just these substances is all the cleansing you need!, After drugs and alcohol, the next thing you need to give up for just about any cleanse is processed food. This involves pretty much anything that comes is a package! This means staying away from sugar (donuts, cookies, , foods made from processed flour (white bread, crackers, pasta), and foods that contain chemicals, additives, and preservatives (candy, soda, chips).Elminating processed, “junk food” from your diet, even for a few days can be a big boost to your health.
Some nutritionists believe this is the real reason behind cleanses make people feel better.
 Sipping on warm water with lemon throughout the day is one of the best way to help your body filter out toxins. This simple cleanse supports your body’s natural detoxification processes without being restrictive or harsh.

On a regular basis, you should drink about 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water or other hydrating liquids a day if you’re a woman and 13 cups (3 liters) if you’re a man., Often we associate the concept of “cleansing” with not eating. However, whole food cleanses are the safest form of detox. In general, these diets involve consuming nothing but whole, organic food for a period of 1-12 days. Many whole food cleanses eliminate foods known to be allergens and irritants (such as wheat, dairy, soy, corn, white potatoes, peanuts, shellfish, caffeine, and refined sugar). Some whole food cleanses include only plant-based (vegan) ingredients, and some allow only completely raw plant-based ingredients (known as raw food cleanses).Dr. Oz’s “Two Day Wonder Cleanse” is an example of a whole food cleanse. Penni Shelton advocates for a Raw Food Cleanse.The Beachbody “3-Day refresh” involves smoothies as well as whole fruits and veggies., A more intense way to cleanse is to do a completely liquid diet. This could be a juice cleanse (nothing but pure fruit and vegetable juice), a smoothie cleanse (blended drinks that include whole produce, and in some cases blended grains or protein), or an intense fast (like the master cleanse, where you drink only lemon water). Liquid fasts are a bit riskier. Sticking to a rigid liquid fast can definitely help you lose weight, but you are likely to put that weight back on when you finish.Companies like Blueprint Cleanse and Life Juice Shop offer pre-packaged juice cleanses that you can purchase online.Dr. Oz’s 3-day Detox is a smoothie and juice cleanse.The Master Cleanse involves drinking a lemonade mixture made from filtered water, organic lemons, grade B maple syrup, and cayenne pepper. You also drink salt water every morning and laxative tea every night.