 Change up your daily routine and do your best to avoid getting into any pattern. Take a different way to work and leave at different times, find other places to get your coffee, or switch around the days of your exercise class., Don’t bury your head in your phone, or listen to music with headphones on while out in public. Remember the saying, “There’s safety in numbers,” so ask friends or family to accompany you places if necessary.


Don’t walk alone at night. Ask your friends to walk you to your door.
Make sure you have all your belongings with you. Be conscious of remembering your wallet or jacket, for example.
 Join a gym or start running or biking with a group. Exercise only in well-traveled, well-lit areas.


Do not wear headphones. Carry a self-defense item, such as pepper spray, with you.
Find friends to work out with. For example, if you’re a runner, recruit one of your friends to train for a race with you.
 Knowing how to defend yourself in the event of an attack can help you feel more powerful and prepared. You can also learn ways to be more aware of your surroundings.Take a self-defense class. You can often find self-defense classes at fitness centers, community centers, colleges/universities, or at local martial arts studios.
Carry a self-defense item, such as pepper spray, with you, and make sure you know how to use it. Consider asking a police officer what self-defense tools they recommend.
 Take measures to keep protect your home and keep yourself safe while in it. Inform trustworthy neighbors of your situation so they, too, can keep an eye out for suspicious behavior. Some measures you could take include:Keeping doors and windows locked, even when you’re at home. Keep the curtains closed.
Giving a spare key to a neighbor instead of hiding one on your property.
Installing a security camera or security system around your property.
 You may wish to stop answering the door entirely unless you are expecting someone. Don’t worry about being impolite: It’s better to be rude and safe.


Ask friends or family to call you when they are outside your door, or identify themselves by name while knocking. For example, they could say, “Hi Jane! It’s Carlos! I’m at your front door!”
Consider having your deliveries sent to your place of employment, if possible, or a friend’s or family member’s house.
Ask any service people for their identification badge if they will be working on your property.
Install a peephole if you don’t have one.

