 Before you can apply for citizenship through naturalization, you’ll have to get the appropriate visa or entry permit.The general rule is that you’ll need to apply to the French consulate where you live, to begin the process.You can check here for consulate locations. The process takes about two weeks for a U.S. citizen, and approximately two months for other nationalities.To apply for a residency visa you’ll need:


A valid passport
Application form and long-term application annex
Eight passport-size photos per individual
Financial guarantees, such as a letter from your bank manager stating that you have sufficient income or means to live in France, or proof of a retirement pension
Proof of medical insurance that covers you for any necessary treatment you might need in France
Proof of lodging in France, such as a lease, title to a property, or a letter from a legal resident stating that he or she will provide for your accommodation.;
, This is a prerequisite to obtaining French citizenship through naturalization. However, if you’ve successfully completed two years of higher education in France, the five-year residency period can be reduced to two years., This is a document used by the French immigration agency (OFII) to make sure that foreign nationals arriving in France “assimilate into French society”. You’ll sign the CAI at your residence, and it’s valid for one year. After that, the French government will evaluate you to make sure you’ve met the CAI requirements, some of which are:


Take the oral and written French test. If you don’t meet the expected level of proficiency, you’ll have to take classes (for free) to improve your skills.
Complete civics training. The purpose of this is to raise your awareness of such things as the equality between men and women, and basic liberties. You receive the training at no cost to you.
Attend an information session. This is geared to presenting you with details about access to public services, such as housing, healthcare and childcare. Attendance is required, and is free., Assuming you’ve met the naturalization requirements, you’ll have to bring your application and accompanying documentation to the local prefecture where you live. You’ll need:


national ID or passport
birth certificate
proof of address
marriage certificate (if applicable)
You may also need proof that you're employed, and that you don’t have a criminal record., Your application materials will be assessed by the police, the mayor’s office, and possibly other government departments. They’ll advise you if they want to speak with you and/or if they need any additional information. This whole process can take around two years to complete.Be aware that French immigration policies have become more restrictive since 2006.