 The best way to help before labor is to educate yourself with antenatal (before birth) classes. There are many kinds of classes available to expecting fathers and parents. Look into the kinds of classes available near you. If you find the idea of child birth scary, research shows that men who went though antenatal preparation, such as a class, had a more positive childbirth experience. Check your community center or park district.
Ask your doctor.
Contact a nearby college or university.
Look for a class online.;
, Make sure you have all the necessary supplies to make the birthing experience as positive as possible. You can have a maternity bag or suitcase. Don't just take stuff for your wife and the baby, bring some things for yourself as well. It is best to pack much of this in advance, so that it is ready before your wife goes into labor. Have you maternity bag ready at least two weeks in advance.For Her:

Oil for massage, but be cautious with scents
A gown, slippers, and robe if she prefers them to hospital clothes
Rolling pin or camper’s ice for pressure and cold on lower back
Warm socks
Relaxing music
Personal focal point (a picture, flowers, a figurine) for her to focus on during contractions
Favorite juice or electrolyte-balanced beverage (such as Gatorade) in a cooler
Cosmetics
Toiletries
Her favorite snacks
Nursing bras
Money for incidentals
Going-home clothing (which should still be maternity clothing)


For you:

Copy of the Birth Plan
Watch with a second hand
Grooming supplies (toothbrush, breath freshener, deodorant, shaver)
Snacks and beverages (consider you wife may be very sensitive to the smell of your breath)
Change of clothes
Swimsuit so you can accompany the mother in the shower
Paper and pencil
Reading materials, or handwork, for slow times when the mother does not need your help
Phone numbers of people to call during or after labor
Camera (still or video)


For the baby:

Diapers,
Receiving blanket
Underclothing
Outerwear (hat, warm clothes)
Crib-sized blanket
Car seat


For the trip to the hospital:

Full tank of gas
Blanket and pillow in the car , By making a birth plan, your wife might feel more confident about getting to the hospital once labor begins. Sometimes feelings of anxiety can be managed by rehearsing and planning what will happen. If you've gone over it again and again, you will know exactly what to do. Women who prepared their birth plans have also been found to be less likely to have a cesarean section.Make these decisions with your wife.
Make a birth partner plan for yourself. You enable yourself then to also avoid mishaps in planning the quickest route, avoiding getting lost, and getting a feeling for the path you'll take.
Consult with your doctor while creating your birth plan. There are many pre-made plans available online, but they are of dubious quality. It's best to plan this with your doctor.
 This is the best thing you can do. More than anything, remain calm for your wife. This will help her to remain calm.
 This is your main job. You know what she wants. It may be important for you to convey her wishes in the case that she cannot., After being calm, this is the second best thing you can do. Fathers can feel the need to do something, anything, and keeping track of how many seconds pass between contractions is a vital role to play. This will not only help you to remain focused and relieve your wife, it will provide important information to your doctors., This will make it easy to recall all the things you can do to help your wife. Each of these can make a big difference in her comfort levels and the over-all positivity of the birthing experience.Take the time to memorize these helpful points.S – Support emotionally. Giving emotional support is crucial during labor. Listen actively, validate her emotions, ask questions, and reassure your wife to help her feel more comfortable.
U – Urination, at least once an hour. Remind her to go to the bathroom. This will get her moving, which can aid during these stages.
P – Position changes, often.
P – Praise and encouragement, not sympathy, is needed to help her get through this.
O – Out of bed (walk/shower) is better than laying down.
R – Relaxation is key.
T – Touch: pressure and massage.
 Delivery is way outside of most fathers' league. Depending on the means by which you choose to birth your child, the father may still be allowed to be with his wife during delivery. Ask to remain with your wife as long as you're capable.


Do not abandon your wife in the later stages of labor if you do not have to.
In some places, though not in the U.S., fathers are not allowed in the delivery room.
If the mother is having an emergency cesarean under general anesthesia, then you will need to leave the delivery room.
 Both baby blues and postpartum depression are very real. Baby-blues are fairly normal, but be careful for signs of postpartum depression. These can be signals of a serious problem that may require professional help.


Signs of baby blues:

Mood swings
Anxiety
Sadness
Irritability
Feeling overwhelmed
Crying
Reduced concentration
Appetite problems
Trouble sleeping


Signs of postpartum depression:

Depression or severe mood swings
Excessive crying
Difficulty bonding with the baby
Withdrawing from family and friends
Loss of appetite or sudden, excessive eating
Insomnia or hypersomnia (lack of sleep or excessive sleep)
Overwhelming fatigue
Intense irritability and anger
Feelings of worthlessness, shame, guilt or inadequacy
Diminished ability to think clearly, concentrate or make decisions, You may want to excitedly have everyone you know over to see the baby. Just make sure that you're not over-doing it. A new baby is stressful enough, without all the added chaos from celebrations. Clean up. Shoo people home before it gets too late., Parenting is a two person (or more) job. Make sure you do your part, but don't go overboard. By becoming an equal partner in your relationship, you can make the time after labor more positive. Especially in the first few weeks after the birth, a new mom may need a lot of time to recover. She made need frequent naps, be sore, and generally fatigued.At this time, remember all the work she did in the delivery room, and help her out.


Try to be as involved with the baby as possible. The mother shouldn't be the only one getting up with the baby all night – you should also be present.
 Treat her well, but make sure you take care of yourself, too. Fathers sometimes have such a strong need to help out, they forget to take care of themselves. Make sure you are rested and content, so that you can be there for your wife. Don't burn yourself out.

