 He is the first in game character you meet on the game; he will guide you through the tutorial. You start off the game with a hut and the town hall, which will be explained later.;
, Once you start the game, you are in the Stone age, there are many ages/eras in the game, from this one to the Bronze age and so on. You now need to open up the building menu by clicking on the hand holding a hammer symbol at the bottom of the screen then click on the hut and place it in the required space.
, Click on it to see your next quest.
 Click to build the hunter, you can place it anywhere, as long as it is connected to road.
 You need to click on the button with the glass science flasks on it and open up the tech tree. This is where you can research technologies to advance in the game, click on 'stilt houses' and use your forge points to research it. You start with 10 forge points; they gradually replenish over time.
 Then click 'back to city'. Your town hall will now change because you have entered a new age! This will happen every time you do, Ragu's appearance will also change but not every time you enter a new age., Now that you are comfortable in the Bronze age, it is time to build 2 new houses to increase your population. Your population is shown at the top of the screen, with a symbol of 2 people in the bar next to the face that shows happiness. Build the 2 houses anywhere that is connected by road, of course then go on to see your next quest!

, As said earlier, the face at the top of the screen shows this, if it is smiling, it means that your people are happy, build decorations to increase happiness.


To build decorations, open the building menu again and click on the tree in a pot symbol, that is where all the decorations. Build one, decorations don't need road so they can be put anywhere! This will increase your happiness and make your people happy!

, You get 2 spear fighters, military units as a reward from the previous quest and this is when they can be put into good hands! You need to click the button with a compass like symbol on it, this will open up the continent map. This is where you and your troops can go into battle and conquer the world!

, Click on attack and it will appear with the preparations menu, click attack again and it will go into battle!

, Click on the space to move your troop there; there are several terrain types on the battlefield. Different ones give you different boosts for your troops; you can't go over water until later in the game so don't click on a water area.


This is a turn-taking game, once you move your first unit, the opponent will move one of his units. Next, move your unit close to the enemy in order to attack it!

,, Now you are free from the main tutorial but it is not over yet!

, Supply production buildings like the hunter have 6 products you can make them produce, they range from 5 minute production to 1 day production times, click on the 5 minute one to start you off. Your town hall produces coins once every day anyway., Once done, click on 'back to city' and build one, like before it needs to be connected to road. The pottery will be in on the menu where the hunter is. Once it is built, put it into production as well, you don't have to but it is always helpful.
 Continue to do Ragu's quests to advance in the game, later in the game, new faces will appear! They are mostly side quests, you don't need to do these but it is always good to help out your friends!