 It can be scary to learn your toddler swallowed a foreign object. However, the calmer you are, the better you'll be able to deal with the situation. In the aftermath, take a few deep breaths and then proceed to care for your child.


You also want to remain calm to keep your toddler calm. If a toddler is distressed, he may be difficult to keep still as you attempt to dislodge the coin.;
, Open your child's mouth and check to see if the coin is visible. If the coin is blocking your child's airway then it may or may not be visible in the back of his or her throat.If the coin is stuck, then the child may be drooling, crying, and/or having trouble breathing., If you act fast, you may be able to dislodge the coin while it's still in a child's esophagus. Take the child and hold him or her facedown on your forearm. From there, use the heel of your other hand to thumb the child firmly on the middle back.With luck, the combination of gravity and pressure should dislodge the coin.
If a child is choking, do not try this method. Instead, call 9-1-1 immediately.
 The majority of coins will pass through a child's digestive tract naturally and should not pose any threat. However, you need to make an appointment with your pediatrician to assure the coin is moving smoothly through a child's body and that is has not become lodged or stuck in the esophagus or intestines.


Call your pediatrician in the event the coin does not become dislodged, and make an appointment to evaluate your child's condition., You should call 9-1-1 instead of your pediatrician if this is a medical emergency. If your child displays any of the following symptoms, call 9-1-1 or take your child to the ER:Difficulty swallowing
Difficult breathing
Drooling
Vomiting
Problems going to the bathroom
Chest or stomach pain
Abdominal pain
Blood in the stool
Sepsis or infection

, You will want to see where the object is located in order to evaluate whether medical treatment is needed. Make an appointment with your pediatrician and explain what happened. The pediatrician will do a basic exam to evaluate your child and decide how to proceed., In the case of coins, an x-ray will be needed to determine where the object is located. If the coin seems to move through a child's digestive tract naturally, the doctor will likely want to watch and wait. However, if the coin is lodged, the doctor will need to medically remove the coin.If the x-ray is not being conducted immediately, ask your doctor how to prepare.
Make sure to keep your child calm before and after an x-ray. If a child has never had a major medical problem, an x-ray may be frightening. Make sure to hold your child's hand, sing to your child, read to your child, or engage in other activities to keep your child calm during the procedure.
 If the object is stuck somewhere in your child's body, medical removal may be required. Foreign objects are usually removed endoscopically in the stomach or, in rare cases, surgically if deeper than the endoscope can reach.An endoscopy involves pushing a special scope from the child's mouth to the stomach. Ask your doctor about how to care for your child before and after the procedure.
 After you doctor visits his or her pediatrician, follow up care may be necessary. Most children do not need follow up, and the object should pass on its own. You rarely have to examine your child's feces for the coin. However, if your child is suffering from symptoms like stomach pain, you may have to make a follow up appointment, or if severe, be assessed in the ER.If your pediatrician thinks the coin will pass on its own, you will need to check your child’s poop for the next few days until the coin comes out., If you see the coin was swallowed, you may try to intervene by swiftly trying to remove the coin using your fingers. This is a bad idea, as you could cause the coin to become lodged further in a child's throat., The Heimlich maneuver, and other techniques meant for adults, are not safe on young children. Never attempt to administer the Heimlich on a toddler, and do not use methods like abdominal thrusts or heavy blows to the back., If your toddler is old enough to understand basic instructions, talk to him or her about the dangers of swallowing coins. Let your child know he or she should not put anything but food in his or her mouth.


Ask your doctor how to talk to your child as well. A pediatrician may have advice or pamphlets on how to discourage children from swallowing foreign objects.
 Make sure you keep coins and other objects out of reach of young children. While some coins pass easily, complications can occur. You also want to save yourself the time and hassle of a pediatrician visit.In addition to keeping coins out of reach, keep other small items of your toddler's reach. Avoid giving your toddler toys with small parts.
Be especially careful about keeping batteries away from your child. These batteries are very dangerous to a child's digestive system and can cause serious problems if swallowed as the chemicals will cause the intestine to perforate. Magnets are also dangerous to swallow because they stick to each other and can cause necrosis of the intestines. They require surgical removal if swallowed.

