 The only way to know for sure if a filling needs replaced is to see your dentist. A dental professional is also the only person qualified to replace fillings. If you notice any signs or symptoms of a filling that may need replaced, schedule an appointment with your dentist at the earliest time possible. This can ensure you get prompt treatment and may minimize your risk of developing abscesses.Let the scheduling staff know why you need to see the dentist. They may be able to get you an appointment sooner rather than later.
 Your dentist will conduct a thorough exam of your fillings to see if any need replacing. Let your dentist know any signs or symptoms you’ve observed, which he’ll consider along with your medical records and the results of his examination.Be precise when explaining your symptoms of signs to the dentist. This can help your dentist better determine if the filling needs replaced. For example, “I get a sharp pain that hurts my entire tooth.”Allow your dentist to probe your mouth with a tool called an explorer. This will gently probe the tooth and filling to detect any worn spots., In some cases, a filling may be intact but still need replacement. This is because it has a small crack or is leaking. Both of these can lead to tooth decay. Your doctor may also want to check for problems between your teeth that are not visible with the naked eye. Your dentist suspects or determines that your fillings need replacing, they will likely have you undergo additional testing such as X-rays or transillumination. These can help your dentist better formulate a treatment and replacement plan for you.Recognize that your dentist may also order a periapical radiograph, another type of oral X-ray, to check that the root of your tooth is not damaged., Your dentist may determine that you have one or more fillings that need replaced. If this is the case, explore your different options with the dentist. It may be possible to repair the old filling or you may need to have it completely replaced. Talking to your dentist about your different options can ensure you get proper care without the burden of cost or worrying that you’ll need to replace a filling in the near future.Ask your dentist if a different filling material may suit you better if an entire filling needs replaced.
 Prevention is one of the best ways to keep your teeth and fillings healthy. Scheduling regular appointments with your dentist can help detect fillings that need replacement before they cause complications such as tooth or pulp decay.

