 If you bought a new iPhone directly from a carrier, they will usually install the SIM card for you. If not, you'll need to do so.

The SIM card must be activated by your carrier.
If you're using the same carrier and both iPhones use SIM cards of the same size, you may be able to transfer the SIM card from your old device to your new one.;
, Do so by holding down the Sleep/Wake button until the Apple logo appears on the screen., The setup assistant will guide you through the process., To do so, tap the language you prefer to use on your device., Do so by tapping the country or region in which you'll use your device., Tap a Wi-Fi network for which you have the password or tap Use Cellular Connection to use cellular data to activate your iPhone.

If you select Wi-Fi, you may be prompted to enter the network password.
Using cellular data could result in extra charges on.
Alternatively, you can choose to connect to iTunes on your desktop with a USB cable by tapping Connect to iTunes.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen., Your device uses Location Services for Maps, Find My iPhone, and other apps that use your location.

Tap Enable Location Services to allow apps on your device use your location.
Tap Disable Location Services to deny the use of your location.
 Type a passcode into the provided spaces.

If you'd like to create a password different from the four- or six-digit default, tap Passcode Options at the bottom of the screen.
 Do so to confirm it., You can either:

Tap Restore from iCloud Backup to add the settings and apps from a previous iCloud backup to your replacement iPhone; or
Tap Set Up as New iPhone to start from the device's factory settings.
 Do so in the labeled fields., It's in the upper-right corner of the screen. Doing so displays Apple's "Terms and Conditions."

Scroll down to read them.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.

If prompted, tap a backup. Choose the one with the most recent date and time.
Your device will begin downloading the backup from iCloud. After it's restored, your settings, apps, and data will be reinstalled.
When the Lock screen is displayed, your phone has successfully been activated and set up.

