 Although this will not keep you energized for a long period of time, the shock of cold water over your face and body will decrease your fatigue immediately., Especially if you are at work or school, it can be very easy to feel fatigued after hours of sitting still. Get up, stretch, and move around—this will increase your heart rate and help you feel more awake. If you have time, exercise—a quick trip to the gym or a 20-minute run will increase your energy levels, even if you initially feel too fatigued to work out.Also focus on breathing more deeply; increased oxygen will further reduce your fatigue.
 A brief nap, even as little as 20 minutes, can give you a burst of energy. Although you cannot always repeat this activity multiple times during a day (three 20-minute naps will not make you three times as awake as a single nap), it’s a useful strategy if you know you need to be fully awake and functional at a certain time of day.


If you are fatigued but not tired, resting can still help you feel better. Lay down and close your eyes; even if you stay awake, you’ll feel better.
 Especially during workdays, spending all of your time in front of a screen can feel exhausting.Find time to get away from your technology; this could be during a long outdoor lunch break, or an hour spent away from technology after you get home.


Multitasking—which most of us have to do during the work day—can actually decrease your productivity and leave you feeling fatigued. When you do need to work on a computer or tablet, focus on one task at a time., Although this is not a long-term solution, music can decrease the tension in your body, take your mind off of your fatigue, and increase your energy levels.If you’re already listening to music, switch the artist or genre.
 Don’t count on short-term remedies to permanently boost your energy; at best, they’ll help wake you up for 20 minutes or so.


Especially if you are driving or operating machinery, do not attempt to keep yourself awake if you feel fatigued or exhausted.
Short term remedies to help yourself feel more awake are less effective than long-term changes to your sleep schedule, which will leave you with more lasting daily energy.

