 This is a very important first step, as you will want to choose a song that inspires you.You could use a licensed song and not make any money from it, but this is probably not the best thing to do. There are many problems associated with using copyrighted music, most of which are legal problems. If you have any friends who are musicians, they will most likely be over the moon if you ask or "offer" to make a music video for them. Don't feel nervous about asking either, everyone starts somewhere. Or consider writing your own song for the video.;
, Listen to to it over and over excited or angry? The things you feel while listening will most likely work best as themes for the music video. You should have a pretty good idea for the vibe of the video by the end of this step.
 There are two very important decisions that you have to make now that will affect the tone of the video. Plan your story and your shots for the video, with storyboards if you want, test out the different styles. Consider these questions, and come up with full answers and the reasons why you chose them;


Are you going to have a narrative/story?
Will you feature particular people, such as the band members?

, You'll need a camera and lights. For the camera, any digital camera or even your iPhone will work, but if you have a nicer video camera, feel free to use that. Unless you want dialogue, you probably won't need any sound, as your soundtrack will simply be the song. Look up some simple lighting methods or just experiment yourself.
 You'll need someone to sing the song, if you opted not to have the band or artist perform it. You'll also need secondary roles and extras, so enlist as many people as possible and get them to join you for free. Then shoot your video. Make sure you overshoot - grab more takes and more footage than you think you'll need. You can never have too much footage, and it will be devastating if you realize you have a 10 second gap in your music video.
 If your system can't handle this program or if you don't want to buy it, download another video editing tool from the internet: there are free trials available, or Windows Movie Maker. Believe me, its not that bad.Put you song into the timeline as the constant element.Cut your video to it, this will take a lot of time and messing around. It may seem tedious, but just remember to watch what you have every now and then.
 Everywhere really. Get it out there and be proud of it. This is your first music video and you spent 0 dollars on it. Show it to the artist.Do not be self-conscious about your video. It is better than everyone's who DIDN'T make it. Don't compare yourself to others.

