 Sometimes you'll feel ready for a test but realize, too late, that you're not as prepared as you thought. If this happens frequently, you may not be studying correctly or studying enough. Revise thoroughly, but make sure you do other things too. If you revise for too long you will become unfocused, so make sure you take regular breaks! Check out the related wikiHows for help.;
, Avoid cramming the night of the exam; if you're too tired come test time you won't remember what you "learned" the night before.
 unless they are provided.
 A little brisk exercise will help you remain calm during any stressful situation. If your teacher will allow you to leave the room during the test, run up and down the hall or do some jumping jacks if you start feeling overwhelmed.
 If you get there early, you'll make sure to get your favorite seat. You'll also feel more relaxed if you don't get there just in time or, worse yet, late.
 Before the test, inhale through your nose deeply and slowly. Then, hold the breath for 3-4 seconds and exhale slowly through your mouth. Repeat this several times. If you experience a sudden panic during the test, perform this exercise again.
 Really, it is. No matter what happens, everything will be OK.  

, Make sure you are not too nervous during your exams - you might forget what you have revised and just panic. You have to stay positive. If you are thinking.."Oh, I am never going to succeed in my exams," you never will! However, if you believe that you can do it, you will find you can!


Find a way to occupy your feet. Gently tapping on the floor while taking the test can relax yourself because you're moving, and soon your feet will tire from that and you'll be relaxed.
Tighten then relax. Tighten your fists as hard as you can, then slowly release, letting the wave of relief flow over you. This relief is encouraging and it's resting.
 Take in each word as slowly as you can, making sure your brain understands the meaning of it and what you're expected to do. Take deep breaths and play a soft song in your head, or words of encouragement. Start thinking very carefully about what's right and what's not. Then, as slowly as you can, decide on the answer or write out the answer once you're sure. Doing things slowly and carefully will be a better chance of getting the answer right, which relaxes you because you know that you have a higher chance.
 Don't spend too much time on any one question. If you get stuck, skip the question and move on. Don't get too stressed if you can't answer a question. Remember that your grade for the whole test doesn't rely on just one little question. Just skip it and come back to it later; you might find that you can answer it easily after all.
 Don't panic if you notice other students writing very quickly or handing in their tests early. Mind the time, and try to work at a steady rate, but otherwise don't worry about speed. It is not a race.
 Your teachers usually say, "Take Your time!" So why not? Answer about five questions, then take about a 5 minute breather. Don't count your time, just estimate it. Make sure you don't rest for too long. Lay down, rub your shoulders, or anything else that's appropriate.

