 Confidence makes you feel comfortable.Make eye contact with everyone. Eye contact makes you seem more confident and comfortable around others.
Speak in a clear and steady voice. Don’t try to talk too fast or let your nerves show through.
Have good body language and posture. Stand up straight and don’t slouch. Try not to cross your arms or legs so you have an open and welcoming posture.
Feel good about yourself. You have a lot to offer others and they should want to talk to you.
 Enjoying yourself makes you feel good. Have fun no matter where you are.


Try not to be too nervous. Nothing’s too serious about any social environment that you can’t have fun.
Laugh and joke around with others. Everyone enjoys a little levity.
Don’t try to be a clown for others. Forcing too much fun can create an uncomfortable situation.
 Know that any social situation can be uncomfortable. If you feel uncomfortable, just know it will eventually be over.


Feel good about talking and interacting with others. Even if some interactions don’t go well, just keep in mind that you tried.
Know that you may not make friends. Some social occasions may be the only time you meet someone. Have a good time with them then and don’t worry about the future.
Realize that uncomfortable situations may arise. Deal with them as they come and you’ll find they are easier to deal with than you imagine.
Get out of the conversation if you need to. If the person you are talking to is offensive or acting strangely, politely excuse yourself. There’s no reason you have to talk to people that make you feel uncomfortable.
 Go up and talk to a stranger. You’ll find it’s less scary than you think.


Talk to people who are standing by themselves. If they look friendly and open, come up to them and start a conversation.
Ask people about themselves. Don’t pry too much, but general information can be a good starting place for a conversation.
Avoid negative thoughts. Try not to think of the worse case scenario. Nothing that bad can happen if you try to talk to a stranger at a social event.
 Use them to your advantage. This could be anything from your hair to your singing voice.


Wear clothes that makes you look and feel good. Highlight what’s best about you.Discuss topics you feel comfortable with. Don’t direct the conversation, but highlight things you know about and can contribute to in conversation.
Don’t force your best qualities on others. Only sing, or perform other talents, if people ask you to. Unprompted performances can be awkward and unwanted.

