 Use a large saucepan, preferably with a heavy, thick bottom. Heat the oil up until it is just starting to release a little bit of "smoke" from the surface.









The next steps add chopped onion and garlic, which should be cut ahead of time.
 The onions will need to cook for 3-4 minutes, until soft and translucent. Adding salt as the onions hit the pan unlocks their sweet-savory flavor-- salt added with heat tends to draw out moisture and provide a more richly cooked ingredient than only adding salt at the end.
 Try to do this quickly, after the onion has only been cooking for 1-2 minutes. The garlic, which is much smaller than the onion pieces, is at risk of burning if you leave it in as long as the onions.
 This should only take a few minutes, and all of the alcohol should burn off. Use your spoon to scrape up any bits that cooked to the pan, as the wine will loosen them up. This wine will add a welcome depth and complexity to your dish, but is not strictly necessary. You could, instead, add a cup of stock, broth, or just a 1/2 cup of water, using this to loosen the burned bits and then moving on.
 Use a food processor or blender first to turn the tomatoes into a smooth, consistent liquid if desired. You can use pre-diced tomatoes, too, or a mixture of canned tomatoes, 1 can tomato puree, and 1 cup warm water if needed. If you want a super smooth and silky sauce, wait to do the blending until later, just adding the whole tomatoes now and letting them cook.









Want to use fresh tomato? You'll need to blanch and peel your tomatoes in advance. To do so, put 7-10 Roma tomatoes in boiling water for 1 minute, then immediately dunk them in ice water. Use your fingers to pull the loosened skins off, squeeze out the seeds with a strainer (saving the liquid) then cook., Taste the sauce frequently as it cooks, making small seasoning adjustments here and there instead of trying to do it all in one big batch. Some common spices to add include:









Bay leave
Oregano
Black and crushed red pepper
Parsley , Use high heat to get the whole mixture to boil, then drop it all down to low so that there are just a few heat bubbles breaking the surface. Let it keep cooking, stirring, testing, and seasoning regularly, until it reaches your desired consistency and is ready to serve.









If the sauce gets too thick, add a ladle-full of pasta water (if cooking pasta with the dish) to the pan and stir in. The starchy water will help it bind the sauce the pasta while thinning it out without much flavor loss.A touch of water, water + tomato paste, or chicken/vegetable broth can also help thin out a sauce if it cooks for too long.