 Branding your clan is the most important step in creating a new clan. You want something unique, that makes sense. Find something that you want to represent long term. Your making a clan that your going to spend countless hours building. Many clans that are large today, have been going for many years. So finding a name that people can relate to and want to represent is your ticket to success.;
, Ask yourself, are you making a clan for fun or competitive? It really matters, because a fun clan can be taken in many different ways. While a competitive clan is limited to small sizes and try outs. A competitive clan requires good players to keep it strong and at the top of the rankings.
 So assuming that your clan is for fun after the previous advice. You want an enjoyable ranking system that your members can rank up through different levels of leadership. Say for example, a military styled rank structure is what many clans today use in forming a chain of command. Recruits are normally the entry level rank for a new member joining your clan. Between Recruit and Leader should be a variety of different ranks with different roles within your clan to allow for a fun and enjoyable atmosphere. If it's a stressful structure with too much clan building roles, then chances are they won't like it and will leave eventually. Don't forget that this is a clan based on a video game, not the actual military.
 All clans should have a few rules that keep your members in check. This should be to prevent abuse and drama from overtaking your clan. Many clans have witnessed situations where thing got out of hand, but could have been prevented if rules were put in place to prevent it from happening. This is something that different ranking members can patrol and make sure that other members abide by.
 This should be one of the easiest steps in creating a clan. You already play a game or a variety of games. You need to decide whether your clan will be based on a single game, or multiple games. Make that clear in your structure so that the structure stays organized.
 Some people don't like leading a clan by themselves, so ask your closest friends on Xbox LIVE if they'd be interested in leading a new clan with you. If not, then try to do it yourself before bringing in someone else. You do not want a random person joining and being in charge of your clan. It will only cause a headache and they will try to overrun you as leader. I have seen this many times and sometimes it goes as far as the original leader being kicked out of the clan. Lots of drama comes with random leaders who you don't know. Build your clan up, and promote people based on the actions they take while moving through your ranking system.
 Making a website for your clan is about the hardest thing about making a clan. You don't need a website, but it definitely helps your clan stay organized and in contact. You have so many options on what kind of website you'd like to make. Many go with a forum styled website, you can use vbulletin, IP Board, MyBB, phpBB, and a variety of other forum software.
 Social Media sites such as Facebook and Twitter are not required, but they help you make your clan stand out. You can create a Facebook Page for your clan and you can create a profile for your clan on Twitter. The bigger your audience is on other social media sites, the more people see and learn about your clan. Its also helps get news and information about events to your members who use the sites often. Some clan pages, such as Revolution of Gaming's, have grown to hundreds of members.
 This is your last, but not final step. After getting here, you not only have to advertise your clan to other gamer's so your clan grows, but you have to continue to update and build your clan in the other areas that have been stated here in this article.
 You can do many things to find new members. You can play the games your clan plays and ask people to join, which is the best option. And you can use sites like www.xbox360clans.net to find new recruits. You just have to pitch your clan to others and ask them to join.

