 This PDF contains a breakdown of the examination and the application process. It provides helpful material to study for the exam itself as well as an overview of all required fees, documents, and procedures. In it, you can find:


Illinois licensing requirements
Exam reservations and procedures
Exam information regarding each line of authority
Information on scores, test centers, and extra forms.
 You will take your exam through Pearson VUE test centers. You can find a test center or schedule the exam by visiting their website or by calling them at 1-800-274-0402.You can schedule your test up to one day before the test itself, provided there are seats left in the testing center. It costs approximately $102 to take the test.There are seven exams that you can take based on which line of authority you are specializing in. These are:


Casualty Producer
Accident and Health Producer
Life Producer
Motor Vehicle
Personal Lines
Property Producer
Public Adjuster, You should come thirty minutes early to your examination. You will be required to sign the "Candidate Rules Agreement" before you can take the test. The exam itself will be taken on a computer. You will need to bring with you:


Photo identification such as a driver’s license, passport, or military ID
A second ID card, such as another form of photo ID, a social security card, or a debit/credit card.
Your signed Pre-License Course Certificate
Failing score report (if you are retaking the examination)
You will not be allowed to bring any personal items, such as phones, wallets, or purses into the testing room with you., A score of 70 is required to pass. You will know immediately after taking the exam whether you have passed. If you have failed a section, you may retake that section with 90 days of your original test date. You do not need to retake any parts of the exam that you passed.The motor vehicle and public adjuster exams only have one section each.
If you failed the public adjuster’s exam, you will have to wait seven days before retaking it. This does not apply to any of the other lines of authority.
 You will need to wait five days after you passed your examination to apply for your license. To do this, you will go to the NIPR website. Input your personal information and pay your fees to apply for an initial producer's license in Illinois. Once accepted, the NIPR will submit the license information to the Illinois Department of Insurance. You will be notified when you can print your license.


A Producer class certificate will cost $180.Illinois no longer mails licenses. Instead, you will print it off of the NIPR website.

