 If you’re a nerd, the chances are pretty good that you know your way around a computer. The odds are also good that you know people who are fairly clueless about them, and are willing to pay for your help. With as quickly as computers and other technologies keep advancing, there are always going to be plenty of people looking for help in catching up or keeping up.How to Start a Computer Business offers some solid advice on this subject.
 Computers are just the beginning, of course. The “smarter” our homes and lives become (tech-wise), the more people will seek out those with expertise for assistance. And when people need help with their technology, they tend to want someone who looks, sounds, and acts (and gets the job done) like a nerd.


A few of the many tech tasks people might pay your to do include: setting up wireless networks and devices; digitizing photos, videos, documents, etc.; providing smartphone tutorials; and setting up personal or business websites., You might not be in line to become a real-life version of the “Girl with the Dragon Tattoo,” but having hacking skills does not need to drive you into hidden, illicit existence either. Companies, organizations, governments, and even individuals who fear being hacked are sometimes willing to pay expert hackers to protect them.So-called “white hat” hackers use their hacking skills to identify and counteract possible vulnerabilities before they can be exploited. With all the fears about hacking out there (legitimate and otherwise), this is the kind of job that could become a career for a savvy nerd.
 Basically, if your nerd talents include computers or other technology, the opportunities for making money off them are nearly limitless. As a nerd, you live your life a bit “outside the box” — while you’re out there, think of creative ways to make some money.



How to Make Money As a Kid from Your Computer offers a range of suggestions for making a little money online or by otherwise utilizing modern technology. They include, for instance:

Doing product reviews for payment.
Streaming your gameplay, if you’re a video game ace.
Setting up advertising links on your blog or video channel.
Completing product reviews for cash (but watch for scams).



