 If you tend to stuff your emotions, deny them, or you avoid dealing with them, get in the habit of recognizing how you feel. Build a healthy relationship with your emotions so that you can deal with them appropriately. Go beyond saying, “I feel good” or “I feel bad” and learn to identify when you feel anxious, sad, frustrated, joyful, uneasy, etc.Once you acknowledge your moods and emotions, you can decide how to respond.When you notice a shift in your mood, take a moment and label the feeling. Say to yourself, “Right now I feel frustrated.”;
, Ask yourself if you’re getting enough “me” time. It’s easy to get caught up in the business of life, but make sure you’re doing some things you enjoy and not just what you need to do. It can be as simple sipping on a cup of tea or coffee, going for a walk, or petting your dog.Get in the habit of doing something enjoyable each day as a way to manage your moods and stay positive.
If you tend to turn toward alcohol or drugs as a way to cope, find new productive activities that will help you cope more effectively.
 Find a person you trust and confide in them. Just speaking with someone can help you cope your mood and de-stress. They can’t fix your mood, but they can help you deal with it and feel more positive.Spend time with someone one-on-one if possible. If not, make a phone call or video chat.
 Think about what mood contrasts your current mood and do activities that align with that mood. For example, if you feel sad and lethargic, try doing something active and happy, like dancing or jumping on a trampoline. If you feel angry, engage in something that induces feelings of calm.While it might feel silly or strange at first, keep with it and notice how your mood changes.
 Crying can help you feel better, especially if you’re holding something in or trying to avoid something. There’s nothing wrong with crying.If you don’t want to cry in front of other people, excuse yourself to somewhere private. This might be your house or room, the bathroom, outside, or your car.


Let yourself cry and notice how you feel afterward. You might feel shifts in your mood.
 Refocus on gratitude and find things you are grateful for today. You don’t have to write a long list, just find things you feel genuinely grateful for in the moment.This might include the sunshine outside, a kiss from your kids, or enjoying a song on the radio.


If you’re having a difficult day, be grateful for the small things that went right, even when other things were going wrong. For example, give thanks for minimal traffic on the way to work, a nice lunch, or a good laugh in the morning.

