 For first-timers, it might be preferable to put yourself in professional hands. It’s not nearly as rare for men to wax their chests these days, so if it’s any solace, know that you’re not alone.
 It’ll be a big bummer to go through the trouble of waxing all the hair from your chest only to have red, splotchy pecs. Taking care of your skin before it’s waxed will reduce your skin’s recovery time from the procedure, so you should exfoliate the day before. , If you made an appointment, then your part in this done (though you still have a waxing to endure). Otherwise, you’ll need to be picking up a commercial DIY waxing product.


You can also get DIY to the max with it and make your own wax.
 After heating the wax if necessary (some do-it-yourself products are microwavable; check the instructions on yours) you’ll want to apply it to your chest hair. For best results lay it on in the direction your hair grows. Some products use all-in-one applicator strips with wax, whereas others (generally referred to as “hard” waxes) will come with a spatula-like tool for spreading it on.
Your hair needs to be as close to a quarter-inch long as you can get it for the wax to grab hold. If you’re trying wax after a bungled trimming you might need to give your hair a few days to grow, and if you've got an unruly thicket on there you should use a trimmer (or scissors) to cut your chest hair in preparation.
 This is the fun part! If you’re using all-in-one strips, the strip is already on and you can go ahead and remove it. If you’re using hard wax, you’ll want to quickly pull it off once it has hardened enough to be firm, yet still flexible. Remove it in the direction opposite to your hair growth for best results.


After pulling, apply immediate pressure for pain relief.
Different products will recommend different specifics, but care should generally be taken not to re-wax the same area unless specifically instructed to.
Unlike shaving, waxing is removing your hair from the root. It will generally give you a longer-lasting hairlessness (3-6 weeks), but also opens the door to ingrown hairs. 