 When you feel “fat,” you may be dealing with another emotion that you have associated with feeling fat. It's that emotion that you need to tune into.The next time you get that “fat feeling” for no good reason, take a step back. What emotions are you feeling? What situation made you feel this negative way? Who were you with? Try writing out your answers to these questions as often as possible to look for patterns.
For example, you might notice this feeling whenever you spend time with a certain person or when you are having a bad day. Use this information to change your environment and see if that helps you feel better about yourself., Anorexia isn't just a severely restricted diet. It's an attempt to combat a larger problem. Following a strict diet may make you feel like you are more in control and this may give you a sense of accomplishment.But any happiness you feel by limiting your food intake is masking a deeper problem.


Look for more constructive ways to gain control of your life. For example, you can cut back on stressful activities or responsibilities, work on managing your time in a more efficient way, and get help for things you don't understand.
Try to find other ways to feel happy. Do things that make you happy such as engaging in your hobbies and spending time with friends.
Try to look in the mirror and give yourself a compliment every day. For example, you could look at yourself in the mirror and say something like, “Your hair looks really pretty today.”

, Get into the habit of replacing negative thoughts with a positive ones. Every time you notice that you are thinking something negative about yourself, try to turn it into something positive. For example, if you notice that you are having negative thoughts about the way that you look, think about something you are grateful for. This can be as simple as being grateful to be alive, having a place to call home, or being loved by your family and friends.You can also make a list of your good qualities. Include as many items as you can think of, such as your talents, skills, achievements, and your unique interests.
 Another way to get your mind off of wanting to become anorexic is to take a look at what happens to people who become anorexic. Between 5% and 20% of people with anorexia die.If you become significantly underweight, you may:develop osteoporosis (brittle bones that break easily)
be at risk of heart failure due to the damage caused to your heart by anorexia
be at risk of kidney failure due to dehydration
experience spells of fainting, fatigue, and weakness
lose the hair on your head
have dry skin and hair
grow an extra layer of hair on your body (to keep warm)
develop bruises all over your body

