 Most animals that are sneaking into your garden are doing so because they can smell the vegetables and are attracted by the free meal. Scents can also be used to keep animals out, sending a message that your garden is either not a safe place to eat or by making it smell unappealing. Take a look at the two main types of scent deterrents to help you pick one for your garden:You can buy animal repellents that smell like the urine of a predator. These repellents will make your garden seem dangerous to animals. You'll likely need to know which type of animal is invading your garden before buying a predator scent that scares that specific animal.
You might try using spicy or unappealing sprays around your garden. These sprays can make animals uncomfortable or make your garden taste and smell bad enough that they will look for food elsewhere.
Animal repelling sprays can be bought at most home or garden stores.
You can try looking up homemade animal repellent recipes and make your own.
Many sprays will need to be applied often, as rain or moisture will wash them away.
 If you know the type of animal that is regularly invading your garden, you can try growing some plants that they would find repulsive. Adding plants that common garden pests dislike can help keep them out and protect your vegetables. Take a look at some of the following plants that are thought to keep away garden pests:Azalea, boxwood, lamb's ear, peony and marigolds are all unappealing to rabbits.
Bleeding hearts, daffodils, hyssop, and mullein are plants that can repel deer.
You can try mixing some of these plants in with your garden to make the whole thing look unappealing.
Planting these barrier plants along the parameter of your garden can help repel pests.
 Even though your garden is a peaceful place, the animals that are sneaking in will still be on the look out for threats. Because of this, you can add devices to your garden that are designed to startle and scare off whatever animal might be nibbling your vegetables. Take a look at some of these ideas to give you an idea of how you can make your garden a scary place to unwanted animals:Modern scarecrows come equipped with motion sensors and will spray water at any invading wildlife.
Having an outdoor dog can help keep many animals out of your garden.
Some repellents make use of shiny or reflective material to frighten off birds.
You can buy electronic repellents that sound an alarm or play a frightening sound when they detect motion.
 Cats are naturally inclined to hunt and can do a great job of keeping small animals out of your garden. Besides actually hunting the animals that make it into your garden, your cat's scent and presence may scare off future pests. So if you have an outdoor cat, consider introducing them to your garden to help cut down on the amount animals snack on your vegetables.Make sure your cat has all of its vaccines as many wild animals can carry diseases.
Always monitor your cat to make sure they are in good health and are capable of safely going outdoors.
 It might seem counterintuitive, but adding plants near your garden that animals love can be a good way to keep them out of your actual garden. Once you know which animals are causing you trouble, you can try planting their favorite foods away from your garden, keeping them out and sparing your vegetables.


Make sure any attractive plants are placed away from your garden.
Making an animal's favorite foods easy to get to will prevent them from trying to gain access to your garden.
Try planting some extra vegetables in an area that is easy for pests to get at, keeping them away from the ones you plan on eating.
 Certain environments and landscapes will make animals feel more or less comfortable. Depending on how you've landscaped your garden or yard, you may actually be making animals feel right at home. Rearranging your landscaping can be a simple way to help make animals uncomfortable and keep them out of your garden. Try keeping some of these tips in mind when landscaping your garden to help scare off would be invaders: Avoid having lots of weeds or heavy plant cover, as most animals enjoy feeling hidden in the foliage.
Get rid of woodpiles that may be near the garden.
Cut down or move bushes or shrubs that surround the garden.

