 To make your own throwing tomahawk will require some some metalworking tools and raw material. Before you get started, you should gather:

¼" plate steel
¾" heavy gauge metal pipe
Cutting goggles
Fire extinguisher
Hacksaw
Heavy insulated gloves
Plasma cutting torch/cutting laser (or other steel cutting tool)
Pipe (for handle)
Striker (for lighting torch)
Welding Equipment
File or grinding wheel, To cut steel you will need an appropriate metal cutting torch or access to a mild steel cutting laser.If you do not feel comfortable operating a high temperature steel-cutting torch, you should ask your local hardware store about places you might take mild-steel for fabrication., You don't want any flammable materials around if you intend on using a plasma torch to cut your tomahawk head. Bare earth or concrete will reduce the possibilities of a spark from your torch causing a fire. Working on a steel table that's a comfortable height for you is recommended.Be wary if your table or anything else has a coating. These can sometimes be highly flammable, and the fumes can be toxic.
 Draw the desired shape of your tomahawk head on your steel plate. To do this, you can either use a soapstone or permanent marker., You will need to hook up the appropriate tanks and gauges, turn off the necessary regulators, put on your gloves, and light your torch with your striker.If you haven't performed this process in a while, you may want to revisit how to use a cutting torch, or instead of using a plasma torch, find a facility nearby that has a laser cutter you can use to fashion your tomahawk., Make sure your plate is affixed to your table with clamps and be mindful of these while using your torch. Do not use clamps that are unable to withstand a considerable degree of heat, as these may melt. Arrange your plate at your workstation so that in cutting you will not damage the surface on which your plate rests., Both sides should be beveled, and the point sharp. You should use your file or grinding wheel to accomplish this task., Take your metal pipe and cut it down to size with an appropriate metal cutting saw, like a hack saw. The ideal length for your tomahawk will be between 16" and 21" depending on your preference and body type.You should start with a longer handle and give it a try before cutting it down to size. You can always remove more of your handle once you have discovered it is longer than is comfortable.
 You will need proper safety gear, like a welding jacket, welding helmet, and a welding gloves. If you only require a welding refresher, check out how to weld.

Once your equipment is prepared and your safety equipment put on, light your torch and weld your ax-head to your pipe handle.
 The metal cutting and welding process isn't always clean. You may have residual burrs or slag left over from making or attaching your ax-head. Using your file or grinding wheel, smooth any irregularities or deformities in the metal of your tomahawk., If may want to add an identifying feature to your tomahawk to make it more personalized, now is the time. You should also think about adding a wrap to your tomahawk handle to give it additional grip.