 This pen will be the first place where your cattle are going to move into and through the handling facility., This is a good time for sorting cattle if this needs to be done. Use the same principles and practices mentioned above for splitting out one or more cattle from the main herd, without actively herding them.

It's important to never push from the back, but rather move from the front, through the gate from where you want the animals to go.

When working in a smaller area there is less room for error and less time to react. But the basics still apply with controlling movement. In this instance, you can stand beside the gate, or move in towards the back if this is a long pen, and move a step forward or backward to stop or encourage movement through the gate.
The wider the gate, though, the more in the opening of that gate you will need to stand.


Standing by the gate and moving back and forth (or side to side, depending on the shape of the pen and where the animals are in that pen) will slow down the number of animals that enter the holding alley leading to the next pen. You are usually not wanting all animals to go through, but only a certain amount out of a larger herd at a time.
There is almost no need to have someone going in behind the group to push them up. That is, unless there's a big area behind them where they shouldn't be. If there's enough crowding going on that the pressure you apply when at the gate makes them go through that gate, then you are only needed at that gate and not needing someone else behind to move them up.
 You only need a group of half a dozen head in a 14' by 20' box (or a group of four or five for a 12' crowding tub) to work with., In a Bud box system, you only need to be standing right by the opening they're to go through. Just as with the second step above, stepping forward or backward will control movement through to the alley. Some instances you just need to stand there to encourage them to go by and around you to feel like they're going to go back the way they came., In order to get to that point, when you step away from the box or tub, make a wide loop around then walk straight up the chute towards the tub. They will quickly go to the head-gate or squeeze chute.

If you have a calf or cow that gets turned around in the alley, then just walk down the alley from the box or tub to get them back into the tub or box. Repeat your stance by the opening to the alley. If the calf balks before the squeeze, then once again, make a wide loop towards the squeeze or head-gate then walk up beside the alley to encourage movement forward.
 Repeat the same steps as above for the next group of cattle.