 Turkey is an obvious low-carb Thanksgiving favorite. Turkey is packed with protein and makes an appealing main dish to any Thanksgiving meal.Rather than frying your turkey—which adds unhealthy fats to the meat—try smoking the bird or cooking it in a pressure-cooker.


Serve the turkey relatively early in the evening, rather than letting yourself and your guests fill upon side dishes to avoid the temptation to eat carbs.;
, If you (or your family or friends) prefer not to eat turkey, there are plenty of other high-protein, low-carb main dishes to serve. Consider cooking a spiral-cut ham, pork chops, or even a lighter protein like chicken or fish. Serving a lighter main course will fill people up less and leave more room for your low-carb sides.


Similar to the turkey, avoid breading or deep-frying these main dishes. The meat will remain low-carb—and healthier overall—if you cook it in an oven, smoker, or pressure cooker, without the use of breading or grease.
 While stuffing is typically a bready, high-carb part of the main dish, you can alter the primary ingredients make your stuffing with sweet and delicious fruits and nuts. You’ll gain proteins and healthy sugar, while sacrificing carbs. You can still put the fruit and nut stuffing inside the turkey and roast it all together, if you choose to serve stuffing in the bird.To make the stuffing, you’ll need access to a large number of ingredients, including: prunes, currants, celery, cranberries, onions, cashews, and walnuts. If you’d prefer not use any of these ingredients, individual fruits can likely be substituted out for a fruit with a similar texture and consistency.
 Rather than filling your table with rolls and gravy, you can serve equally delicious low-carb recipes. Focus on finding and cooking side dishes that emphasize proteins and vegetables. Make veggies and dip (like a spinach sauce or hummus), and serve cucumber slices or nuts instead of setting out a big bowl of carb-heavy tortilla or potato chips.A cheese plate makes a great side-dish. Fill the plate with slices of three or four diverse cheeses, a few olives, and crackers. Then you can add fruits and nuts: dried apricots, strawberries, grapes, and pecans will nicely round out the plate., This will modify your Thanksgiving meal by shifting the focus from fatty and high-carb dishes to something more focused in low-carb finger foods. A relish tray typically consists of pickle spears, olives, baby carrots, and roasted artichokes.Serving this relish tray early will also help you—and guests—curb your appetite early and save less room for potentially high-carb dishes later in the meal.
If you’d like to spice up the relish tray and serve more than the basics, you can include hot peppers (such as pepperoncini), roasted red peppers, or radishes.
 Many popular Thanksgiving sides and dishes are built around fairly healthy items, but are slathered with high-sugar, high-carb dressings or toppings. You can still serve yams or sweet potatoes at a low-carb Thanksgiving, but rather than baking them topped with marshmallows, serve the yams seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper.Green beans, another common Thanksgiving side, can similarly be served with more focus on the beans themselves. Skip the green-bean casserole (especially if it involves carb-heavy elements like mushroom soup and onion rings) and serve the green beans steamed and tossed with sliced almonds and butter., Salads are a Thanksgiving staple, and can be slightly altered into another popular, healthy, and tasty low-carb option. Skip the croutons and ranch dressing, and instead garnish your salad with olives, asparagus, sundried tomatoes, and use a light vinaigrette dressing.You can also branch out entirely on your low-carb salad. Try a recipe like this for a change: Swiss chard with crème fraîche, which is low-carb and nutritious.This or another atypical salad will provide a welcome break from typical romaine- or iceberg-based salads that are often served at Thanksgiving dinners.
 Many potato-based dishes are Thanksgiving staples. However, potatoes are also high in carbohydrates. You can create a more nutrient-rich meal by substituting sweet potatoes. Serve sweet potatoes mixed with low-carb veggies to get a nutritious, lower carbohydrate side dish.Consider making a root-vegetable salad, using sweet potatoes, carrots, turnips, and parsnips. Cut these veggies into bite-sized pieces, stir them with cooking oil, onion, and garlic, and roast in the oven until caramelized.
Sweet potatoes have roughly the same amount of carbohydrates per serving as white potatoes, but they are more nutrient-dense than other potatoes, with more vitamin A, and vitamin C per serving. They also have a lower glycemic index., You don’t need to sacrifice Thanksgiving dessert in order to avoid carbs. Instead, make a naturally low-carb dessert, such as a sugar-free cheesecake. This recipe substitutes almond flour for traditional flour in the crust, and also incorporates low-carb, high-protein pecans and Splenda.Thanksgiving desserts are notoriously high in carbohydrates, and include many bread-or grain-based stables including pumpkin and pecan pies, various types of cookies, and cakes. Try to remove as many of these high-carb treats from your Thanksgiving table as possible, and replace them with a low-carb dessert.
 If you’re avoiding Thanksgiving pies because of the potentially high-carb crusts, you can search online for low-carb substitutes. For example, make a crust using crushed crushed pecans or another substitute grain in the place of flour. Pie fillings can also be modified to have low carbs, by using sugar substitutes or alternate ingredients.If you check at a health-food grocery store, you may also be able to find a low-carb flour substitute which you can include in cakes and cookies.
 Sugar is considered a high-carb ingredient, but you can make dishes sugary relatively low-carb by swapping out the sugar for low-carb sweeteners, such as Splenda, Truvia, or sucralose. Try swapping the two ingredients in a pumpkin pie: make the filling using a low-carb sweetener.You can also use sweeteners in a whole-grain cranberry sauce, as a substitute for sugar. This will not diminish the taste of the sauce, but will lower the carbohydrates.

