 The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) doesn’t cover all government offices. For example, it doesn’t apply to the federal judiciary, Congress, or units within the Executive Branch whose sole duty is to assist the President. However, you can generally request a record from the following:Any agency, office, or department of the Executive Branch, such as the Department of Agriculture or the Defense Department
Independent federal regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission or the Environmental Protection Agency
Corporations that are controlled by the federal government, such as the U.S. Postal Service or the Tennessee Valley Authority;
, There isn’t a central FOIA office.Instead, you request information from a specific agency or department.


You can browse a list of agencies at the Department of Justice website. If you have a question about whether an agency has the record, then you can call the agency directly.
 Some agencies publish forms you can use to make a request. Check the agency’s website. For example, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) publishes a form, Form G-639, that you can use to request information.Some forms can be downloaded as PDFs. This can make completing the form easy, because you can type information directly into the form.
 Some agencies publish a sample request letter on their website. If one is available, you should use it since this will make your request easier to understand. For example, the Department of Forestry has a sample request letter available on their website., Each federal department or agency has a specific office you need to send an FOIA request to. You can find this office by visiting the FOIA website and visiting the “Where to Make a FOIA Request” webpage.Click on the appropriate agency or department.
Once you select the agency, you may then have to select an office within the agency. For example, the Department of Agriculture has over 20 offices. The address for mailing your request should appear on the homepage for the office or agency.
 You should be provided with both a mailing address as well as a fax number. Some departments also welcome email correspondence. You can attach your request (and other supporting documents) as an attachment to an email.


Also check whether the agency has a specific address for FedEx or UPS delivery., You should set the request up like a business letter. Make sure that you provide helpful identifying information, including the following:your name
your address
your telephone number
your email address
the date
the address of the agency you are contacting

, You can request documents using an FOIA request or a Privacy Act request. You will use the Privacy Act when requesting records about yourself. However, it is recommended that if you are requesting personal records, then you make both an FOIA request and a Privacy Act request.Sample language could read: “I am making a request under both the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act.”

, Under the law, you need to “reasonably identify” the record. You should provide as much detail as possible, including the following:document name
date of the document

, You should tell the agency whether you want copies of the records or whether you simply want to inspect them. You should also state whether you want the records in some format other than paper (e.g., on a CD-ROM)., You also should identify which “category” of requester you are. Typically, requesters fall into the following categories, which determine how much you have to pay in fees:Educational institution. Generally, a preschool, elementary, and secondary school qualifies, as does an institution of higher education, whether public or private. However, if you want records for individual academic research, then you don’t qualify.
Non-commercial scientific institution. This category includes institutions that are not commercial but instead operate solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research. It does not cover research which can be used to promote a product or industry.
News media representative. A person who gathers news for an entity such as a newspaper or television station is covered by this category. It can also include freelance journalists, if they can demonstrate a basis for expecting publication by a news media organization.
Commercial user. This category covers those who seek information to advance profit, trade, or commercial interests.
Other requesters. This category is a catch-all for those that don’t fit into other categories. For example, if you are a private citizen requesting a record about yourself, then you don’t fit into any other category.
 The agency will review your request and determine how urgently you need the information. Typically, they fulfill large requests and request that aren’t urgent last. However, you can request an expedited response in a couple circumstances:You or another person face a risk to your life or safety. For example, someone might be in deportation proceedings and need records to support an asylum request.
You have an urgent need to inform the public about the federal government’s activity, and your job is primarily engaged in spreading information about government activity (e.g., you are a journalist).
 Generally, by submitting a request, you agree to pay up to $25. However, if you are willing to pay more, then you have to state in your request the amount you are willing to pay.The agency should contact you to get your permission if the cost will exceed $25, and for large requests, the agency may require payment up front. Generally, the following rules apply when calculating fees:If you are a commercial requester, then you must pay for all copying and search time.
Educational institutions, non-commercial scientific institutions, and news media get free search and review. They also get the first 100 pages of copying free.
Other requesters get two hours of search for free and the first 100 pages free. They must then pay for additional search or copied pages.
If you are requesting copies of records about yourself, then you will be charged for duplication only, with the first 100 pages free.
 If you are requesting your personal files under the Privacy Act, then you will need to verify your identity. You should provide important personal details, such as your birth date, place of birth, Social Security Number, and previous addresses.You should also explain your relationship to the agency. For example, if you were employed by an agency, then give your dates of employment.


You also may have to sign your request in front of a notary public.You can find notaries at most courthouses and at large banks. Take acceptable forms of personal identification with you, such as a valid state-issued ID or a passport.
You should also include a statement above your signature: “I acknowledge that it is a crime under the Privacy Act to request or obtain access to records under false pretenses, and I acknowledge that the information in this request is true and correct under penalty of perjury.”

, Most small, non-commercial requests will not cost you anything.For example, if you are requesting a copy of a petition you filed, then you will probably not have to pay anything. However, you might seek a fee waiver if you have a large request. You should include a request for a fee waiver in your request letter.


Under the law, you can request a fee waiver or reduction if the disclosure of the requested information “is in the public interest” because it contributes significantly to how the public understands government operations. However, the primary purpose of your request cannot be commercial.
You should explain why you want the information, what you intend to do with it, and who you intend to distribute it to.
Be as specific as possible. If you are a watchdog group, or a group trying to pass legislation, then explain how your group will analyze and digest the information. For example, you may have a team of researchers who will analyze the information turned over. You should also identify your group’s expertise and past experience analyzing this type of information.
Also explain in detail how you will disseminate the information you receive. Again, go into detail. You might be planning a lawsuit to enforce a law, or you could be planning a marketing campaign to raise the profile of an issue.
 If you don’t know what to put in your request, then you should call the agency. There should be a “liaison” who handles FOIA requests. This person’s name and contact information should be on the agency’s website. You might also send a question by email, if that is easier.


For example, you might have a general idea of what record you want but need help figuring out precisely what to ask for.
You should also call to check whether the agency has the record or if you need to send a request to a different agency.
 An agency has 20 days to read your request and report back whether it intends to comply. In unusual circumstances, the agency can take longer. Given how back-logged agencies are, you should expect to wait more than 20 days., Under the FOIA, the agency can withhold records in certain, limited situations. It may also redact certain information from records it does disclose. For example, an agency doesn’t have to turn over records or information in the following situations:The Executive Branch has classified the material as secret because it relates to national defense or foreign policy.
The records only relate to the agency’s internal practices or personnel rules.
A federal statute makes the information confidential.
The record is a memo or letter written within an agency or between agencies.
The information is confidential commercial or financial information gathered from an individual, including trade secrets.
You are seeking disclosure of medical and personnel files, but disclosing this information would be an invasion of privacy.
The information is about gas or oil wells.
The information was included in reports prepared for or by any agency that supervises financial institutions.
You are seeking certain law enforcement records, especially where disclosing the information could interfere with a fair trial, compromise confidential sources, or endanger someone’s life.
 You might be unhappy because the agency refused to release the records or the agency denied you a fee waiver. The agency should explain your appeal rights in the letter you receive from them.To appeal, you should draft a letter. A sample letter is available at the FOIA Advocates website.You will need to provide the identification number for your request and an explanation for why the document should be disclosed. For example, you might disagree that the documents fall into an exemption.
You should include a copy of your original request and copies of any letters in response. Also write the words “FOIA APPEAL” in all caps on the front of your envelope.You should visit the agency’s website to find the address for sending your appeal.

