 It is important to remember that your emotions within any type of event you encounter are normal. Your emotions provide you with information. It is your responsibility to correctly reflect and identify the emotions you may be experiencing and decide what the most effective and responsible action would be. Emotions should not be identified as irrational, and it is important to validate and acknowledge these emotions as you are experiencing them. However, your behavioral actions and what you decide to do with your emotions can lead to irrationality and destructive behavior if you are not attuned with yourself.
 Grief is your response to any form of loss. You are uniquely different from other people in how you process your experiences of loss and how you go through the grieving process. Grieving encompasses a wide range of feelings and emotions, which may include anger, acceptance, guilt, regret, sadness, loss of meaning and purpose in life, and more. As you go through these emotions, it is your way of emotionally processing and adapting to the loss you have experienced.

Some thoughts you may experience when grieving are, “It’s all my fault, I should have been there,” “There is nothing more I could have done; she had a good life,” “Why did this happen to me, and not them?” and “This isn’t fair.” Depending on the type of thoughts you process, it can be either troubling or soothing. Additionally, these thoughts may yo-yo back and forth from positive to negative as you try to make sense of your loss.
 Learn about the emotions and thoughts people typically have after a bereavement, divorce, or another loss. Knowing what to expect may not make grieving any easier, but it will help reassure you that you are normal and not alone.Understand that the grieving process is not linear. Meaning that not everyone will have the same emotional experiences, and sometimes you can go back and forth between different phases of the grieving process. It is important to note that you should not compare your own grieving with that of someone else’s, and that there is no right or wrong way to experience grief.

The grieving process involves different emotions, including denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. However, not everyone goes through these emotions in the same order, and some people experience two or more of them at once.
Grieving behaviors can be expressed in the form of crying, verbal or behavioral outbursts, and even laughter. Some people prefer to be alone while going through this process, while others may prefer to spend time surrounded by friends and family. While there may be no right or wrong way to experience grief, some thoughts and behaviors are more helpful and safer than others.
 Acknowledge your jealousy, as well as any other emotions you’re dealing with. Commit to facing your feelings head-on. Allow yourself to experience your emotions without questioning or repressing them., It’s common to feel a wide range of emotions, including jealousy, as you cope with a recent loss. Realize that feeling jealous does not make you a bad person. Rather, it’s a natural reaction to the pain and sense of unfairness you’re living with., A ceremony of some sort can help you overcome grief and deal with the jealousy that sometimes accompanies it. Bringing meaning to your loss in a way that gives you closure and release can also help you move past the feelings of jealousy you have.

Try writing a letter to the loved one you lost. If your grief is over a relationship or job, write a letter to your future self explaining all that you have learned by going through the process.
If you are grieving a deceased love one, you might ask others to join you in preparing a meal of the person's favorite foods, attending a spiritual service, or releasing balloons in their memory., Jealousy is an emotional response to loss or the fear of losing something. When you feel jealousy, you may also feel other emotions such as grief, anger, hurt, insecurity, or sadness. It is important not to confuse jealousy and envy, as they have two completely different meanings and are not the same. Envy is the desire to have something that you do not possess. Jealousy is related to the loss of something you already possess., Normal experiences to jealousy allow you to further evaluate yourself and the experiences you’ve encountered related to loss. When utilized in an appropriate and healthy way, it can help us become more aware of our insecurities so we can address them appropriately. Normal jealousy should do the following:

Give you the insight and motivation you need for self-improvement based on the current circumstances you face from the loss you’ve experienced.
Provide you with warnings about a potential loss and motivate you to problem solve.
Irrational jealousy occurs when the jealousy is not based upon factual evidence, and there is no apparent rational justification for the person to be jealous. Additionally, this type of feeling may be just more than a fleeting emotion, and more of one that is lingering. The person who dwells on irrational jealousy may also engage in some sort of negative behaviors. These types of behavior include: violence, stalking, retribution, obsessive behaviors, and inability to trust others.
 Avoid thinking of yourself as a jealous person. Instead, remind yourself that a part of you is still happy for people who have not suffered a loss like yours. By splitting your ego like this, you can respect your own emotions while maintaining a healthy perspective on them.If you catch yourself sarcastically asking, "What do they have to be so happy about?" reframe the question with "There is much to be happy about. I need to remember this despite my loss. I won't always feel sad."

, When you see other people taking things for granted that you don’t have anymore, it’s easy to feel frustrated, but don’t act on your feelings. Lashing out at loved ones or strangers will damage your relationships and make you feel worse in the long run.Focus on controlling your actions, not your emotions.
If you do take your emotions out on others, apologize quickly. You might say, "I'm so sorry. I shouldn't have said that. It's just so hard for me to smile, and I have trouble remembering not everyone feels that way. Please forgive me."

, If there is someone who is also grieving, seek out their company. It can help to be with someone who empathizes with your emotional pain. Being with a close friend or family member can uplift your spirits and help you feel less alone in your grief.

Reach out to them and say, "I have been feeling horrible these past few days. Can we hang out?"The two of you may bond over the fact that everyone seems so happy or that the world is moving on despite your loss.
 If certain settings and people make your jealousy worse, avoid them as much as possible until you feel ready to handle them again. Give yourself time to heal without unnecessary reminders of your grief.For instance, someone who has recently lost a partner might not want to spend time around couples for a while.
 Social networks are known for creating feelings of jealousy because they typically show a highlight reel of everyone else's life. It can be hard to watch friends and family, or even distant acquaintances, enjoying their lives while you are hurting. Don't place yourself in the situation where you start to feel resentful of their happiness. Log off, if you must.It can also help to remind yourself that even though most people only display the good moments on social media, they, too, have hard times. Everyone grieves at some point.
 It can be difficult to process the sadness and jealousy of grief on your own. A therapist may be able to help you cope with your emotions and, eventually, find ways to move on. Look for a therapist who specializes in helping people through the grieving process.If you’re unable to accept the loss, or if you’re having trouble functioning in day-to-day life, you may be depressed. Arrange to see a doctor or therapist right away if you think this is the case, or ask a loved one to help you set up an appointment.
Connecting with a grief counselor or therapist is an effective way to have someone teach you how to cope with any stressors that may be associated with the loss. Because you are unique in your experiences, your therapist will be able to specifically tailor your individual sessions to meet your needs and goals.
It may also be beneficial for you at this point to seek out additional help through support groups or group therapy sessions. Sometimes connecting with others who share similar experiences may bring you a sense of peace and comfort in a time of distress.
 Everyone’s grief is different, and there’s no set timeline for moving on from a loss. Give yourself as long as you need to work through your emotions. Avoid comparing your own grief to other people’s, and don’t push yourself to feel better within a certain period of time.Some people might start feeling better within months, while others might need years.
Know that you may never be able to feel the way you did before the loss. However, you can still find purpose and fulfillment in life as you recover from grief.
 Lean on your support network instead of grieving alone. Your friends and family members can provide both practical and emotional support to help you get through this tough time. Let your loved ones know what you need, whether that means keeping you company, helping with meals, or driving you to therapy appointments.If other people reach out to you, accept their help.
Your loved ones may not know how to act around you, or they may worry about saying the wrong thing. Put them at ease by telling them what you need.
For example, you could tell your friends that you still want to spend time with them, even though you can’t act happy right now.
 Family and holiday traditions can bring back painful memories for people who have suffered a loss. Come up with some new, personally meaningful traditions that don’t remind you of your grief.For instance, consider taking a trip during the holidays instead of staying home.
On the other hand, if you find your traditions comforting, you don’t have to change them.
 Make time to relax and do something kind for yourself every day. Look for small things to enjoy, like the warmth of a sunny day or the taste of your favorite food. If you feel up to it, consider doing volunteer work to regain a sense of meaning in life.It can be cathartic to reach out and help other people who are going through the same thing as you.

