 Narcissistic personality disorder is a psychiatric disorder in which people have an unrealistic sense of self importance and tend to lack empathy. Narcissistic personality disorder is relatively rare with prevalence ranging from 0% to 6.2% in community samples.Of those diagnosed with narcissistic personality disorder, 50-75% are male.The symptoms of narcissistic personality disorder include a large sense of self importance, the need for recognition or admiration, the need to exaggerate achievements or talents, being envious of others or believing others envy you, and expecting special favors from those around you. People with narcissistic personality disorder tend to think of the world solely in terms of themselves and their own needs.Basic criticism or setbacks can cause major episodes of depression in those suffering narcissistic personality disorder. This is, in fact, often what first prompts those suffering from the disorder to seek help. However, you do not have to wait that long. If you're worried you may show symptoms of narcissism, make an appointment with a therapist., Autistic people often have difficulty understanding social cues and figuring out how to respond. They tend to be straightforward and honest, which can accidentally come off as insensitive.


You may be autistic if you care deeply about others' feelings, and hate to see them get upset, but are called insensitive. The "insensitivity" in many autistic people is called by cluelessness, overwhelm, and misunderstanding, not by lack of caring.Other autism symptoms include strong emotions, stimming (unusual fidgeting), dislike of eye contact, sluggishness, passionate special interests, need for routine,and general clumsiness..While autism is often identified in childhood, it is possible for symptoms to be looked over or hidden, and some people are not diagnosed until teen or adult years. Talk to a therapist if you think you have symptoms of autism., Many personality disorders cause insensitivity to others. Personality disorders are a group of mental illnesses that cause long-term behavioral and thinking patterns that are unhealthy. While nearly all personality disorders can cause some degree of insensitivity, the following are most often associated with a lack of empathy:Antisocial personality disorder, which involves an inability to distinguish right from wrong, hostility, aggression, violence, a lack of longterm relationships, unnecessary risk taking behavior, and a sense of superiority.Borderline personality disorder, which involves difficulty regulating emotions or thoughts, frequently engaging in impulsive and reckless behaviors, and an inability to maintain stable relationships longterm.Schizoid and schizotypal personality disorders are defined by a lack of social relations, delusional thought patterns, and excessive social anxiety., If you feel you may be suffering from any of the above disorders, talk over your concerns with a professional therapist or psychiatrist. While many online questionnaires can tell you if you display symptoms of certain disorders, only a professional can diagnose your properly. You can find a therapist by going through your insurance to see what clinics and doctors are covered under you plan. You can also ask for a referral from your regular physician. If you're a college student, your school might provide free counseling.

