 Reduce the risk of sunburn by knowing how much tanning your skin can safely handle in a single session. Go online and take the Fitzpatrick Skin Typing Test. Based on the results, gain a clearer picture of the schedule that you will need to follow for your skin to achieve a base tan. Exact results may vary from person to person, but skin types generally fall into the following categories:Type 1: Extremely pale and/or white skin that burns quickly but resists tanning. The skin is usually freckled all over. Other features denoting people with Type 1 include red hair and blue or green eyes.

Type 2: Skin that is more beige in color than Type 1, but still burns easily without tanning. People with Type 2 tend to be brunette or blond, moderately freckled, and blue- or green-eyed.

Type 3: Skin is naturally light brown and may burn after too much sun exposure, but typically tans first. Type 3 people often have brown hair and eyes.

Type 4: Skin is naturally light brown or olive in color. Type 4 skin tans with little difficulty, but may still burn over prolonged periods in the sun. People with Type 4 are usually brunettes with darker brown eyes than Type 3.

Type 5: Skin is naturally browned and tans with little or no difficulty while seldom burning, if ever. People with Type 5 typically have extremely dark brown hair as well as eyes.;
, If needed, have an attendant help you determine your skin type. Then develop a regime to follow in order to acquire a base tan over multiple sessions. The exact regime may vary from one salon to another due to the power and UV output of their equipment, but expect a schedule similar to the following guidelines:Type 1: It is strongly recommended that people with Type 1 skin should never use sunbeds, due to their sensitivity to ultraviolet rays. However, if you persist, start off with sessions no longer than 1 minute. After three or more sessions, add another minute, but only if your skin still feels cool and comfortable after the first minute.

Type 2: Limit yourself to 2 minutes for the first two sessions. Then add another minute for the next three, unless your skin begins to feel warm and/or uncomfortable after the first two minutes. If you still feel fine after three minutes of exposure, add another minute to your last session, for a total of six sessions.

Type 3: Start with a 2-minute session. As long as your skin feels cool afterward, add another minute for your next two sessions. Bump it up to 4 minutes for your fourth and fifth session, unless your skin feels warmer than normal after the first 3 minutes. Finally, increase the time to 5 minutes for your last session, for a total of six sessions.

Type 4: Begin with a 3-minute session. Follow that with a 4-minute session. Then increase your exposure to 5 minutes for your next two sessions. Add another minute for your last two sessions, for a total of six sessions. If your skin begins to feel uncomfortable at any point along the way, reduce the time to a safer amount of exposure.

Type 5: Start with a 3-minute session. Then add another minute to your following session. Try 5 minutes for your third. If your skin still feels relatively cool after each session, add another minute to each following session until you reach 8 minutes for your final session.
 Find out if the salon offers more than one style of sunbed. Ask the staff to help you decide which one is best for you, based on your skin type and desired effect. Also, ask them to clarify the length of time that you should limit each session to for each type of bed.Low pressure beds aim to replicate the UV output of actual sunlight.

High pressure beds alter the UV output to create a less temporary tan in a shorter amount of time.
 Use the provided cleaning solution to spray and wipe down the bed before climbing in. The previous customer and/or staff may have already done so, but do it anyway to rest assured that the bed has been disinfected. If you do not find a cleaning solution on hand, ask the staff for some.