 You might be tempted to raffle a luxury car. However, the best car to raffle is one that matches the demographics of your audience. For example, if you are an environmental charity, then you might want to buy a hybrid vehicle.If your audience is young, then you might want something sporty.
However, if your audience consists mostly of families, then you can buy a minivan or other family-sized car.;
, You can’t raffle off a car you don’t own. Accordingly, you should identify how you will get a vehicle. You have a few options:


Obtain donations. People can donate to your organization and then you can use the proceeds to buy a car. Approach local corporations, such as large hardware stores, Fortune 500 companies, professional sports teams, and any business that has expressed an interest in your organization.Ask a dealer to donate. Some auto dealers will donate a car, provided you advertise that they are the donor.
Buy with your own funds. If your organization has money from prior fundraisers, then you might buy the vehicle outright.
 You need to approach donors strategically. No one will give you money without understanding the purpose of your organization. Make sure to have the following information available for potential donors to look at:Your organization’s background: when you were established, how much you have raised, etc.
How you will showcase the sponsor. For example, will you mention them on marketing materials? On the raffle ticket itself?
How you will monitor and evaluate the raffle. For example, does your organization have an accountant or bookkeeper who will oversee the raffle and keep track of the money raised?
How you will use the money raised. Explain how the funds will further your mission.
 You can increase interest in your raffle if you also offer smaller prizes.This way, more than one person is a “winner” at the raffle. Consider offering these other prizes:


cash awards
vacation getaways
electronics items (laptop, flat screen TV, radio, etc.)
gift certificates

, Some government authorities have strict rules regulating raffles. Accordingly, you should consult with an attorney in your area to discuss whether or not you can hold the raffle. You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Many U.S. states limit raffles to non-profit charitable organizations, churches, or volunteer organizations.States may also require organizations to have been in existence for a certain number of years before they can hold a raffle.
Check whether you need to pay taxes on the vehicle and whether you need to register it before the raffle.
The lawyer can also help you register your raffle, which is required in some states. For example, in California, you must register your raffle with the state’s Attorney General.
 Once you have met with an attorney, you can better assess whether you want to go ahead with the raffle. Consider the time and money involved and decide whether to pursue a different fundraiser.


There’s always a chance you won’t sell enough tickets to cover the cost of the car. For this reason, think carefully before buying the car outright with your funds. If you can’t get a dealer to donate a car, then you might want to scrap the raffle.
As an alternative, you can hold a raffle for smaller items, such as vacations or cash prizes.
 You’ll want to give yourself enough time to sell a large number of tickets. Generally, you probably need two to three months if you are raffling a car.You can then hold the drawing a week or two after you stop selling tickets.
 Ideally, you want to make twice what the car is worth. However, you can’t expect to sell all your tickets. Instead, you should plan on selling roughly two-thirds.Start with the value of the car and the number of tickets you have printed.


For example, the car might be worth $50,000 and you have printed 5,000 tickets. You’ll want to make $100,000. At a minimum, the tickets should be priced at $30.
You can charge more. However, you will sell fewer tickets at a higher price.
 You can print out the tickets yourself or have a professional printer create the tickets for you. The tickets should contain the name of your organization, any sponsors, and the time, date, and location of the raffle. Also include the price.


You should also number your tickets, which makes it easy to keep track., Before you advertise, set some ground rules regarding the maximum number of tickets someone can purchase. If you limit them, you can drum up more interest in your raffle.


Furthermore, you’ll need rules regarding the minimum age someone must be to purchase a ticket and whether they must be a resident of your state. Check your state’s laws to see if there are requirements.
Also establish that no one associated with your organization can purchase a ticket., You have many advertising options. The key will be to include a picture of the vehicle, the price of the ticket, total number of tickets available, and contact information.Consider the following:


Promote the raffle on your website. Include details of the raffle and pictures of the car.
Distribute flyers. You can post them on public bulletin boards at the library, gym, and grocery store. Remember to get permission before posting. Also ask other retailers that see a lot of foot traffic.
Increase visibility of the raffle on social media accounts. Create Twitter and Facebook accounts if you don’t yet have them.
 You need people to sell the tickets and collect money. Make sure they are trustworthy. They also need to be well-versed in your organization’s purpose and what the proceeds of the raffle will be used for.


You should give each volunteer a number of tickets that they are responsible for selling.As you approach the deadline, you can redistribute the tickets so that your best volunteers can sell more.
 Find events in your community that draw a lot of people and ask to set up a table or booth there. For example, you should try to sell tickets at sporting events, the mall, and retail stores.


Create large, colorful signs to draw people’s interest to your table. Signs should say something like, “Win a BMW!” and not simply “Car Raffle.”Make sure the people staffing the table are friendly and can talk intelligently about your organization.
 You want the drawing to be an event. Accordingly, find a place that can accommodate a large number of people. The car dealer’s showroom is a great choice. Check if you can hold the drawing there.If you can’t, then another good choice would be to hold the raffle in a school gymnasium. However, you probably can’t get the car into the gym.
 Drum up extra interest by inviting your local paper and nearby television stations to attend the drawing. Ask a local celebrity to draw the winning ticket to entice the media to attend.
 A raffle not only raises money for your organization, it’s also a great marketing tool. Have someone take a lot of pictures of the drawing and then put them on your website. Also send the pictures to local news media so that they can cover the story., Many U.S. states require that you file a financial statement after the raffle. If the car was worth more than $50,000, then you may also need to provide an audited financial statement.Check with your attorney for legal requirements.


You may also have to file a W-2G with the IRS if the value of the car was 300 times the price of the raffle ticket. For example, you must file if the car was worth $16,000 and the ticket price was $50., You will also have to withhold taxes on the car if it is worth more than $5,000 and more than 300 times the ticket price. You can handle withholding taxes in a few ways:Ask the winner to hand over the taxes before you turn over the car. This often isn’t the most practicable way, since many people won’t have the money. Also, you need to tell people before they buy tickets that they’ll be responsible for paying taxes.
Increase the prize amount to include the taxes you’ll withhold. This will eat into your profits but is fairly easy to do.
Let the winner choose to take a cash equivalent and deduct the taxes from that amount.

