 You may not always be able to stay away from someone who is bullying you, but there are some things you can do to try and keep from running into them. First of all, try to avoid places you know they will be. For example, if they are outside their locker at the end of the school day, take a different route that will keep you from passing them. Or, hang out in your classroom for a few extra minutes until they’ve left school for the day.


While it’s okay to make changes in your daily routine to avoid your bully, don’t ever hide or skip class to get away from them.It is okay to avoid the bully now and then to minimize conflict, but if you are changing your entire routine, then you may be fueling the bullying. Avoid making drastic changes to avoid the bully.;
, Being the new kid at school can sometimes make you an easy target for bullies because they think you probably don’t have many friends to back you up yet. Work on making friends at your new school so you have a good support system to help you deal with the bully. You’ll probably make friends just by being yourself and being confident, but if you’re having trouble making new friends, try to do some of the following things:


Smile at your classmates and be friendly to everyone. You might not know where you fit in at a new school for a while so it is important to talk to everyone so you can figure out which kids you have fun being around and have a lot in common with.
Joining clubs and organizations you’re interested in can also help you make friends. This is a good way to find people with the same hobbies and interests as you.
If the other kids are talking about getting together to do an activity you like and are good at, ask them if you can join. For example, if they are talking about going bowling over the weekend, you could say, “I love bowling, too. Can I come with you guys? It sounds like fun!”, Walking with a friend can help keep a bully from bothering you. When you’re by yourself, you might seem like an easy target. If you’re walking with a friend, however, the bully might not be confident enough to deal with both of you. Make plans with a friend to walk to and from classes or to the bus after school.


Do the same for any other kids that are being bullied. Not only will you help keep them from being picked on, but they’ll be more likely to do the same for you when you need them to., A bully might also be more likely to leave you alone if you act like you’re not afraid of them. To do this you don’t have to say anything to them, just stand up tall and act confident.


If you have trouble being confident, try doing things that make you feel good about yourself. For example, wear a pair of shoes you love or get up a little earlier to do your hair the way you think it looks best.