 You’ll need a tablespoon of butter or, if you prefer, a tablespoon of the fat of the duck or goose you might have served for Christmas dinner. A bubble and squeak is generally an improvised dish, so you can use anything you have on hand, including the kitchen sink!Slice up an onion and chop up a clove of garlic.
You can gather a couple cups (or a half liter) of mashed potatoes and a cup or two of the protein you served at dinner, diced. If you don’t have potatoes, use 4 to 6 eggs instead.
Do you have a container of leftover pasta, like elbow macaroni in the fridge? A bit of your Southern grandma’s famous holiday mac ‘n’ cheese? Use it!
If you have leftover Brussels sprouts or cabbage, slice or shred a cup, or 240 mL, of it.
If you have cheese on hand, shred a cup, or 240 mL, of it.
 Head a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. When the pan is hot, add the butter or fat. Let it get nice and hot so it melts and covers the pan’s entire surface., If you’re not using leftover meat, you can use a few pieces of chopped bacon. If you go with bacon, add that to your melted butter or fat first. If you’re using leftover Christmas dinner meat, add the onion and garlic first, and cook them for a couple minutes until they turn golden.When the aromatics, or the onion and garlic, are translucent and golden, add the leftover meat.
If you’re going with bacon, let it brown a bit then add the onion and garlic.
 Next, add your leftover veggies, like Brussels sprouts or cabbage. Let the mixture cook and color for a bit. Give it 5 or 6 minutes to sizzle, stirring only every minute or two so it will brown.If you’re using leftover pasta, add it in at this point.
 Add the potatoes or eggs to the pan once the mixture has gotten some color.  If you’re using eggs, crack them into a separate medium bowl and give them a whisk until the yolks and whites are well combined. Add a splash of milk if desired.  

Stir the ingredients in the pan well so they’re thoroughly incorporated.
 Let the mixture saute so it “bubbles and squeaks.” After a few minutes, the potatoes will brown or the eggs will start to set, depending on which you’ve used. At this point, lower the heat to low-medium and stir in the shredded cheese.


Let the cheese melt but take the pan off heat once it’s melted and golden. Try not to let the cheese brown or burn.
 Remove from heat and garnish with chopped parsley or cilantro. If you find that you could use a bit more texture, you can also garnish with toasted breadcrumbs or even crumbled fried sage leaves. Scoop, serve, and enjoy your improvised leftover bubble and squeak!

