 Bees can show you why they do what they do, so you can work out how to change the circumstances that suit them. Changing their environment may discourage them from being there. Consider how they are controlling the air flow in the space they have chosen, maybe if this was increased, the space would be less appealing? Sealing up their entrance certainly won't.
 When bees locate themselves in a wall cavity, it's because they can control the updraft of the air in there. This helps them keep their brood at an even temperature, by speeding it up or slowing it down. In the right wall, they can sometimes really thrive!


They will usually choose a brick veneer wall on the warm side of a building, because it heats up and cools down differently to how a much denser wall would. The bees calculate this thermal lag, and can take action to benefit their brood. If the sun is concealed by a cloud, they will know that the wall might cool down in a particular time "lag", and they can prepare to increase the temperature around their brood.
You can make the cavity less appealing by opening the bottom and the top of the wall so more air rushes through and they can’t control the air flow. This is a non-chemical solution.
 If the bees have been established for some time, they will be reluctant to leave their brood. The pollen and honey they have stored to feed the brood, will attract cockroaches and in Australia, an insect called “Small Hive Beetle” (SHB, or sp. Athena Tumida). Quite often, the SHB will cause the honeycomb to break down into a vile, putrid slime, so its wise to eliminate the bees before SHB gets established.
 This should be done by blowing a professional Permethrin-based powder into the cavity so well that it dusts all surfaces. This chemical is low toxicity and safe for humans. The bees will then find the cavity repellent, and not nest there.


The job should be done by someone with equipment to blow the powder in at high pressure so it circulates thoroughly. This can be done from a safe distance with a long pipe thin enough to fit into the hole that the bees use as an entrance.
Eventually, about three months later when the powder has lost some of its power, a small moth (sp.galleria Mellonella, or Wax Moth) will get in and eat up the remaining wax, leaving the cavity empty as it used to be, without significantly damaging the building. Wax moths are everywhere. The powder will also kill the cockroaches.
 As mentioned, safe and sensible bee eradication requires professional help. You might find such a person by consulting your local Council, Wildlife Rescue Service or Department of Agriculture.

