 Somewhere around 3" (7.5 cm) is perfect. You'll need what can only be called "loads" of fabric, so cut strips that are as long as possible. You'll only know if you need more fabric at the very end, once the rug is coiled together and the size becomes apparent.


Different fabrics will braid differently. Because you're braiding, it's easy to add more fabric if you've run out and your rug still isn't big enough. So don't fret! You'll cross that bridge when you come to it.
 Don't worry about the colors or material matching -- you just need three super long strips to work with.









Once you have your strips consolidated into three mega-strips, hand or machine sew the three short ends at the top together. This will be the simplest starting point.
 This'll be easiest if you can devise a way to hang the strips so you can stand while braiding your feet upon feet of fabric. A clothespin will be handy in keeping the braid together.









Braid it tightly! You don't want holes in your rug, do you?

, Start from the beginning and spiral out. If the rug is big enough, great! You're finished with braiding and can move onto sewing it into its circular shape. If it's not big enough, simply sew on a few more fabric strips to elongate your three master strips and continue the braiding process.









You don't necessarily have to coil it up and make a circle rug, but it's definitely easy and looks neat. A snake-like rectangle works, too, but takes a bit more sewing mastery on the edges.
If you had to join on a few more strips, continue braiding until you reach the new ends. Coil it up once more -- is it large enough now? Great! Moving on.
 Uncoil the rug and work from the very center. Sew along the inside edges to join the braid with the length of fabric that surrounds it, going around and around and around. Coil up your rug as you go, following with your string.









You may have to make some reinforcements once you've finished. The beauty of the rag rug is that none of these will be seen! As long as you sew on the insides, you're golden. Just add a few touch ups here and there in the same demeanor you did initially. Et voila!

