 The high tourist season in Belize is between December and April. The highest points are around Christmas and Easter, when extra high prices are charged at resorts and hotels.
 In addition to swimsuits, lightweight clothing, hats and sunglasses, you should also pack plenty of sunscreen. Consider bringing anti-diarrhea tablets and water purifiers with you, especially if you are going to go into the interior of the country.
 If you are interested in seeing Belize for only a short time, you can join a cruise that departs from Texas, New Orleans, Florida or Puerto Rico and docks for a day in Belize. These cruises often visit Mexico, Honduras and Puerto Rico in addition to Belize.
 Belize is known for having the second largest coral reef, so most of the activity takes place in Belize City and around the shore. Many resorts have package deals for families or couples that include meals, activities, lodging and some transportation.
 If you want to spend a week or longer in Belize, you may want more freedom than a resort can offer. Choose 1 or more of the following places to visit during your stay.


Visit the coral reef. If you want to scuba dive, snorkel or hang out on the beach, you should choose destinations on the Caribbean. You can visit different Cays around the coast to gain access to different types of sea life.
Visit the Mayan ruins. Belize is filled with Mayan ruins dating from AD 250 to 1000. You will need to stay in the interior of the country and do some hiking to find the best places. This can be difficult during the rainy season because of poor road conditions, so you may want to travel during the high, dry season.
Go birding or wildlife watching. The interior of the country also has excellent birding, with 570 species of birds. Their large jungles contain iguanas, crocodiles and countless other forms of life. You will also need to take extra precautions in the wet season.
Do adventure sports. Wind surfing, hiking, swimming, kayaking and many other outdoor pursuits can help you plan for an active vacation on the coast or further inland.

