 If the snail is on the side of the tank, spray your hand and the snail with water. Slip your finger under the snail's head, between the snail and the glass of the tank. Use your other hand hand to support the snail's body and gently pull as you slip your finger all the way under the snail's body. Place the snail in your palm.Make sure your hands are wet whenever handling your snail.If you can't get your finger under the snail's head, offer it a bit of food just out of its reach. It will stretch its head up and you can slide your finger underneath.Wash your hands before and after handling a snail to prevent exchanging any diseases.Don't force your snail to move. If it isn't easily detaching from the side of the tank, try to pick it up at a later time.If you have a very small snail, try to get it to climb onto a piece of food or a leaf and transfer it into your hand. Trying to pick up a tiny snail with your hands might actually harm the snail.Be careful not to grab the snail by the shell. If you accidentally pull off the shell, your snail will die., Unless you want dozens, maybe even hundreds of baby snails, you must remove any eggs before they hatch. The eggs are round and white or translucent. You may find single eggs or clusters of hundreds of eggs. It takes about two weeks for eggs to hatch, so check the substrate for eggs every week.Destroy the eggs by bagging them and placing them in the freezer. Make sure they are completely frozen before throwing them out.Do not put unwanted eggs outside, especially if you have a non-native species of snail.If you are worried about eggs, don't use too much substrate on the bottom of the habitat. This will make it easier to find and manage the eggs.
 Put your snail in a temporary habitat and remove everything from the tank. Wash the tank with boiling water and a little gentle detergent. Rinse the tank thoroughly — any residue from the detergent could be deadly to your snail.Wipe down the sides of the tank with water once a week to keep it from getting too dirty between deep cleans.Throw out any waste or rotten food you haven't already removed from the tank.Clean the substrate or place all-new substrate on the bottom of the tank.If you have trouble removing a snail-slime stain from the side of the container, try cleansing the stain with a little vinegar., Occasionally washing your snail with water (about once a month) can help keep it pest-free. Place your snail in a shallow dish of room-temperature water and pour or splash a little water over its body. Do not fully submerge your snail in water or it will drown.Use your finger, soft cloth, or a soft-bristle toothbrush to very gently clean the snail's shell. Do not use anything abrasive to clean your snail.Never use soap or detergent to wash your snail. Use water only.