 Being so sheer, a lot of tulle is necessary to create a wearable tutu. For a small tutu skirt (child size) use between 2–4 yards (1.8–3.7 m) of fabric. For a medium tutu, you will need between 5–7 yards (4.6–6.4 m) of tulle. A large tutu can be made using 8–10 yards (7.3–9.1 m) of tulle.;
, The waistband of a no-sew tutu is simply an extra long piece of ribbon tied around the waist. Choose a ribbon that is at least ½ inch thick and is wire-free in a hue that matches the tulle. Wrap it around your waist where you want the tutu to sit, and add an extra 2 feet (0.6 m) of length before cutting.
 Lay your tulle out flat, and cut it into dozens of long strips measuring between 2–4 inches (5.1–10.2 cm) wide. For a fluffier, fuller skirt, use wide strips. To create a tutu that lays down a bit more and looks more intricate, use thin strips of fabric.
 In order to add the tulle strips to the ribbon, they must all be folded in half first. You can choose to do this as you work, or fold them all in half at the get-go. This should leave two tail ends together at one end with a loop at the other.
 Place a strip folded in half over the top of the ribbon. Move it so that the loop overlaps the ribbon with about 2 inches (5.1 cm) sticking out over the top. Wrap the tail ends in the opposite direction away from the loop, and then pull them around and through the loop over the top of the ribbon. This will create a classic hacking knot.
 Continue the process of adding strips via hacking knot to the ribbon. Pull the tail ends tight to minimize the ‘knot’ around the ribbon and to make space for other pieces. Slide them together to keep the tutu organized and smoothed out.
 The ribbon needs 1 foot (0.3 m) of length on either end to be used as ties for the skirt. When you have added enough tulle strips that the ribbon is completely covered except for these two tail ends, your tutu is finished.
 Wear your tutu around town by wrapping the ribbon around your waist and tying it in a knot or bow at the small of your back. Gently fluff up the tulle strips to add volume to your skirt, making your tutu more fun and adding to the classic look.