 Your teen most likely needs to take a shower every day or every other day in order to keep clean and reduce odor. Talk with them about their preferred shower products, including scented gels. They may also want certain towels or loofahs to help with the cleaning process.As your teen starts to shower every day, they might notice that they skin gets dry. Talk with them about using lotion to help with any dryness.
Your teen may also want to customize their shower routine in order to avoid oily hair or dry skin. You might ask, “Do you like the shampoo that you are using or would you like to look for a new one?”

, Most teens, especially if they are engaged in athletic activities, will start to sweat heavily as they go through puberty. Talk to them about their clothing needs and do extra laundry, if needed. Discuss with them the possibility of using deodorants or antiperspirants to mask the odor or control moisture.If they are participating in sports, you could say, “I notice that you are going through a number of shirts in soccer, which I expect since it’s so hot. But, would you like a few new ones?”
You might also suggest that they keep some deodorant in their gym bag, locker, or car just in case they forget to use it one day. Then, they will have some handy to use.
 Both boys and girls will likely need to start shaving once they hit their teen years. You can discuss the different product options available to them, from protected razors to scented creams. You might also want to guide them in practicing shaving without a blade. Emphasize the need to go slow as well, whatever method they choose.If you notice that the teen has an excessive amount of hair, you may want to make an appointment with a doctor to rule out any medical issues and discuss removal options, if desired. You might say to your teen, “You’ve mentioned that you hate shaving. Would you like to talk with our doctor about other removal choices?”

, Emphasize that the good oral care routines that were established in childhood need to carry on into the teen years. They should brush at least twice a day. It is also a good idea to floss once or twice a day as well. You may want to invest in an electric toothbrush to make this process easier and quicker for your teen.Be sure to explain to your teen that good dental hygiene is not just important for good breath, but also for maintaining the health of their teeth over time. By having good dental hygiene, they may be able to prevent damage later in life.
 Oily skin is a common problem for teens as their hormones rage out of control. You may want to encourage your teen to wash their face on a regular basis, even using specialty soaps. However, also tell them to be gentle and to avoid picking or scratching at their skin. Visiting a dermatologist is another option if the problem is severe.If your teen expresses sadness or hopelessness about their skin, let them know that this is only temporary and that most people experience skin problems during this time.

