 Gum can help you to feel like you're eating. It can also help you to overcome an oral fixation. The flavor combined with occupying your mouth can help curb your desire to eat. Look for sugar-free gum, if you're watching calories.
 Caffeine can not only help get a boost of energy when you are feeling sluggish, but it is also an appetite suppressant. When you feel a craving for a snack, try having a cup of coffee or tea instead. It will give you a little boost, and can help to carry you to your next meal.
 Not only is exercise good for your body, it helps to reduce cravings for snack food. Both moderate and vigorous exercise lasting fifteen minutes have been found to help reduce snacking.Think of all the fun ways you can reduce your desire to snack. Plus, if you give in to a craving, having burned off all those calories can help you not to feel as bad.


Play an active sport.
Find a local gym.
Sign up for martial arts or yoga classes.
Go dancing.
Do something that occupies your hands, like drawing.
 Especially late at night, sometimes the best way to avoid seeking out that late-night snack is just to go to sleep. Naps are also a great way to avoid suddenly finding yourself elbow-deep in a bag of chips.
 Water can help you feel full, eliminate false hunger, has no calories or guilt. This can help you gain self-control, improve your skin, and better your health overall.Water is especially important if you're eating a high-protein diet to curb hunger, because it is an essential part of its digestion. If you also getting more exercise, and drinking more coffee to help stop snacking, you'll need it to avoid dehydration.


Carry a water bottle.
Make sure to drink a glass of water, or two, at a restaurant.
Try sparkling water.
 Smelling something you find repulsive can kill your appetite. When you find yourself craving a snack, take a big whiff of garbage or vinegar. Cleaning the litter box or the toilet is not likely to leave you salivating.
 Snap it when you have a craving. This helps develop an association between the negative sensation and the desire to snack. After building up this association over a long time, it can help you to control your desire to have a snack.
 There are a number of new diets that involve imagining away your cravings. Related to the reasons that your tenth piece of chocolate is not as satisfying as your first, it is possible to imagine you already ate nine pieces and reduce your desire overall. Try imagining that you already ate your snack, in fact, you just ate the whole box.This may, at first, cause you to salivate (the "whetting effect"), but soon habituation will kick in, and you won't feel like eating as much of your snack as you did initially. You may not feel like snacking at all.For this to work, you must imagine yourself eating the exact food you are trying to avoid, and in a large quantity., It can be easy to forget you're hungry when you're busy doing something challenging and/or enjoyable. Try picking up a hobby, or doing something productive. Switch out your bad habits for good, new ones. This can be a great way to control unhealthy eating habits.Clean the house.
Call a friend.
Exercise

, Hypnotizing yourself, or getting hypnotized by a professional, can be an effective way to manage behaviors you wish to change. Research shows that hypnosis can provide significant benefit for those trying to reduce unhealthy eating habits.Find a hypnotherapist in your area, or look for a weight-loss hypnosis CD online.
 Choose someone you know will be there for you when you are unsure you can succeed. When you feel a craving, give them a call and let them talk you out of it. You can even share a meal together, and all the talking you do will help you to eat your meal more slowly, leaving you feeling more full.

