 Go for a cup of chamomile tea to boost your glycine levels. This amino acid relieves uterine cramps.Sip a cup of raspberry leaf tea to relieve bloating. You can also look for special menstrual blends in your local health food store.Make sure your tea is caffeine-free. Caffeine has an overstimulating effect on the body that could increase your cramping and make you bleed more heavily.;
, Massage helps to increase the flow of healing lactic acid to cramping muscles. Using your fingertips, move in slow circular motions. Start at the outer edges of your abdomen and gradually work your way inward and downward. To reduce the risk of chafing, use warmed coconut oil or aromatic essential oil., Lie on your side and bring your knees to your chest. Lean slightly forward to stretch your lower back muscles. This position will relieve cramping in your lower abdomen and in your lower back.If lying on your side doesn't do the trick, you can modify the fetal position by sitting up with your knees to your chest. Wrap your arms around your shins as if you're hugging them.
 Heat speeds blood flow to cramping muscles and also helps to relax them. Lie on your back or side and place the pad or bottle on your lower abdomen. Always put the heat source on top of your clothing and keep its protective cover on. If you place an uncovered heat source on your bare skin, you'll run the risk of severe burns., Cinnamon contains manganese, fights inflammation, and warms your body. All of these factors help to fight cramping.Buy cinnamon in bulk or in the spice aisle at your local grocery store. Add it to your oatmeal, decaf coffee, or warm almond milk for added flavor and pain relief.
 Sugar, salt, and saturated fat worsen cramps, bloating, and irritability. Because sugar and fat raise your estrogen level, start passing on the junk food the week you expect premenstrual symptoms. Wait until after your period is over before you indulge again.If you must have chocolate, reach for dark chocolate that's over 70 percent cocoa. The isoflavones in the cocoa will help to relieve your cramps. Milk chocolate, on the other hand, is loaded with saturated fat and sugar that will only trigger bloating and pain.