 There are a few small but effective tricks to making your home look abandoned, creepy, and ready for Halloween. Here are a few things to try:


Cover your couches and chairs with white sheets. Pick the oldest sheets you have to make it look like your home hasn't been used for years. Brownie points if the sheets have some natural-looking holes in them.
Cover your tables with tattered black tablecloths. Take an old black sheet and cut ragged edges all over it.
Drape your bookshelves in spiderwebs. If you have spooky books that are particularly perfect for Halloween, such as the works of Edgar Allen Poe, display them prominently on the shelf or even place them on a side table.
Strategically place a few fake skulls to spice up drab pieces of furniture.
 Your lights will help set the eerie ambiance for your home, so you should make the most of the lights you have while keeping the house looking fairly dim, so that something spooky could pop up at any time. If it's too bright in your home, you won't have enough room for mystery. Here are some ways to have the perfect Halloween lights:


Tape plastic bats to the inside of the shade of an ordinary lamp. When you light the lamp, the bats will stick out. Just make sure you don't put them too close to the light bulb.
Light some white candles with "blood" dripping down them. Simply put some white candles over a towel or paper towel, and light a red candle over them until you've dripped enough wax over it to make it look like fake blood is oozing down the sides.
Light a few orange paper lanterns and drape them all over the house.
Carve a spooky face, a silhouette, or another spooky design on a pumpkin and light the inside.
Keep a few small white candles lit throughout the house. Scatter some fake black bugs around them for effect.
If all of your lamps are really bright, replace the bulbs with dimmer ones to maximize the scary lighting.
 Halloween would not be the same without pumpkins, so you should use your pumpkin decorations to your advantage. You don't have to overdo it with the pumpkins, but thinking of clever ways to introduce more pumpkins into your decor will make your home boo-tiful.Hang some pumpkin balloons. Just take a few orange balloons and paint a scary face on them in a black sharpie. Scatter them on the floor or hang them from the ceiling.
Take some pumpkins and paint them black, silver, or cover them in glitter. Arrange them in the corners of your home.
Open up a pumpkin and use it to hold potpourri.
Use pumpkin dishes to hold your Halloween treats.
If you've made a special pumpkin punch, serve it from a pumpkin bowl.
 Take some big glass jars, fill them with water, and throw in a drops of green dye until water is a nice, gross green hue. Put the jars on display in your kitchen under some lights or in another part of your home where they can be prominently displayed. Here's what you can place in the jars:Any old unidentifiable items, like an old doll's arm, a child's toy from ten years ago, or any random nick knacks that have been floating around your house for years.
Put in some dead flowers, poppy pods, or pine cones.
Throw in a small skull or some fake eyeballs that will float to the top.
 Your walls can do a lot to make your home look even more spooky. Just adding a few things to the paintings and walls you already have will make your haunted home come alive. Here are a few things you can do:


Cover up some of your paintings with white cloth. This will help further your "abandoned home" look.
Draw creepy eyes on your mirrors, so people will get scared when you look into them.
Cover your paintings with fake blood. Just make sure you put it over paintings that are framed behind glass and that it washes off.
Hang spiderwebs all over your walls. You can pull apart big chunks of cotton, use old cheesecloth, or get some spiderwebs at the store.
 Make the ordinary extraordinary by adding a few additional touches to complete your home's Halloween look. Here are a few things you can try:


Place an old birdcage on the floor. Make sure the door is hanging open. Scatter some fake rats on the bottom.
Take a bunch of tree branches from outside, and stick them in flower pots.
Set up a bouquet of nice white roses, and then cover them with little fake black ants, spiders, and caterpillars.Make a bat garland out of black construction paper and drape it all over your home.

