 An unfair labor practice is a violation of an employee’s rights, such as the right to organize, form, or join a union. You are also protected from unfair practices committed by unions. Examples of unfair labor practices include: interfering with an employee’s right to organize, form, join, or assist a labor organization
interference with an employee’s right to bargain collectively
threatening employees with job or benefit loss for voting to join a union
threatening to close shop if workers vote to join a union
threatening bodily injury to non-striking employees
fining or expelling union members for crossing an unlawful picket line
refusing to process a grievance in retaliation against an employee who criticizes union officers when the union is the exclusive bargaining representative

, If you work for a private employer, an unfair-labor-practices complaint can be filed with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Examples of private employers include manufacturers, retailers, private universities and private health-care facilities. The NLRB does not cover federal, state, or local government workers. To find the NLRB regional office near you, search here.
If you are a federal government employee, you are covered under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute and should contact the Office of the General Counsel. You can find your regional office by clicking here.
 The appropriate NLRB form will depend on whether you are filing a complaint against your employer or against your union. If filing a complaint against your employer, you will need Form NLRB-501, available here.


If you are filing a complaint against your union, you will need Form NLRB-508, which is available here.
If you are a federal employee, you will need either FLRA Form 22 “Charge Against an Agency” or FLRA Form 23 “Charge Against a Labor Organization.”


, If you work for a public employer, you would file an unfair labor practices complaint with the agency responsible for administering state laws which govern public employment. For example, the California Public Employment Relations Board administers the laws that govern employees of California’s public schools, colleges, and universities (as well as various other employers).
 You should contact the state agency and ask for the pertinent form. Forms differ from state to state.


In California, for example, there is a form online for you to use whether you are bringing a charge against an employer or a union. To view this example, click here.
 The forms will ask for basic information about either your employer or union, including their name, address, and telephone number.Additionally, you will need to provide a factual summary of your complaint. You may also be asked if you have raised the issue as part of any other grievance procedure.Don't wait to report. Generally you must report an unfair labor practice within six months of its occurrence. If you have questions, you may call your regional or state office.
 After you file a complaint with the NLRB an agent will investigate your charge by interviewing witnesses and various other parties. The agent’s findings will be reviewed by the NLRB regional director, and a decision will be made about whether to issue a complaint. If the NLRB determines that there is enough evidence, the agency may issue a complaint. This would result in a hearing before an NLRB administrative law judge. Complaints filed with your state will be handled according to state procedures. In California, for example, filed complaints are reviewed by a Board Agent. The entity you filed the complaint against will have an opportunity to respond to the allegations.
After reviewing the opposing party’s response, the Board Agent will evaluate whether the charge meets the minimum standard for violating the law. If it does not, the agent will send a “warning letter” and allow you time to correct the complaint. If the agent determines that the complaint does meet the legal standard, it will issue a complaint and initiate proceedings for an informal settlement. , You have the option of negotiating with your employer or union and reaching an amicable settlement which satisfies all parties. If this happens, you may then withdraw your complaint.


If you wish to negotiate, you may want to speak to an experienced labor lawyer first. To find such a lawyer, you should visit your state’s bar association in person or online, and inquire about their referral program.

