 It's important that you give an amount of money that you feel comfortable with. If you make a good salary, consider giving more. If you're struggling to meet your own financial needs, give less. Take a look at your budget and savings account and decide how much you can spare without hurting your own financial health.For example, if your monthly expenses leave you with a small amount of extra spending money, you may want to give less.;
, If the person is a close friend or an immediate family member, you should consider giving them more money. If they are an acquaintance, coworker, or classmate, then the expectations for your gift are lower and you don't have to give as much. Determine how close you are with the person and choose an amount of money that you feel is appropriate., Different occasions call for different amounts of money. For example, at weddings, you should give a gift that covers the cost of your seat and food at the reception. Also, you should think about giving more because this money will likely go towards a honeymoon or another major investment that will help the couple start their life together.Other occasions, like birthdays, typically call for less money because they happen more frequently and aren't as unique or special.


Money is an appropriate gift at events like baptisms, bar mitzvahs, and quinceaneras.
Give more money for unique or special occasions that don't happen often.
 Sometimes people can fall on hard times and money is one of the best gifts that you can give them. It helps them catch up on bills and get essential things for themselves and their family. If the gift recipient is having a hard time financially, consider giving them a greater amount of money than if you knew they were financially secure., The same sum of money can make a large or small impact depending on the age of the person that you're giving it to. If you are getting a cash gift for a very young child, you will most likely not have to give them much because they don't have their own money yet. When gifting money for a wedding or another occasion as an adult, consider giving more so that it can actually make an impact., Putting cash inside of a card or envelope is the most traditional way to give someone money. A card allows you to write them a meaningful message while an envelope can help you personalize the message. Think of creative ways that you can decorate your envelope to make the gift more special and unique.


You can use paint or markers to decorate the outside of your envelope.
Consider getting graphic stickers for envelope decorations.
Your envelope can say something like "Happy Birthday" or "Congratulations!"

, If you can't meet with the gift recipient in person, then sending them money online is a great alternative. You can transfer the money to them through online banking sites like PayPal, or you can use apps specifically designed to gift money to others.


Some money gifting apps will let you personalize a message so that you can make it unique and special.
You can also deposit money into someone's iTunes or Google Play account so that they can purchase music and apps online.
 If you're scared that the person might lose the money, you can always write out a personal check. Checks are safer than cash because they are written out explicitly to the person, and you can cancel and re-write the check if they lose it.
 Instead of getting them outright cash, you can purchase the gift recipient a gift card. Find a store that you know they frequent or purchase a pre-paid card that they can use wherever major credit cards are accepted. Gifting someone money via gift card is a great option because it also allows them to purchase things online.
 Remove all the chocolates from the box and replace it with folded up bills or a gift card. The gift recipient will think they are just getting a box of chocolates before they open the lid to the box., You can spread some chocolates or candy at the bottom of the mason jar and then put folded bills over it. Decorate the mason jar for the occasion using a marker or by putting stickers or decals on the jar. Finish the jar's decoration by adding a bow or ribbon to the top., Fan out the bills so that they form a circle. You can add a couple of large coins on the top of the bills so that it holds them down. Write a note on the inside lid of the box to finish off the gift., Go to a balloon or party store and request that they place the bills inside of 16-inch helium balloons. These balloons will be big enough so that the cash doesn't weigh them down. Tell the gift recipient to pop the balloons for a money surprise!You can also put confetti in the balloons.
 Empty out a tissue box and fill three-fourths of the bottom of the box with paper towels. Then, tape a sticky note or piece of card stock to the top of a cash, gift card, or check. Write "Pull Here" on the card stock or sticky note and then place the money inside of the tissue box. When they pull the note, they will also receive the gift of money.You can tape multiple pieces of cash together and then place them in a box for a longer "tissue."
You can also decorate the sides of the box to personalize it.
 You can use different folding techniques to create a variety of different animals and shapes. You can fold bills into an money tree, rose, or ring just to name a few. Find different ways to fold up your dollar bills or checks by searching on wikiHow.

