 You always need to wear sunglasses. Go for one that fits your face shape. If you have a face that is more round, go for glasses that have edges, like a square. The other way around if you have an edgy face.;
, So you wanna look as sun-kissed as possible, and you do it by keeping your make-up natural. Start with moisturizing your skin in the morning, and then put on very little concealer that matches your skin tone. Also, make sure your blush is light and blended in with your skin. Put a maybe light color eyeshadow on your eyelids that match the color of your eyes. Remember:

,,,, Lucky!

,, Now when it comes to lips, you wanna have a cute color, and not a fierce red. Go for peach or rosy lip gloss.
 This is a part that is often forgotten. You need at least two coats of waterproof mascara if you are planning to swim. Do it from root to top, and while applying it, do it in a zigzag way, since this will make it look fuller and longer.
 I personally would advise a strapless if you wear strapless bikini's, or else you can see the non - tanned stripes, which looks kind of not done. Button ups are cute, and so are spaghetti tops.
 Okay, so you don't want to go to the beach with skinny jeans, because A: they are a Don't on the beach, and B: they are very hard to get the sand out off. So don't wear them. Wear short boyfriend jeans or a cute white skirt. For a real beach outfit, I would wear a red strapless top with a short white skirt and sandals. Wear some hoops, but don't make the jewelry to overdone.
 Or lets just say sandals or flip flops. Never wear heels in the sand. Never, ever do that. You will not be able to walk, and it isn't sexy to see you trying to go forward with a red head.
 Smile and wave, always works. When you know him. When you see a guy that you don't know, but do want to get to know, look down when he is about to pass you, and look up to him. When you look up, your eyes look bigger. Brush your hair out of your face, sit at the beach or at the side of the pool with your feet dangling in the water, which is absolutely cute and irresistible.

