 This all depends on your skill level. There are some online card making sites available that you can use, but most of them are of lower quality than downloadable software.


If you already have some design skills, consider using a program like PageMaker or InDesign. If you’re new to making greeting cards, you can use user friendly program like Art Explosion Greeting Card Factory or Hallmark Card Studio.
 Do you want it to be large, small, serious, funny, neutral, colorful, or any other combination of characterizations? If you’re making your own card then you probably already have an idea in mind. If not, you can always start by using a template available in the software. These templates offer pre-made styles that may inspire you in the rest of your design.


When in doubt, try to make a card that matches your greeting or event. Anniversaries are different than birthdays, which are different than funerals. Try to thin of a way to express each of these holidays in card form.
 You can choose a template or designate your layout based on the size you want your card to be. You can choose from different shapes and sizes. Once you choose your layout you will only be able to design on the space that you chose.
 The great thing about designing a greeting card on a computer is that you can include all sorts of graphics. These graphics can be as simple as clip art, or you can use a photo of you and the individual you are giving it to, or any other photo that you have on your computer.


You can even use photos from the internet as long as you don’t plan to sell your greeting card. There are a huge variety of options available to you

, Change the color and size of the image to fit into the scheme and layout of your greeting card. Don’t make your card too busy. Try to maintain a consistent look.
 Decide on the type of text that you want to include in the greeting card and choose a font that matches the theme of your design. Don’t use bubble font for a funeral. Try to make sure your text is complimentary with the graphics that you have included and the theme of your card. This means you have to consider both the style and the content of your text.
 Once you have proof read your card, all you need to do is print your card out. It will print out onto whatever piece of paper you insert into the printer in the format that you desired. Now all you need to do is fold the piece of paper and you have your greeting card.

