 Iron-on patches or sew-on appliqués will make your backpack stand out from the crowd. Following the instructions on the back of the package, you can spell your name or add a cool and funky design to make your backpack your own.;
, You might like key chains dangling off your zips (a quite common idea, but never out of style), or you may like neat badges or brooches pinned on to the fabric.


Choose keychains that show places you've visited.
Find badges based on your favorite cartoons, shows, bands, or just something you think is cute.
 Some paints and pen marks will come out when you wash the backpack. Use one or several of the following materials, and be sure to draw only on the cloth part of the bag:


Fabric paint, purchased online or from a craft store
Colored permanent markers or fabric markers. Make sure the marker is dark enough that you can see it on a backpack.
If you can find stencils at your local craft store, then you can apply a cool design with the fabric paint, or even glitter glue! Make your own stencil for a unique design.
 You can buy decorative duct tape with all kinds of patterns from craft stores or school supply stores. Wrap it around the handles, cover the whole bag in stripes, or criss-cross strips of tape to make patterns.


Try combining different thicknesses and patterns for visual interest.
You can cut out hearts, stars, flowers or alphabet letters from the tape.
Foam tape works as well.
 Buttons can make your backpack a little trip to you-heaven. You can purchase large bags of buttons at thrift stores and craft stores. Attach them to the backpack with needle and thread or hot glue.


You can make your own buttons by decorating plastic objects and super-gluing safety pins to the back.
 Make a ribbon bow and sew it onto your book bag. Ask a parent or a friend to help if you don't know how to sew.
 Try adding some stick-on eyes, a stick-on nose and a stick-on mouth. Find these and other sturdy, stick-on objects at toy stores, craft stores, and novelty stores.
 Use embroidery floss to make braids and other string attachments that you can hang from zippers or buttons. There are many styles and patterns to explore, including like square knots, loom knits, and fishtail braids.
 You can tie pieces of cloth to your zipper tabs; you can emblazon this cloth with prayers, quotes, and any other words or images that you feel represent you. These are individual to you and are very easy to make. Find an old towel or sheet and cut it into strips that are big enough to write on. If the sheet isn't yours, make sure to ask permission.


Try using men's ties. You can find racks of colorful used ties at many thrift stores, or you can ask your dad for an old tie that he never wears. Glue the ties onto the sides of your backpack, tie them onto the straps, or cut up the fabric to arrange a unique pattern.
 Are you a glam-girl or an edgy rocker? If you have some rhinestones or studs, you can easily apply them to a backpack with fabric glue or hot glue. Be careful when handling hot glue--it can scald your fingers and stick to the skin!

, People will be amazed when you open your backpack to get something, and suddenly all your favorite TV characters and animals pop out at you. You will need to cut out and decorate pieces of paper, fold them, and tape them to the inside of your backpack.
 To make them more permanent, laminate them or cover both sides in clear tape. Attach them with strong tape or glue. You can also punch a hole in the photo (with scissors, a needle, or a hole-punch) and use a key-ring to attach the picture to a zipper.
 First, check out your backpack’s color. If it's a solid color, your job is easier. But if it has a pattern that has many overlapping colors, choose the color used most. Choose decorating colors that complement this color.


For example,if your bag is a light yellow, you might want to go with colors of the warm color scheme. If your bag is blue, choose a cool color scheme.
If your bag fabric has a dark shade, use light colors for contrast.
 If you have an artistic mind, pick fabric paint or another decorating option that lets you display your creativity. Here are a few ideas:


Abstract patterns make your backpack look unique.
Pick your favorite cartoon and draw the character from this cartoon.
Draw animated faces for a silly look.
For plain, simple backpacks, cover the entire pack surface with a pattern. Consider zebra stripes, cheetah spots, or smiley faces.
 Make your name and initials part of the design. Learn how to draw graffiti-style letters, or sew on fabric letters in different colors. This way, everyone will know that it's your backpack.
 Use a fabric marker to draw a bottom lip on one side of the opening and a front lip on the other. The zippers should look like teeth. Make your backpack look like it's talking by opening and closing the flaps. Add teeth, eyes, or a mustache if you like.
 You can write inspirational quotes, draw pictures of your pet, or even copy your favorite sheet music. Show your personality and interests with symbols from clubs, teams, or groups that you're a part of. For example, if you are an actor, you can draw theater masks.

