 Wildlife is often sold around the world to collectors, tourists, and other individuals with an exotic eye. This is particularly true overseas, where national laws may not outlaw the sale of wildlife like the U.S. does. Even if the sale of certain species is outlawed, law enforcement is often corrupt and will look the other way.


While you should personally avid purchasing wildlife, especially if it is endangered, you can also help prevent the whole process. If you think you see an illegal animal being sold, you should contact the local law enforcement agency in your area. If you are on a tour or at a hotel, tell an employee., Countless nonprofits around the world fight for the conservation of wildlife every day. However, nonprofits cannot run without funds. If you have the ability to donate to this cause you feel strongly about, you should do so. Donating money will allow scientists to continue to protect habitat, lawyers to continue to fight on wildlife's behalf, and legislative teams to lobby legislatures.
 While some zoos and aquariums are in existence to help conserve wildlife, there are others that simply exploit it. Before you visit a zoo or aquarium, do some research about it. For example, the Santa Monica Pier Aquarium is run by the nonprofit Heal the Bay. Heal the Bay runs the aquarium to raise money in order to protect the species you are going to see. The aquarium is also meant to give people an idea of the type of wildlife living right of the coast of Southern California.On the other hand, some people might claim an organization like SeaWorld exists to exploit wildlife. Instead of trying to conserve and safe marine mammals, SeaWorld takes them from their natural habitats and trains them to do things they would not do in the wild.
 A lot of tourist products, especially those in biodiversity locations, come from parts of wildlife. For example, when you go to Africa you might see little trinkets made from ivory (elephant tusks). If you go to a coastal community, you might see shells for sale. When you see these products, you should avoid purchasing them. When you purchase these things you are promoting the killing of the animals that use them. This tourist trade is driven by demand and if you don't buy the products, people will not make themIn addition, a lot of products are tested on animals in labs. For example, some makeup and other beauty products are tested on monkeys before they are sold to humans. Before you buy these products, make sure you know if they were tested on animals. if they were, do not buy them.

