 Some states allow you to practice as a reflexologist without any certification or license, while other states require certification, and/or as many as 1,000 hours of instruction and passing a written licensing exam. Look up the requirements for the state, country, or geographical area(s) where you will want to practice.


Go to the website for the Reflexology Association of America (RAA) to learn the requirements for your location at http://reflexology-usa.org.;
, While there is no degree program in reflexology, there are certification programs. In many jurisdictions, you must meet certification requirements before you can practice reflexology. The American Reflexology Certification Board (ARCB) requires that reflexology training includes a minimum of 110 hours of hands-on instruction or a combination of college-level coursework in physiology and anatomy with hands-on training.Even if your state does not require certification, you may want to become certified anyway. Employers may prefer certified practitioners.
 Speak with some practitioners you are comfortable with and respect. Ask if they can tell you about their educational experience, some background and insight into the industry, and the quality of training offered by various institutions.
 Most reflexology schools can be completed in 6 to 12 months. A program usually costs around $1,500 to $3,500. Start saving now, or consider applying for a student loan if you need financial assistance. Costs and requirements may vary between geographical areas.You will probably also need to purchase a massage table or massage chair, and possibly textbooks. This can cost several hundred dollars.
 Go to several reflexologists for treatment to get an idea of different techniques. Not every reflexologist conducts a session in exactly the same way. If possible, treat yourself to each form of reflexology. It might help you decide if you want to specialize in foot, hand, or ear reflexology. If you encounter a professional whose practice you enjoy more, ask them about their education and training.

