 Add the butter to a large heavy-bottomed skillet and heat on medium-high until melted.


If using oil instead of butter, you should still give the oil a few minutes to warm up before adding anything else to the skillet. The oil should become notably glossy and easier to spread around the bottom of the pan once it is ready, but it should not begin to smoke.
 Add the buckwheat to the butter in the skillet and toast, stirring continuously, for 2 to 3 minutes. The grains should be completely coated and lightly toasted.


You need to stir the buckwheat constantly as it cooks. Otherwise, the grains can start to burn pretty quickly.
 Slowly pour the chicken broth into the pan and let it come to a boil.
 Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover the pan, and let the buckwheat cook until the broth is completely absorbed.


After you finish cooking the buckwheat, remove it from the heat and let it cool for 5 minutes before proceeding further.
 Transfer the cooked buckwheat to a medium mixing bowl. Add the other ingredients to the same bowl and mix thoroughly with a wooden mixing spoon or clean hands.


If desired, you should also add the salt and pepper to the mixture now. The amount of salt and pepper you add is mostly a matter of personal taste.
 Use your hands to form the buckwheat mixture into four to six patties. These patties should be large enough to serve on a bun.


Make sure to pack the patties together firmly. The egg acts as a binding ingredient in this recipe, so it should help hold the patties in the form you give them.
 Coat a skillet with nonstick cooking spray and add the patties. Cook for 2 to 4 minutes on each side, or until both sides are lightly browned on both sides and the patties are heated through.


Set the heat to medium-high.
Before you cook the patties, it might be helpful to let the the cooking spray heat up for a minute or so.
 The patties can be dressed as you would dress standard hamburgers. You can add cheese, lettuce, tomato, pickles, mustard, ketchup, mayonnaise, or any other condiment or topping you would usually add to a burger.

