 Sure, that all-in-one coffee maker/juicer/smoothie machine might look nifty, but is it something you really need? If an item isn’t on your list, and you can’t justify buying it, keep moving. The irony of Black Friday is that prices are often so low that people are tricked into buying things they have no real use for. In doing so, they end up spending more than they would have on a typical outing.Stay focused and practice a little self-control when you run into attractive but unnecessary deals.
Having concrete items and figures in mind, like making a list or setting a budget, can keep you from dropping money on extra purchases you may regret later.
 The items that comprise your shopping list should all come from Black Friday savings offers. The whole point of Black Friday shopping is to secure goods at markdown, so ignore non-sale items for now. The more you spend on regularly-priced goods, the less you’ll have available to buy more of the things that end up saving you money. If you’re not careful, you’ll just end up racking up added expenses that set you back, defeating the purpose of the commercial holiday.Sometimes, stores will advertise products at prices that aren’t much lower than what they ordinarily cost. Take advantage of the biggest discounts you can and bypass the rest.You can always come back later and buy other items with the money you saved doing your Black Friday shopping.
 Hold onto your receipts in case you decide to bring something back and be aware of how individual stores handle returns and exchanges. It may be that you give someone something they already have, or you get home only to be confronted with immediate buyer’s remorse. In these cases, making use of returns can put some of that hard-earned holiday cash back in your hands.Stash your receipts in your wallet or pocketbook to help you keep up with them, or file them away in a separate folder back home.
Some return policies may be subject to change on Black Friday. Be sure to read the fine print and don’t miss your window to take an unwanted item back.
 One option for Black Friday shopping that a lot of people tend to forget about is simply not participating. Decide whether saving $30 or $40 is worth the tedium, exhaustion and stress of surrendering your whole day for a chance to make mad grabs at the local mall. Remember, your time is valuable too. The hours you give up waiting in line or fighting your way through angry mobs could be spent enjoying the holidays with your loved ones.If you just can’t let a bargain pass you by, avoid the chaos and capitalize on Black Friday savings by doing your shopping online through participating sites. It’s a win-win situations.
Keep in mind what’s really important during the holidays: warmth, comfort, and making loving memories with the people you care about.

