 Before you begin, it's a good idea to cleanse your tattooed skin with a wipe or a little facial wash. This prepares the skin to receive the makeup.


Keep in mind that you shouldn't attempt to cover a tattoo with makeup unless it's fully healed, otherwise you could ruin the ink or develop an infection.
Tattoos can take as long as 45 days to heal completely.;
, Take a heavy coverage liquid or cream concealer that's several shades lighter than your natural skin tone.









Use a makeup sponge or stippling brush to apply the concealer to the tattoo. Try to dab or blot the concealer onto the skin instead of rubbing it. Rubbing simply pushes the product around rather than adding coverage.
As a result, blotting will also help you to avoid wasting too much of your concealer. Once you've coated the tattoo in an even layer, wait a minute or two for it to dry. Don't worry if the tattoo is still visible.
 Choose a foundation that matches your skin tone perfectly. Spray foundations are the easiest to work with and provide the most even coverage, but liquid or cream foundations will also work.









If you're using a spray foundation, give the can a good shake then hold it approximately 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 cm) away from the tattoo. Spray the foundation in spurts, rather than spraying in a continuous stream. This will prevent you from being too heavy-handed with it. Spray until you have evenly covered the tattoo, then give it 60 seconds to set.If you're using a liquid or cream foundation, use a makeup sponge or stippling brush to apply the product, using the same blotting technique you used with the concealer. If necessary, use your fingers to smooth out the top layer and blend around the edges.
 Use a large powder brush to apply a layer of translucent powder over the foundation. This provides a matte finish. 







, When you are done layering the makeup, finish with a light spritz of hairspray. This sets the coverage and will prevent the makeup from rubbing off onto any clothes or furniture. Allow the area to dry before touching it or attempting to cover it with clothing.
 If you plan on covering up your tattoo for a specific event such as a job interview or wedding, it's a good idea to do a trial run beforehand. This will give you a chance to practice your technique and ensure that your makeup is the right color for your skin tone.

