 The adage "a picture is worth a thousand words" comes with as many stories of why this saying isn't always accurate. A picture can be doctored, it can be dark and it can be dismal. A buyer cannot make up the description that is lacking simply by viewing your pictures. Even stellar sets of photos with arrows to features cannot ever make up for a good, solid description. To help allay a buyer's fears and assumptions, avoid relying on the pictures alone and definitely avoid using such cop-out terms as:


As is
Item as pictured
Item purchased in condition seen;
, No matter whether you are a one-time seller or a full-time seller, you need to take the time to detail the key points about the item you are selling. If you don't do this, then perhaps the local pawnshop is a better bet for you. A description of key elements will help the buyer assess readily whether or not this sale is worth pursuing and if your item is the one that beats the other similar items hands down. There is no need to make it overly long or flowery but there is a need to make clear, concise statements about the elements of the item that matter. Then use the photos or illustrations to back up your written points.
 Nobody really cares if you think this item is the best thing since sliced bread. Buyers in Wagga don't know sellers in Oregon from a bar of soap, so why should they trust your say-so that "this item is the best thing anywhere in the world." Unless you've travelled all over the world examining this item in great detail, you really don't have a leg to stand on making such a broad sweeping statement. If you have done so, state such along with your business or professional qualifications!

, There is a bizarre tendency for enthusiastic amateur sellers to believe that they are holding the only stock of its kind in their collection because they don't take the time to look further afield and some even don't bother to look on the online auction site itself for duplicates! Avoid such lines as "there's no better deals anywhere else" or "this is rare and it's unlikely you'll find another one anywhere". That is just an invitation to go and find another one and the more a buyer turns up, the lower on the list goes yours. Stick to factual statements, such as it's in excellent condition for its age, it is brand new, it is less than cost price in "insert your" region, has no foxing, is still in original box etc. Factual statements those are things buyers do want to know when comparing apples with apples and can often check.
 When you leave things out or you use euphemistic language, you do your sale and your buyer an injustice. One of two things can happen with ambiguous language: the buyer may buy and then be angry or disappointed when they assumed things arising out of the unclear description and leave you poor feedback. Or, the item won't sell because savvy buyers haven't a clue what you're getting at. Again, be clear, concise and straightforward in your description. If the item has bad points, be honest; this will enable buyers to pay a price reflecting the problem whilst accepting it and it may even be a problem that is easily remedied or is outweighed by rarity or uniqueness.
 Whether it be other online sellers, or stores, or a non-paying bidder just do not do it. It is poor taste, it reflects badly on you and it is often untrue because you just do not know the full story behind what other sellers or buyers are doing and this could land you in hot water with them, let alone putting off future buyers. Buyers don't like a bad sport and the more negativity written into a sale, the more a buyer will be hesitant, even if only subconsciously. Friendly, open and welcoming language without being condescending or deriding of others is what makes for the best read on an auction page.
 If part of your despair at writing descriptions is due to trying to list single items that would be better sold as batches (for example, knitting patterns, used stamps, baby's bibs etc.), then don't hesitate to do so and to put your writing efforts into fully describing the lot and explaining the bargain being received by the buyer in getting a lot rather than a single item. This can be a very helpful way for buyers who have accumulated too many items in a burst of enthusiastic collecting.

