 Focus on the roots, where your hair is most likely to turn dry. It would be best if you use a cream specially formulated for curling hair or braiding cornrows.


Choose a natural cream, such as a coconut curling cream.;
, You can have as many or as few sections as you want, but keep in mind that the more sections you create, the more extensions you will need to add. About six or so sections would be ideal.
 Use a rat-tail comb to create a clean, neat part. Clip each section out of the way before moving onto the next one.Play around with the parting. They don't all have to come from along your hairline. You can have them all start from the center of your head instead.
 You will need about 12 strands per cornrow. If you want thicker, more drastic cornrows, you will need 24 strands. Each strand should be a little thicker than the last one. Have your first set of strands laid out and ready to use.The extensions don't have to match your hair color. Feel free in use a bright color for a surprising effect.
 Take your first section and divide it into three smaller sections. Cross the left section over the middle one, then cross the right section over the middle one., Fold the thinnest kanekalon strand in half, and bring it around the back of your head. The looped part should be facing your hairline and the two tails should be hanging down the back of your head., The easiest way to do this would be to simply feed the middle section through the loop. The kanekalon strand should now be between your real hair and your scalp. Make sure that it is centered.
 Make sure that the center (folded) part of the kanekalon strand is tucked under the middle section of your braid. Add the left side of the strand to the left section of your braid, and the right side to the right section., Holding the left side of the kanekalon hair and the left section of your braid together, cross them over the middle section. Repeat this step for the right section.If you want a thicker cornrow, add another strand of kanekalon hair to the middle section after you cross the right section.
 This time, take a slightly-thicker strand than before. Tuck it under the middle strand, and add the left and right sides to the left and right sections of your braid., For a thinner, more natural braid, add the kanekalon after you cross both the left and right sections. For a thicker, more dramatic braid, add the kanekalon after every cross-over.Start with the thinner strands and work your way to the thicker ones.
Keep your stitches nice and tight. Use more curling cream to smooth down any stray hairs, if needed.
 You can regular-braid the kanekalon hair for a few more inches/centimeters if you'd like to, but leave the bottom half of the hair unbraided for now., Hold a pair of scissors parallel to the strand with the tips pointing upward. Cut into the end of the strand to thin it out. You only need to thin the bottom few inches/centimeters. This will help your braid maintain the same thickness throughout., Do a regular braid for this. Keep the stitches nice and tight. You can braid as far down as you like, but more stylists will braid all the way down to the end of the extension.If you are not braiding all the way down, cut off the excess extensions.
 Wrap a thin hair elastic a few times around the end of the braid. Tuck the tail under the elastic, then wrap the elastic a few more times. This conceals the end without having to deal with heat-sealing., You may have noticed that there are some hairs sticking out of the folded end of your braid. This is perfectly normal. Use a small pair of scissors to trim away any stray strands., This can get tiring, especially if you are doing it by yourself. Remember to take breaks, especially if your arms start to feel sore. You can use the same color of extension for each cornrow, or you can add a few colored ones for a unique look.
 Use your fingers to apply some hydrating hair cream to the fine hairs at your hairline. Smooth them down and back with a soft bristle brush.