 You can buy most of the required items to make a card at any craft store. To make a four patch greeting card you'll need the following:Plain white card stock (A4)
Decorative paper
Glue
Scissors
Pencil
A ruler or paper trimmer
Computer paper
Colored cardstock
Paper punches
Rubber stamps
Colored pencils;
, Take a full sheet of cardstock and cut it in half. This will make two 8.5 by 5.5 inches (21.6 cm × 14.0 cm) card blanks.Fold your card blanks in half to make two 4.25 by 5.5 inches (10.8 cm × 14.0 cm) cards., Choose one or two decorative papers to use for your card. If you decide to go with two papers, choose one plain and one patterned. Or, choose one light color, and one dark color. Make the contrast look great!Cut two 3.5 by 2.25 inches (8.9 cm × 5.7 cm) rectangles from your decorative paper. If you're using two different colors or patterns, cut one rectangle from each sheet., Lay your decorative rectangles on top of each other and line up the edges. Make sure everything is even. Cut them both horizontally about 1/3 from the top. You can make a straight line, a V-shape, or a curve. The important thing is to make sure the cut is even.You may need to use a straight edge for the horizontal cut or the V-shape. If you want to do a curve shape, find a bowl or plate you can lightly trace to get the right shape.
 You should now have four cut pieces of decorative paper. Lay out the pieces on your card blanks. Make sure you keep both the horizontal and vertical spaces even.Put the smaller pieces at the top, and the larger pieces at the bottom. If you used two patterns, swap the tops or bottoms to make a checkered pattern on the card.Once you have the decorative pieces arranged to your liking, glue them down. Take care to make sure the glue dries evenly.
 Using another piece of decorative paper, or a plain piece of cardstock, cut a 1 to 1.5 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) square or circle. Decorate the square or circle with punched paper, rubber stamps, or stickers. You could even draw a design of your own.When you've finished designing your stamp, glue it to the center of the card. Place it so that it overlaps all four pieces of decorative paper., Try making a solid strip down one side of the inside of the card.You might try making a frame for text on the inside of the card as well. Cut out a square from the decorative paper. Using scissors or a hobby knife, cut out a smaller square from the inside of the square you just cut. You should now have a piece of paper that looks like a window frame.
Whatever interior design you decide on, glue it to the inside of the card and let it dry completely. Once the glue is dry, you can write your message.

