 Suing in court is an expensive and time-consuming process. It can also be ineffective, especially where the domain-name holder does not live in your country. If all you want is to cancel a domain registration or transfer the domain to you, then you should use arbitration. However, you might want to sue in court in the following situations:


The domain-name holder is using the trademark as part of a legitimate business. Sometimes people are unaware that they are using a trademark that has already been registered. In this situation, you can’t use arbitration because the person isn’t cybersquatting. Instead, you will need to sue for trademark infringement in court and prove that you were the first to use the trademark.
You are suing for lost profits. In addition to transferring the domain to you, a court can award you damages for any lost profits or for defamation of your business. You can only get these damages from a court., You should think about hiring a lawyer to bring a trademark infringement lawsuit in federal court. The rules of federal court are very complicated and can be hard to learn on your own. Accordingly, you should find a lawyer to represent you. You can get a referral for a qualified trademark attorney by visiting your local or state bar association.


After you have a referral, you should call and schedule a consultation. At the consultation, you can explain your situation. The lawyer can advise you about the strength of your case.
You may be worried about attorneys’ fees. Trademark infringement lawsuits are very expensive, and can cost upwards of $120,000. However, in federal court you can win attorneys’ fees if the infringement was very clear. You may also be able to get triple damages.The availability of attorneys’ fees and triple damages could put hiring a lawyer within reach. Discuss your options with the attorney at your consultation. If you do not think you can afford a lawyer for trial, then think about buying the domain name or pursuing arbitration.
 You will need evidence in order to successfully sue the defendant. Gather the following pieces of evidence, which will help show the judge that the domain-name holder is infringing on your trademark:


a copy of your trademark
the certificate of registration (if your trademark is registered)
printed pages showing the website at the registered domain
any communications with the domain-name holder, such as letters or emails
evidence which shows that consumers are actually confused and think the domain name relates to your business, Your lawyer will start the lawsuit by drafting a “complaint” and filing it in federal court. This is a legal document which identifies you and the domain-name holder and explains the facts surrounding the lawsuit.You also request that the judge award you the domain name and money compensation.


For additional tips, see File a Federal Lawsuit.
 The key to a trademark infringement lawsuit is that the defendant’s use of the mark likely causes consumer confusion. You should point to the following factors when arguing that there is a likelihood of confusion:the mark is similar to the domain name
your goods and services are similar or related to the goods or services offered by the domain-name holder
consumers are confused, as shown by emails or letters sent to you
the defendant adopted the mark in bad faith or to cause confusion
your trademark is strong (i.e., very distinctive)

