 You might seek custody of a child who is not your biological child for several reasons. You should be aware that it will be very difficult to get custody of a child if the biological parents do not wish to surrender their rights to custody.


Adoption. Gaining legal custody of a child is not the same as adopting a child. Custody will terminate once the child reaches adulthood. Adoption is a permanent legal relationship that makes a child part of your family, regardless of age. Obtaining legal custody may be a first step toward adoption proceedings.Stepparent adoption. Stepparent adoption is usually less complex than other forms of adoption. However, in most cases the other birth parent must still give consent to the adoption.Incapacity or unfitness of the biological parents. In some cases, the court will award custody of a child to a person who is not the child’s biological parent if the child’s biological parents are incapacitated or unfit.

If the child’s biological parents are both incapacitated due to illegal activities or imprisonment, for example, the court may grant custody to another person who will be a better custodian for the child.Mutual agreement. In some cases, both biological parents may agree to waive their rights to custody. For example, if both parents believe that another person raising their child will provide the best living situation for the child, they may voluntarily surrender their rights., Gaining custody of a child when you are not the child's biological parent is extremely complicated. It's best that you hire an experienced family law attorney. Use the steps in Method 1 of this article to help you select an attorney.
 This request is common if the custodial parent has remarried and the new spouse wishes to adopt the child. Before a stepparent can adopt a child, the non-custodial parent (the parent who does not have physical custody of the child) must surrender his or her parental rights.The strongest argument in this situation is the benefit of the child. For example, if the child is happy and stable living with the custodial parent and his/her new spouse, it may be easier to persuade the non-custodial parent to surrender his or her rights.If the other birth parent does not consent, you may be able to proceed anyway if you can prove that the other parent has abandoned the child. This is usually demonstrated by showing that the parent has not communicated with or supported the child., This is the strongest argument that can be used in adoption cases when the biological parents want to retain or reclaim custody. To clarify, this means that a biological parent will not have to prove that he/she is a fit parent. Instead, they must be proven to be unfit. Here are a few additional points to keep in mind:Different courts define “unfit” in different ways, so make sure you check in the state where you will file for custody. For example, the Michigan Supreme Court found that “a parent is unfit when his or her conduct is inconsistent with the protected parental interest or the parent has neglected or abandoned the child.” Neither the existing law nor the ruling provided specific guidelines to determine fitness. Individual judges in Michigan are still considered to have a high degree of latitude in their rulings.In general, if the child has been abandoned, denied necessary care or has been abused, these can be considered as signs of parental unfitness., In many cases, people other than the parents of a biological child may perform parental-type duties. These include managing the child’s education, providing most or all of the child’s daily necessities (food, clothing, shelter, etc.), and managing the child’s health care needs. These facts on their own may not be enough to persuade a judge to grant you custody. However, if the biological parents are also not performing their parental duties, you may have a stronger case.
 Because it is so difficult to claim custody of a child against the consent of a biological parent, the better route may be to seek "consent guardianship." In this case, the parents consent to a third party (usually a relative) having custody of the child. A consent guardianship means that the parents agree that it is in the child’s best interests to live with the third party. However, even if a parent initially consents to a guardianship, the parent has the right to revoke that consent. If the parent revokes consent, the third party must apply for custody based on the unfitness of the biological parent (as discussed above).
Additionally, if the child’s parents passed away or indicated that they would like to give up parental rights to the child, it is possible that the third party can adopt the child.

