 Before you can train your dog or cat out of sleeping on the couch or bed, you'll need to give your pet a comfortable alternative. You probably won't have much luck keeping your pet off the furniture if you don't provide some kind of alternative.In fact, some pets are better off sleeping on soft furniture, due to arthritic pain or discomfort sleeping on the floor.A dog or cat bed can help provide your pet with a comfortable place to sleep without causing you any inconvenience.;
, If your cat continually climbs on furniture and it's causing you problems, one of the best alternatives you can provide your cat is a cat condo. Cat condos are multi-level structures that allow cats to climb, jump, and sleep in one of the "rooms" or on one of the platforms. These indoor structures allow your cat his own place to sleep while also allowing him to climb and get exercise., If your pet isn't satisfied with sleeping in a dog or cat bed, consider designating one piece of furniture as a pet-friendly spot.It could be an old arm chair or a love seat that you don't really use anymore - anything that your pet will take a liking to. However, it's important to reinforce to your pet that he can't climb on other pieces of furniture.


Some animals may have a hard time understanding, especially at first, why one piece of furniture is okay but others aren't. The key is consistency. Any time your pet tries to climb up onto a "humans only" piece of furniture, lead him off that furniture and onto his designated chair., Once you provide your pet with an alternative, "pet-friendly" piece of furniture, you may need to train your pet to use that piece of furniture instead of humans-only furniture. Treats can be very effective for this. Leave treats on the dog/cat bed, in the cat condo, or on the pet-friendly piece of furniture to make these pieces of furniture highly desirable to your pet.Any time your pet tries to get on a humans-only piece of furniture, make him get down, and toss a treat onto the piece of furniture or bedding you've provided for him.
 If your dog or cat keeps trying to climb into your bed at night, you may want to consider crating him or confining him to another room when you go to sleep. Even simply closing your door and keeping him out of your room may be effective, provided that you give your pet a comfy bed or blanket to sleep on in the crate or room you confine him to., If you've recently brought home a new pet, or you plan to in the near future, it's best to restrict your pet's access to furniture from day one, if being on the furniture is an issue for you. It will be much harder (though not impossible) to break this habit once your pet has learned that it's acceptable to be on the couch/chair/bed, so curbing this behavior from an early age is crucial.