 Think about types of information that a competitor would have interest in. This can be sensitive research and corporate strategy, or even something like balance sheets. If someone is accessing this information who shouldn't be, they may be a corporate spy., Most corporate espionage involves researching information that is readily available to anyone. This can include a list of employees, upcoming events or sales, or recent changes in structure. A person finding information through legal methods can be a threat to your business, but they are not criminal offenses. Fraud, breaking and entering, theft, and other illegal activities are the only avenues for prosecuting corporate espionage.Employees can sometimes be careless in posting information to personal social media accounts, including office activity or changes in job status. This information can be very useful to corporate spies, and is entirely legal for them to acquire.
 Are there people in your building or office that you don't recognize? Many workplaces aren't totally familiar with their workforce, and sometimes people are able to just tailgate, or follow in an actual employee.


Remember this is only to help spot someone who isn't supposed to be there. Your company should have clear policies for reporting a security breach of this type. Follow those protocols for reporting and taking further action.
 Tracking employee activity can reveal patterns of unusual actions. If someone is accessing more files than usual, or from unusual places like their own home, they may be getting information for someone else.Dumpster-diving, or otherwise rooting through trash, is a simple way to gain information on a company. If you see someone rooting through your company's garbage (and it's not an employee looking for something they accidentally threw away), that might be a corporate spy.
 Most corporate espionage is done simply by talking to people, and asking leading questions. Spies may call posing as employees, claiming to have forgotten their user name or password. Be aware of odd questions, or attempts to intimidate someone into giving up information.This can include so-called "phishing" schemes, where outsiders will ask for passwords and other information, claiming to be from IT or other reputable parts of your company.
Employees can be trained to look for certain leading questions, or particular social cues that suggest espionage. Your company should have clear processes for revealing sensitive information, and if those processes aren't followed, that will raise a red flag for you or your employees.

