 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the crackers, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper to keep the crackers from sticking.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.;
, Add ¾ cup (94 g) of all-purpose flour, ¼ cup (40 g) of cornmeal, 1 to 2 tablespoons (4 to 8 g) of nutritional yeast, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt, ½ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of garlic powder, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of baking powder, and ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of paprika to the bowl a food processor. Process the mixture until all of the ingredients are fully combined, which should take approximately 10 seconds.It’s best to mix the ingredients with the S-blade in place on the food processor.
You can substitute whole wheat or chickpea flour for the all-purpose if you prefer.
The nutritional yeast helps give the crackers their cheese flavor, so add more if you want them to be very cheesy.
 Once all of the dry ingredients are mixed, add 3 tablespoons (41 g) of refined coconut oil to the food processor. Pulse the mixture several times until it resembles coarse crumbs.You can substitute vegan butter or olive oil for the coconut oil if you prefer.
 When the mixture reaches a coarse crumb texture, begin adding cold water to the food processor 1 tablespoon (15 ml) at a time, pulsing after each addition. It should take between 3 and 5 (45 to 75 ml) tablespoons to form a loose dough with the mixture.You can substitute plant milk or unsweetened non-dairy yogurt for the water if you want the crackers to have added protein.
 When the dough has formed, remove it from the food processor. Use clean hands to form the dough into a disc and place it on a lightly floured surface.You may want to line your work surface with parchment paper to make it easier to clean up.
 After you’ve formed the dough into a disc, lightly dust it with flour. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough out to ⅛-inch (3-mm) thickness.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a wine bottle, thermos, or heavy can to roll out the dough.
 Once the dough is rolled out, use a knife or pizza cutter to cut it into small square shapes. Do your best to make sure that the squares are all the same size.If you want your vegan cheesy crackers to resemble store-bought Cheez Its, use a chopstick or the prong of a fork to poke a hole in the center of each square.
 After you’ve cut the dough into squares, carefully lift them off your work surface and place them on the lined baking sheet. The crackers won’t expand during cooking so you don’t have to worry too much about spacing them on the sheet.If you like, you can sprinkle some additional salt over the crackers before you bake them.
 Once the crackers are on the baking sheet, place them in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for approximately 15 minutes, or until they are golden brown.Keep an eye on the crackers near the end of the baking time. The edges can burn easily.
 When the crackers are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Transfer them to wire cooling rack and let them cool completely so they become crisper, which should take about an hour. Serve the crackers with your favorite beverage.Store the crackers in an airtight container or plastic bag. They should stay fresh for up to a week.

