 Place the center of the band under the instep of your left foot and position your right foot about two feet behind you. With an underhand grip on the band’s handles (so that your palm is facing upwards), alternate pulling each hand up towards your shoulder to do bicep curls. You should only bend at the elbow. Repeat 15-20 times with each arm.


Adventurous exercisers can combine this with a standing lunge to work on their lower body simultaneously., Stand with feet wider than shoulder-width apart, toes out. Wrap the band around a post or tree behind you. Extend your arms to the sides, slightly curved, while holding the band just below of the handles. Keeping your elbows bent, bring your hands together in front of your chest. There will be a space between you and your hands as if you were giving someone a hug. Repeat 15-20 times.


The further away from the ends that you hold the bands the harder this will be.
Keep your arms straight and push out away from your body for a modified standing bench press., Stand on the center of the band with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold the ends of the band with your arms by your sides. Keeping your arms straight, raise your arms perpendicular to your body until they are sticking straight out to the side like you are making a mock airplane. Slowly return your arms to your sides and repeat 15-20 times.
 Stand on the center of the band with your feet together. Hold the ends of the band in your hands, palms up at roughly nipple height. Push your hands straight up to the sky as if you were surrendering. Slowly return them to chest height and repeat 12-15 times.


Keep your back straight and your palms up as you exercise.
 Stand with your feet together on one end of the band. Pull the other band up along your spine (behind your back) so that the end is roughly even with the back of your neck. Grip the end of the band with both hands behind your head and your elbows up high, above you head. Bending only at the elbow, pull your hands up and above your head. Repeat 15-20 times.


The further up you stand on the band the greater the resistance, making the exercise harder.
 Wrap the middle of the band around a tree or pole and hold both ends with your hands straight out in front of you. The band should be roughly chest height. Bend your knees, feet on the ground, and keep your back straight. With your palms facing inward, pull the band back to your chest as if you were rowing a boat. Slowly return your hands to the starting position and repeat for 15-20 reps.The further away from the tree the harder this exercise will be., Rest on your knees and shins with your back straight. Wrap the center of the band around a pole or tree slightly above your head. Gripping the band with both hands in a few inches in front of your chest, bend towards the floor. When you are at a 90-degree angle (forming an L), slowly return to your starting position.


Keep your back straight.
You want to bend from your waist, not your spine.