 Shampoo certainly removes grease, but it can strip away too much of your hair's protective oil, leaving your hair dry and vulnerable to damage. If you hair breaks easily or quickly develops split ends, you may already be shampooing too often. Find a washing schedule that leaves your hair healthy and soft, so you can address the greasiness without destroying your hair.


You might be able to wash daily if you have very fine hair, live in a humid area, or exercise daily to the point of heavy sweating. For most people, washing once every 2–4 days is recommended. You may need to wash even less often if you have extra-curly African hair, or if you've treated your hair with keratin.Your hair will produce oil at the same rate, no matter how often you shampoo.;
, Find a shampoo intended for oily or greasy hair. The most effective examples tend to include sulfates, which are infamous in some circles for the damage they can cause to skin and hair.Give it a try, but switch to a sulfate-free product if the shampoo irritates your skin or swings your hair too far in the dry, damaged direction.


If you can't find an effective, safe shampoo, you might be able to replace shampoo entirely with one of the home remedies below.
Avoid products that advertise "added shine," which is caused by oily ingredients.
 Dry shampoo is a scented powder that sits in your hair and absorbs grease, without rinsing away all your protective oils. Hold the can at least 6 inches (15 cm) away from your hair, and spray lightly onto the roots and mid-shafts in oily areas. Let sit for two minutes, then massage it into your hair with clean hands. Apply whenever your hair feels greasy, about 1–3 times between washes.Too much dry shampoo can cause white buildup. Apply lightly and to oily areas only (typically the layers of hair nearest to your scalp).
Dry shampoo is available in powder form as well as sprays. Choose this if you are sensitive to fragrance or aerosols.
Baking soda, talcum powder and other powders are also effective for absorbing grease.
 Conditioner is designed to make your hair soft and silky, which is a short step from greasy. Only use it immediately after shampooing, when your hair is at its driest, and stick to a dollop the size of a small coin. Rub it into the ends of your hair only, as your roots are slick enough on their own.


To reduce the amount of conditioner even further, lightly apply a spray-on, leave-in conditioner instead.Surprisingly, a co-wash (using conditioner instead of shampoo) does actually remove some oil, though not as much as shampoo.However, co-washing is mainly beneficial for dry hair. Shampoo is a safer bet for someone with grease issues.
 Unsurprisingly, hair grease and its gel and mousse cousins won't do you any favors in the fight against oil. Stick to light products only, such as texturizing sprays. If you bust out the mousse for a special occasion, be sure to wash it out at the end of the day.
 Clarifying shampoos are extra-powerful products that strip out buildup from hair products. Because these are harsh enough to damage hair, use this once every 2nd to 4th wash.Never use clarifying shampoo on color treated hair, which will likely fade and may be vulnerable to damage.
 Many people with dandruff often think the problem is dry skin. Actually, dandruff can be triggered by an overproduction of sebum, or scalp oil.If you have dandruff, treat it with dandruff shampoo according to label instructions.


There are several types of dandruff shampoo. If your dandruff doesn't decrease after a few uses, switch to one with a different active ingredient, or visit your doctor for a prescription-strength treatment.

