 Make the decision to remove processed sugar entirely from your diet for one week. It is impossible to remove sugar entirely from your diet, as fruits, vegetables, breads, etc. all contain some sugar. However, you can easily remove processed sugars from your diet by not consuming anything typically thought of as a dessert or candy. Natural sugars on the other hand are readily digested and assimilated. Natural sugars are found in fruits, honey, milk etc.
 Over time, you can train your taste buds not to like excessively sweet foods. By gradually reducing the amount of sugar you take in, you can alter the way your taste buds perceive different foods.


Start off by reducing the amount of sugar that you add to your food. For example, if you put one teaspoon of sugar in your morning coffee or tea, reduce it to 1/2 teaspoon.
As you run out of items in your house that contain sugar, opt to buy replacements that contain less or no sugar. For example, if you always purchase sugary breakfast cereals, buy a natural, whole grain cereal instead. You can always add fruit to sweeten it up the natural way.
Be sure to eliminate all artificial sweeteners from your diet as well. Although sometimes lower in calories, artificial sweeteners are still sugar-based products that have the a negative effect on your body. These include aspartame, alitame, saccharin, sucralose, and acesulfame potassium. Artificial sweeteners simply substitute one addiction for another. That being said, occasional use of artificial sweeteners possesses no harm.
After a few weeks, your taste buds will begin to adapt and the amount of sugar you were eating before will taste sickeningly sweet., Vegetables, especially dark green, leafy vegetables, provide you with plenty of fiber. Your body uses fiber to aid healthy digestion and it helps keep you feeling full for less energy consumption.
 Animal fats help to stabilize the brain's biochemistry and control sugar cravings. Additionally, protein helps fill you up so that you won't be hungry and craving dessert after a meal. Opt for pasture-raised, grass fed meats.
 One of the easiest ways to remove sugar from your diet is to stop drinking it. By simply removing soda and fruit juice from your diet, you can remove a significant amount of your sugar intake. Sugary drinks take no effort to consume, and yet pack a lot of calories in them, which eventually turn to fat. Choose water instead of a sugary drink at your next meal.


Fresh squeezed or pressed juices are an excellent alternative. While they do contain sugar, it is not processed. A glass of fruit juice a day, does more good than a can of soda a day.
If you don't want to give up flavored drinks, try flavoring them with a non-sugar additive such as a squeeze of lemon or lime. You can also flavor water by soaking fruit slices in your water source. Lemon, pineapple, strawberry, and cucumber are particularly delicious.
If you really refuse to cut out sugary drinks, try diluting your drinks with half seltzer water or flat water. Doing so will slowly reduce your sugar intake and slowly wean you off of the drinks altogether., While fruit contains sugar, it is an unprocessed sugar that is much better for you than the refined, processed sugars that you find in baked desserts and fruit juices made from concentrate. When a sugar craving comes on, reach for a piece of fruit instead of a donut.


Sweet potatoes are another great replacement for sugary foods and they are extremely filling and rich in antioxidants. Swap your standard potato for a sweet one to satisfy your sweet tooth and fill up your tummy.
Blend fat free plain yogurt with frozen fruit to create a homemade sorbet-like dessert that won't add unhealthy sugar to your diet and can satisfy your sweet tooth.
 Skipping meals or waiting too long between meals can cause you to crave fatty or sugary foods to satisfy your built-up hunger. If the traditional three meals a day routine doesn't work for you, try eating smaller portions every three to five hours to stop you from getting hungry., Many foods that you wouldn't expect to have sugar in them may actually contain a significant amount. Be sure to always check food labels for the presence of sugar under one of its many names.
 Chromium polynicotinate is chromium bound to niacin, otherwise known as vitamin B3. This vitamin helps regulate glucose levels while stabilizing blood sugar. Consult your physician for the usage and the dose you should take before consuming any medicine.