 Don't have cleavage because that will be uncomfortable for your coach and team.;
, Look confident out there! You've got your armor underneath anyway.
 It will be easier to get to the most accurate weight; it may be awkward but it tells all the other girls at the tournament that you are serious. Choose really good quality sports underwear so that it feels as if you're wearing a swimsuit.
 Everyone is doing the same thing. Even if it is tougher for you (because girls naturally have less muscle and more body fat), complaining is just annoying and it makes you look bad.
 You are all equal.
 Some guys will take advantage of any show of fear. Show only determination to succeed.


Don't let what other guys might say get to you. If they say something like, "You're not tough enough" just think: "I'm tougher than all of them by being the only girl and doing this sport!" Be yourself, and they will respect you and treat you like one of the team.
 If you have a negative mind, saying things such as "I'm going to lose" or "I'm going to get my butt kicked", chances are that's exactly what will happen. Instead, have a positive mind, and say "I'm going to beat him!".
 Act tough and make it clear you want to be there. Don't complain.


Of course, this doesn't mean to ignore any pain you're in; get physical injuries attended to promptly.
 Aim to get really good. Always try to improve, and try to master a few key moves.
 Use the additional time to practice on shooting or moves you don't need a partner for.
 Look for patterns or tricks they have and rely upon. It's a window into the future when you understand their typical moves and approaches.


Even take notes if it helps you to remember.
 Physically speaking, guys have more upper body strength than most girls do, and it takes a lot to gain that strength, especially for most girls. Work hard, lift weights, do push ups etc.
 While lots of guys will be stronger than you, you can win matches if you are fitter (and faster) than they are. Many girls have better cardio than the guys they wrestle.Work hard to survive the first few minutes of your match and then concentrate on weakening your opponent. Time is on the side of the fittest wrestler.
As your opponent begins to fade, switch over to offense. Try to force your opponent to make a mistake that you can exploit.
Pinning is winning. Even if you are behind on points, you can set up a game-changing pin if your opponent becomes too tired to defend themselves.
 You still want to beat her even though she is a female. It doesn't matter, boy or girl don't treat them any differently. You are there to be the best at it.
 It is nice to have a bond with a few if not all of your team mates, so you will fit in better and be a stronger team. Your team will eventually become like family to you, even if you start off not knowing anyone.
 You want your team to be as good as possible, even if they are better than you.
 Don't talk to your competition too much, or to members of their team. By all means ask them questions such as "what's your record?", "What's your weight?", "How have you been doing?" and so forth, but do not make buddies with they will take advantage of that and you may well lose.
 Approach them and ask if you can speak in private. Explain your concerns with clear examples of why you think you are being treated unequally. Remember that coaches are there to support you!

