 Check the tag and use the hottest water safe for the item of clothing you're treating. If you're supposed to wash the garment using cool water only, use cold water instead so you won't warp your clothing.;
, Choose a white bar that doesn't contain dyes, scents, lotions or other additives. You want plain, old-fashioned bar soap. If you don't have a plain bar of soap on hand, try the following:


A few drops of dish soap
A few drops of shampoo
A few drops of body wash

, Press the soap firmly onto the stain and rub it back and forth so that the soap gets embedded in the clothing fibers. If you're using dish soap, shampoo or body wash, use your finger to rub the soap into the stain.
 Use the type of cycle appropriate for the garment you're using. Don't add fabric softener this time!

, Once the drying cycle is finished, the stain should be completely gone. If you still see a fabric softener stain, repeat the process.
 Check the tag and use the hottest water safe for the item of clothing you're treating. If you're supposed to wash the garment using cool water only, use cold water instead so you won't warp your clothing.
 Concentrated liquid detergent is powerful stuff, and it should take the stain right out. Use it only for fabric softener stains that are especially large or stubborn.
 Leave the garment for a few minutes to let the detergent soak into the stain as a type of pretreatment.
 Use hot water if possible, but if the garment says "cold water only," you'll have to go with that to prevent damage from occurring. Add the same detergent into the washing machine that you used for pretreatment of the stain.
 Once the drying cycle is finished, the stain should be completely gone. If you still see a fabric softener stain, repeat the process.
 Many stains occur as a result of improperly following instructions. If you use too much fabric softener, for example, the residue could end up leaving stains.
 Concentrated fabric softener is more likely to stain than a diluted version. To dilute, pour your fabric softener into the dispenser, then pour in the same amount of water (such as one capful). The diluted softener won't leave a residue on your clothes., If your washing machine doesn't have a dispenser, wait until the machine has filled with water before adding the fabric softener. Pouring it over dry clothes will be more likely to leave a stain.
 It does the same job without leaving stains. Just pour a cup of white vinegar into the fabric softener dispenser when you do your laundry. The smell will go away after your wash and dry cycles are finished.

