 By being polite and friendly you can virtually guarantee that your transaction will go smoothly. People respond to kindness, and if you say "please" and "thank you" it will go a long way.;
, Even if they don't appear to be occupied with anything important, they may be busy helping another customer (especially if the cafe has a drive-thru)or with catering or checking that everything is ready to serve you (e.g., coffee is fresh, everything is stocked sufficiently). If you are patient, it will be recognized and appreciated. However, if staff is overtly ignoring you or has not noticed you, a polite "excuse me" is appropriate.
 If you want to take a moment to look at the menu, say so. If you are wondering what a certain drink is, ask. If you are stumped as to what to get, ask for a recommendation. If you are clear about what you want it will be easier for the person serving you to help you, and you will be more satisfied with the end result.
 Changing your mind is your prerogative, and it is perfectly fine if you forgot to specify skim milk, or decided at the last minute to get something to eat or to pick up something for a friend. Just try to stay within reason and make minor adjustments, for the sake of your server as well as the other customers.
 Do not interrupt your server just to complain; wait until they are finished with the next customer or speak with someone who is free. Do not whine ("this always happens when I come here") and do not make accusations ("you made me the wrong drink"). Simply state what the problem is, and you will likely be given a replacement or be reimbursed with no fuss.
 Just be sure to respond if a staff member says "good-bye" or "have a nice day". If you leave a good impression, it will probably carry over to your next visit.
 Drive-thru staff are trained to greet you as soon as your vehicle is detected by a sensor, and if your window is rolled up you might not hear them. This can be confusing, especially if they request that you give them a moment before you place your order.
Turn off the radio, pause the conversation,make the dog stop barking and,if necessary,(particularly for trucks and SUVs) turn off the engine in order to be understood more easily. The driver should be the one to place the order, being closest to the microphone.
If you need time to look over the menu board, do not simply ignore the server's greeting. Tell him/her that you need a moment to decide. Then decide as quickly as possible so that other customers are not kept waiting.
Keep in mind that drive-thru service was created to be fast and convenient. This means that large orders, ground coffee/coffee beans and merchandise purchases should not be made in drive-thru. You will be served faster in these cases if you walk into the cafe.
Pay with cash, or with gift cards. Credit cards and debit take longer and do not always work consistently. If possible, pay with exact change.
Do not add to your order once you get to the window, especially if there are several cars behind you.

