 Even on a quick walk in the park or nature, you'll likely find a few branches or twigs with character. Bring these home and clean them lightly with a damp rag and warm, soapy water. Allow the branch to dry, then:


Use a hanger (like an adhesive hook or nail) to mount the branch to a wall. Alternatively, you could stand your branch up in a corner, in a coat rack, in a large vase, or so on.
Wrap the branch in string lights to create a natural, unique, and inexpensive home string light decoration. You may want to hold lights in place with hot glue or a sturdy staple.
 A simple wine bottle string light lamp can be made by feeding the loose end of your lights into the bottle until it is full. Keep the plug on the outside of the bottle so you can plug it in when you're finished.


You can create different colors in your bottles by mixing different colored lights to the bottle. You can also add tissue paper or a transparent, glossy kind of wrapping paper to the bottles to create this effect.
Short string lights with battery packs are excellent for making this kind of craft. Your local craft or hardware store should carry these kind of lights.
 Paper cups with theme designs on them are perfect for making string light lamp shades. Use a utility knife to cut a small X into the bottom of the cup. Push the light through the X-slit to attach the paper cup shade in place.


Only use LED lights with this craft idea. Incandescent lights can generate enough heat to become a fire hazard near paper products.
You can further dress up your cups by gluing paper with interesting designs to the outside of the cups., This is a great way of making a festive lamp for a special occasion. Frequently, this design uses Christmas ornaments mixed with string lights in a vase, but you can add whatever you please. Some examples of festive lamps you might consider making include:Easter eggs and miniature rabbits mixed with lights.
Shamrocks, gold coins, and other St. Patrick's Day trinkets with lights.
Tissue paper in the color of your home team, a home team pennant, other small home team paraphernalia, and lights.
 With a pair of scissors, cut cupcake wrappers in the shape of simple flower petals. You might want to flatten the wrapper first and use a pencil to trace a flower petal design. After that, use a utility knife to cut a small X in the center of the petal design.


Gently Insert a light into each X-shaped slit in the center of your cupcake wrapper petal design.
By layering two petal cutouts and pushing a single bulb through both, you can add an extra pop of color to your lights.
LED lights should be used for this design. Incandescent string lights may generate enough heat to catch paper on fire., Acquire semi-transparent, shiny wrapping paper or a sturdy, colored cellophane like material. Cover a section of your string of lights with a cylinder of this paper and tie off the ends with twist ties. You may need to bunch up the paper at the middle to give it the appearance of a giant, lit up hard candy wrapper.Avoid using incandescent lights for this idea, as they may generate too much heat and melt the paper or cause it to catch fire.
 This is a great craft for kids. Take a clean, empty milk jug and use markers to draw a face onto the front of the jug. Feel free to add more features to your light buddy, like string for hair at the top of the jug, buttons for eyes, and so on. Then insert string lights into the jug. Be sure to leave the plug end accessible.Most special features can be added to your light buddy with hot glue or a suitable general purpose glue.

