 There are a lot of competitive fields and schools that care about GPA, but the honest truth is that getting into these schools by cheating won't get you very far without the knowledge needed to succeed there. Cheating is a short-term solution to life's big goal -- learning as much as you can. And before you dismiss the information in school as "useless," remember that knowledge is power, no mater what field you want to be in.It is generally easy to pass high school, but that doesn't mean the easy way will help you become a better person. Every bit of knowledge you gain makes you a little more competitive in interviews, jobs, and opportunities., You're right -- you may never use calculus again once you enter the "real world." But that isn't the point. Studying math is about understanding the concepts that drive our world, concepts that you can apply to just about any problem if you have the skills needed to read and look at numbers intelligently. No matter what field you eventually go into, each subject has similar skills:



The sciences are essential even if you never want to use them again, because scientific vocabulary and concepts are indispensable in the modern, technologically driven age. Just understanding basic concepts will greatly open up your understanding of the world.

English and literature may seem like useless fiction, but sifting through conflicting meaning, reading and understanding subtle language, and exposing yourself to many perspectives makes you a stronger people person, negotiator, and critical thinker.

Foreign languages are proven to create stronger neural pathways that make you a better speaker, multi-tasker, and problem solver., The typical high schooler has after school activities, dinner, then more stuff to do after dinner, not to mention hanging out with friends, playing video games, talking on the phone, and any other leisurely activity that exists. After 8 hours of school, the last thing you want to do is spend more time on it. By not setting aside time for studying and homework outside of school, you are stunting the growth of one of life's most essential skills -- prioritizing all of the things that need to get done in order to do them all successfully.


If studying or preparing for school is not a top priority, you'll be far, far more tempted to resort to underhand tactics.
Make the most of your time in school to free up time afterward. Everyone likes to chill out in study hall, but getting things done will make the free time after school much sweeter.
Give yourself measurable goals instead of just saying, "I'll study tonight." Instead, decide to do 1 problem sheet, read a chapter, or get 50% finished with a project. It's much easier to stick to concrete goals., If you don't sit next to someone you can peek the answer off of, you'll never be tempted to peek at the answers. If you never make the cheat sheet, you can't use it. Papers can only be plagiarized if you take the time to look them up. The best way to stop cheating is to never give yourself the opportunity.
 Remember the possibilities of getting caught, and remember that your teachers and parents are losing trust in you every time you cheat. Furthermore, the consequences are much higher for getting caught than simply missing a few problems. Taking the test honestly may be the difference between an 85 and a 75, but getting caught cheating may be the difference between an 85 and a zero.


One bad test rarely has a long-term impact on your life, if it has any impact at all. But the mark of a cheater or plagiarizer could follow you for years.