 Being a champion couch sitter and avid prime time TV watcher is not going to impress anyone. Seek out new experiences and, preferably, do things that other people do not normally do. Impressing someone requires doing something that makes an impression.

.

Care about what you do. If you try to achieve something you just could care less about, you are unlikely to succeed.
Be prepared for hard work. You will need to choose something that you care about enough to stick through difficulty. And there will be tough times--if it were easy, everyone would do it.
Do the right thing. Wanting to impress people is natural; we all want to stand out. But be sure what you are doing to impress others is not hurting yourself or other people. Trying to impress people with your shoplifting is a dangerous path, so is trying to impress others by taking reckless dares.
Aim high, but start small. Mastering a skill, or achieving a goal requires a number of steps to get there. Start with small, manageable changes to get there. Too big a leap and you might think what you are doing is impossible. For example, if you are trying to lose weight, start with cutting out soda and taking a 10 minute walk for a week.;
, It is very easy to get overly self-centered, trying to impress others in order to feel good about yourself. And it is natural to want attention and feel important. However, you want to do so in a way that is healthy and positive.

It is OK to work hard to shine, but you are a worthy person just the way you are. Even if you never impress anyone with your artwork, that does not make you any less of a person.
Find like-minded people. If you want to achieve something, it helps to have a community of people who have similar interests and goals. This is also a great way to build friendships.
You will not impress everyone all the time. Especially when starting out, you may not be impressive at all. And some people may not care what you do. That does not mean you will not succeed.
 Everyone is born with a set of gifts, and you can hone skills you already have with a little work. You can try new things and develop the skills you have always wanted to have.

Talent only gets you so far. Yes, some people have phenomenal abilities that are seemingly effortless, such as child prodigies. However, without learning, persistence, interest, dedication, and optimism, talent is pretty useless.
Stop making excuses like "I'm not that kind of person" or "I'm not talented enough to try ____": just go out there and try.
No one is good at things on the first go and really interesting skills take time to learn but learning them at all will impress most people.
A dumb or ridiculous talent can be a wonderful thing, if you handle it right.A funny trick is a great ice-breaker at parties, for example, even if it is good for little else.






For example, drawing is a good example of a talent which some people naturally figure out. But it is a skill that can be taught and actually does not require any kind of innate temperament or skill.

Learning to play the piano is also relatively easy and doesn’t take a lot of money to get started. Buy a cheap, used keyboard and start teaching yourself using our guide and some Youtube videos.

Try learning origami. This is a relatively simple skill to start learning but it looks very impressive very quickly. It also means that you’ll always have a cheap gift to give someone in a pinch.
 Stay up to date on the important news and political developments in order to be aware and ready to go when people start discussing those topics. You'll be able to chime in and join the conversation or even fill people in on aspects that they didn't know or understand.This will impress them.


Being well informed is useful because it doesn't require you to be super smart. Reading the newspaper and trying to understand politics doesn't require being a genius. But your knowledge and information can help other people make smart decisions in addition to putting you in a favorable light.
Just remember to always be curious and skeptical. Always question everything. People make mistakes and it's possible that what you have read or believed in the past has since turned out to be wrong.
 Of course, as you do all of these awesome things to impress people, you have to remember to be humble. Don’t brag or rub it in people’s faces that you do all these things. In fact, try not to tell them outright at all. Instead, let them see you doing these things in a normal way. This will make it seem more natural and also let you show off without looking like a jerk.


For example, when your friend invites you to a party, say something like, “I’ll try to make it but I usually volunteer at the church on Friday nights. I might have to be a bit late.”
When you're going to meet them somewhere, show up early. Start doing an impressive activity like reading a classic novel or practicing guitar. They'll catch you "in the act" and be impressed. You don't even have to say anything.

