 The first step you want to take in preparing the hutch for rabbits is to lay newspaper down throughout the compartment of the hutch. Newspaper will help keep in hay or wood shavings and provide insulation for your rabbits.


Put newspaper in all areas of the hutch.
Consider two or three layers.
Make sure the newspaper is placed down carefully and evenly.;
, After you’ve put down the newspaper, take some wood shavings or hay and spread them liberally throughout the hutch. Wood shavings or hay will provide insulation for your rabbits and provide them with a comfortable environment to live in.


Provide enough hay or wood shavings so that your rabbits have enough to insulate them and play in, but not too much that it makes it difficult for them to move around.
Make sure to use hay appropriate for feeding livestock. You do not want specialty holiday hay used for decorating your home on holidays. This may be treated with fire retardant or other chemicals.
If you choose to go with wood shavings, avoid cedar or pine shavings. These may emit a gas that is dangerous to animals. Oak or other hardwoods are a good choice., You need to also create a specific place for your rabbits to sleep. This area should be cozier and more comfortable than the rest of the hutch. Design and components will vary, but consider:


If you’ve used wood shavings throughout, make sure you leave one spot to put a soft hay for the rabbits to sleep in.
Using pelleted wheat fiber. These fibers are chemical free and comfortable.
Using recycled fibers or paper fibers.
Bedding supplies can be purchased at most animal supply stores., One of the final touches will be to provide a food and water bowl for your rabbits. Needless to say, food and water are important, so placement is an important consideration. Consider:


Putting two water bowls or sources of water in the hutch. The number really depends on how many rabbits you have, the size of your hutch, and how often you’ll be able to provide water. Make sure that your rabbits always have fresh clean water to drink.
Putting a food bowl near the bedding area.
Putting larger food and water bowls if you have a large hutch or a lot of rabbits., Your final step will be to populate the hutch with your rabbits. While this is your final step, it is also a very important one. Make sure to introduce your rabbits in way so that they will be comfortable with and excited about their new home.


Take time to introduce your rabbits by hand into the hutch.
Place one rabbit at a time, gently, into the hutch.
Stick around the hutch for a while and watch your rabbits explore their new home., After setting the hutch up, you'll need to maintain the hutch so it continues to be a safe environment for your rabbits. While basic maintenance might take some time, if you stay diligent, it should be fairly inexpensive.


Make sure to replace wood as it degrades and rots.
Replace any rusty wire or other metal.
Periodically, remove your rabbits from the hutch so that you can paint and refinish it (if needed).
Make sure to replace newspaper, hay, and other bedding material as it degrades or as waste accumulates.
Replace any plastic rabbit water bottles (if you use them) as they age and degrade.

