 Some hand-knit hats, especially those made with wool, can get damaged by the motion of the washer. To prevent this from happening, place these hats in a pillowcase, netted intimates bag, or washable garment back. Close the bag by its drawstring or tie the top if it doesn't have one. This will prevent your hat from falling out, which is especially important if you're doing a small load.Be careful which knit items you choose to wash using this method. If your hat is made from acrylic, superwash wool, or cotton yarn, then it is likely to be fine in the washer. However, wool that is not specifically labeled as "superwash" or otherwise machine-washable may felt in a washer, ruining your garment., Knits are more likely to felt in an under-loaded washer. Although your laundry bag should protect your hat, the bag may end up undone during the wash cycle. Make sure that the other items are of like colors. Ideally these items should be knit, as well.
 Allow the washer to fill with cold water. Pause the machine before the agitation cycle begins and add your garments.If you have a front-loading washer, go ahead and load your laundry as normal before starting. While it isn't ideal, your hat is likely to be fine.
 If you're washing wool items, a specialty wool detergent works best. These detergents often contain lanolin, which will condition your wool to decrease static and increase water resistance. If you aren't washing wool or you can't find a specialty detergent, use any mild liquid detergent that is free of bleach and other harsh chemicals., Do not re-start your washer. Allow the load to soak for at least one hour. Especially-soiled items may need to be left overnight. Don't be alarmed if your wool items float to the top at first. They will eventually take on enough water and sink back down on their own., This will put your garments through what is normally the last part in a wash cycle. The washer will very mildly agitate its contents before draining off the soapy water. The spin cycle will also work to partially dry out your garments by removing excess water through centripetal force. If your items are still soaking wet, run them through the spin cycle once more., Spread a clean, dry towel out on a flat surface. Lay your knit garment(s) spread out on top of it. A well-ventilated location, such as a room with a ceiling fan, works best. Allow the hats to dry naturally. This should only take a few hours.