 Examine how the book opens and how it closes. Look how each chapter starts, ends, and begins anew. Is there a connection? Is there a pattern? Does the story come to a complete resolution? Do characters grow? Look for the setup and resolution to problems.Improve the process by creating a simply summary at the end of each chapter. Write a few sentences based on what you understood from the reading.
Don’t try to speed through. Comprehension is lost the faster you read.Look for critical words that imply additional attention. If you see “however” or “conversely,” you know the content is about to change slightly.
Identify emphasizing words like “always,” “paramount,” and “above all else.” These words signify something critical to the story or the current dialogue., The literature and your notes should be reviewed as frequently as possible. The first time you read, it’s about familiarization with the story. Subsequent readings should focus on simpler concepts, meanings behind subtle details. Some larger texts may be difficult to read completely a second time, but a thorough review is beneficial.Reviewing helps keep the text and your notes fresh in memory.
Regular review may bring about new thoughts as you progress through a work of literature. Something you believe or think early on, may change as you move through chapters.Create exam questions for yourself based upon whether you gained new insight from the subsequent reading.
 As often as you can, attempt to lock down important details by reciting them consistently. Whether verbal or written, recitation helps commit facts to memory so that the more complicated or subtle details can be grasped. Once you have these details firmly in hand, everything else plays out as a result.Reciting the sequence of events can help with understanding timeline-based tales.
Complicated literature can be recited on a cause and effect basis. For instance, Romeo attends a ball and falls in love with Juliet. Lord Capulet stops potential bloodshed, and Romeo overhears Juliet’s shared love for him.
Don’t forget to recite your notes as well as the original content. Translating and converting your notes as you read will help form greater understanding.