 Sit with your back straight, and just hum with your normal voice and mouth closed. Put your hand on your stomach, just below your ribs, and hum a few times in short bursts. When humming, one automatically uses the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, so you should feel your abdomen goes in, while your chest and shoulders aren't moving. Breathe from that spot when you want to growl.Put your hand on your abdomen and hum with your mouth closed. Gradually increase the volume. Feel how your abs are shrinking towards the inside? This means that your diaphragm is relaxing and pushing air out. That's where the sound should be coming from.;
, Open your jaw and make an "O" shape with your lips. Pull your tongue back to the back of your throat. The tighter you pinch the back of your throat, the higher the pitch of your growl will be. Move your tongue forward slightly and loosen the pinch, and your growl will be a little lower.


Try letting a little air out. It should rattle a little at the back of your throat, without really having to make much sound at all. Rattling is a sign that you've got the right shape.
 Practice breathing deep into your diaphragm and positioning your throat correctly, then try exhaling a few times, evenly but forcefully enough to get a good amount of sound from your throat. You should hear a good, low growl that sounds good for animal impressions and metal songs alike.Draw out the growl for a few seconds and let it trail off. Practice bringing the volume up and down, and changing the pitch slightly. It'll take a little practice.
Keep your hand on your stomach to make sure you're breathing as deeply as possible, and pushing the air from deep in your diaphragm., To help you channel your throat sounds into something that's like music, it's important to practice forming syllables and changing pitch. The following syllables are all good to practice in your routine, forming them as evenly and smoothly as possible:


Yo
We
Ah
Ra

, When you're growling, if you cut off your growl very abruptly, you'll risk losing your voice. The force necessary to stop the sound can wreak havoc on your vocal chords, and you'll end up with a sore throat if you cut off your growls suddenly, instead of letting them trail off.
 For black metal style vocals, you often want to growl with a higher pitch. Keep your tongue down and keep your head tilted up a bit, practicing pinching your throat enough to get the right kind of tone and change in pitch.

