 It is important that nursing school is a top priority in your life. Nursing programs are intensive and you will need to prioritize class and study time over non-essential activities.


Try making a list of priorities like school, family, friends, exercise, etc. If nursing school isn’t within the top few priorities on your list, you may need to do some rearranging in order to achieve your goals as a nursing student.
 For many nursing programs, you will be required to complete general education courses like English before entering the program. At other schools, you will complete these courses while you are a student in the program. Prioritize these courses as they will help you learn how to communicate effectively, understand diverse human behaviors and experiences, and think critically., As a nursing student you will take courses that are foundational to the field of nursing. Courses in anatomy and physiology, pharmacology, health assessment and promotion, and informatics are part of most nursing programs. Mastering this curriculum is crucial to your success as nurse.Try studying in one hour blocks. Study for the first 50 minutes and then take a 10 minute break before beginning the next study block.
Find a study buddy or study group. Your fellow students likely come from a wide variety of backgrounds, and can be a great source of support., Patient-centered revolves around the patient and centers on assessment and treatment of the patient’s problems and disease processes. Person-focused care is based on accumulated knowledge of the patient, helping nurses and doctors assess the patient’s medical needs over time and within context of other needs the patient might have., You should begin building your nursing resume with clinicals, internships, and professional experience as soon as possible. These experiences will help you land a job once you finish school, and help you further develop your understanding of nursing and healthcare.


For example, if you want to work as an emergency room RN and the local hospital announces an internship, apply for it!
If you set a goal of learning how to effectively communicate with diverse patient populations, attend a local conference on the subject.
 Once you have passed all the clinical and curriculum requirements for your program and graduated with your nursing degree, you will need to begin study for upcoming exams. Nurses are required to pass licensure exams, which vary depending on your nursing education level. These exams include the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN.Talk to your nursing professors about how you can utilize the nursing curriculum from your program to study for licensure and certification exams.
Consider taking a NCLEX preparation course to help you achieve the passing standard for the exam.

