 One of the biggest risks associated with low potassium is arrhythmia, or irregular heart beat. Older adults and those with preexisting heart disease are at higher risk for arrhythmia. If your doctor suspects you have severe low potassium, he may run tests to rule out other conditions, such as renal tubular acidosis, Cushing syndrome, and hypocalcemia, and confirm your diagnosis.Your doctor may run blood tests to check your electrolyte, glucose, magnesium, calcium, and phosphorous levels.
If you are taking heart medication already, such as a digitalis meant to strengthen your heart, your doctor will wan to check your digoxin levels.Your doctor may also order an EKG to detect any irregularities in your heartbeat., If your doctor confirms you have severely low potassium, arrhythmia, or severe symptoms your doctor will likely give you potassium intravenously.The potassium will be administered very slowly, under the observation of a doctor, to make sure it does not affect your heart.IV therapy may be very irritating at the site of injection.
 You will take most potassium supplements orally in the form of either pills, liquids, or powders.Many multivitamins also contain potassium. Ensure that you follow the dosage your doctor has prescribed without going over or under the dosage. This will ensure consistently healthy potassium blood levels.


Since it’s possible for your diet to have too much potassium, you should consult your doctor before adding supplements to your daily regimen. This will likely entail some blood tests to determine how much additional potassium you actually need in your diet.
Doctors commonly prescribe potassium supplements at the same time as another medication that can deplete potassium levels.If your doctor puts you on one of these medications, then she may suggest potassium supplements even if your current levels are within range.
 Your doctor will want to run follow-up tests, checking your potassium levels and checking that her prescribed treatment is working. The follow up will likely be two to three days following your initial treatment.