 Set it to 400ºF (200ºC) and place a rack in the upper middle position., A crusty, rustic loaf such as sourdough or ciabatta makes excellent croutons.Sandwich bread will work fine, as long as the slices are thick enough not to fall apart when cut. Roughly six slices' worth of bread makes one large batch, enough for several people.


Slightly stale bread crisps faster and more evenly. If using a fresh, dense bread, lower the oven temperature to 350ºF (175ºC) or less to help the bread cook evenly.
 Aim for cubes about ½ inch (1.25 cm) across. If the pieces are too different in size, they will not bake evenly.
 Put the cubed bread in a large bowl and sprinkle on salt and pepper. Optionally, sprinkle on a generous pinch of dried herbs or spices for extra flavor.


Oregano, basil, parsley, and thyme are popular flavors for Italian croutons.
Garlic powder is the easiest way to add garlic flavor, since raw garlic will burn in the oven. If you prefer to use raw garlic, infuse its flavor in olive oil instead, then strain out the garlic pieces before using the oil in the next step., This is mainly a question of flavor preference, but be aware that butter will burn faster than oil, potentially creating darker croutons. Whichever option you choose, drizzle on 3 tbsp (45 mL) and toss until the bread is coated.
 Spread out the bread in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet. Place it in the preheated oven.
 The bread is ready once golden-brown and crunchy. This typically takes 8–10 minutes if you used fresh bread, or 6–8 minutes if the bread was already stale. Turn over the bread pieces at least once during cooking, so they crisp evenly.Cooking time can vary by several minutes based on how hot your oven runs, the age of your bread, and on how dark and crunchy you prefer your croutons. Keep an eye on them.
 These ingredients are best added after 5 minutes of baking., Wait for the croutons to reach room temperature, then store in a plastic bag or other airtight container. Storing them while hot may cause them to become soggy from trapped steam.Eat the croutons within one week, or store excess in the freezer for up to six months.