 This stretch targets your hamstrings, inner thigh, lower back, and calves (but only if you can reach your toes). To do the V-stretch:









Sit down on the floor and spread your legs into a wide V-Shape. Place your feet against the wall if this helps you to achieve a deeper stretch.
Keeping your back as straight as possible, lean to the right and try to touch your right toes with your hands. Don't worry if you can't—just try as hard as possible. Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds, then repeat on your left leg.
Next, extend your arms straight out in front of you, as far as they can go. Try to get your chest to touch the floor. Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds.;
, Touching your toes, from both a seated and standing position, helps to stretch out your hamstrings and lower back.









To do the stretch while sitting down, sit on your bottom with your legs together and your toes pointing up towards the ceiling. Lean forwards and try to touch your toes. If you can't, grab your ankles. If touching your toes is too easy, try wrapping your hands around the soles of your feet. Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds.
To do the stretch while standing up, stand with your feet together, then lean down and try to touch your toes. Avoid bending your knees and try to keep most of your weight on the balls of your feet instead of on your heels. If you're really flexible, try to get the palms of your hands on the floor. Hold the stretch for 30 to 60 seconds.
 The butterfly stretch works the groin and inner thighs, making it extremely important for the splits.









Sit on the floor and bend your knees until they point outwards and the soles of your feet are pressed together. Try to push your knees as close to the floor as possible (using your elbows if necessary), while drawing your heels as close to the groin as possible.
Sit upright and keep your back as straight as possible. Hold this stretch for 30 to 60 seconds. For a more intense stretch, place your palms on the floor in front of your toes, then try to stretch forward as far as possible.
 The lunge stretch helps to loosen your hips, which is necessary for performing a good split.









Get into a lunge position by stepping forward with your right foot and bending both knees until your right thigh is parallel with the ground and your left shin is touching the ground.
Place your hands on your hips and keep your back straight. Gradually shift your weight forwards until you feel a stretch around your hip and the top of your thigh. Hold this position for 30 to 60 seconds, then repeat on the other leg., Your quads and hamstrings are two of the most important muscles involved in the splits, so it's important to get them as flexible as possible. Here are two more useful stretches for these muscles:









To stretch your quads, kneel down in a lunging position, using a pillow to support your back knee if necessary. Keeping your back straight, reach back and grab the foot of your back leg and pull it towards your butt until you feel a good stretch in the quadricep. Hold for 30 to 60 seconds, then repeat on the other leg.
To stretch your hamstrings, lie down with your back on the floor and your legs propped up against a straight wall. Keeping your lower back on the floor, reach towards your toes until you feel a good stretch (but no pain). Hold for 30 seconds.

