 Note that the actual cost of buying the tree should not be included in this budget. If you already bought your tree (or have one from last year), then you can move on.;
, Gather all your previous Christmas tree decorations. You should not just throw them all out. Divide them into three groups, the good ones, the ones that need minor fixing, and the ones that must be thrown out (damaged/broken ones). It is important to reuse the good ones AND the ones that can be repaired.
 (this does not work well on paper ornaments)
If a decoration has a fading colour, repaint it, or put the fainting part faced to the centre of the tree so it does not show. If a large part is fainted, consider covering it with paper mache (glue and newspaper)
If a decoration is missing the string part, cut a piece of string or elastic, tie it in a knot, and hang it on the tree!
If an ornament is missing the part where you attach the string, you can tape the string directly on the ornament, or see if you can take that part off of an ornament you threw out.
 This way it would be easier to recognise what you need on the tree.
 Usually decorations go on sale even 2-3 weeks before Christmas, which would be a good time to snatch 'em up! 1 week before Christmas decorations are more costly because of a greater demand. Saying this, you should not aim for very expensive decorations. Most big "Dollarama" stores have aisles on Christmas decorations, even as low as $1. They are not very costly, and they look just as beautiful! Also, consider second hand stores like "Goodwill" and "Value Village". These stores also might have great decorations that are not as expensive as the ones in the original stores.
 wikiHow has lots of great articles on how to make your own Christmas decorations! Using paper (even from your recycling, some glue, glitters, rhinestones and sparkly paper!

, Consider the following:


Little Christmas theme dolls
Tiny Styrofoam balls
Wood Blocks (you can colour them in)
Pencils (covered in paper to look like candy canes or icicles)

, Make sure you put some sign on the empty boxes so you don't waste your time opening them on Christmas.
 When making the decorations (especially with paper), make sure the colours have some kind of theme, or pattern. Green, Red and Gold are pretty common, but Blue and Silver look very nice too. If you cannot find sparkly paper, check to see if you have any ripped sparkly Christmas gift bags that you do not use anymore. You can make paper ornaments out of this too! It would be good if you have at least 3 ornaments of the same colour. If you choose to make all your ornaments the same colour, consider making different sizes to give more variation.

