 If you have never been officially diagnosed as having migraines, it is very important to speak with your doctor about your headaches. Severe chronic headaches can also be signs of more serious ailments such as brain tumors. Your physician should rule out other potential headache causes before you start treating symptoms of migraines yourself.


A doctor can also prescribe medications and alternative treatments for migraines.
 A migraine is a headache that starts dull and becomes increasingly worse. It can range from minutes to days. The pain is described as a pounding, pulsating, throbbing headache. It may travel to one side of the head, to the back of the neck or head, or behind one eye. It may be accompanied with increased urination, chills, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, numbness, weakness, tingling, no appetite, sweating, and sensitivity to light and sound.


After the migraine subsides, a clouded thought pattern may happen as well as the need to sleep and neck pain., There are certain types of people who are more prone to getting migraines. Migraines are most common in people between the ages of 10-40 years old. Once you hit 50, migraines tend to lessen. Migraines seem to run in families. If one parent has migraines, a child has a 50% chance of having migraines. If both parents suffer from them, a child has a 75% chance of having them.Women are 3 times more likely to have a migraine than men. This may be due to a connection between estrogen levels and migraines. Women who are going to have a period soon often have headaches because of the drop of estrogen., There are phases associated with certain parts of migraines. The prodrome phase is the first phase. It can begin up to 24 hours before the migraine actually begins. This happens in up to 60% of sufferers. Taking special care to relax and to avoid potential triggers when you notice these signs may prevent an impending migraine or lessen its severity. It's also important to try to keep a positive attitude if you notice these symptoms, as experiencing stress or anxiety can speed up or worsen the migraine.


Mood changes, including depression, euphoria, and irritability, can be an early sign of a migraine.
You may also suffer from increased thirst or fluid retention. Many migraine sufferers notice an increased thirst before a bad headache starts. You can also have a marked increase or decrease in appetite.
You can experience fatigue, restlessness, difficulty communicating or understanding people, difficulty in talking, stiffness in the neck, dizziness, weakness in an arm or leg, or lightheadedness that leads to the loss of balance. If these symptoms are new to you or more severe than usual, call your doctor right away.
 The aura phase follows the prodrome phase. Only about 15% of sufferers experience this. During the phase, a headache will most likely start. Those who have auras complain of seeing spots or flashing lights and a loss of vision. They can last for 5 minutes up to an hour before the migraine begins.The aura may also manifest itself as tingling or numbing sensations in the skin. You can also experience auditory disturbances.
A rare form of migraine aura called "Alice in Wonderland Syndrome" involves an altered perception of one's body or surroundings. This type of aura is most often seen in children, but is sometimes seen in adult migraine patients as well., The headache phase is next and is the worst for most patients. The headache usually begins in a pinpoint spot of the head and can move to another part of the head. Patients complain of a throbbing, pulsating headache. Moving around will often make the headache worse. Other factors such as light and noise can make it worse as well.


Patients often cannot carry on a conversation because of the pain in their head.Diarrhea, nausea, or even vomiting can accompany the headache phase., The last phase of a migraine is the resolution phase. It is the phase where your body recovers from the trauma of the migraine. Many patients complain of pure exhaustion after a migraine episode. Some suffer from irritability and mood shifts soon after the headache phase is over.