 These are words which sound the same, but are spelled differently: commonly confused on wikiHow are:


allowed/aloud - allowed means permitted, whereas aloud has the same meaning as out loud
bored/board - bored means to have lost interest; a board is a flat piece of wood
break/brake - break means to damage, but brake is what you do to slow down a car or a bicycle
new/knew - new is the opposite of old whereas knew is the past tense of to know
past/passed - past is earlier in time; passed can mean that you did not fail a class or that you went by someone
piece/peace - a piece is a part of something (it even has the word pie as its first three letters!); peace on the other hand means absence of noise or hostility
sure/shore - sure means certain, but shore means the beach or coastline
site/sight - site is the correct spelling when you mean the place where something sits - like a website! Sight on the other hand means something you can see.
stairs/stares - stairs are steps; stares is a verb meaning to gaze intently
steel/steal - steel is a metal, whereas steal means to take something that does not belong to you
they're/their/there They're is a shorter way to say they are. Their is possessive - it's their fault. There is a place - over there.
through/threw - through is a direction (as in straight through the door), but threw is the past tense of throw
to/too/two - Two naughty boys who went too far went to jail.
whether/weather - whether indicates a choice - whether or not, whereas weather means sun. rain, snow etc.
which/witch - Which witch is the wicked witch? (apologies to all witch's!)
whole/hole - whole means complete whereas hole means a gap or space where something is missing
right/write - right means correct or the opposite of left, but write means to compose (words or music)
your/you're - your is a possessive pronoun, and you're is a contraction, as in saying "You're really good at writing articles."

, it’s means ‘it is’ whereas its is the possessive form. Possessive pronouns his, hers and its are the only possessive forms which do NOT have an apostrophe - hence the confusion. The dog wagged its tail.

Other than that, use an apostrophe where one or two letters have been missed out when a word has been contracted - eg. where is becomes where's. Plurals do NOT need an apostrophe.
Plural possessives have the apostrophes after the s. The dogs' tails wagged in excitement.
 So you talk about the effect of something, but affecting someone. Another easy way to remember this is affect = affection while effect = cause and effect.
, The confusion comes from the contraction - would have becomes would've which sounds like ‘would of’.

