 When you are having any kind of conflict with another person, it’s best to to avoid dealing with the problem while you are feeling angry, frustrated, or upset.You will probably not communicate well, and may just make the situation worse.


If possible, remove yourself physically from your little sister. Talk about what happened when you both feel calmer.
If you can’t get away, try to keep your head. Blowing up at her will only make things worse. Take a breath and count to ten before responding.;
, Instead of saying, “You are such a brat!” or or “Why won’t you leave me alone?” try telling her, “When you do that, I feel sad/hurt/disrespected/upset. It hurts my feelings. Do you like it when people hurt your feelings?” This helps your sister understand the impact of her behavior and teaches her that her actions have consequences.Using "I" language rather than blaming, criticizing, or accusing your sister will also show her that you respect her. She will be much more likely to treat you with respect in return., How is she experiencing your conflict? Even if you continue to disagree, understanding where she's coming from will help you both move toward a solution., Were you always totally rational, or did you sometimes do ridiculous or embarrassing things? Do you think you ever annoyed people? Do you remember how it felt when people you loved or looked up to were mean to you? Your sister’s brain is still developing, and she needs patience as she figures out how to interact with others. The more empathy you show her, the more she will learn, and the less annoying she will become., If you want to change her behavior, you have to understand why she acts the way she does.Although it may not always seem like it, your sister looks up to you. She wants to spend time with you, and to know that you love and respect her.If you show her that you do, your relationship with her will become much easier.


Consider the consequences of your own actions. For example, if you give your sister the silent treatment she will become desperate for your attention, which may make her even more annoying. On the other hand, if you make sure that the two of you spend a little bit of quality time together every week she will be much more likely to accept it when you say, “I’m sorry, I can’t play with you right now, I’m doing something else.”Learn to compromise. Your sister's needs may be different from yours, but objectively speaking, they are just as important as your own. You cannot always meet her demands, and sometimes her youth will mean her reactions aren't as mature as you'd prefer. If you strive to meet in the middle when possible, however, you'll eliminate considerable conflict on both sides., If your sister is getting on your last nerve, reach out to an adult for help.


Remember, people will be less inclined to help if you get personal, or if you overreact: “She’s so annoying! Make her stop!” or, “You always take her side!”
Instead, focus on the problem: “She’s come into my room without knocking every day this week, and I feel like I can’t get any privacy. Could you try talking to her about it?” or, “She starts screaming every time I say no to her, and I’m having a lot of trouble handling it. Do you have any ideas?”Ask your parent or guardian for regular "alone time" to talk about life in general -- and your relationship with your little sister. Checking in on a regular basis will give your parent or guardian the knowledge they need to monitor your interactions with your little sister before they hit the crisis stage of serious irritation. Your parent or guardian should take similar time to talk with your sibling(s).