 Many falls on stairs occur as a result of poor visibility. Ensure that all steps in your home are well lit. Use lighting that makes stairwells visible and does not cause glare or create shadows.
Make sure there is a light switch at the top and bottom of each staircase.
Night lighting that does not need to be turned on is also a good idea to help prevent falls.;
, Sturdy handrails can help assist with balance and prevent falls.Make sure you have a handrail on both sides of the staircase.
Handrails should begin before the first step and end after the last step. For added safety include a tactile indicator on the handrail to warn when the staircase is coming to an end.
Position handrails at elbow height for maximum safety. The suggested height is 35 1/2 to 38 inches for adults.
Ensure that handrails are easy to see even at night.
You should be able to wrap your entire hand around a handrail for the best grip.
Don’t carry things while on the stairs so that your hands are free to grip the railings.
 It is much more difficult to use stairs that are not uniform or have a bend.


You may find it helpful to read Build Stairs in order to learn how to build stairs that are uniform and structurally sound.
It is also important that you update and repair your stairs over time. For example, a floor board may become loose and need replacing, or carpeting may need to be replaced or updated.
 Be patient when walking up and down stairs. Take each step slowly and watch where you are placing your foot.


It is much easier to trip and fall if you are running or not paying attention.
Look at the stairs as you go down them in order to help secure your footing. It may be useful to say the word “step” or count “1, 2, 3, etc.” each time you take a step. This will help you keep your rhythm and remain focused on the task at hand.
 Falls are more likely to occur if the stairs are slippery (ie polished wood).


Carpeted stairs or stairs that have treads are less likely to be slippery.
If stairs are carpeted, check to make sure that the carpeting is evenly distributed and there are no loose edges or elevated flaps which could be a tripping hazard.
 Depending on the severity of your fear, asking a family member or friend for help navigating a staircase may prove useful.


For many elderly people a fear of stairs is directly related to a fear of falling and suffering an injury. Asking for help can make stairs this much easier and safer.
Try walking up and down a staircase multiple times with assistance.
It is best to practice in a quiet and private setting so that you do not feel rushed which may trigger anxiety.

