 Place the butter and sugar in a medium mixing bowl. Use a hand mixer to cream the mixture until it becomes pale yellow and fluffy. In the absence of a hand mixer, use a wooden spoon to beat the butter and sugar together., Crack it into the mixing bowl and fully incorporate it with the creamed butter and sugar. Stir in the lemon zest to evenly distribute it into the wet batter.


Lemon zest is easiest to make using a microplane or zester. Simply run the tool over the skin of a freshly-washed lemon. Try not to press so hard that you pick up the bitter white pith underneath the skin. The flavor lies in the yellow surface skin.
If you don't have a microplane or zester, try a cheese grater or a sharp paring knife. Place the larger strips of lemon zest in a food processor to chop them into tiny shreds.
 Place the flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients together.
 Add the flour mixture to the wet batter. Mix it until the batter is just combined, and you can no longer see white spots of flour. Do not overmix. If you mix the dough for too long, the flour will change consistency and result in tougher cookies.
 Form the dough into the shape of a ball and wrap it tightly in plastic wrap. Refrigerate the dough for at least one hour or overnight. Refrigerating the dough will allow you to roll it out and cut it into proper biscuits. If you neglect this step, the biscuits will melt in the oven and come out flat.,, Remove it from the refrigerator and take off the plastic wrap. Place the dough on a lightly floured surface. Use a floured rolling pin to roll the dough into a disc that is 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) in thickness.


If you prefer thicker biscuits, roll the dough to 1/3 inch.
For very thin, crispy biscuits, roll to 1/8 inch.
 Use a biscuit cutter to cut biscuits from the dough. Any cutter shape will do. Try a round cutter, one with scalloped edges, or a holiday-themed cutter.


If the cutter sticks to the dough as you cut, dip it in flour before cutting. Wipe it off and re-dip between cuts.If you don't have a biscuit cutter, use the rim of a cup to cut out circle shapes. Alternatively, use a knife to cut the dough into squares or rectangles.
 Carefully slide a spatula under the cut-outs and transfer them to a baking sheet. If any of the biscuits break, lightly press the edges back together.
 Place the baking sheet in the oven and bake the biscuits for 10 to 12 minutes, depending on their thickness. The biscuits are ready when they turn golden and crisp, Remove them from the oven before they brown.
 Transfer the biscuits to a cooling rack and allow them to cool completely before serving. These biscuits are on the crumbly side, so take care when you transfer them to a serving plate.
 If you're serving these biscuits at a party, it's festive to create tiny sandwiches with them. Choose your favorite sweet filling. Dab 1/2 teaspoon of filling in the center of one of the biscuits. Place another biscuit on top, lining up the edges to create a sandwich. Try these delicious fillings:


Lemon curd
Raspberry jam

Chocolate ganache or melted white chocolate

, For Christmas and other winter holidays, try changing out the lemon zest for the same amount of orange zest. To boost the orange flavor, you can also add 1/2 teaspoon of orange extract to the wet batter.


For a spicy twist, add 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves.
Or try using the zest of a different citrus fruit, like grapefruit or lime.
 Lemon and lavender pair beautifully together. This fragrant twist is the perfect addition if you're serving lemon biscuits for tea or an afternoon party. To add lavender, mix 1/2 teaspoon ground lavender flowers with the flour before you incorporate it with the wet batter.


Be sure you use food-grade lavender. Look for edible lavender flowers in gourmet grocery stores.
Ground edible roses make a fine substitution.

