 Power chords are the backbone of every punk song ever written. They are short, easy to play, and sound great when played loud. A power chord is just three notes -- your index finger on the E or A string, and the next two strings fretted two frets down. You can move this form anywhere on the guitar to play every single chord. For example, an A, G, D, chord would look like:



A-Chord | G-Chord | D-Chord |
|e|----x-----|------x------|-----x------|
|B|----x----|------x------|-----x------|
|G|----x----|------x------|-----7------|
|D|----7----|------5------|-----7------|
|A|----7----|------5------|-----5------|
|E|----5----|------3------|-----x------|;
, Bass players have a lot to look forward to in pop punk. If you're stuck or a newbie, quickly repeated 16th notes on the bass (basically playing one note over and over again) can follow the chords on the guitar to instantly fit in. For example, if the guitarist is playing an A-bar chord, you play the A note in time with each one of her chords. From here you can feel free to improvise during chord changes, before switching to the chorus or verse, or if you can think of a fun bass riff.


Check out Green Day's "She," which opens with a great but simple bass riff, and note how it follows the guitar, but with subtle flourishes.
Rancid's "Olympia, WA" is almost straight 16th notes on the bass, carrying the song along.
 You want to keep the song moving forward with a quick, regular beat. Sixteenth notes on the hi-hat, alternating the kick drum and the snare every other note. While there is a lot more to drumming than this, this basic beat can go behind any pop punk song.


Big, quick fills on the toms and crash symbols are the common way to transition into new parts of the song.
Pop-punk drummers like Travis Barker are talented musicians who drive the song forward. Focus on keeping time perfectly, especially at high speeds, to become an invaluable drummer.
 95% of pop punk songs are short, fast, and guitar-driven. Find 3-4 notes or power chords that you think sound good together and make up a short little phrase to repeat. Most pop-punk songs are simple -- find a riff you like and repeat it to write a verse or chorus.


Chop up and change your favorite riffs from other bands. Pop-punk is heavily borrowed, adapted, and repeated.
In general, three power chords are the bare minimum for a song.
Play with the rhythm and timing of your chords to give them a unique spin.
 To be honest, many bands play the exact same chords, just in a different order or tempo (listen to the Ramones for proof). In general, the verse is slower and or muted and the chorus gets louder, faster, and more melodic. When coming up with a chorus:


Keep it simple -- the chorus should not be hard to follow.
Aim for catchy melodies -- this is where you hook people's ears.
Add a short, improvised 1-2 bar riff coming in and out of the chorus to mark each change.
 After hearing the verse and chorus twice, most bands add in one quick, unique section to change the song up. This is called the breakdown, and there is often a solo, different lyrics, or a slow drop and build back to full energy or tempo. They are usually slower, either building up power or leaving room for another instrument to play by itself. If you're struggling to write breakdowns, try to:


Play the verse or chorus at half-time.
Replay or change up the intro riff or melody.
Simplify the chords to the 1-2 most important ones, leaving space for vocals or a solo.
Drop out certain instruments, then slowly build them back in.
 Most pop punk songs begin with an intro, and they usually then follow this order: Intro, first verse, second verse, chorus, third verse, chorus solo and/or bridge, and then finish with the chorus again or outro. Though some songs will be different, this is the most common structure of a Pop Punk song.


Blink-182's "Dammit" is an excellent example. All you have to write is a riff for the verse, the chorus, and the bridge. when it comes to solos, they are usually very simple. Occasionally it's just the intro again, and in some cases there are no solos at all

, Pop punk is not about sitting back quietly. It is about brash, loud, youthful energy. All pop-punk songs should be played as fast as you feel comfortable, and maybe even a little faster. Once you've got the structure down, start thrashing.


When you play live, your number one goal is to have high, contagious energy. Quick songs make it much easier to get people jumping around with you.
It is rare for songs to go longer than three minutes. Many are even over before the two minute mark.
 Pop-punk, luckily enough, is easily adapted to other influences and ideas. Keep playing music of all types to learn new riffs and styles. It is the best way to make your own song unique. Common genres to blend with pop punk include:


Ska and Reggae (Rancid, Operation Ivy, Less Than Jake.
Country (Social Distortion, Lucero)
Swing/Rockabilly (The Misfits, Cobra Skulls).

