 There are 8 varieties: white, ruby, tawny, crusted, late-bottled vintage or LBV, single quinta, colheita, and vintage. Each port variety has unique characteristics to explore, and you can seek tasting events in your area to attend. You can also research the different types of port on the Internet or in books to help you decide which type to drink.


White is made from white grapes and can be sweet or dry. Ruby is made from grapes that span several harvests and is aged in wooden barrels for at least 3 years. Tawny is similar to ruby port, but it is aged for up to 40 years or more. Crusted is also similar to ruby, but does not go through the filtering process, which gives it a crust of sediments that develop in the bottle over time. Late-bottled vintage, or LBV, is made from grapes harvested in only 1 year and aged for 4 to 6 years. Single quinta is made the same way as LBV, but features grapes only taken from 1 estate, or quinta. Colheita is a tawny port, but it is made from only 1 year's grapes and from 1 estate. Vintage, considered the cream of the port crop, is a single-harvest port aged only 2 to 3 years and set to age unfiltered. The winemaker must determine that the harvest was exceptional, and that the port will be exquisite. Then, the winemaker declares that year a vintage, and vintage port is made. As a result, vintage port tends to be an expensive rarity.;
, If none are available, try looking on the Internet for a port wholesaler.
 The glasses will help you get the most from the experience. They should be standard Institut National d'Appellation d'Origine (INAO) tasting glasses, or you can splurge and purchase glasses specifically designed for port, which you can easily find through many Internet wholesalers.
 This allows time for the sediment in the bottle to sink to the bottom. Your port is ready when you are able to see a fine layer of sand-like particles on the bottom of the bottle.
 The older the port, the more difficult the cork will be to remove and the more likely the cork will break, since corks tend to dry out with age.
 Carefully and slowly pour the liquid into a decanter. When you reach the bottom of the bottle, stop pouring port once you spot the sediment enter the neck of the bottle. For best results, use a decanter that has a funnel so you can easily and quickly see the sediment before it escapes the bottle.
, Etiquette suggests filling each glass no more than half full.

