 Many people may not need a laxative to relieve constipation.Consider making lifestyle changes such as drinking more water, eating more fiber, or trying some gentle exercise. If nothing else has worked, consider a laxative. You should be especially cautious with combination laxatives.


Talk to your doctor or medical professional to see if laxatives are a safe choice for you. You should be especially careful if you haven’t used laxatives before.Watch out for stimulant laxatives because they can cause extreme abdominal pain and discomfort as they stimulate your digestive tract. Continuous daily ingestion of stimulant laxatives can cause hypokalemia, protein loss, and salt overload. These drugs should be used with extreme caution.
 Like any medication, laxatives come with risks. This is particularly true if you use laxatives in the longer-term. Understanding the potential risks of taking laxatives can help you take your chosen laxative in the safest way. Risks of laxative use include:Electrolyte imbalances.
Cardiac arrhythmia.
Weakness.
Confusion.
Complicating conditions such as appendicitis.Decreasing colon function.
 It’s important to read the dosing instructions of your chosen laxative. Take the amount suggested on the packaging and don’t exceed it unless your doctor tells you otherwise. Doing this can minimize your risk of side effects including making your constipation worse.Contact your doctor or ask your pharmacist if you have any questions about dosing instructions. Let either professional know the recommended dose and make sure it’s appropriate for your purposes.
 If you take your chosen laxative and don’t see results, look out for warning signs of potential problems. Noticing certain signs or symptoms of things such as dehydration or not evacuating your bowels quickly can ensure you get prompt medical attention and treatment.Observe if you have any symptoms of electrolyte levels or dehydration. These include: dry mouth, thirst, reduced urine output, and lightheadedness.
Pay attention to how long it takes to evacuate your bowels after a rectal laxative. If it takes longer than 30 minutes, contact your doctor right away.
Notice if you have any signs of kidney injury including drowsiness; lethargy; decreased urine; or swelling of the ankles, feet and legs. It is especially important to seek medical attention if you experience these symptoms after taking sodium phosphate laxatives.
Contact your doctor immediately if you have any rectal bleeding.