 Red balls are worth 1 point each. The remaining colored balls are worth an increasing number of points in sequence. Remember, these balls can be pocketed multiple times before the end of the game, which will help you quickly drive up your score. The fixed position of the colored balls means you should always have a clear shot at one, no matter where the cue ball is on the table.Players should either keep score mentally or have a pen and paper nearby to record the number of points earned after each turn.If the losing player’s score is so much lower that it’s impossible for them to close the gap by the time all the red balls have been cleared from the table, it’s customary for them to forfeit to the winning player.
 As you assess the table, make it your goal to sink a red ball that will leave you with a follow up shot at one of the colored balls. Keep in mind the value of each ball and go for the ball that will earn you the highest number of points whenever you can. Use an appropriate amount of power for each shot so that the cue ball comes to a stop as near as possible to the center of the table. This way you’ll always have an unobstructed path.The ability to use one shot to set up the next is the hallmark of a skilled snooker player.
 In general, it’s best not to take unnecessary risks. By staying composed and opting for modest, well-executed shots, you can keep your turn going longer, putting you in control of the table. Look over the entire table and determine what your best option is before trying to pocket a ball at a distance or angle you’re not sure you can make.The closest shot will usually be the easiest.
Avoid sharp angles or bank shots that require you to use the rails. The small size of the pockets makes it more likely that you’ll miss.
 Snooker tables are quite a bit larger than standard billiard tables, and, to make it even more complicated, the pockets are slightly more narrow. For this reason, you should always pace yourself when picking, lining up and taking your shots. Being hasty or getting overly excited about scoring could cost you the shot, and if you’re playing against an experienced opponent, one missed shot could mean the end of the game.


Regulation snooker tables measure 12’ (3.6m) long by 6’ (1.8m) wide, whereas most pool tables are only 8’ (2.4m) long by 4’ (1.2m) wide.Additionally, the pockets on a snooker table are about 1.5 (roughly 3.7cm) inches smaller than those on other playing surfaces.

