 Chemotherapy is often recommended for pregnant women who are in their second or third trimester. It is also good option if you have more advanced stages of cancer while pregnant. Chemotherapy can be given via intravenous and will be a mixture of several cancer fighting drugs.Your doctor may also recommend chemotherapy if your have had breast-conserving surgery and they want to be sure your cancer does not return. You can get chemo in your third trimester or after you have given birth without putting your baby at risk.
 Before you agree to chemotherapy, make sure you are aware of the risks of the treatment by speaking in depth with your doctor. Chemotherapy is not given during the first trimester, or first three months of pregnancy, as it can put your baby at risk of health issues and increases your risk of a miscarriage. It is also not recommended within three weeks of your delivery date as it can lower your blood counts to dangerous levels, putting your baby at risk.Using certain chemo drugs during your last four to nine months of pregnancy does not raise your risk of birth defects, stillbirths, or health issues. Some women may be at a higher risk of early delivery if they have chemo in their third trimester of pregnancy.
 Radiation therapy on your breast or breasts while pregnant is not recommended, as it can harm your baby and increase your risk of miscarriage, birth defects, and childhood cancer in your baby. Chemotherapy is considered a safer option than radiation for breast cancer treatment while pregnant.You can get radiation therapy after your baby is born. Doctors recommend starting radiation right after giving birth so you have a lower chance of the your cancer coming back.
 Going through chemotherapy and radiation therapy can be a major challenge. To help you cope emotionally, try leaning on a support network of family and friends. If you have a partner, you may also rely on them for support and comfort as you battle the cancer.


You can also try doing different techniques to help cope with stress. You may do gentle yoga stretches that are safe to do while pregnant or do self-care where you take a bath at home or do an activity you find relaxing like reading, writing, or painting.
Another option is to join a support group for pregnant women who have breast cancer. Ask your doctor for a referral to a support group so you can connect to others who are experiencing many of the same feelings as you are.

