 If you are at a large festival, you're going to have people at your booth at all times. You need to be able to keep up with the demand. If you can't, you're going to lose business, and you may even get bad word-of-mouth. Hiring enough staff for the show will help you maximize your profits.If you're at a small venue, you should still bring along someone else to help. You may get a huge influx of customers, or you may just want a break to go to the bathroom. Having someone there to relieve you can be a huge advantage.However, you also need to consider the cost of the workers. That is, if you have too many paid people there, it's going to cut into your profits. It may take you a few shows to figure out the sweet spot for the number of workers you'll need for each type of show.
 When thinking about vending a festival, you may be tempted to look at just the booth price. However, that's only part of the cost. You also need to think about travel expenses, set-up costs, and time spent away from other jobs. All those factor in to the cost of selling at festivals.For instance, if you're going to a 3-day festival that's out of state, you'll need to spend $50 or more on gas, $50-$100 on food, $300-$500 in hotels, $10-$40 in parking and toll fees, as well as the money you spend on the booth. You may also need to rent a truck or car to cart your wares.
 While it can be tempting to get angry at a rude customer, it's usually just best to ignore them if possible. Getting angry can backfire, as it will not only drive off the rude customer, but it will also drive off other customers who are nearby. You may also get bad word-of-mouth based on the interaction., It can be tempting to just take cash at festivals. For one thing, it's simple. It also means you aren't hit with any extra fees. However, most customers expect to be able to pay a variety of ways, particularly since cash is becoming less common. Offering credit cards as a payment method will help you keep customers at your booth.Luckily, all you need to take credit cards these days is a smart phone and a swiping device from one of a number of companies, such as Square or PayPal.
 After every show, count up what you made, and see how much profit you're actually making at each show. You don't want to keep doing shows if you're essentially losing money. Don't forget to count all relevant expenses.Remember, not all the money you make from the festival will be at the festival. You can also make money by generating new customers, who peruse your wares after the festival. Also, you'll generate good word-of-mouth if customers like your products. Keep that in mind as you think about profits.

