 Caffeine is great to wake you up in the morning. However, it can also keep you up at night. Stop drinking caffeine within 4 to 6 hours of going to bed to reduce the chance of it keeping you awake at night., Nicotine keeps you awake, so quitting smoking is a must if you want better sleep. Also, your cravings may be keeping you awake or making you more restless at night., Certain medications can keep you awake, such as antidepressants and asthma medications. Ask your doctor if your pills could be keeping you up, and he or she may be able to help rearrange your medications for more restful sleep., Studies show that exercisers tend to sleep better. However, the actual act of exercising wakes you up because it releases cortisol into your body, so you should exercise earlier in the day to sleep better., To help you sleep, don't try to eat a huge amount just before sleeping, as problems such as indigestion can keep you up. Try to eat larger meals at least a couple of hours before going to sleep., Your body likes routine. If you go to bed every night at the same time and wake up at the same time everyday, your body knows when it needs to get sleepy and when it needs to be awake. Stick to your schedule even on weekends, and you'll have more restful nights.One way to keep yourself on schedule is to set an alarm or reminder to tell you to go to bed. That way, you won't stay up past your bedtime without noticing.If you're having trouble getting enough sleep, try going to bed a little earlier every night until you're getting the recommended 7 to 8 hours of sleep., When you go to sleep, you need to keep out all light from your bedroom, including any sunlight or streetlights. Try light-blocking curtains to block out outside light, and cover your bedside clock to block out its light., Turn off radios and televisions, but also remove items that cause minor noises, such as your laptop computer if it tends to make any kind of noise. If you can't keep out the noise, put in earplugs to drown it out., While your kitty might like to curl up at the foot of your bed, a pet's nighttime movements can wake you up. If you find yourself waking up often because of your pets, you may need to shut them out of your bedroom., That is, power down your screens about an hour before you go to sleep. The lights of electronic devices keep your brain alert, rather than letting it shut down for the night., If you lay awake thinking about who you need to call or what you need to do tomorrow, trying writing a few notes about it before bed, including a plan of action. That way, you can let your mind relax and go to sleep.