 This technique requires four pieces of cord with good flexibility, since you will be braiding together multiple strands, so you need to ensure whatever type of rope material you use is flexible enough for you to work with. It will be hard to get a tight braid with something that is too stiff.


A four-strand braid is a good choice for a high-friction use, such as in winches and pulleys.Ensure that each strand is fused at the end, either by melting the end of a synthetic rope, or by tying or taping a natural rope.The extra strand over a three-strand brand should make the rope thicker and stronger.
 For this braiding technique, you will need to knot or fuse together four strands of rope. There are a few different ways to do this, but the easiest is to simply tie a knot joining four pieces of rope together at one end. You could also secure them with some electrical tape or gaffer tape.You can work with four separate pieces of rope, or you could bend two pieces of rope in half and treat the two ends of one piece as two strands, thereby giving you a total of four strands.
You can also use eight strands of rope as long as you work in bunches of two, essentially treating two strands as one.
For the sake of this tutorial, the four strands will be labelled as A, B, C, and D. Strands B and C are the centre two strands.
 Cross strand C over strand B. Wrap C around B so that it first crosses over B before eventually winding underneath it and back to its original position in the cluster.


When you are finished with this step, the ends of all four strands should still be in the same order they were in at the start.
The order should be A, B, C, D., Bring strand A over strand B. Do not cross A over C. At the end of this step, the order of the strand ends should be B, A, C, D., Pass strand D underneath strand C. Bring it up from the other side of C and pass it over Strand A. Do not cross D with B.


At the end of this step, the order of the strand ends should be B, D, A, C.
You have completed one braiding block at the conclusion of this step., Follow the same pattern used to complete the first braiding block down the length of the rope until you make the braid as long as you need it to be or until you are nearly out of rope.At the start of each round, re-label the strands as A, B, C, D according to the order they are now in.
Wrap C around B.
Bring A over B.
Cross D under C and over A.
 Once the braid is complete, you need to join the four strands at the finishing end of the rope. You can fuse them together or create a knot to hold them in place.