 To make vegan eggnog with almonds, you need water, one cup of raw almonds, one cup of shredded, unsweetened coconut, pitted medjool dates, one teaspoon of nutmeg, and half of a vanilla bean. The vanilla bean section should be about five inches in length.The amount of water you add depends on how much nog you want to make. Adding two cups of water will produce 1.5 cups of nog. Adding three cups of water will produce about 2.25 cups of nog.
 Pour water over the almonds so that it covers them. Set the bowl aside overnight. Placing the almonds in water allows them to soften and makes them easier to blend. It also increases the digestibility of the nut and increases your ability to absorb the nutrients within., Place the coconut in an even layer on a baking sheet. Check on it every three minutes until it is golden brown. The process will usually take about ten minutes. Remove when done and let cool.
 Pour the nuts into a colander and place it under running tap water. Run your hands through the almonds, rinsing them for about twenty seconds. Turn the tap off and give the colander a shake to help it drain.
 Add the nuts, vanilla bean, two or three cups of water, soaked dates, toasted coconut, and nutmeg to a blender. Pulse the ingredients for ten seconds, pause briefly, then pulse for another ten seconds. Set the blender on high. Blend everything for about one or two minutes, until smooth.


If you wish, you can hold off on adding the nutmeg until after straining the mixture.
You could also choose to soak the dates in warm water for one hour before adding the to the blender. This will draw out their sweetness.
 Place a nut milk bag over a mixing bowl or large pot and pour the blended mix slowly into the bag. The bag will filter the pulp and leave you with smooth, tasty nog in the bowl.


If you did not add the nutmeg when blending your ingredients, you can whisk it in now.
If you do not have a nut milk bag, you could use a cheesecloth or a mesh strainer. These alternatives will allow more pulp into the final product, though.

