 Don’t be afraid to involve the people you care about in your goals and plans. Be open and honest about the proposed path forward, or simply let those around you know what factors in your life have diverted you from your studies. Keeping these emotional and mental problems bottled up makes them feel unmanageable, and talking to others about some of your issues will show you that you’re not the only one struggling.If you don’t feel as if you can discuss your issues with loved ones, set up an appointment with a counselor. Almost all universities offer free mental health services to their students.
 Making a connection with a mentor that you respect can help you feel less isolated, and also hold you accountable for your studies. Don’t worry about being a nuisance – it’s part of your advisor’s job to guide you through the process of picking a suitable program and navigating through to success. Ask their advice on your plan and have them look over your calendar.
 The more you procrastinate, the more daunting your workload will seem. Stick to your study plan and be sure to complete tasks on time so that you can move on to the next one worry free.


Seek help from your college writing center or go your professor’s office hours if you’re worried about completing a specific assignment. Getting help from experts will make the work seem less frightening and more doable.
 Keeping fit and eating healthy foods promotes good brain activity. The Freshman-15lbs is typically caused by a high calorie diet and lack of exercise, making you sluggish and tired. Join a club sport, take a fitness class, get plenty of sleep and fresh foods.


Make plans with a friend to go to a fitness class followed by a healthy meal. A workout buddy will help hold you accountable and make healthy choices more fun. , Though it’s healthy and normal to explore different social opportunities in college, becoming involved in campus-drinking culture or drug use can lead to negative personal and professional impacts.


Do not participate in binge drinking. When you’re of age, having a few casual drinks with friends or going to a party is a great way to socialize and release stress. Binge drinking, on the other hand, is an unhealthy practice that can lead to depression and lack of motivation.
Choose your friends carefully. Surround yourself with people who share your lifestyle choices. Don’t let yourself be peer pressured into illicit activities that hinder your academic and emotional potential. , College is a time for self-exploration and preparing to create a meaningful life for yourself. In addition to your academics, take some time to reflect on who you are, your guiding principles, and what you hope to achieve in the world. Be yourself, and don’t let anybody else dictate who you are or who you think you should become. You are enough just as you are.

