 Before you report immigration fraud, take a moment to write down all the facts you know, including details of any incidents you've observed in chronological order.Since you may be filing your report over the phone, writing down the factual details you have can help you ensure the accuracy of what you're telling the agent.
The most valuable information includes identifying information about the person you suspect of immigration fraud, such as their name, address, and date of birth or approximate age.
Keep in mind that the more information you have about the person, the more likely immigration agents will be able to find and investigate the situation. Without much to go on, the person won't be identified and the fraud will likely continue.
If you observed any specific incidents, write down as many details of those incidents as you can recall, including the date, time and location where the incident happened.
 For some types of fraud, such as abuse or misuse of Canada's temporary foreign worker program, you can file a report online at the Service Canada website.Online reporting can be easier because you have time to compose your message and double-check your facts before you submit your report.
If you file a report online, any identifying information you provide will be kept confidential and not released unless you provide specific consent for authorities to do so.
However, you don't need to provide any identifying information at all and can remain anonymous.
 For most types of citizenship fraud, you can file your report by calling the Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) Call Centre and speak to an agent.The IRCC Call Centre number is 1-888-242-2100. Automated service is available 24 hours a day seven days a week.
However, if you want to speak to an agent and report immigration fraud, you should call Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. (your local time), excluding statutory holidays.
Citizenship fraud relates primarily to people who pretend to live in Canada to become a citizen, or who hid information about their case so they could gain citizenship.
For other types of immigration fraud, another number may be more helpful to get your report to the right agency that can do something about it.
For example, if you know of immigrants who are not paying taxes, you can call 1-866-809-6841 to report that type of fraud. If you know immigrants who are trying to hide assets offshore, you can report that activity by calling 1-855-345-9042.
 Provide all factual details you know about the fraud, including names and locations or any other information that may help identify the individuals involved in the fraudulent activities.Provide as many specific details as you know, but don't worry if there's something you don't know – even if it seems important.
Depending on the content of your report, the agent may have questions for you. Answer them as best you can, but feel free to say you don't know if they ask something about which you don't have information.
You typically can remain anonymous, but it may be important to your report to identify yourself or your relationship to the person you're reporting – especially if you want the agency to keep your identify confidential.
 While you typically won't be able to find out what happens as a result of your report, if you learn any new information you should call the same number you used to file your original report and tell an agent about it.If you were given a report number when you made your initial report, you should give that number to the agent who answers so that your new information can be connected to your initial report and everything is all in one place.
Take care not to go out of your way or put yourself in danger to learn new information. The agency will investigate based on the information you provided.
If you gave contact information, an agent involved in the investigation also may contact you with questions.

