 Double-click on the program to launch it. It can be accessed from the Start menu or from the shortcut on your desktop.;
, From the header menu, click the “Add books” button from the far left.
 A dialog box will appear with your Windows file directory. Navigate through the folders and select the eBooks you want to load with Calibre. Click the “Open” button to add the selected eBooks.


You can select various file types or formats of eBooks.
 All the added eBooks will be listed and categorized in the middle section of the software.
 From your Calibre library on the middle section of the software, select an eBook by clicking on it. It will be highlighted.
 Right-click on the selected eBook, select “Convert books,” then select “Convert individually.” A conversion screen will come out with your eBook’s settings and data.
 Before Calibre can do the conversion, you have to define the file type or format of the output file. Select the output format from the drop-down list defined by the Output format field on the upper right corner.
 Click the “OK” button on the lower right corner to start the eBook format conversion.
 When the conversion is done, you can now view and read the eBook in its new format.


Do note that layout and formatting may be different compared with the source eBook, as some features are lost during the conversion and some others aren’t fully supported or compatible with the new format.
 Get your Kindle, Kobo, Nook, or whatever device you use to read eBooks.
 Use the appropriate cable to connect your eBook reader to your computer.
 Calibre will detect and scan your eBook reader. It will be able to recognize the most common eBook readers available, like Kindle, Kobo, and Nook.
 Select the eBook you’d like to send to your eBook reader. Right-click on it, select “Send to device,” and then select your eBook reader.


Calibre is smart enough to determine the file type or format supported by your eBook reader. It will convert the selected eBook into a compatible format and send it to your eBook reader.
 Once the eBook is sent to your eBook reader in the supported or compatible format, you can now read the eBook from there. Refer to your eBook reader’s user manual.