 A personal injury attorney is different from other types of attorneys because of their experience and expertise in a specific area of the law. If you have been injured due to someone else's negligence, or if you have allegedly injured another, you will want an attorney that knows how to handle your case. Personal injury attorneys often have:


Trial experience (whereas real estate attorneys may not);
Negotiation experience;
An in depth understanding of medical diagnoses and processes associated with personal injuries; and
An in depth understanding of negligence law and other torts.;
, When you begin the process of choosing a personal injury attorney, you will want to understand what makes a lawyer good. With the following list in hand, you can begin searching for lawyers that meet your criteria.



Location. You will need to find an attorney who is licensed to practice in the state that you were injured.

Focus of Practice. Just like doctors specialize in certain areas of medicine, lawyers usually focus their practice in certain areas of the law.For example, if you have been injured by a defective product, look for an attorney that specializes in negligence cases involving defective products.

Reputation. Look for a lawyer with a positive reputation in your community.

Years of practice. Find an attorney that has been involved with cases similar to yours for a long time.

Disciplinary record. Always look at an attorney's disciplinary record and see if they have ever had a complaint filed against them and whether they have ever been suspended or disbarred. You can find this information online. For example, in California, you can go on California's state bar website, type in the attorney's bar number, and see any and all past transgressions.Trial experience. While not all cases go trial and most settle out of court, you will want to hire an attorney who is not afraid of a trial.

Winning record. Look for an attorney who wins cases. This may seem simple enough but there is a reason some lawyers win and others lose. Often, an attorney who loses a lot of cases is doing so because he or she is doing something wrong (e.g., not filing properly, not interviewing witnesses, and not following up with judges and opposing counsel).
 Once you have a checklist of what makes a good personal injury lawyer, you will want to ask friends, family, neighbors, and coworkers if they know any good attorneys. You should start the process by looking for personal referrals because these are the attorneys who usually have the best reputations and are trustworthy.


You should not simply take a personal referral and immediately hire them. Go through the rest of the process and do more research on the referrals you do get.
 Try a simple Google search and see what you can come up with. Try to use this method in combination with other methods to get the best results.


If you are going to do a Google search, try using as many keywords as possible in order to get the most relevant responses. For example, if you are looking for a medical malpractice plaintiff attorney, search for "medical malpractice plaintiff attorneys in ." Look at the attorney's website and get a feel for what they do and who they are. An attorney's website will often have background information on the lawyer including areas of expertise, years of practice, and examples of successes. Looking at a lawyer's website will also give you a good idea of what type of law firm they practice in (e.g., is it a small or large firm, does the firm only specialize in one area of the law or do they have different attorneys working on different topics).
 If you do not want to use Google, try some of the specific websites that are out there for the sole purpose of linking you up with a good attorney. Be careful when you use a website because some of them are simply commercial directories that will advertise any attorney that pays a fee.Try using lawyers.com. When you go to this website, start by typing in the type of attorney you are looking for and the city and state in which you will need this attorney.Once you do this, a list of attorneys will show up and the site will provide you with rankings, phone numbers, websites, and other general information. Pay close attention to the ratings because they will indicate how others in the community have judged the services of a particular lawyer.
Another option is to use nolo or findlaw. These websites allow you to search for lawyers as well, although they do not have the same extensive rating system as . Try finding an attorney through nolo or findlaw and then searching for them in lawyers.com in order to see their rankings.
 When you use the phone, contact bar associations and law firms. Talking to someone on the phone can help you get more specific information and may give you a better idea of someone's demeanor.


Call your state's bar association. They will often have a specific number available for their lawyer referral services. For example, California has a specific phone number, posted on the California state bar website, meant for consumers looking for an attorney.Call your county's bar association. Just like state bar associations, a lot of county bar associations will offer phone numbers for referral services. Going through a county bar association may help give you a lawyer candidate who is geographically close to you. For example, Contra Costa county in California has a referral service, and their number can be found on their website.Call law firms. Do not hesitate to call a law firm and ask questions. This is a great way for you to get personalized answers to your questions and to get a good idea of what the law firm and lawyers are all about.
 Now that you have done the initial research, make a comprehensive list of your top candidates you would like to know more about. Try to make the list a maximum of about 10 lawyers. The more lawyers you have on your list, the more time it will take to follow-up and the less you will have digging into each lawyer's specifics.
 Before meeting with your top candidates, prepare a number of focused questions that will give you the answers you need in order to choose the best attorney for you. Use the following questions, and any others you feel are appropriate, when you sit down for an initial consultation:What is the statute of limitations for my case?
What are your areas of specialization?
Have you taken on cases like mine before? How many? What were their outcomes?
Are you the only attorney that would be working on my case? If not, who else will be working with you?
How long do you expect this case to take before it is resolved?
What is your fee structure? Will you take my case on a contingent fee basis? If so, what is your percentage? If not, what is your hourly rate?
How will you keep me informed of my case's progress?
How often do you go to trial in similar cases?
Have you ever been disciplined, suspended, or disbarred by any ethics committee or state bar association?
Does your law firm carry insurance?
Will you follow my wishes as to how I want the case to proceed?
How confident are you in my case? Do you think I have a good case?

, Before meeting with an attorney for an initial consultation, write down and know as many facts of your case as possible. One thing an attorney will do in an initial consultation is ask you about your case so he or she can gauge its likelihood of success. Be as detailed as possible and do not leave out even the most minor facts. Having documentation relating to your case is also extremely helpful. When you go in to have an initial consultation, the attorney may want to see any or all of the following:


Medical documents, including bills, diagnoses, and test results.
Arrest records, issued citations, and toxicology reports.
Professional opinions from experts in fields such as crash site reconstruction.
Pictures you or someone else took of anything from the scene of the accident.
Written statements of anyone that witnessed anything at the scene.
 After preparing a list of questions you want to ask your candidates, knowing the facts of your case, and gathering as much documentation about your case as possible, you will want to contact each attorney and ask for an in-person consultation. While most initial consultations are free, some attorneys may charge a fee.Be sure you ask about the lawyer's consultation fees before agreeing to sit down.


Be aware that sitting down for an initial consultation does not mean you have to hire the lawyer.Hiring a personal injury lawyer is a big, and often expensive, step.Feel free to sit down with as many candidates as you need to in order to find the right one., Once you have sat down with all of your top candidates, think about how each consultation went and decide if you need to follow-up on anything with any of them. If you do, call them back and ask your follow-up questions.


For example, maybe the last attorney you had a consultation with said something the first attorney did not bring up. But maybe the first attorney had a better track record with your type of case and had a better personality. Call the first attorney and bring up the concern you heard from the other attorney.
 Before you make your final decision, think about each candidates personality, credentials, and positivity. You are going to be spending a good amount of time with this person, so you want to make sure it will be a rewarding experience. The ideal candidate will make you feel comfortable, will be available to answer any questions you may have, will have outstanding credentials, and will have a positive outlook about your case.
 Before hiring your ideal personal injury lawyer, understand how their fees work. You will know each attorney's fee structure because you will have asked about it during your initial consultation. Look over or think about each attorney's fee structure in detail before making a final decision. Each attorney is likely to charge you differently and you need to make sure you feel comfortable with the choice you make.


For example, most personal injury attorneys will not charge an hourly rate, but will instead take your case on a contingent fee basis.This means the lawyer will not take any money up front but will instead collect his or her fee once the case has reached its conclusion. The average contingent fee rate is about 1/3 of a case's winnings.This rate may be more or less depending on the lawyer you talk to. Make sure you understand how each lawyer's fees will work and feel comfortable with the amount being asked for.
 Once you have done all of the above and thought about your options, hire the personal injury lawyer you think will best represent you. Once you contact the attorney you want to hire, make sure you receive and sign a written fee agreement. This agreement will spell out exactly what the lawyer will be doing for you and how much he or she is going to charge for those services. Read over it carefully before signing it. Once you have hired your personal injury lawyer, make sure he or she files your case on time and does their due diligence.

