 This is especially true for seasonal products. If you want to save the most money, buy winter coats and boots in the spring and swimsuits and summer wear in the late fall or winter. Buy school products about a month or so after school has started, and holiday products just after the holiday. Other clearance should be determined on a case-by-case basis. Remember you’re not really saving money, if you’re buying a lot of things on clearance that you won’t use or don’t need.For instance, a great time to stock up on wrapping paper is just after Christmas.;
, You can go to price comparison websites, and for common items such as video games or DVDs, you can go to sites like Amazon and Barnes and Noble to see what they're selling for on there. There are sometimes big sales that come once or twice a year like Black Friday or Cyber Monday. These are the times to research a good bit beforehand if you know you want a certain item for less.


Research what the products are going for online, and how much similar products are going for. Doing so will save you money when you don’t opt to buy the video game system that hasn’t been discounted enough to meet your budget, or when you can get one more cheaply online., Oftentimes you’ll get a better deal on Craigslist, or other online classifieds, because many people just want to get rid of their stuff and don’t mind selling it for less than half its retail value. Overstock is also a great resource for finding cheaper products. Again you’ll need to do cost-comparison research before buying, but it can be worth your while to surf Craigslist or Amazon before buying a product in-store. This is especially true for bikes, appliances, furniture, and exercise equipment.Be careful of your safety when buying products on sites like Craigslist. Never meet a seller alone. Go during normal daylight hours. Avoid secluded areas.Don’t forget to browse the “free” section on Craigslist occasionally.
 This is especially useful for saving money on furniture, tableware, and clothing. Often items will be even cheaper than they are on online classifieds, simply because people often want to get rid of their stuff. Try moving sales for the best prices on furniture and large appliances. Shop later in the day or the second day of the sale to get the lowest prices, but be aware that the selection will be smaller then.Be sure to check for damage, and if possible for electronics, ask if you can test it. For clothing, ask if you can try it on.
Typically, you can't return something to a yard sale if it doesn't work or you don't like. People aren't obligated to buy the product back from you.
 These stores often carry products at very reduced costs. They may not be as cheap as at a yard sale. Typically the clothing will cost more at a thrift store than at a yard sale, but furniture prices can be equivalent or even cheaper.If you really want to save money, avoid the boutique or “nicer” thrift shops, as they will often sell products at only a slightly discounted cost. However, if you’re looking for designer wear, these may still have the discounts you’re looking for., Coupons are available everywhere from newspapers and magazines to downloadable ones online. However, be sure to only collect coupons for things that you need, you won’t save money if you use coupons to buy things that you wouldn’t normally use. You'll want to compare prices between brands before you assume a coupon saves money.