 of what you need to get done, and when. Also, write down the essential stuff-what needs to be finished first. This will instantly help you clear your head and give you a solid idea of what kind of situation you are in. It'd probably be better to draw this list up on the computer, as you may be correcting or adding to things.;
, You might have a list, but you can't just start attacking your homework right away. No doubt you may be busy with other things-school activities, family outings...set some time/s for yourself when you know you'll be free and uninterrupted.
 Before you sit down for your homework session, make sure you prepare for it. Make sure you have all the tools required-pencils, pens, erasers, rulers, books...and make sure that people know you shouldn't be disturbed. Taking the time do this beforehand will not only give you extra time, but ensure that the session is less stressful.
 Don't put the session off, and don't let yourself be distracted. Avoid anything that may steal your attention. This includes the TV, cell phones, gaming devices, computers (unless you need it) and anything that you know may disrupt your homework session. Try not to think about anything else, but to focus on what you need to do.
 If your hand is shaking, you're sweating all over and your temper is short, you aren't going to get through things very fast, and the session certainly won't be an enjoyable one. Calm down. A relaxed, focused attitude will help you get through your homework faster, and prevent any other problems-such as distracted mistakes-from occurring.
 That doesn't mean you should be talking to somebody on the phone and have the T.V on the whole time. However, to have an effective homework session, you don't have to be strict. Have some snacks with you, and a drink. If it doesn't distract you, having a pet in the room can relax you more-or de-stress you. Take breaks regularly to avoid straining yourself.
 In future, make sure you are always on top of your homework, and that you are always prepared for something unexpected to happen. Hand your homework in on time and try to have regular homework sessions instead of just letting it all pile up.

