 Keeping your face clean is a large part of the razor bump battle. You want to keep bacteria at bay and also keep the top-most layer of your skin fresh.


If you're shaving (...which you shouldn't be doing on the bumps), use warm water to soften the hairs and loosen the follicles. Cold hair just tightens up your skin and won't do you any favors.
 Do this twice a day, in the morning and at night. There are a solid half a dozen products on the market to choose from, and all should be of similar quality. A quick visit to your local drugstore (Wal-Greens, CVS, Boots, or Waitrose) should be all you need to take.If you'd rather look for something that may already be in your bathroom cabinet, a hydrocortisone cream or other antibacterial cream can help lessen inflammation and redness, too. Retin-A cream works as well., Against the grain may feel like it results in a closer shave, but shaving with the grain will keep the hairs aligned. When the hairs are aligned, they're less likely to curl up and become ingrown.
 Avoid putting chemicals like alcohol, or treatments that contain alcohol, on the shaved area. Your skin is super sensitive at this juncture, so it's best to use non-perfumed, no-alcohol substances. Read the label if you have any doubt.


Go for one that's super moisturizing. Choose an alcohol, fragrance and oil-free moisturizing lotion to make sure the skin doesn't get irritated. According to the department of Dermatology of the Langone Medical Center, products that contain salicylic or glycolic acid are the most effective in treating razor bumps. These ingredients clear the pores, moisturize and prevent infections.
 If desperate times call for desperate measures, you do have more permanent ways out. Consult a registered, experienced dermatologist for more advice on the matter.


Depending on your hair type and how much hair you'd like removed, laser hair removal may not be as expensive as you think it is. A session for just the neck could be as little as $150. It may be worth looking into!

