 In case you have to evacuate your home for any reason, you should have an emergency kit packed with the necessities for your cat. This way, you can just grab it and be ready to go with your cat.You should include things like travel water and food bowls, a supply of your cat’s food, a bottle of potable water, any medications your cat may need, medical records, and a small litter pan with litter.
You will also need a pet carrier to transport your pet. You might want to consider putting all of the supplies in a box inside the pet carrier when you are not using it. That way, all of the things will be together and you’ll know where to find it when you need it.
 In case your cat gets lost, you’ll need a current photo of it. Even if you have quite a few examples on your cell phone, it will still be helpful to have an actual printed copy that you can show to rescue workers.Try to bring several copies of several different pictures.
Make sure the photos are current and accurately reflect what your cat looks like.
 In case you have to evacuate your home, you’ll need to go to a place that allows all members of your family – including your pets. It would be helpful to call some of the motels and hotels in your local area ahead of time to see what their pet policies are.Keep a list of hotels that allow cats with your emergency kit so that you’ll already be prepared and know where to go if an emergency were to actually happen.
 Most cats will not go willingly into a cat carrier, especially not when they are already stressed out. The best way to get a reluctant cat into a carrier is to place the pet carrier on its end with the opening facing the ceiling. Hold your cat gently underneath its front legs, with your other hand under the cat’s bottom. Then slowly lower the cat into the carrier.This method should help keep your cat’s legs and claws away from the edges of the carrier, which they often use to prevent you from pushing them inside.
After you have lowered the cat in, lock the door and lower the carrier into its correct position.

