 The most important celebration of the Passover week is the seder, a festive meal, which is usually held on the first night of Passover. The seder plate plays a central role in the Passover celebration. It consists of six symbolic foods, plus three pieces of matzah which will be placed on a separate plate. The six symbolic foods are:The Bitter Herbs. Traditionally this would be horseradish but parsley, green onion, or celery can also be used.
The Paste or Charoset. This is a mixture which represents the mortar used by the slaves to build the pyramids of Egypt. It is usually a mixture of apples, nuts and wine. A variety of recipes can be found online.
The Vegetable. This is a not-bitter, root vegetable such as a boiled potato. This represents the hard labor of the slaves.
The Shankbone. This is a shankbone, usually lamb or goat, which symbolizes the sacrificial lamb of Passover.
The Egg. A hard-boiled egg used to symbolize the offering made in the days of the Temple.
The Lettuce. This is usually romaine, which like the bitter herbs symbolizes the bitterness of slavery.
 This is a book which will contain the necessary prayers, as well as the procedures and story of Passover for the seder. It is a useful guide for how to perform the seder properly.


You can find a copy of the Haggadah in English online.
You can also listen to a recitation of “The Order of the Seder” online.
 This is a blessing said over wine in honor of Passover. Say the Kiddush blessing and then drink the first of four cups of wine.You can then pour the second cup of wine but do not drink it yet.
 Wash your the hands without a blessing. This is to prepare for the eating of the Karpas., This is a vegetable, usually parsley. Dip the vegetable in the saltwater and eat it.The vegetable is a symbol of the humble origins of the Jewish people. The salt water is a symbol of the tears shed due to slavery.
 Break the middle of the three matzah on the table, known as "yachatz". Return the smaller part to the pile. The larger part will be returned to the pile for the afikoman., Tell the story of Passover, which is the story of the Exodus of the Jews from Egypt. Have the youngest child ask the traditional four questions, and drink the second cup of wine. The traditional four questions are:"What has changed, this night, from all the other nights? That in all other nights we eat both chametz and matzah, on this night, we eat only matzah?"
"What has changed, this night, from all the other nights? That in all other nights we eat many vegetables, on this night, maror?"
"What has changed, this night, from all the other nights? That in all other nights we do not dip vegetables even once, on this night, we dip twice?"
"What has changed, this night, from all the other nights? On all other nights, we eat either sitting or reclining, either sitting or reclining. On this night, on this night, we all recline."
At the end of the Maggid, a blessing is recited over the second cup of wine and then the cup is drunk.
 This time, include a blessing. This is to prepare for the eating of the matzah., Recite the traditional blessing for eating bread, called the ha-motzi, over the matzos., Recite the blessing for eating matzah and eat a small portion of the matzah., Bless and eat the bitter herbs. These can be dipped in the Charoset., Make a sandwich of matzah, bitter herbs and charoset. Eat this., This is the big dinner. You can eat whatever you want (as long as it does not include leavening) but gefilte fish, matzah ball soup, and brisket are most common., This is when the afikoman, the piece of matzah set aside earlier in the meal, is to be eaten as a dessert. Traditionally, children will steal it earlier in the meal and hide it for the adults to ransom back with candy or toys.Another option is to have the adults hide the afikoman. Then, the children can be paid in candy or toys to find and return it.
 Say the after-meal blessing and drink the third cup of wine. Then, pour the fourth cup of wine for the prophet Elijah and open the door of the home briefly to allow him entrance., Recite psalms, bless the fourth cup of wine, and drink it.
 Conclude the seder with wishes for the next year, songs, stories, or expressions of affection and faith.