 Try to find something that looks small but has lots of space.;
, What items do you use (or find you need) frequently? Make a list of the items, or just gather them up in one place.
 Specifically, what do you need to have to go there and do whatever you have planned?

,


Evaluate how much makeup you use each day. If you wear makeup every day or go out a lot, you may want to put a makeup bag in your handbag, and make sure you have a small mirror with you. Otherwise, see if you can keep it to the basics.
Tissues and a hairbrush are always useful even if you don't wear cosmetics.
Would you use a toothbrush, toothpaste, or dental floss more often if you had them at hand all the time? Think about it; it really could improve your mouth health.
Mints. It's good having a pack of mints after you ate some garlic snacks or anything that smells.



Don't forget the hand sanitizer and a sanitary napkin or tampon. Always bring a second pad or tampon to change it. Many handbags have an inside zippered pocket where you can carry personal items discreetly. Or buy a little zipper bag for extra security.
If you buy a handbag without multiple compartments, it is very helpful to buy a small pencil bag or makeup bag to keep all your beauty products in inside your handbag. This way your smaller items such as lip glosses do not leak in your handbag or roll around to where you can not find them. Having this smaller bag creates more organization and creates easier access.
 Your local drugstore will have plenty of options for carrying your selection of medicines.


If you are prone to headaches or cramps, you may want to keep a small container of pain reliever in your handbag.
If you wear contacts, keep your case and eye drops in your handbag. Consider taking your glasses as well, in case your contacts fall out at a time when you can't put them back in, or if you can't find the fallen contact.
Carry any medications that you or your family will need in case of emergencies, such as asthma inhalers or injections to control allergic reactions.
Your handbag may not be the right place for a complete first aid kit, but you may still want to carry a few small basics, such as a couple of band-aids and some tweezers.
 Would you like a small, packaged snack or a hand-held fan for hot summer days? A paperback novel? A notebook and pen? A miniature craft kit or drawing kit? Go easy on items like these, and choose only the ones that are most important to you.
 Also, make sure the handbag contains keys for your house and car (though keys are always safer when kept in a trouser or coat pocket). The same goes with money--if you're going to carry money in your handbag, don't carry too much in case it gets stolen.
 If you like to read, could your books travel electronically in your phone or PDA without adding weight? It might be a good idea to bring a book instead of a Kindle in case your handbag is stolen. Could you carry a multiple-use object, such as a four-way pen or multi-tool? Can you carry just a few basic colors of makeup in one or two compacts and leave the rest at home?

, If you have a complete first aid kit, you need to take it out. Remember; it's just a handbag, not a suitcase.

