 When you arrive at your dance spot, turn to her and place your hands on her hips. She should put her hands either on your shoulders or interlace her hands together behind your neck.


Another option for hand placement: take her hand with your left hand and hold it off to the side, while your free hand can be placed below her shoulder blade on her back. Her right hand will be in yours, and her left hand should be on your waist, shoulder, or below the shoulder blade on your back., This will give your dancing a more coordinated look, and is simple to perform.Keeping your feet largely stationary, shift your weight back and forth to sway with your partner.


Leading, in dance, is mostly about connection and commitment. Maintain your sway to the beat of the music, think about your motions, and if moving your feet, direct your partner by applying slight pressure with your hands.
Following, in dance, requires you to read your partner and follow through steps initiated by the lead. If he holds his hand up for a twirl, try to follow the motion into a single controlled spin that ends back in default position.
 Sharing such closeness can be a vulnerable and exciting experience. Show her she has your undivided attention by looking deeply into her eyes, or leaning forward and telling her something sweet. Consider telling her:


Your dress is absolutely beautiful.
I've been looking forward to sharing this dance with you for a while.
I can't believe I get to dance with the prettiest girl in the room.
 Though a slow dance is a nice step toward a more romantic relationship, it's easy for you to get carried away in the moment and come on too strong.Try to avoid uncomfortable topics or any sexual suggestions, even if you feel the urge to. You don't want to give the wrong impression, or ruin your chances with someone you might have been a good match with.
 Leading on the dance floor does not translate to strong-arming. It's perfectly alright if she misses some steps; at this point, you're both still learning each others' style. If she voluntarily puts her head on your shoulder, this is generally an indication she's comfortable with more cuddly contact.


The closer you and your partner's bodies become, the more you will need to wrap around her waist, and she around your neck. If you are dancing cheek-to-cheek, your arms will almost completely wrap her waist, and hers should do the same around the back of your neck.

