 For this method, you'll need:


a lightbulb
a plastic straw
a plastic soda bottle, 12 oz
a knife or scissors
a pen
some tape or glue

, Think of them less as "holes" and more as slits big enough to push the straw through. You need to make sure the hole will be air-tight. If it´s not, roll some tape around the sides of the straw. Leave the other hole open.
 Leave yourself at least 3 or 4 inches (7.6 or 10.2 cm) of the neck of the bottle. You'll use this to attach to the light bulb, which will act as the vaporization chamber.


If you're concerned about BPA-related issues with smoking out of plastic, you can substitute any type of non-plastic tube into the bulb that fits. The stem of a small metal flashlight might work nicely.
 You'll need a sharp knife to carefully work around the "screw-in" end of the light bulb. Usually the groove used to screw in the bulb is a good place to cut. Be very careful.When you've removed the end, you might need to pull the rest of the metal off using pliers. It's soft metal and should tear easily. When you've removed the metal, extract the filament and interior components of the lightbulb, leaving you with an empty glass chamber.
 A typical soda bottle and a regular household lightbulb should have roughly the same size of stem, so it should fit almost perfectly. Using plenty of duct or masking tape, fix them together so that they create an airtight seal.
 After you've put whatever you plan on smoking into the lightbulb, screw your cap on. Feel around to make sure all the contact points are well sealed. Add some tape or a dab of glue if necessary.
 To smoke, cover the empty hole in the cap with one finger and suck through the straw as you gently heat the lightbulb with a torch lighter, rotating it to avoid scorching.


When the heat starts to release the vapors, you'll see not smoke exactly, but a kind of misty haze start to form in the bulb. Uncover the hole on the cap with your finger and breathe in through the straw.
Opinions vary about whether or not heating lightbulbs in this way is safe. Some bulbs have plastic liners the vapors of which would be dangerous to breathe, more dangerous than the carcinogens related to smoking plant matter. If you're going to use a lightbulb, make sure it's clean, clear glass, and change it out regularly.

