 Yes, your spouse is autistic - but that doesn't mean they're incapable of doing anything at all. While autism can cause notable difficulties with certain aspects of life (such as communication or executive function), autistic people are not toddlers or "trapped in their own world" and are capable of doing things such as holding down jobs and taking care of themselves. Just because some aspects of your spouse's life may be harder for them doesn't mean that you need to help them with everything. It's best to communicate directly with them about what they need help with, rather than "helping" without asking.


It's okay to offer help to your spouse if you think that there's a need for it, but just offering them help for no reason may come across as patronizing or rude. For example, "You look stressed out by the noise - do you want me to take over so you can go somewhere quieter?" is different than "Do you want me to take over?" with no real justification for it.
Your spouse is just as capable as they were before you knew they were autistic. Receiving an autism diagnosis doesn't reduce their abilities.;
, While your spouse's capabilities aren't necessarily limited, their autism may make them different from you in several ways. (These ways aren't "bad" or "wrong" - many of them are present in non-autistic people, as well.) Certain aspects of how your spouse perceives the world will be different because they're autistic. It's important to remember that this is normal for autistic people, and that your spouse isn't "weird" or "misbehaving". Seek to understand their behaviors, rather than change or reject. This will help strengthen your relationship.


Your spouse may not be as social as you are. Even if they are extroverted, they may need time away from social situations and require alone time. Focusing on what a person is saying, their tone and their body language, as well as dealing with other external factors (such as loud environments, flashing lights, etc.), can be exhausting for an autistic person.
Verbal communication may not be their preferred way of communication. Some autistic people require AAC of some sort, whether because they can't reliably verbally communicate, or because they lose the ability to speak when overwhelmed.
Eye contact is a common issue for autistic people; your spouse may either make too much or too little eye contact with others, and may be uncomfortable with eye contact. Autistic body language, which includes eye contact, is often different than the body language of non-autistics.
Speech processing may be difficult for your spouse, and they may be a literal thinker and not realize that someone is using sarcasm or making a joke.
Following rigid routines will be part of your spouse's life, and they may become distressed if these routines are interrupted. Autistic people can be spontaneous, but many prefer their routines.
Your spouse will stim, and sensory needs will be a consideration for everything they do. They may be hyposensitive and need extra stimulation, or they may be hypersensitive and require stimulation to be at a minimum. Sensory overload may also be a part of their life if they have trouble managing their sensory needs.
 Your spouse isn't suddenly a different person just because you know they're autistic, but they likely have some different needs than you do, and you may not be aware of all of them. Take some time to have a discussion with your spouse; ask them what they need from you, what their boundaries are, and if they have any specific sensory requirements that you weren't aware of. Your spouse may need things or require boundaries that you were unaware of; knowing about these will help to strengthen your relationship.


Try to get into the specifics, if your spouse wants to discuss them. You may already know that your spouse dislikes extremely flavorful food, but you may not know that the reason they don't eat certain types of food is because of the texture. The specifics can be a huge help when it comes to understanding and helping your spouse.
Be willing to make accommodations for your spouse. If they need a quiet spot in the house, let them make one (and help them, if you can). If they want spicier food than you do, and you do the cooking, be willing to give them ingredients that they can put on their food to make it spicier. You don't have to do everything for them, but at least be willing to help them get what they need to make themselves happy.
Make sure you have boundaries set for yourself, too. A healthy relationship has some boundaries on both sides of it.
 While being openly autistic is your spouse's personal choice, it's important for you to know whether your spouse is openly autistic, too. This is an option for your spouse that presents benefits as well as drawbacks, so let them decide. Then, when they decide, make sure you're aware, so that you know whether or not you can talk about their autism to others.


Unfortunately, autism is highly stigmatized, and some people will discriminate against your spouse if they know your spouse is autistic. It's possible that some of your spouse's family may even discriminate against your spouse. Be careful who you tell, if your spouse is okay with you telling.
If your spouse is not openly autistic, ask them before telling others that they're autistic. Blurting out that they're autistic is not a good idea.
You don't need to tell everyone that your spouse is autistic - to unconcerned strangers, they're your spouse, not your "autistic spouse". Chances are, if you're not autistic, you probably don't go around saying "I'm not autistic" when the situation doesn't call for it.
 Autistic people may have unusual fascinations with certain subjects, no matter how obscure, and can spend much of their time learning about these subjects. They may also have talents that they're extremely good at, which can range from the stereotypical math or science interests, to language or arts. Make your spouse aware of these, as these interests and talents will successfully increase their self-esteem and self-concept. Let them engage in "infodumps" about their special interests, too - you may learn many new things about your spouse's fascinations!


If you can encourage your spouse's special interests in a way that actively engages them with that interest, do it! For example, if your spouse has a special interest in cooking, help them to research recipes that they'll enjoy making, or buy them cookbooks.
Let your spouse have time to focus intently on things, whether or not those things are special interests. Deeply focusing can give your spouse time to unwind a bit.
 Stimming, which is often referred to as "repetitive, stereotyped behaviors" in medical jargon, is a behavior (such as hand-flapping, hair-playing, rocking, chewing, or making sounds) that helps autistic people regulate internal processes such as emotions and sensory feedback.Your spouse will most likely stim, and that's okay. While stimming may seem like signs of boredom, it actually helps many autistic people function in ways like focusing or expressing emotions.Stimming serves an important purpose in autistic people, so just because your spouse looks a little strange while hopping up and down doesn't mean that you should stop them.


Stimming should not be changed unless it causes harm to someone or something (your spouse included), or is inappropriate for the situation. Your spouse flapping their hands in public is not harmful or inappropriate, but using echolalia at the workplace could be a distraction to their coworkers, and a discreet, quieter stim would be better for the workplace without your spouse having to stop stimming.

Never physically restrain your spouse from stimming or tell them they can only stim in private. Even if your spouse's stim is harmful, don't grab them or shout at them to stop. Instead, gently ask them what they need, and help them to get what they need. (Self-injurious stims, for example, are often used to communicate distress or sensory overload, while destroying objects can indicate a need for sensory cravings.)

, Adapting to a neurotypical world can be difficult for autistic people, and it may take a toll on their self-esteem, especially since autism can be associated with what are perceived to be emotional and behavioral issues. In addition, autistic people may have mental illnesses such as depression or anxiety that make it even more important for them to be emotionally supported. Validate your spouse's feelings and make sure they understand that you're there for them. While your spouse may not know how to show it, they'll appreciate it.


You don't have to be available to your spouse at every possible moment, but if you can't listen to them at that moment, set up a time to talk later. For example: "I'm really sorry you're having a rough day. I'm more than happy to hear about it later, but I can't listen right now - there's a scheduled conference call today for work, and it's in five minutes. The call should be done in an hour. I promise you can talk to me then." Then follow up on it.
Make sure you have emotional support for yourself, too, especially if your spouse has a mental illness. Your spouse may be able to support you, but make sure you have friends and/or family that you can rely on for yourself, too.
 Autistic people are often considered "socially clueless", and may not have much understanding of how to interact in social situations. In addition, certain speech patterns or behaviors may cause their communication to be misinterpreted. They may feel awkward or confused during social interaction, and it helps to know that you have their back. However, be patient; learning about social interaction and everything associated with it (such as body language, tone of voice, facial expressions, and so forth) isn't an overnight process.


If your spouse says something that comes off as impolite or hurtful, pull them aside and let them know. Most autistic people don't intend to be hurtful, and will apologize and feel remorse when they discover that they've hurt somebody's feelings.
Your spouse is capable of learning what's considered socially unacceptable behavior (such as saying obviously mean things or refusing to apologize for hurting others' feelings). Being autistic is not an excuse to be intentionally rude.
 Rigid routines, stims, avoiding certain situations, and so forth have been developed by your spouse for a reason. Forcing your spouse to break their routines, change their stims, or engage in situations they want to avoid will not make them any less autistic or teach them how to act neurotypical - at best, they'll just be upset and worn out, and at worst, they may have a meltdown or shutdown, or be driven into sensory overload. Let your spouse make the choice to try new things or break out of their comfort zone - it's not okay to force anyone, autistic or not, into a situation they don't want to be in.


The only time you should encourage your spouse to change something is if what they're doing is causing harm. Harmful stims, for example, are something that should be changed to avoid causing injury to your spouse or to others, and poor nutrition caused by sensory issues should be addressed to ensure that your spouse stays healthy.
 Self-help and self-advocacy resources can be hard to find for an autistic person, as many resources are aimed at parents of autistic children. However, resources for your spouse are out there if you know where to look. The Autism Self Advocacy Network, for example, has resources for autistic people, and wikiHow's articles cover a wide range of autism self-help topics (including parenting while autistic!). In addition, helping your spouse find a support group or a therapist for any emotional support can have great effects, and finding disability services and accommodations can help your spouse with the hustle and bustle of daily life.


You can be a resource for your spouse, too. Taking care of chores that your spouse can't handle (e.g. vacuuming or using chemical cleaners) and encouraging them to find ways to remind themselves to do self-care tasks can be a great help.
 Autistic people are different from non-autistic people in many ways; none of these differences are "bad", because all of them help shape your spouse into who they are. Unless something your spouse is doing is causing harm to themselves or others, there's nothing wrong with what they're doing. It's okay for your spouse to be who they are, and it's important for you to show them love and support with all the ups and downs that come with being autistic.
 With the increasing amount of autism diagnoses these days, you probably have heard of autism and believe that you have some idea of what it is. However, if what you know about autism comes from non-autistic people or the media, your knowledge may be incorrect. Autism is:


A lifelong neurological disability.
Different for everybody. Some may be hypersensitive to certain sensory stimulation, while others are hyposensitive and can require a lot of sensory input. Some struggle with executive dysfunction or speech problems; others don't. The signs of autism are varied among people.
Part of what shapes an autistic person's personality and lifestyle. Autistic people have notable differences from non-autistic people, which help to form the autistic person's personality (just like a non-autistic's personal likes and dislikes would form their personality).
Suspected to be genetic.While being autistic may not always "run in the family", there does seem to be a genetic aspect that comes into play.
A disability that was formerly divided into multiple diagnoses. Prior to the DSM-V's release, there were multiple "types" of autism, such as "classic" autism, Asperger Syndrome, and PDD-NOS. With the release of the DSM-V, the diagnoses were "compressed" into Autism Spectrum Disorder, as the distinctions between them were unclear. However, not everybody has stopped using Asperger Syndrome as a diagnosis, so you may hear some people talking about being diagnosed with Asperger's or calling themselves "aspies".
 If you received most of your information about autism from non-autistic people or the media, you might have some information incorrect. Additionally, some non-autistic people will spread rumors about autistic people that causes autism to be viewed in a negative light. When looking to understand autism, make sure you understand that autism is not:


A lack of empathy. While some autistic people can suffer from a blunted empathy response due to alexithymia,plenty of autistic people are perfectly capable of empathy, and often actually feel things very deeply.Alexithymia can cause an autistic person to have trouble identifying emotions(and therefore, sometimes not notice when someone is upset), but they aren't ignoring anyone's emotions on purpose.
Curable. Autism is a lifelong condition.Your spouse's autism will not "go away".
A destroyer of families. There are plenty of happy families in which the children or the parents (or even both!) are autistic.
A sentence to eternal sadness. Autistic people are capable of being happy and autistic at the same time.
Caused by vaccines. There is a common misconception that autism is caused by the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine, which was based on fraudulent evidenceand has been discredited many times.Anti-vaccination logic has also caused outbreaks of diseases that had become almost eradicated.A mental illness. Autism is a disability, but it's not a mental illness. Autistic people can be mentally ill as well as autistic, however.Correlated to an increased risk of violence. While it's possible for autistic people to get violent, just like any other person, there is no conclusive evidence that autistic people are more likely than the general population to become violent.If an autistic person is acting aggressive, they're doing it because something is wrong,and this aggression is not premeditated., Autistic people may have lopsided development of certain skills, but they're not incapable of doing anything. An autistic person will become more capable of performing skills as they get older, whether it's with speaking, socializing, self-care, or so forth. Don't think autistic people will "never" do something just because they're autistic; the only way to know if they'll be able to do it is to watch them learn at their own pace.
 There are many things you can pick from to read about autism, whether it's medical documents or illustrated books or wikiHow articles. Finding sources that explain what autism is can help you to understand the more technical side of your spouse's needs and behaviors.
 While writing about disability can be tough, sources that are aimed at autistic people have a much different tone than sources that are aimed at non-autistics. Autistic-friendly sources don't necessarily have to be written by Autistic people in order to be helpful, but Autistic people are the ones who are directly affected, so their views should be the main ones you're seeing. Generally, an Autistic-friendly source will:


Use identity-first language (e.g. "autistic person", rather than "person with autism")
Involve the Autistic community and actively encourage them to share their voices; non-autistics will not speak "in place" of Autistics
Acknowledge that autistic children will grow into autistic adults, and that autism doesn't "go away" as a person agesRecognize that autistic people are not just nonverbal white male children (and acknowledge that diagnosis is often harder for femalesand people of color)
Use the color red (for #RedInstead), or use a rainbow
Not use a puzzle piece, "Light It Up Blue", the color blue, or anything that is associated with Autism SpeaksNot talk about "curing" autism, as many Autistic people don't want a "cure", Discussing disability can be hard for non-disabled people, since the meaning of words can easily change over time, and what you thought was the proper term may not actually be the proper term. Looking for information about what the Autistic community prefers to hear will help you know how to refer to autistic people (as well as other people with different disabilities, in some cases) respectfully.


Using the phrase "autistic person" is preferred due to the connotations that comes with saying "person with autism"; the latter implies that someone's autism isn't a part of them and can be "removed", as well as imply that autism is bad or some sort of disease.Some people do prefer to be referred to as a "person with autism", but unless you know for absolute certain that the person (whether or not they're your spouse) prefers this, stick with "autistic person".

Jim Sinclair, the Autistic coordinator of the Autism Network International, has an explanation as to why person-first language is disliked by the Autistic community. In addition, many bloggers who are either Autistic or connected to the Autistic community have expressed why identity-first language is so important.Autistic people (like other disabled people) are not "slow", "ret*rded", "handicapped", "suffering from" autism, or "a victim of" autism.Additionally, using "cutesy" terms for disability (such as "diffability" or "specially abled") is disliked by most people with disabilities, who argue that saying "disabled" should not be something to avoid.Drop the "high-functioning" and "low-functioning" labels. Autistic people have pointed out that with either functioning label, autistic people are dismissed; a "high-functioning" autistic person is too "high-functioning" to have their needs acknowledged, and a "low-functioning" autistic person is too "low-functioning" to have their abilities acknowledged.Additionally, these two labels are impossible to define,since autistic people all have good and bad days, as well as strengths and weaknesses.
 The best way to understand your spouse is to directly experience how autistic people live everyday life. Reading blogs and books, looking through the #ActuallyAutistic tag on social media, experiencing Autism Acceptance events, and generally hearing what Autistic people have to say will help you to view your spouse's autism a little differently - and will also open up a gateway to help you see how Autistic people view the world.


There are many autistic bloggers and writers, such as Amy Sequenzia, Emma Zurcher-Long, Lydia Brown, Cynthia Kim, and Ibby Grace. Reading what Autistic people write about their lives can help you to understand the viewpoint of your spouse and the Autistic community.
On social media, the tag #AskAnAutistic is a good resource for those who want advice from Autistic people about autism.
Unfortunately, Autistic culture does involve painful subjects from time to time, such as discussing the abuse, torture, or murders of disabled people. It's okay to not read about these things if you feel you'll be shaken up by it, but disability is not all sunshine and rainbows, and the Autistic community will acknowledge this.
The difference between an autistic person and an Autistic person is that an autistic person has been diagnosed as autistic, while an Autistic person accepts their autism as part of their identity and is part of Autistic culture.
 If there are none available to you where you live, look online for an interactive support group. These include ASD Vacations LLC, Autisable.com, AutismAsperger.net and TheAutSpot.



Avoid Autism Speaks. Autism Speaks is hateful towards autistic people, supports anti-autism eugenics, and excludes all autistic people from working with them.Autism Speaks (also called Autism $peaks or A$) has been described by autistic people to be a hate group disguised as an organization.Instead of supporting groups that support Autism Awareness, support groups that participate in Autism Acceptance, a movement that aims to work on raising acceptance of autism, rather than trying to stamp it out or look for a "cure".The Autism Self Advocacy Network (ASAN) and Autism Women's Network are run by Autistic people and support Autism Acceptance.
 Just like everything else in the world, there's plenty of misinformation about autism - some of which is spread without malicious intent, but some of which is intended to harm autistic people. Autistic-friendly sources will often point out places to avoid, and there are no hard-and-fast rules as to whether a source is automatically good or bad, but there are general agreements on what to avoid from the Autistic community. Keep the following in mind when looking for sources and information about autism.


Avoid looking at anything posted by Autism Speaks. As mentioned above, Autism Speaks has been described as a hate group, and has also been a massive contributor to silencing the voices of Autistic peopleand spreading misinformation(such as the MMR vaccine myth).
Don't trust sources that portray autism as a tragedy or disease, autistic people as burdens, sources that try to justify causing harm (or even committing murder) towards a disabled person, or support abusive "therapies" for people with disabilities. Disabled people are people, too, and they can understand when people say that they're burdens or not worth helping.
Remember the phrase "Nothing about us without us is for us". If the source of the information is coming from non-autistics or someone who does not have any connection to the Autistic community in some way, find a second opinion from the Autistic community.
Disability is not an insult, and a website using any disability as an insult is not reputable.
 Being autistic is different for everyone, and it shapes lives in distinct ways. Every autistic person is different, special, and worth having around. Be tolerant; autistic people are capable of being loved, and have many good things to contribute to the world, just like non-autistic people. Supporting an autistic person shows them - and you - that it's okay to be different.

