 Preferably it'll have a matching lid if you mean to save any for later. If it doesn't, you'll need to cover the top with a paper towel to keep the liquid from getting all over the place.






;
, The sugar and butter will not dissolve immediately. Once you have a uniform consistency, your bowl is ready for heating.
 Loosely though! You don't want any pressure to build up and the top be blown right off. You are bringing the contents to a boil, so make sure there's room for air to escape.
 This should take about three minutes for a single batch. Give it a quick stir and return it to the microwave.









If it starts to boil, take it out of the microwave and let it cool down for about 30 seconds. Then stir it and place it back in.
 Watch carefully to avoid boil-over. When the mixture begins to bubble and rise vigorously, stir well and continue to microwave fifteen to thirty seconds at a time until it becomes uniform and translucent (though not transparent in depth) rather than powder-cloudy.









Microwaves differ. Keep an eye on it -- regardless of how long yours takes, if your sauce is uniform and translucent, it's done. Call it quits when you need to!

, Serve hot and you'll just burn your tongue! Let it cool for a few minutes before serving. Check the temperature before serving to little children.









Keep the leftovers in the fridge in a resealable container to use for later; it'll keep for a few weeks.
 Do this in a thick-bottomed pan to avoid scorching this viscous (sticky) mixture that does not convect (distribute heat itself well).









Make sure the water is cold! If it's not, it won't combine well.
 Stir it more speedily as the mixture begins to thicken. That's the cornstarch taking action.
 Give it another stir to make sure the butter (specifically) is combined. When the mixture is uniform and translucent, it's ready.









Recipes commonly call for the flavorings only added at the end, but combining them initially may be fine too. The mixture only gets hot at the end and isn't kept hot, so just take care, as always, to avoid scorching by stirring well.

