 Never wipe your glasses when they’re dry. Even if they’re invisible to you, tiny dust and dirt particles are present on your lenses, and dry wiping will scratch them. Once your glasses are scratched, there’s nothing you can do to buff them out.It’s especially important to avoid dry wiping anti-glare lenses. Scratches are more obvious on anti-glare eyewear because they block out almost all light reflection, which helps to hide tiny scratches on eyeglass lenses., While ammonia (like Windex), vinegar, alcohol, and other solvents can be used on windows and stemware, keep them far away from your anti-glare eyeglasses. These cleaners can wear away or damage your anti-glare coating. Check with your eye doctor to make absolutely sure your eyewear cleaning solution is mild enough for your anti-glare lenses., Keep your glasses away from hot or cold temperature extremes. The heating and cooling can cause the anti-glare coating to warp and crack because it expands and contracts at a different rate than the lens. Don’t leave them out on the dashboard of your car. Always keep them in a case when you’re not wearing them, especially when toting them in a bag or purse. Try not to leave them out on your sink or vanity, since splatters from products like hairspray, perfume or cologne, and other cosmetics can damage or strip the anti-glare layer.
 Most people are guilty of exhaling on their lenses and wiping them off on their shirt. Your clothes are full of tiny bits of dirt, oil, cologne or perfume, and other damaging chemicals and particles. Further, the fabric itself can be abrasive for eyewear lenses, whether or not they’re coated with an anti-glare layer., It’s important not to be tempted to use saliva to wipe your glasses. Even if it seems quick and easy, saliva won’t get rid of the small particles that can scratch your lenses. Further, using saliva not only doesn’t work well, but there’s a slight risk that the bacteria in your mouth could cause eye infections, so be sure to practice good hygiene and avoid spit shining.