 A treatment plan should be tailored to your condition, physical and mental health history. It may use detoxification, behavioural or other counselling, medication, evaluation, and follow up treatment.A treatment plan should help you to stop using drugs, stay drug free, and live the life you want to live.Your doctor should ask you about substance abuse in a non-judgemental manner, and try to learn more about your quantity, frequency, duration, and route of administration of drug.;
, If you do not have an insurance plan, you can still find medical attention for drug rehabilitation. Finding medical help without insurance is more difficult but entirely feasible.Go to a community health care clinic. Community health care clinics offer services that are just as good as the private health care clinics.They have sliding scales so that you pay what you can afford.Find a cash based medical provider. There are doctors who work on a cash only system. Since they do not have to deal with the insurance bureaucracy, they can sometimes pass along savings to the customer.Use web based tools to find a doctor you can afford. For instance, you can use the OkCopay website to search for a doctor that meets your needs and price range., Consider the location, price, duration, and style of treatment at the facility. Some recovery facilities are focused on the spiritual aspects of addiction. A medical model is emphasized at other facilities.Look into whether your insurance policy covers drug rehabilitation programs.Rehabilitation can be difficult to get coverage for under your insurance. Talk to your insurance provider, especially if you have a dual diagnosis of psychiatric and substance abuse, which is common. If so, then your insurance policy is more likely to cover the costs.
Consider whether you need a place that addresses both spiritual and medical aspects of your condition., This form of therapy emphasizes the need to learn new skills and behaviors in the recovery process. Cognitive-behavioral therapy empowers the individual with effective ways of coping with the urge to take drugs. The skills learned during this form of therapy can be retained years after recovery has been completed.Behavioral therapy can also help you avoid triggers. It can help you cope with and avoid the people, places, and things you associate with taking drugs., There are many support groups for people who are trying to overcome drug abuse. People who participate in support groups are typically more likely to remain clean and sober.Cocaine Anonymous is a support group for people who want to get clean from cocaine and other mind altering substances. Check out a meeting in your area.Narcotics Anonymous is a support group for people wishing to recover from narcotics. The only requirement to join is a desire to stop using drugs.Nicotine Anonymous is a support group for people hoping to quit smoking and nicotine addiction.