 If you're there for your friend and listen to their stories and give good advice, but they won't return the favor, they are not real friends. This shows that they only want to talk about themselves and care less about you and what you want to say.;
, Notice how often your friend's friendliness increases whenever they want you to do something for them, and diminishes whenever they don't want you to do something for them.


For example, let's say you're going to have an awesome party next weekend. This person may start being nice to you and acting like your friend so you will invite them. Or they start being nice to you and then try to get you to do something you wouldn't ordinarily do.
This is a major sign that they only want to pretend to be your friend as long as there is something you can do for them, but not be your friend if they can't get something specific for their efforts. Realize that some people will only be your friend if you do something for them. Try to be aware of the fact that this person probably does not want to be your friend, and find someone better to hang out with who actually likes you for who you are.
 They will tell you all about the presents they received on their birthday or the wonderful time they had on their wedding anniversary. But when those dates roll around for you, either the false friend is nowhere to be seen or heard from or they will contact you after the date has passed and claim that they forgot all about it. This is definitely a

sign the person is interested in you only as a casual acquaintance, not a real friend., Maybe your friend calls you up to see a movie, but then cancels your plans at the last minute, or even worse only a minute or two after making it. This can be a major sign that the person does not want your friendship but only your companionship, and only when they can get nobody better to fill that void.
 This can be a major sign that the person does not care for you as a friend but rather as a source of entertainment - at your expenses, of course.
 A mean friend may try to take advantage of you or possibly push you around. Keep in mind that some friends make fun of you in a joking way, while others do it to lower your self-esteem. Realize what they are doing, and find someone else who appreciates you.
 If you write a superb piece of fiction they will accuse you of plagiarizing it from another source. Sometimes they will praise your work to your face, but you may discover they are making fun of it behind your back. Being two-faced is not a sign of a real friend.
 Some people want to surround themselves with perfectly-behaving people so that they will be perceived as being better than they actually are. It doesn't work, but lots of people for some reason believe that it does.
 This may mean that the person is talking to you out of boredom when they have nothing better to do, and does not actually want to be your friend. Also, if the person constantly leaves without warning or explanation, take this as a hint they do not want to be your friend, and need some better priorities.
 True friends respect the things that you like so, they would not want to change your field of interest. If you are a person that enjoys attending art galleries, museums, and going to musical theaters, then your friends should support that no matter what. If they try to make you go to rock concerts that are not enjoyable or go to movie theater with noisy people when you don't want to, perhaps they aren't a true friend.
 Real friends respect another friends' moral values. If you have very high moral values, then your friends should either share the same values or respect them. If you do not believe in having sexual intercourse before marriage, then your friends should respect and leave it at that. If they believe in "friends with benefits" and push it onto you, then you should leave them alone and find someone else that does not believe in that mantra.
 This means ignoring what you say, ignoring your presence, failing to introduce you when they're making introductions, they offer something to someone nearby but not to you, etc. Some people just like to talk about themselves and not care one bit about you. On the other hand, some people act super nice to you one day, but the next day they act as though they have no idea what-so-ever of who you are. What ever may be the case, you should think twice about being this person's friend if this is frequently occurring.
 If you find yourself to be in one or more of the above situations pretty frequently, it is time to start spending time with other people. Remember though that some people have differing personalities and it is usually a good idea to talk to someone about the situation before entirely scrapping your friendship, in case what you have judged to be a false friend is actually not.
 Friends may turn abnormal especially when they are out of work, so do not decide too soon. However, if they have been acting unfriendly for too long, they may have a hidden grudge.
 Did you fail to help them out or manage their expectations? There may be a clue there.
 If they are trying to change you in a way that makes them accept you, then don't waste your time on them.

