 If you live in a region that experiences cold winters, you'll need to remove and store lighter fabrics. Remove any linens or light cotton clothing items. For winter-appropriate white clothing, look for fabrics that are heavy, soft, and warm. Good choices include:Wool
Cashmere
Heavy cable knits;
, To create a comfortable and cozy winter white look, you'll need pieces of clothing that do a good job of keeping you warm. Go through your wardrobe and remove any items that are short-sleeved or expose a lot of skin. Instead, choose items that will wrap around you and lock in heat.

For example, look for insulated blazers in whites or creams. Try oversized sweaters or cardigans and even pick up turtlenecks.
 If you're going into the new winter season, it's a good idea to take stock of what you already have in your wardrobe. Chances are, you'll need to store items that are in unseasonable fabrics or styles. Look at what remains and ask yourself how often you wear each item. This will give you a sense of what you need to replace.

For example, if you're often on the go and usually wear comfortable slacks with layered tops, ensure that you have a few pairs of pants in winter white colors. You should also store any of the tops that are sleeveless or too bright.
 Since so much of a winter white look depends on mixing different items of clothing, it's important to fill your wardrobe with a number of winter white items. Keep in mind that you don't need to buy everything new. You can often pick up great vintage styles at thrift stores. Your wardrobe should have winter white:Blouses or button-down shirts made of heavy materials (like flannel)
Sweaters or cardigans
Jackets or coats
Jeans or slacks
Skirts (that you can pair with thick stockings for warmth)

, Avoid simply choosing items that are pure white. Wearing pure white is difficult because it will make you look one-dimensional. Instead, choose clothes that are varying shades of white and even cream. Cream can soften a look and add interest. You can also look for clothing items in these colors:Gray
Camel
Tan
Blush

, You won't want your winter white look to match too much or look forced. To create a natural style, you'll need different textures. This will also help break up the pieces, if you're wearing all one shade of white. Try to include faux-fur, ribbed fabrics, heavy fabrics, and billowy silks that you can layer.Avoid cotton or linen fabrics since these can wrinkle easily. They're also lighter fabrics which are usually reserved for spring or summer wardrobes.

