 Pregnant women do not menstruate during the course of their pregnancies. If you miss a period, that is usually the most obvious indicator that you are pregnant. Nonetheless, you can miss periods for other reasons, such as stress or even overexercising.If you don't already, get in the habit of keeping track of your menstrual cycle so that you can better detect a late or missed period.
All you need to do is mark when you start and end your period on the calendar. That way, you can see how your cycle generally runs. There are also mobile apps that make it convenient and easy to track your cycle.;
, Because of the hormones released in early pregnancy, you may notice some changes in your breasts. They may swell slightly or be somewhat sore to the touch.You may also notice that your breasts feel "fuller" or heavier. Your nipples may feel swollen, painful, or tingly., You may have spotting when the newly fertilized egg attaches itself to the wall of the uterus. Implantation usually happens within a week to a week and a half after fertilization. This symptom can last for about 3 months.Spotting is usually lighter in color than your menstrual blood.
 You may also notice some cramping early on. Mostly, these should feel like they do when you have your period. However, if they are heavy or if you notice that they are pinpointed on one side of your body, it can be a sign of a complication. Call your doctor if you suddenly experience severe cramps., Many women feel extremely tired in the early stages of pregnancy. This symptom is usually attributed to increased progesterone levels. It may also be caused by the fact that your body is producing more blood to account for the baby. You may notice this symptom as early as 1 week after conception., Another early sign of pregnancy is frequent urination.When you become pregnant, your body produces more human chorionic gonadotropin, which is a hormone. This hormone, which is highest in the first few weeks you are pregnant, pushes more blood to your groin area. In turn, you need to go the bathroom more., Hormones can do a number on your moods, just like they do when you have your period. If you are feeling extra moody, it could be a sign you're pregnant. This symptom can appear 2 to 3 weeks after you conceive., Another early symptom of pregnancy is feeling dizzy or lightheaded. Mostly, this symptom is caused by hormonal changes. However, it can also be caused by a difference in how much blood your body is producing., Sometimes, a headache is just a headache. However, an increase in headaches can be an early symptom of pregnancy, due to hormonal changes in your body., Morning sickness can strike early in a pregnancy. Despite its name, morning sickness doesn't just happen in the morning. You may have an upset stomach any time of day. Your may also experience some vomiting. This symptom can strike as early as 2 weeks after conception., You may start noticing you suddenly don't like certain foods or smells. It will come out of the blue, and you may have been just fine with them before. In fact, these foods or smells may make you nauseated., Often, you will find you are much hungrier if you are pregnant. If you notice you are eating more than normal and still find yourself hungry, you may be pregnant. Some women describe this symptom as a constant hunger., Sometimes, women experience having a metallic taste in their mouths. This symptom is especially prevalent in the early stages of pregnancy., Like food aversions, you may start craving certain foods. Of course, everyone gets a craving for a certain food every now and then. Nonetheless, pregnancy cravings tend to be more intense., Sometimes, you may notice you get out of breath more quickly in the early stages of pregnancy. Usually, this symptom is mild. However, if you do notice this symptom, it's definitely a sign you should see your doctor.