 There are professional appraisers for almost every item. When seeking an appraiser, choose a professional who is certified by the American Society of Appraisers, the Appraisers Association of America, or the International Society of Appraisers. Once the appraisal is complete, you will receive a written report discussing the item, the procedure used to value it, and the current value of the item.Costs vary greatly depending on the appraiser and the item. Some appraisers charge by the hour (anywhere from $200 to $400 based on their expertise), while some charge a flat rate.
Avoid working with an appraiser who charges a percentage of the item’s value.
In order to ensure a fair valuation, take the item to an appraiser before taking it to a local antique store or dealer. Unlike individual dealers, the appraiser will have no conflict of interest, since they are ethically bound from making an offer for purchase after appraising an item.
Bank managers or estate attorneys are often good sources to help find reputable appraisers., Many antique stores also employ professional appraisers. Contact your local antique store to discuss appraisal options. Appraisers should still be certified by a national appraisal board. They often offer insurance replacement valuations or fair-market valuations, but they also offer less-expensive services such as verbal-approximations.Prices for services vary based on location.
 If your item is a collectible which has well-established price guidelines (such as baseball cards), search online for a collectible dealer to assist in pricing your item. Search for someone who is certified by a national appraisal board for the fairest valuation judgments., Auction houses offer private valuation services for various fees (based on location).Occasionally, auction houses will offer a “valuation day” or “appraisal day” where they will offer free valuations for the general public. Contact your local auction house such as Sotheby’s or Christie’s for information on scheduled dates and procedures.PBS’s The Antique Roadshow is one such auction house which tours the USA and offers tickets and applications to have items appraised. Their website also offers online appraisals.