 Pain is an outward manifestation of the internally diseased body. A yogic approach focuses in correcting this root cause. The attitude of the mind will reflect in the attitude of the body as well. Hence, practicing yoga will correct the imbalance between mind and body and achieve greater pain relief thanks to a better mind-body sync.It is akin to cognitive behavioural therapy that aims at retraining the mind to curb its side effects that are ailing the physical form. If you're not already a yogi, give it a shot for your back!


"Shavasana" or the "corpse pose" is helpful technique where a person lies down on his back on the floor and consciously relaxes each and every muscle of the body from head to foot. This helps in decreasing the muscle tension. It works wonders as a natural muscle relaxant and at the same time rejuvenates the mind.
If the pain is due to a herniated disc, the "downward facing dog" pose will benefit where the person assumes an inverted "V" pose with the hips facing the ceiling while the heels and hands are grounded. This gives a good hamstring stretch. Tightness in the hamstring muscles exerts pressure on the muscles of the lower back; exercises that stretch and toning the hamstring muscles will release the tension on the underlying sciatic nerve.
The "half spinal twist pose" and its variations of a sitting twist and a standing twist work on the tight piriformis muscle by giving it a stretch and release. This helps in reducing the inflammation around the piriformis and its underlying tendons which help to release the trapped sciatic nerve between the muscle and its tendons.
 Along with yoga, breath work through "pranayam" can also be practised. It involves breathing in and out in equal counts; an offshoot of this technique involves inhaling through one nostril and exhaling through the other. The focus of "asanas" should be aimed towards healthy breathwork, too.
 The flossing exercise helps to break away the scar tissue that has built around the affected part of the nerve, thereby allowing the nerve to glide freely over the muscles. It's called "flossing" because of the release of the junk around your nerve, kind of like your teeth!


Begin in a seated position. The flossing is then done by gradually straightening the affected leg from the knee and allowing the tension to build up in the muscle to the extent that it can be tolerated. You want to flex your foot back towards you, so that the calf it tightened as well. This will work best for the peripheral nerve entrapments.
Studies have shown a good amount of evidence for the efficacy of exercises in relieving chronic/sub acute lower back pain.Another single-blind, randomized, clinical, controlled study showed that exercises may help patients with chronic and severe sciatica pain and may stave off the normally prescribed surgery., If the cause of your pain is a herniated disc, then doing the McKenzie’s extension exercises will provide great relief. The focus of these exercises is to centralize pain from the peripheral muscles and buttocks to the lower back.This exercise is begins by lying on your stomach with arms lying along your side and your head turned to the side. Then move your arms up towards your head while your raise your chest. You will plant your elbows alongside your chest, and continue to raise your chest, like doing a push-up on the floor.
A variation of this would be to put a pillow under your chest and gradually increase the number of pillows to two or three, whichever is comfortable, and stay in this position until it can be tolerated comfortably.
 In this case, relief is best obtained by doing flexion exercises. The diameter of the spinal canal increases by bending forwards or flexing. Thus, this exercise releases the pressure of the impinged nerve and gives relief.


This exercise can be done by lying on your back on the floor or mat and bringing the arms and knees close to the chest.
The other method to flex the spine would be to go down on the hands and knees and then come back on the heels and rest the buttocks on the heels.
All these exercises should be done under the supervision of a trained physical therapist to begin with, and once learnt can be practised at home. Doing these exercises regularly will prevent recurrence of symptoms.
If you find that your leg pain or numbness increases while doing this, stop and see your physician immediately.

