 How you write the letter will depend on your relationship with the recipient. Consider these guidelines:


If you're writing to a distant or elderly relative, or a social acquaintance, write a semi-formal letter. If that person has sent you emails before, you may email them as well. If not, a handwritten letter is a safer bet.
If you're writing a friend or close family member, an email or handwritten letter are both fine.
 The salutation you use will depend on your relationship with the recipient of the letter, as well as the formality of the letter. Here are some possibilities:


If you're writing a semiformal letter, you might use "Dear" or "Hello" as a salutation. Use the first name if that's how you talk to each other, or the courtesy title (Mr or Ms) if not.
If you're writing an informal letter, you can use "Dear" or "Hello," as well as more informal greetings such as "Hi" or "Hey." Follow it with the first name.
 Move to the next line and start writing. If you're writing a personal letter, start by asking after the recipient's well-being. This can be as formal as "I hope you are well" or as informal as "How's it going?." Imagine the recipient is in front of you; how would you talk to them?

, The primary purpose of a letter is communication. Let the other person know what's going on in your life, including the details. For example, don't just tell your grandma "Thank you for the gift" — show her that it means something to you: "My friends and I spent all night playing the game you sent me. Thank you!" Whatever the subject is, sharing information should be the focus of the letter.


Know what not to write. A letter written in anger or to solicit pity is probably not a letter you should send. If you've already written such a letter and you're unsure about sending it, let it sit for a few days before you pop it into the mailbox — you might change your mind.
 For informal letters, your close should reflect your relationship with the recipient. If you're writing to a spouse, dear friend, or close family member, you could use "Affectionately," "Fondly" or "Love." For a semiformal letter, you might find a better match with "Sincerely," "Regards," or "Best."


A very old-fashioned close fits into the last sentence. This was originally a formal style, but you can have fun with it when writing a light-hearted letter to a friend. For example, the last paragraph of your letter could read "I remain, as ever, your devoted servant," and then your name.
If you want to add something after the letter's written, use P.S, which means Post Script ("after the writing").
 Insert the letter in an envelope. Stamp it, address it to the other person, and send it on its way.

