 This is important, if you don't know much about the paranormal you can get yourself into something you never wanted to.;
, If you can chances are it wasn't paranormal. A good tracker is always skeptical and practical.
 this is where the local history books can come in handy. if you have no information at the start skip this step and do after you do get info.
 Not everyone has access to the latest in paranormal tracking devises so the following are things you should be able to attain easily. tape recorder, town history books, and above all common sense.
 they can be offended, or made a best friend. neither is recommended as if you offend it you can get hurt and if you get attached to it you can possibly prevent the spirit from moving on

, you should try to decide which one you have before you start your investigation so here is a list of phenomena that usually occurs with a few of these. ghosts: seeing a human figure walking around, talking from no source, doors opening of there own accord poltergeist: unusual stacking of objects, levitating objects, destruction of home, this is the type of thing that just enjoys causing problems imprint: the same things happening over and over at about the same time each time. an imprint is when a traumatic event took place in that area and it is imprinted into time so it plays itself back over and over again. negative entity: sickness in the family, scratching, malevolent noises, dark figures. these can be the worst kind of problem.
 it may be a good idea to keep a journal of these things. one of the most common things is that one of your relatives is trying to tell you something or is just coming in to see how your doing so thinking back can help riddle things out


If you have children in the mix, they are not to be completely out of this. Children are impressionable and can therefore be a target or something to communicate through. Ask your children about their dreams and tell them what's going on but leave out the scary things as not to panic them, they are a huge help.
 There are to many that are fakes just in it for the money to trust.
 set up a tape recorder and explain clear and simple out loud that the item on the table or wherever you placed the recorder is going to allow you to hear what they say to you at a later time. then explain how they should use it, by speaking into it directly. now ask a question, anything you need to know and wait a minute or so for ample time for an answer, continue this until you think you're done then play back the tape, louder if you can and try to listen for an answer. now that you may have more info you can go back to the history books, see if you can find any matches.
 now how is that possible?

