 Accidents are common. Your period may start unexpectedly or you may bleed more heavily than normal. Getting blood on your clothes can be embarrassing and make you feel nervous and uncomfortable. As long as you are prepared, you will be able to handle it.Keep a pair of pants and underwear in your locker or backpack. You may also ask your school nurse or guidance counselor to keep your change of clothes in their office.
You can also keep a shirt or jacket that you can wrap around your waist if you have an accident.
Also avoid wearing light colored pants and skirts when you are on your period.Accidents are easier to spot on lighter colors.
 Always keep pads and/or tampons with you when you are at school. Keep them in a plastic bag and store them in your backpack, locker, or purse. This way you will always be prepared and have your supplies with you.If you do not have pads or tampons with you, ask a female teacher or school nurse. They are used to dealing with periods and will be happy to help you.
Keep these items with you even when you are not on your period.
 Tampons and/or pads should be changed every 4-8 hours.You may be worried about changing your pad at school and feel like everyone can hear what you are doing in the bathroom.If you are worried about other people hearing you, stop. It's no one's business but your what you are doing in the bathroom. Be brave. Or, avoid going to the bathroom during busy times. If you are in the bathroom with other people, remember that there are a lot of noises going on in there. Changing your pad probably sounds louder to you than it does to everyone else.


If you need to excuse yourself from class to change your pad, go up to your teacher and say that you need to go to the bathroom for a "girl issue." Your teacher will know what you are talking about.
There should be a special trashcan in the bathroom stall for you to throw away your pad or tampon. If there is not, wrap up your used pad in tissue paper and throw it away in the trashcan outside of your stall.
You may also go to the school nurse and ask to use a single stall bathroom.
 You may feel all alone or different from your friends when you get your period at an early age. If you feel comfortable, you may want to tell a friend that you can trust. This person can be a source of support for you.


You do not have to tell your friends that your period has started if you do not want to. This is private information.
Be careful who you tell. If your friend gossips about other people, this should not be the person you tell. Find a friend that you have shared secrets and personal information with before.

