 Staging is done using additional scanning of the body with CT or PET scanning and a biopsy of the primary cancer lesion that was found. This is important for developing an individualized treatment plan. There are 4 stages of colon cancer: Stage I is limited to the bowel while stage IV has metastasized throughout the body, with stages II and III representing intermediate levels of severity without body-wide metastases.


Stages I, II, and III are generally treated with surgery as the first-line option.
Stages II and III may require "adjuvant" chemotherapy (chemotherapy to supplement the treatment following surgical excision of the cancer).
Stage IV is treated predominantly with chemotherapy, and occasional surgery is used as an adjunct (as an addition) to remove masses causing pain, obstruction (blockage of the bowel), or that are otherwise problematical.;
, The surgery is performed under general anesthesia and normally takes a few hours to complete. The affected section of your bowel (where the cancer is present) will be removed, and the lymph nodes in the surrounding areas will be examined by your surgeon to see if the cancer has spread to them.


If the cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes, this is a very good sign. It indicates that your cancer was most likely fully cured by surgery alone.
If the cancer has spread to your lymph nodes, however, there is the possibility of "micrometastases" - meaning small cancerous cells that have "escaped" into your bloodstream and pose a heightened risk for recurrence of your cancer down the road.
Your surgeon will inform you following the procedure whether or not your lymph nodes contained any traces of cancer.
The excised (removed) portion of your bowel will also be examined under a microscope following surgery, by a medical specialist called a pathologist. The pathologist is able to provide additional diagnostic information about the type of cancer you had based on the appearance of the cancerous cells under the microscope.
 This is called a "stoma," and it functions by attaching an "ostomy bag" to the outside of it to collect stool while the rest of your colon heals.


Using a colostomy bag (or "ostomy bag") can be a challenge both functionally and socially. For more information on how to use and change a colostomy bag, click here.

After your colon has healed, your surgeon may perform another procedure to re-attach the two ends of your colon and to get rid of the stoma. This is the preferable outcome as people can return to a normal life, passing stool through their rectum and anus as opposed to having to continue using a colostomy bag.
Some cases of colon cancer are more severe, however, and will require the use of a colostomy bag indefinitely. This happens when the section of diseased colon is larger, thus preventing the reconstruction of a functional bowel.
 The goal of adjuvant chemotherapy is to target any "micrometastases" (in other words, any small cancerous cells that are undetectable to the naked eye) and to "kill" them, so as to greatly diminish the chance of a future recurrence of your cancer.


Adjuvant chemotherapy is not necessary for stage I colon cancer, because stage I cancer is confined to the bowel and holds next to zero risk of having spread anywhere else in the body.
There is an online program called "Adjuvant!" that helps both physicians and patients to assess the possible risk of recurrence of their colon cancer, alongside the pros and cons of proceeding with adjuvant chemotherapy.
This tool can be extremely helpful in allowing patients to see the benefits and risks of proceeding with chemotherapy treatment, and to make an informed decision as to whether it is something that interests them.
 Unfortunately, stage IV colon cancer is technically "incurable," because it has already metastasized to other areas of the body. However, seeking treatment can improve your prognosis and expected lifespan, as well as decrease the symptoms you may be suffering from, so it is certainly worth discussing with your doctor as a treatment option.


The reason that chemotherapy is the primary mode of treatment for stage IV colon cancer is that the cancer has spread systemically (throughout your body), and therefore a "systemic treatment" (a treatment that travels throughout your bloodstream to all areas of your body, such as chemotherapy), is needed to have the desired impact.
Chemotherapy for stage IV colon cancer is often accompanied by surgery to remove any masses in the colon and/or elsewhere in the body. The purpose of surgically removing masses is to relieve any bowel obstruction, to decrease pain, and to potentially prolong your expected lifespan.
 The option that is best for you will depend on a number of factors. These include:


Your overall health, which determines your ability to "tolerate," or handle, a particular strength of chemotherapy treatment. This is because certain chemotherapy drugs can be too toxic for people with poor health.
Whether this is your first trial of chemotherapy, or whether you have been unsuccessful with other chemotherapy drugs. Generally, the least toxic chemotherapy drugs are used as a first-line treatment for colon cancer. However, with time, the cancer may become "resistant" to these drugs and they may stop working. At this time, you may need to switch which drugs you are on and try a second-line or third-line option to combat your colon cancer.
The specific type of colon cancer you have. There are certain subtypes of colon cancer that respond better to certain chemotherapy drugs than others. Your doctor can advise you as to how, if at all, this may impact the chemotherapy drugs that are best in your particular case.
Common chemotherapy drugs used in the treatment of colon cancer include: Leucovorin, 5-FU, Oxaliplatin, Irinotecan, and Capecitabine, among others., Common side effects when undergoing treatment for colon cancer include fatigue, "chemo brain" (a hazy brain where your thinking feels less sharp than normal), a rash, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, mouth sores, an increased risk of developing a fever and/or another infection (due to the toxic effect of chemotherapy on your immune system), and nerve pain, among other things. Fortunately, there are medical treatment available to help minimize many of these side effects, should you begin to experience them during your chemotherapy treatments.


You will see your doctor for ongoing visits and monitoring of any side effects throughout your chemotherapy treatments.
It is important to share the side effects you are experiencing with your doctor, so that he or she can offer you medications, if a form of treatment is available to help you to cope.
 It is, however, occasionally used in rectal cancer, oftentimes in combination with chemotherapy and/or surgery.
 The purpose of follow-up tests is to look for any possible recurrences of your cancer. The earlier these are detected (if there are any), the more effectively they can be treated; after having had colon cancer once, you are inherently at a heightened risk of having it again, so do not underestimate the importance of these appointments.


You will have received a full colonoscopy (an examination of your colon using a tube that is inserted through the anus with a video camera on it) prior to surgery to ensure that all polyps (cancerous lesions) were detected and removed at the time of surgery.
You will likely be advised to receive a follow-up colonoscopy at the 1 year mark, and every 3-5 years after that depending upon your risk stratification.
Your surgeon will inform you of the schedule for your examinations, and it is important to show up for each of them.
You should also see your physician for a physical exam, and to report any suspicious symptoms, every 3-4 months for the first 2-3 years, and every 6 months after that.
"CEA" stands for "carcinoembryonic antigen," which is a tumor marker whose variation may signify a possible recurrence of colon cancer. The absolute numerical value of your CEA is in itself not highly important. Rather, it is the variation of this number with time (and particularly the INCREASE of it over time), that indicates suspicion of a possible relapse.


Your "CEA" can be measured via a simple blood test.
Your doctor will take several measurements of your CEA (with several blood tests performed every few months) to measure how your CEA changes with time.
If the number remains steady, you are unlikely to have a recurrence of your colon cancer.
If the number continues to rise in significant increments, however, this may indicate a relapse of your colon cancer. Further investigative tests will be needed to check if your cancer has come back.
 If you had stage II or III colon cancer, a CT scan is recommended annually for 3 years following treatment. This is not necessary for stage I or stage IV colon cancer.

