 Take notes on anything from her fashion to the way she uses language. Afterward, sit down and read through your notes. Contemplate about how Leslie would behave every day.;
, Leslie has a very positive outlook on life and seems to always have a smile on her face, and a twinkle in her eye. Surround yourself with optimistic people like herself and this will help you maintain that happy attitude. Don't be in any hurry to grow up. Keep your inner kid alive!

, Practice writing imaginative things in your own time, or for school. Over time, you will begin to see this skill grow.
 Leslie is an outstanding runner; in the book, her run is described as beautiful. At her school, Larkcreek Elementary School, she took part in a running race and won against all the boys in her grade. Practice running everyday. In doing this, running should gradually become natural.
 Even though Leslie was the new student at Lark Creek Elementary School, she still managed to make herself a friend- Jess Aarons, her best and only friend, and also her next door neighbor.
 Jess, Leslie, and her dog Prince Terrain (a gift from Jess) would run down to the back of their properties into the woods everyday, where Leslie invented the magical fantasy kingdom of Terabithia. In Terabithia, Jess and Leslie would reign as king and queen. They would both swing across a creek on an enchanted rope to enter Terabithia, and they would play in an old tree-hut (aka- the Terabithia Castle Stronghold). Leslie dreamed up all sorts of mythical creatures. It was all imaginary of course, but in Leslie's mind it was quite real. The next time you and your best friend are hanging out, at school or at your house, try finding a special place to create your own imaginary world with a cool title. Just make it up as you go, like Leslie did. All the imagining will become easier the more you do it.
 When it comes to fashion, Leslie is all about originality. She loves to layer colorful clothes. There's no need for you to purchase a new wardrobe- simply work with what you have in your closet. Try layering a colorful print tee over a long-sleeve top, or capri pants and knee-high socks. You can go D.I.Y with these ideas, too. Got an old pair of canvas Converse sneakers? Decorate them with ribbons and jewels! What about a long-sleeve top with a print on it you love, but can't wear in summer? Chop the arms off and you have yourself a new tank top! Be creative; Leslie was all about being an original.
 When Jess first met Leslie Burke, he was surprised that Leslie wasn't one of those girly-girls. Surprisingly, she was a true tomboy. Try participating in more activities a boy would usually do. Climb trees! Participate in sports! Don't be afraid to show off a tomboyish demeanor!

