 Within your header you must include personal information like your name and phone number. Place this information into a header so that it appears on all of the pages of your resume (if you have more than one page). You should include:


Your name.
Address.
Phone number.
Email.
Link to social media profile, website, or blog (optional).;
, The first thing a reader should recognize after your identity yourself is the headline or title of your resume. Consider using the title of the position you are applying for as your headline and write it in all caps. Make it a larger sized font than the rest of the resume and consider making it bold. If you have not previously held this same title at a previous job, you can write “Qualifications for” above your headline. This allows your resume to stand out by speaking directly about your intentions to prove your qualifications for the position. Examples are:


MARKETING MANAGER
Or: Qualifications for MARKETING MANAGER

, Directly under your headline, write several essential skills that you possess that are needed to do the job you are applying for successfully. Separate each skill by using a “ / “. You can determine which essential skills to add here by evaluating your skill sets and reading over the job description to choose the most important qualifications. If you possess an essential skill that is needed to do the job successfully, add it here. For example:


Headline: MARKETING MANAGER
Directly under your headline: Strategic Marketing / Social Media Marketing / Search Engine Optimization

, After your headline and essential skills, you should write a short paragraph (called a summary statement) that briefly highlights your skills and experience. This section should be three to five sentences long and should highlight your most relevant skills, experience and accomplishments in relation to the job you are applying for. Be sure to use short, effective sentences when writing this section to tell the reader who you are and what you are capable of. Consider including the following:


A statement expressing who you are and your best soft skills that are relevant and essential such as “Motivated and results oriented”.
Your years of experience, key titles, industries and sectors. For example, “Sales Associate with over 5 years of experience in sales for the software industry”.
Notable awards and recognitions. For example, “Awarded Top Sales Associate in the western region”.
State education that is either of graduate level or above (such as MBA) and certifications that are essential or preferred by the employer (such as Six Sigma Black Belt).
Cite key accomplishments that are most relevant. For example, “Contributed to yearly sales growth of 25% year over year”.
 Below your summary statement, you should include a list of skills you possess that the position you are applying for also requires. Just as you have already listed a few essential skills in the beginning of your resume, you need to expand on this list by choosing the most relevant skills and qualifications needed to do the job that you hope to be hired for. Your skills section must:


Use bullet format with multiple columns. Choose professional looking bullets that go with your resume template. Examples of professional bullets are,,, , or -. So as to not have a long list of bullets on your first page, use 2 or 3 columns to keep your resume length shorter.
List skills using only one to three words for each. This will keep each skill easy to read and allow the reader to quickly scan through.
Contain no more than 15 skills. Although the length of someone’s skills list varies from job to job and person to person, it is suggested to keep this list from getting out of control. The more skills you add, the more likely the reader will naturally pass over some listed skills.
 Hard skills are skills that can be taught in order to do the job successfully. Soft skills are personal traits or attributes that can affect a person’s ability to perform tasks.


Examples of hard skills: lead generation and market research.
Examples of soft skills: problem solving and interpersonal skills.
 You should use the term “Professional Experience” when your career path thus far coincides with what you are applying for. You can use the term “Relevant Experience” if you are a recent graduate and using your education and projects as a way to show your ability to do the job. When listing your experience, use reverse chronological order with the most recent position listed first. It is also recommended to list only jobs held within the past 10 years. For each position listed try to include the following:


Write the name of the company, its location and dates you have worked there such as: ABC Company – New York, NY. June 2006 - Present
State your title held in bold on the line below such as Sales Associate.
Add a brief description below your title. The description should provide a general idea of your responsibilities you had at the job.
Highlight your accomplishments with a bulleted list of the most relevant information that will be appealing to the recruiter or hiring manager for the job you are applying for.
 You must list all relevant education completed or currently working on beyond high school. Do not add high school to your resume unless you are currently in high school. If you have completed or are enrolled in certification or training courses from a professional organization, include these in this section as well. When creating your heading only add the words that best suit you.


For example, if you have a college degree and completed a professional training course, but are not certified in anything, your title should read “Education & Training”. Just as with writing your experience section, use the following format:
Write the name of the university or company and its location such as: Santa Clara University—Santa Clara, CA.
On next line write the degree, course name or certification followed by the date of completion: Bachelors in Science Business Administration, May 2000.
 Although the following sections listed are not essential for every resume, some sections may need to be included in yours. Whether or not these sections are relevant will be determined by the type of position you are seeking and your experience. Again, if the job description mentions it and you have the experience, add it to your resume! These sections could include:


Awards. Awards that are significant to show your accomplishments such as achieving the President’s list, can be listed in this separate section.
Presentations. If you are applying for a job that requires you to be an expert on a certain subject or one of your main tasks will be presenting to other, add your experience with presentations in this section.
Publications. Add this section if you are considered an expert and have published articles or other documents on a subject which is key for the position.
Languages. Only add this section if you speak, read and/or write another language other than your native language and the position requires it.
Affiliations. Noting your professional affiliations and memberships shows your dedication to your career.
Community Involvement. It may be good to list any volunteer experience that shows you like to give back and describes your interests. This is especially true if you are applying for a job at a company that is involved in the community.

