 After Hamachi is downloaded and installed, open the program. Use the following steps to create a VPN (virtual private network) with Hamachi:Go to Networks > My Networks.
Click Add Network.
Give the network a name, type, and description (optional).
Click continue. Select an option for join requests — if you're playing with friends in a safe location, "Accept Automatically" is usually fine.
Set a password.
Follow the remaining prompts to create the network.;
, Once your VPN is up and running, get the other players (who should also have Hamachi installed) to connect. If you are using the free version of Hamachi, you are limited to five connections. Players can join the network via the Hamachi client itself or via the internet with these steps:Log in to your account at secure.logmein.com/.
Click the computer you want to access.
 Now that you have a functioning VPN, you need the right equipment to start an in-game server. Luckily, this is available for free from the official Minecraft site () from the "Download" page.


Installing the server files requires you to run the .exe several times. The first time, it will generate a "EULA" file in its directory — you will need to open this and change the "false" field to "true" to continue.
In addition, you may be directed to download the latest version of Java.
 Once the server files are completely installed, open the "server" file in the installation directory. You will see a variety of options. Use these steps to set up the server:


Look for the "server-ip" field.
Copy and paste your Hamachi IP address after the equals sign (you can find this by clicking the "Info" option under your computer in the Hamachi client.)
Save your file.
 Now, you are ready to host a game and have your friends connect to it. Open the game client, log in, and click "Add Server." Name the server and enter the Hamachi IP address you used earlier. Have the other players connect to this IP address.


You can also start the game, open the pause menu, go to the options/settings menu, and open the game to LAN connections. If the other players are on your Hamachi network, they should be able to see your server on the "Join Server" page.
Leave your Hamachi network running throughout the setup process and during the game itself.

