 Blushing is the involuntary rushing of blood to the face, usually brought on by social anxiety. Blushing causes redness and sometimes perspiration. Blushing is made worse by the fact that the face has more capillary loops and more blood vessels than other skin areas, making blushing in the face particularly visible.


Understand that blushing can be caused for no "social" reason at all. Most people blush when they feel uncomfortable in a social situation. Other people blush for no apparent social reason at all. This kind of unprovoked blushing is called idiopathic craniofacial erythema.
Understand that some people have a legitimate phobia of blushing, called erythrophobia. People suffering from erythrophobia may wish to seek out counseling as they try to overcome their fear.
 Find out when you blush. Is it when you're angry, or when you're nervous? Is it when you look at or think of a certain someone? Is it when you're put in the spotlight? Don't necessarily try to avoid whatever makes you blush, but try to condition your body to believe that there is no reason to blush when it comes along. This is the first step in beating the blushing.


Make a list of all the recent times you remember blushing, especially if you blushed social situations. Write the outcome of the social situation. Were you made fun of? Did people notice? In most cases, decent people don't think that blushing is a problem and don't point it out. And why should they? It's not something that you can control. Start understanding that blushing isn't always as important as you think it might be.
 Whatever you do, don't feel responsible for blushing. It is involuntary. Train your mind to understand that your conscious thoughts have nothing to do with this autonomic bodily response. You are not to blame, and you are not guilty of anything. If you let go of feeling responsible for blushing, there's a good chance you'll find yourself blushing less often.
 Not only is your blushing much less noticeable than you probably think, it's also helpful to remember that most people either find blushing to be cute or endearing. There are benefits to being a blusher. They include:


People who witness someone blush find the blusher to be more sympathetic, softening their social judgments of the person.In this way, blushing may help build better social bonds.
Researchers believe that people who blush are better at relationships, reporting higher levels of monogamy and trustworthiness., This does two things: your face will have a natural red hue that looks more "normal," and you'll lower your blood pressure so much that you could become effectively immune to blushing, based on how hard and long you work out, for anywhere between 30 minutes to 2 hours. Even if your redness from working out fades, this temporary immunity will continue.
 Prime your mind and your body to relax before the blushing sets in through meditation or gentle exercise. Feeling relaxed and in control could help you prevent blushing from occurring in the first place.


Try yoga. Yoga is the perfect mind/body exercise that will help center your thoughts and provide enough physical stimulation to get blood flowing throughout your body, not just in your face. Experiment with different types of yoga; there are dozens. Find the style that best suits you.
Try gentle meditation. Meditation can mean so many different things. One form on meditation that you can try is simply becoming aware of your body and shooting that awareness out to the very edges of your body, achieving a kind of release. Focus first on the thoughts in your head, and then gradually move your awareness to the edges of you body, until you are aware of your body as a whole.

