 If doing some actual camping is what you have in mind, your best course of action is to simply pay to reserve a small campsite for a few days. Renting a campground is usually pretty inexpensive, so you’ll still be saving time and money by taking your own car and packing minimally. You’ll enjoy designated restrooms and bathing areas, and avoid being hassled by police and other passersby, since you’re using the site for its intended purpose.In many cases, you can secure a campsite overnight for as little as $10-20.
Browse the internet for a comprehensive list of campgrounds in your immediate vicinity., National parks and forests make great places to stay if you happen to be nearby. Most national parks have laws in place that make it legal to camp or spend the night in designated areas as long as you abide by other ordinances, like not lighting fires or littering. It’s also a great way to be closer to nature and see the kind of wondrous landscapes that your destination has to offer.Look into whether camping is allowed in a particular park before stopping there.
 You won’t always be have the option of booking a campsite or be close to a national park. Should you get too drowsy to continue driving or find yourself with no alternative, pull off into the parking lot of a department store or super center and rest until you’re in good enough shape to hit the road again. These places are well-lit, patrolled by security and in range of restaurants and other resources. Management typically don’t mind when cars are left there overnight.Make sure your presence isn’t intrusive to business. Be courteous and leave right away if you’re asked.Pop into a superstore to empty your bladder, freshen up and replenish your provisions before you depart.
 Head to the far corner of a highway rest stop and snooze away. These welcoming establishments were designed to provide sanctuary to the weary and wayward. Even better, if you need a bite to eat, a stimulating cup of coffee or a trip to the restroom, you’ll be able to take care of all your basic needs in one place.Be on the lookout for rest stops on highway and interstate markers.
You can also use rest stops to take advantage of the opportunity to wash up, buy fresh supplies or charge your phone., When all else fails, you can always pull over for a few hours on a quiet stretch of country road, a gravel lot or unpopulated turn-off. Lock your doors and put up your window screens and be ready to set out at a moment’s notice. Because these places aren’t strictly meant for camping, though, it’s advisable not to hang around for too long. Rest up and be on your way.Make sure you’re far enough off the main road to remain inconspicuous and avoid being clipped by another vehicle passing in the dark.
In general, it’s unwise to loiter in isolated locations or in places where you’re not wanted. Only stop in an out-of-the-way spot if you have no other option.
Step away to discreetly do your business in the woods, or behind the cover of a bush or structure that offers some privacy.

