;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Longhorns come in a wide variety of colour patterns and colours, from black to white and everything else in between. Some will have white extending from their withers and their bellies all the way to their rumps and tail; others may be all white with black points in their ears, noses, and eyes. Some may be solid coloured, some roan, others a certain colour (black, brown, brindle, yellow, tiger-stripe, etc.) with blotches of white thrown hither-thither across their bodies.

Body type and characteristics: Longhorns are not as beefy or muscular as Continental breeds such as Limousins or Simmentals are, as most Texas Longhorn cattle have what's called a "funnel butt," or lack of muscling in the hind quarters. However, lately TL breeders have been putting more emphasis on muscling in the longhorn breed than in the past, resulting in bulls and cows having more muscling and beefiness than they were originally selected for having. TL's have short hair, and don't develop much of a winter coat during the colder seasons, making them less adaptable to the winter seasons of the northern USA and Canada. Longhorns are a relatively middle-sized breed, and do not get overly big. Most bulls will weigh between 1500 and 2200 lbs; cows only around 850 to 1300 lbs.

Head characteristics: All Texas Longhorns have very long and large horns, though they are longer in length than in diameter than the Ankole-Watusi. Horn length, from tip to tip, can measure over 8 feet (2.4 m) or more, depending on the age of the animal. Horns curve out and up from the head. Young cattle initially start with horns jutting straight out level with the poll of their heads. TL's also have smaller ears than most breeds, noticed mostly because their large horns make it seem so.

Other characteristics: Texas Longhorns, though "made in America," are actually the oldest breed and the original breed that came to America. They are descendants from the Spanish cattle that the Spanish conquistadors brought over in the early 1500s. Texas Longhorns, though very hardy on rough terrain with little highly nutritious vegetation, and in environments of hot dry and even humid weather, do not fare as well in the more northern climate where snow and temperatures often plunge (and stay) well below 0. Longhorns are quite docile when treated and handled right, and often require little in terms of supplemental feed because of their ability to be great forage converters. Longhorns have very little problems calving, are awesome mothers, and are relatively disease-resistant.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Texas Longhorns, and compare them with pictures of Longhorn cattle on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

