 Due to the variety of possible causes of this serious skin problem, there is a range of possible treatments that could be prescribed by your veterinarian.Unfortunately, antihistamines have a disappointing effect in dogs and most require either short courses of steroids, or one of the modern anti-itch medication now available such at Apoquel or Atopica. There are new products coming on the market all the time.,Use prescribed medication according to your veterinarian's instructions. Medication is used to control the itching and start the healing process.
 Flea allergy dermatitis is one of the most common causes of itching for dogs.Eliminating flea bites on the dog is often the first step to addressing your pet’s itching even if you don’t see any fleas. Dogs can develop an allergic reaction to the flea saliva that causes the dog to overreact with severe itching even if only one flea was involved.Flea control for your dog, all other pets in the household and the immediate environment must be implemented and continued on a monthly basis.
 The treatment for each mite differs. Serious cases of generalized Demodex may take months of treatment, whereas scabies is typically handled within a few weeks., Your vet will prescribe medication for the parasites.


Scabies can easily spread to other animals and humans. Steps must be taken to eradicate the infestation in the dog’s entire environment as well as on the dog and on any other pets that may be exposed to the infestation., Prescription shampoos are available from your veterinarian to manage itching as well as treat yeast and bacterial infections. These products may be used in addition to oral medication.


Over-the-counter flea shampoos such as medicated or coal tar shampoo risk further irritating open skin wounds. Consult with your veterinarian before trying any over-the-counter treatment on your dog.
Bathing is good for itchy skin, but don't use human shampoo. A mild oatmeal-based shampoo specially formulated for dogs may temporarily decrease itching. If your dog’s skin is abraded or infected, do not use any shampoo or topical treatment without talking to your veterinarian. You may make the problem worse by using an inappropriate product.
Don't over-wash your dog. A bath once a month is all most healthy dogs really need, and some dogs need even less frequent bathing. Bathing your dog removes oils from the skin. If your veterinarian prescribes a special shampoo, she will discuss with you the recommended bathing frequency for your pet’s condition.
 The first option for treatment for many moderate to severe cases of itching is the steroid, Prednisone, for the temporary relief of the itching. Decreasing the itch and making the dog more comfortable gives the skin a chance to heal.


Steroids do have side effects and need to be used carefully. Long-term use can lead to liver or adrenal gland problems.,, An antihistamine medication may also be used to quell an allergic reaction.There are many antihistamines available to try, and your veterinarian can recommend over-the-counter options as well as prescription ones.


No single product works for every dog, so an “antihistamine trial” will need to be started to find out which medication helps your pet the most.
Be aware that antihistamines may not help the super itchy dog, but they are often used after steroids have taken care of the initial problem so that you continue to manage the allergy symptoms.
 Your vet may use an antibiotic in combination with an anti-itch medication. This is because a secondary bacterial infection is common when the skin is damaged because of scratching.
 You can get a blood test or a skin test for your dog to help narrow down which pollens, trees, grasses, insects or molds trigger your pet’s allergies.Food allergies are best determined through food elimination trials., , If your dog is experiencing an extended bout of itching and scratching to the point of damaging his skin, talk to your vet to get a recommendation for a veterinary dermatologist. This person will specialize in skin ailments.
 Over-the-counter remedies such as medicated or coal tar shampoos, tea-tree and emu oil, and aloe vera are all part of a last ditch approach that owners will often try in the hopes that something will work. Consult with your veterinarian before trying any over-the-counter treatment on your dog.


Home remedies such as turpentine, petroleum jelly, mouthwash or vinegar should also be avoided. However, benign topical treatments such as green tea rinses and coconut oil may be effective for mild cases of dry skin with no signs of infection.
Your efforts to help your pet may result in making the problem worse for both you and your pet.

