 Is she outdoorsy or refined? What's her favorite color? Her favorite band? Book? Movie? If you can't answer these questions, you don't know enough about her. This is an easy fix: learn! Ask her if she's heard, seen, or read anything good lately. Pay attention to her mannerisms and likes or dislikes. Find common interests and build on them to learn more about her.;
, Sorry, guys, but usually smart girls like smart guys. Study a lot and work hard to be in honors or AP classes. This not only helps you be more attractive, but also you'll get the chance to hang out with her more, since there are usually fewer people in honors and AP classes and you see the same people throughout the day. Plus, it'll help you get a good job or get into college in the long run!

, Shower at least once daily, but twice is best - once before school and once before bed. Wash your body, your hair, and your face. Use soap with a clean, manly scent: try Irish Spring for outdoorsy girls, and Dove Men's for the more refined. For your face, try a cleanser suited to your skin type to keep your skin fresh and clean. Try to keep the acne and zits to a minimum with an anti-acne cleanser and a Salicylic acid or Benzoyl peroxide cream for spot treatment. Keep your hair clean and non-greasy with a good shampoo. Brush your hair and keep it nicely cut, but no gels or styling products are necessary.
 Watch the news or C-SPAN, read the newspaper or CNN - knowledge is power. Current events are great conversation starters ("Did you hear about that drought in Arizona? Wow!"). It's easier than ever to keep informed nowadays; get a CNN Update or NY Times app on your phone, which will send popup messages whenever something of note happens.
 Is there an independent film at your local movie theatre? Go see it! An Indie single on iTunes? Take a listen! See as many movies as possible and hone your taste in music and books. It'll help to make connections with girls, whether they like films, music, or books. Maybe you can even give her a few suggestions!

, Girls love a guy who knows his Shakespeare! Try memorizing a few of your favorite lines (or even a whole scene!) so that you can whip it out and impress a girl, should the opportunity come. Try purchasing a few of the classics at a bookstore like Barnes and Noble (now in hardcover versions, which look great on your bookshelf or out in public - she'll be sure to notice it). Charles Dickens, RL Stevenson, Mark Twain, Lewis Carroll, and Arthur Conan Doyle are all great classic authors.
 It's a fact: girls like kind guys! Be a good person overall - volunteer more, work harder, and be nice. Don't talk bad about people behind their backs; that's rude and catty, two very unattractive traits. Help out at the local animal shelter, tutor the kid in your math class who's having trouble, or show the new kid around.
 The way to a man's heart may be through his stomach, but the way to a woman's is through her funny bone! Even a bad joke shows a girl that you're at least trying. But remember: keep it clean! Entertain her with funny stories during lunch, or draw cute pictures on her notes during a teacher's lecture. That time you made her spray milk out of her nose? She'll remember it forever.
 "Nice guys finish last"? Nah, not really! Chivalry is alive and well. Pull out her chair for her, hold open the door, and be polite. She'll appreciate the attention! Always be kind and considerate around her parents and friends. Try not to use foul language, and never, ever make crude or vulgar comments. A lewd, loudmouthed oaf never gets the girl!

, Do you love movies? Are you a Harry Potter addict? Is travelling the world your dream? Whatever your passion is, follow it. A girl isn't worth giving up what makes you, you.

