 If a clinic only offers IVF treatment or pushes it more than other options, then you might need to look into other clinics that are open to all options. Less expensive options include timed intercourse or oral medications that stimulate ovulation, like Clomid.Many OB/GYNs can offer these treatment options, so you might want to start by getting these treatments done by them before you move to an infertility clinic.


Choose a clinic that offers male infertility programs as well. Your doctor will usually require a semen analysis from your partner before performing any treatments or giving medications. However, there are rare instances in which male infertility is discovered after the woman has been receiving fertility treatments. Starting out at a clinic that offers male infertility services or having your partner visit a urologist will prevent you from having to switch clinics if a problem is discovered later on.
 When choosing a clinic, you want to make sure all the doctors are board certified. Having board certification ensures that your doctor has the training and practice to perform the procedures. Make sure your doctor is certified by the American Board of Obstetrics, and has a certification in Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility., Scheduling an initial consultation appointment is a must. Think of this initial consultation as a job interview where you are the employer. It will allow you to get a sense of the fertility clinic’s services and their nurses and doctors. You want to choose a clinic whose doctors and nurses genuinely care about your outcome.Questions to ask your doctor are:What are some reasons for why my partner and I haven't conceived yet?
What tests do we need or do you recommend?
What treatment do you recommend and are there any side effects?
If your recommended treatment does not work, what is the next step?
Consider the impression the doctor or nurse left on you after the appointment. Did they make you feel hopeful, excited, and like a unique individual rather than a case? If yes, then the clinic might be right for you. If no, then explore your other options.

