 1983 was awesome. If you weren't there, know that it was awesome. You could practically go hunting in your day clothes you were so brightly-colored. Sunglasses were worn just so you could look at your friends' bright orange shoulder pads. Sadly the 80s are over, but you can bring them back with some bright plaid leg warmers!


They can either be a solid, bright color or several colors in a pattern. As long as they can't be missed, you're good. Magenta, lemon yellow, magenta and lemon yellow in a paisley pattern -- don those bad boys like you're being paid by Cosmo.
 Someone less in tune with fashion history would call this "overkill." But the 80s didn't have such a word in their vocabulary and fingerless gloves the same color and pattern as your legwarmers were a go-to look. It's called "matching" and it never occurred to anyone 30 years ago that it could be a bad thing.


Does your local leg warmer supply warehouse not have matching fingerless gloves? Well for one, shame on them. For two, looks like you're going to have to take matters into your own hands. Take out that sweater your grandma knitted you in 2007 and put it to good use. Turn the arms into leg warmers and whip up some palm warmers out of the shoulders. She'll be glad you did something with it.
'83 was thirty years ago. If that fact makes you a little nauseated, you're not alone.
 Are you rocking fuchsia leg warmers? Hope you can find some fuchsia tights, a fuchsia skirt, and a fuchsia top. You'll look like you're straight outta Olivia Newton John's "Physical" video.You may not want to take this look to the gym, however.


Modern day shopping outlets not keen on your 80s throwback? That's what wikiHow's "Dyeing Fabric" article is for! Clothes aren't magically grown out of thin air by elves, you know. Make something yourself!

, The 80s were a little less...put together than fashion is now. How do you think they birthed the grunge era? Because of this, wear your leg warmers with anything. Tennis shoes? Sure. Chucks? Sure. The question is: Are your legs cold? If the answer is yes, wear leg warmers.


Most people are a little bit hipster, whatever that means. If you have any of that I-just-grabbed-this-out-of-my-closet-and-I-look-super attitude in you, leg warmers are a safe bet. If none of your outfit goes together, your leg warmers make sense. In other words, it's a crazy, mixed-up world, and you can't do it wrong. Leg warmers in the morning', leg warmers, in the evening', leg warmers at dinner time.

