 Give your bedroom new life and make it feel instantly bigger by simply getting rid of stuff you don’t want or need anymore. Focus on clothes you don’t wear, toys you’ve grown out of, or items that don’t belong in your bedroom.


Try using four different boxes to organize all the items in your room: for trash, give away, keep, or relocate. Try to throw away or give away as many things as possible, move others to different rooms, and finally put back all the “keep” items.Consider whether you are able to store some things in your room elsewhere in the house. Can you put all your off-season clothes in a hall closet or basement? Could toys or clothes you’ve grown out of go to a younger sibling or even a neighbor?;
, Use storage containers to easily organize and categorize items in your room. Look for cute or colorful ones that will be decorative as well as practical.


Try buying cloth boxes or hanging shelves meant for your closet, where you can designate one for socks, one for belts, one for underwear, etc. On your desk, you could have colorful boxes and trays for papers, pencils, and other school or art supplies.
You don’t always have to buy new storage containers. Try creating your own cute and colorful containers by wrapping plain boxes, cans, or bins with patterned paper or fabric for an easy upgrade.You can also add hanging storage to the back of a door with a couple hooks and rods for clothes, jewelry, and accessories., Get your room super clean and tidy before you do any repainting or reorganizing. This will let you visualize changes and move furniture and other items around more easily.


Move everything out of your room completely if you’re repainting. If you’ll just be rearranging and decorating, simply take out smaller things to make it easier to move furniture around.
Take smaller items off of the surfaces of tables, shelves, or nightstands so they won’t get bumped or broken when reorganizing. This will also let you dust or clean surfaces, and rethink where you might put your smaller objects.

