 Hair follicles produce natural oils that add shine and softness to your hair. Washing your hair repeatedly with harsh chemicals (such as those present in most shampoos) removes these oils. While these oils can build up and become greasy in appearance over time, washing your hair every day can also strip away the healthy oils. Try skipping a day or two between washes to help improve the look and feel of your hair.


If your hair is very fine or if you sweat a lot, then you should wash your hair every day.Use dry shampoo between washes to keep your hair looking fresh and clean.
People with fine and thin hair should wash their hair every other day while people with coarse or curly hair may only need to wash their hair once or twice a week.
 Conditioner can give you soft silky hair, so it is a good idea to leave a little on your strands. When you condition your hair, don’t rinse it for too long. Try to rinse your hair until most of the conditioner is out, but your hair still feels slick. This will help to ensure that your hair stays soft and silky all day.You may also want to wring the excess water out of your hair before you apply conditioner. This will help to ensure that your hair soaks up as much conditioner as possible.
For fine or thin hair, only apply conditioner to your strands. Do not apply it to your roots.
 Humectants are special ingredients that absorb moisture into your hair from the air and environment around you. Read the ingredients label of your hair styling products, and choose products that contain ingredients such as:

Glycerin
Propylene glycol
Butylene Glycol
Dipropylene glycol
HexanediolHoney
Agave nectar, Using blow dryers, flat irons, and curling irons can dry out your hair and create split ends.This dry, fragile, and broken hair will be difficult to smooth and appear dead and dull. Try using heating tools as little as possible, or avoid them altogether. Always let your hair air dry after you wash it.


If you must use a blower, flat iron, or curling iron, apply a leave-in conditioner or spray in a heat protectant first. This will help to protect your hair as you style it.
Occasional use of heat products can make your hair feel soft and look great, but repeated use will damage the hair.
 If you do not trim your hair for a long time, then split ends can develop. Split ends can make your hair look damaged and dry. Take time at least once every three to four months to get a hair trim to help prevent split ends and keep your hair looking healthy.