 If your cat is suffering from pyrethrin poisoning, pick it up and carry it to a nearby sink or bathtub. Immediately begin running cool water into the basin, and place the cat under the stream so it gets thoroughly wet.Although cats are notorious for their dislike of water, if a cat is going through pyrethrin poisoning, it will be too weak to struggle.
 Squirt some grease-dissolving dish soap onto your cat’s fur, and lather the cat with soap. Wash your cat’s fur and skin thoroughly, focusing most closely on the area where you applied the pyrethrin-containing insecticide.Bathing your cat will remove some of the pyrethrin from its body and reduce the risk of death. Then, rinse the soap and towel your cat dry.

A bath will only help your cat if it has had a dangerous amount of pyrethrin-containing insecticide applied to its skin. If your cat has ingested pyrethrin, and this is the cause of the pyrethrin poisoning, a bath will do no good.
 Once you’ve washed some of the insecticide off of your cat, take it to your veterinarian. They will be able to assess the extent of the neurological damage done to the cat. The vet will need to diagnose your cat, and will likely question you regarding when and if your cat had access to pyrethrin-containing insecticides. The vet will then recommend a course of treatment following the diagnosis.In some cases, your veterinarian may advise to take your cat straight to an animal hospital, rather than bring it to the vet first.
If your cat experiences pyrethrin poisoning after hours or on a weekend or holiday, you’ll need to take it directly to an animal hospital.
 To better assist your veterinarian in making their assessment and diagnosis of your cat’s pyrethrin poisoning, bring the box or bottle of insecticide medication with you. Without access to the medication and its packaging, your vet will not know the exact percentages of pyrethrin in the insecticide.Also tell your vet all pertinent information about how the cat became poisoned: if the cat ingested some of the medication, or if the cat had an excessive amount of the insecticide applied to its skin.

