 Healthy grieving is an active process. You cannot expect the mere passing of time to resolve a loss or painful experience. The first step towards healing lies in acceptance.

The reason these old wounds are affecting you may be because you have yet to assimilate — and accept — the "before" and "after" of your identity.

To accept yourself, recognize that what happened to you does not make you bad or lesser than.Prepare a list of your greatest strengths. Ask yourself whether the circumstances of what happened to you subtract from these good qualities? Probably not. Are you a total failure because of what happened. No. Give yourself a hug and express your self-love aloud.;
, Are you still fighting with the idea that this happened to you? Are you in denial? Denial is a defense mechanism that impedes your ability to process what happened to you and grow from the experience. You must accept the circumstances and yourself in order to


If you have suffered severe trauma and may be experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), your first step should be to see a counselor who can help you develop coping mechanisms before you begin exploring your trauma. Signs of PTSD include flashbacks, feeling emotionally numb, being easily startled, feeling constantly "on edge" or fearful, having difficulty remembering the traumatic event.In other cases, to accept the circumstances of what happened to you, write it down.Odds are, you have compartmentalized this painful experience and try your best not to think of it. Yet, this method isn't working, and you find yourself thinking about it incessantly. Get these thoughts out of your head.
Go to a place where you have privacy and no distractions. Start writing about what happened to you. It may start out like "When I was 15..." Go through the event in as much detail as you can.
 You may fall prey to common misconceptions about the proper way to grieve. When you do this, you hinder yourself from actually going through and fully experiencing the process. Recognize widely held myths that you may be playing into:The grief process should only last a year. In fact, there is no set amount of time for grieving; it varies from person to person.

Not crying equates to not feeling anything. Tears are only one expression of pain or sadness. Different people express their feelings in different ways.

Ignoring the pain makes it go away faster. Real healing requires facing and feeling your emotions. Pretending they are not there impedes healing.

I have to be strong after a loss. Crying, being angry, or even shouting after a painful loss are all normal reactions. Shouldering or hiding pain is not a helpful part of grieving.
 Name what you're feeling. You can use a feelings inventory to label the emotional and physical state you are in.

Then, connect the name of the emotion to what you're feeling in your body. Place a hand on the body part where the feeling is housed. Lastly, think about how you can express this emotion in a way that releases its hold on you.For example, you might label your emotion as heavy-hearted. You might feel this emotion physically as you would a burden on your shoulders, pressing and weighing you down. Place your hand on your shoulders. Rub along there and acknowledge the weight of this emotion.
Finally, sit in this emotion. How can you express your pain in a healthy way? Perhaps you could write vividly in a journal about all that you associate with this feeling.
You could also visualize yourself walking with a backpack full of stones. The further you carry these stones, the more difficult the pack is to bear. However, if you were to slide your arms out of the straps and let the pack fall, the weight would no longer be yours to carry. If it helps, act out this visualization in real life; and when you remove the backpack from your shoulders, imagine feeling lighter and freer.
 Once you have come to accept what happened to you and express your feelings, you need to make the decision to let go. Letting go can sometimes be just as frightening as holding on. You are moving into uncharted territory, and you fear what lies ahead. To symbolically release all your pain and heal these old wounds, perform a letting go ritual. Possible rituals may include the following:

Releasing balloons that represent the person/place/thing/event into the sky.
Gathering the paper in which you wrote out the details of what happened to you and tearing it to shreds or throwing it into a fire.
Participating in a memorial ceremony of lighting candles, gathering flowers and mementos and thinking about what happened to you. Consider it a funeral of sorts — you are saying goodbye to that chapter in your life after thoroughly grieving.
 When we say we want to get over something, we usually mean we want to completely erase all traces of this terrible event, which is impossible. If you went through something horrific or life-altering in the past, it is unreasonable to assume you will be able to go back to what you were like before the event happened. You can, however, move forward, and stop letting the situation have power over your future.
 Was what you went through simply a mistake or was it a learning experience? Did that situation break you or make you stronger? Were there only losses or is there something you gained from enduring this ordeal? If you decide to look for the silver lining in even the most horrible events, you can start to heal.


Be aware that these are not good questions for someone who has suffered severe trauma like abuse, assault, or rape. Better questions if you encountered abuse or rape might be, How did you overcome? What strengths and resources did you use to survive? What about your perspective helps you to feel like a survivor instead of a victim?

, The fact that you consider yourself wounded implies a level of shame in your self-concept. When we are shameful, we believe ourselves not to be deserving or worthy. You have deemed yourself unworthy of living a full and rewarding life, or you came to believe others who have deemed you unworthy. You must rid yourself of these shameful feelings, and move closer to your true self.Overcoming shame is a twofold process: you must learn to silence your inner critic and practice self-compassion.
 Grab a pen and paper and jot down all of your strengths and positive traits. These traits are proof that your inner critic is wrong. Review the list regularly until you start to feel and believe these things about yourself.


Don't say to yourself what you wouldn't say to a friend. If you wouldn't dare tell your best friend that she is not good enough, then you certainly shouldn't be saying this about yourself. Instead, attend to your painful feelings, acknowledge that feeling this way is normal, and give yourself time to grieve.
Practice self-compassion. If you run a quick Google search for any ordeal you have ever faced, you will likely find that millions of people have experienced a similar problem. You are only human. Let go of the perfection standard and instead treat yourself with love and unconditional positive regard. Self-compassion means realizing that just by being human you are worthy of consideration and care.
Research tells us that self-criticism is a self-defeating and degrading practice. Self-compassion, on the other hand, empowers us. By showing yourself compassion, you can reduce stress and increase productivity.,

If you are not able to change the negative, self-defeating self-talk that goes through your head, then you should see a therapist who can guide you in this process. Believing that you are not good enough, that something is wrong with you, or that painful events in your past are your fault can hinder your personal growth.

Cognitive behavioral therapy has been shown to be extremely effective at helping people to identify negative or unrealistic beliefs or thoughts, challenge these thoughts, and develop healthier and more realistic ways of thinking., Not merely exercises in mental or physical discipline, both meditation and yoga can provide healing for emotional pain. The deep breathing and relaxation methods native to both practices can improve stress management, sleep quality, cardiovascular health, mood, and mind-body awareness.Develop a regular practice of doing either or both practices to nurture your mind, body, and soul.
 Of course, meditation and yoga can both be categorized as spiritual practices depending on which type you do. Therefore, you can use these practices to boost your spirituality or start new ones.


Developing your spiritual side comes with a host of benefits, such as a potential support group (via a religious or meditation group), enhanced strength and coping skills, greater compassion, healthier decision-making skills, and even increased lifespan.Getting in touch with your spirituality can mean practicing a specific religion, praying, meditating, practicing yoga, journaling, spending time in nature, or engaging in self-reflection. You decide what it means to you and how to do it.


Spend a few minutes each day writing down the things you are thankful for. These can be as simple as having clean air to breathe or clothes to wear. Focusing on the good in your life will gradually allow you heal these old wounds., This saying can be anything, such as "I am a work in progress," or, "The best is yet to come."

, When you are doing the same things and seeing the same people day in and day out, you may not recognize just how fortunate you are. Volunteer at a group home, women's shelter, or homeless shelter. Talk to people who have experienced the bad and the good in life. Perhaps after hearing these people who have lost much continue to speak with hope and gratitude, you, too, may feel optimism about your own situation.

