 Before rolling hair, apply a generous amount of mousse, about the size of a ping pong ball, to your hair or the hair of the person you’re styling. This will make hair easier to shape and style. If you skip this step, the hair will be more likely to fall out of the roll.





;
, Use a comb to part the hair down the middle. Then part the hair from ear to ear, so that you have two sections of hair framing the face, and one section of hair in the back. Put the back section of hair into a bun or ponytail to keep if from mixing with the front sections.
 Use hairspray to spray the two front portions of hair. Then take one of the front sections of hair, hold it straight up, and tease it by backcombing through your hair from tips to roots. This gives the hair the volume needed to rock this hairstyle.
 Take one of the two free sections of hair and pull it straight out to the side of your head at a 90 degree angle. Take a foam roller and put it to the tips of the section of hair you're holding. Hold the tips of your hair to the roller with your fingers and then begin rolling inward toward your part so that more and more hair is wrapped around the roller. Roll until the roller is a few inches from your head.
 When your hair roll is about three inches from your head, remove the roller from your hair roll, making sure not to undo the roll. Finish rolling your hair until the hair roll is piled on top of your head on one side of your part.








Make sure that you are rolling your hair inward toward your part as opposed to out away from it.
 After you have finished rolling the first section of hair, use bobby pins to pin up the hair roll. Put one prong of the bobby pin inside the roll, and slide the other prong through the hair close to the scalp, so that the roll will stay in place. Repeat with several other pins to make sure your hair stays in place.
 Using the same process, roll the other section of hair inward towards your part and clip with bobby pins. This should give you two tall hair rolls on the top of your head. This style is called a Victory Roll, and was popular in the 1940’s.
 One way you can deal with the back portion of hair is to create additional rolls on the back of your head, below the top rolls.









You may decide to do a half-up look with the hair rolls, and leave the hair in back down. Use a curling iron to curl this hair if you wish.
You can also clip the back section of hair up. Rather than making additional rolls, just clip this hair up under the rolls for a sleek look.
 Take hairspray and spray, focusing on the hair rolls. This will set the hairstyle and make it less likely that there will be flyaways or major mishaps.







