 When you're making a wrap, there are a variety of items you can use to wrap up your tasty ingredients. Try to keep calories to 100 – 180 calories per item so your entire wrap doesn't get too high in calories. Mix it up and experiment with all the different ways you can wrap your food. You can try:


Tortillas or wraps. These are the traditional wraps used in these types of recipes. They are very thin bread generally made from either corn or wheat. Try to go for 100% whole wheat or whole grain as these tortillas/wraps will have more fiber and protein.Flatbreads or lavash bread. Both of these are similar to tortillas, but may be slightly larger or thicker. Again, choose 100% whole wheat or whole grain items.
Pita bread. Pita bread can not only be stuffed with ingredients, but can also be used to wrap items too. Whole grain is the preferable choice here as well.
Lettuce. If you're looking to watch calories or your total carbs, consider using lettuce as a wrap. It's crunchy and naturally low in calories and carb-free.Try butter lettuce, iceberg lettuce, kale, Swiss chard or romaine lettuces.
Spring roll wrappers. These are also low in calories and carbohydrates.It may take some practice to use them, but they offer a fun twist on your traditional wrap.
Seaweed. Just like with sushi, you can use sheets of seaweed as a wrap too. Plus, seaweed has a variety of benefits, including fiber, minerals, and phytonutrients.;
, Wraps can be a healthier or more nutritious choice than a sandwich. Don't waste more than 50 calories on the total amount of condiments you add to your wrap; however, adding a ton of high fat condiments, sauces or dressings will defeat the purpose. Stick to lower calorie condiments like:


Mustard. There are tons of flavors of mustard — spicy, yellow, dijon — but all are naturally low in calories.Mustard is high in sodium, however, so look for low-sodium options.Go for 1 – 2 tablespoons.
Mayo with olive oil. Although mayo gets a bad rap about being high in calories and fat, try the mayo made with olive oil. It's lower in calories than regular mayo and has some heart healthy fats. Use 1 – 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml).Hummus. Bean dips, lentil dips or hummus may not be your most traditional condiment, but it can add some moistness to your wrap in addition to giving you a boost of fiber and protein. Smear on 2 – 4 tablespoons (59.1 ml) of hummus. Salsa. If you like a little kick to your meals, try adding salsa to your wraps. Check the ingredients to make sure there is no added sugar. Add about 2 – 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of your favorite salsa.
Hot sauce. Another spicy kick you can try out is hot sauce. It's low in calories but adds a lot of flavor to your meal. Stick to 1 tablespoon or less, unless you like it super spicy!Low-fat dressings. Using a dressing in a wrap is common; however, they can get high in calories. Look for low-fat dressings or yogurt-based dressing for less of a calorie hit. Keep your serving under 2 tablespoons.
 Protein is an essential nutrient to include at each meal. Always aim to have 3 – 4 oz of protein in every wrap. Plus, it'll help keep you feeling satisfied throughout the day. Choose a lean protein to add to your wrap to manage your overall calories.You can try:


Poultry and red meat. These are the most common wrap fillings. Choose all natural and low-sodium deli meat, sliced chicken or turkey or lean red meat. They will typically have fewer additives and sodium. Choose three to four slices of deli meat or a piece of meat the size of your palm.
Scrambled eggs. If you're feeling like a little breakfast, try adding scrambled or hard boiled eggs to your wrap. They're high in protein and healthy fats. One to two eggs will meet your 3-4 oz serving size.Sliced cheese. If you're avoiding meat or just want to change it up a bit, try adding some sliced cheese to your wrap. It's another great source of protein and also high in calcium. Aim for two to three slices.Beans or lentils. If you want to skip the meat, try filling your wrap with 1/2 cup of beans or lentils. They're not only high in protein, but also high in fiber.Tofu or tempeh. Another great vegetarian source of protein is tofu and tempeh. Both made from soy beans, they're a great alternative to meat. Slice up 3 – 4 oz or a block about the size of your palm.
Seafood. Besides tuna salad, you can add grilled fish or seafood to your wrap. They're still high in protein and some seafood (like salmon) are also high in heart healthy fats. Measure out 1/2 cup of tuna salad or 3-4 oz., It's important to get an adequate amount of vegetables in each day. By stuffing in 1 cup of these nutrient powerhouse veggies to your wrap, you can help meet your daily goal of four to six servings.Try:


Salad. Wrap up a Greek, Cobb or Caesar salad in your wrap.
Sliced raw veggies. Vegetables can be bulky. Slicing them into thin strips helps them fit evenly in your wrap.
Roasted vegetables. Make a vegetarian meal by filling your wrap with roasted or grilled vegetables. Top with some cheese and hummus for extra protein.
 Perfect for spring roll wrappers or lettuce, rice noodles are low in calorie and filling.Toss 1/2 cup of cooked rice noodles with your favorite Asian dressing or sauce. Divide the rice noodles in half and layer each half into a butter lettuce leaf.
Top each lettuce leaf with 1/4 cup of cooked ground pork seasoned with salt and pepper.
If desired, top your lettuce wraps with 1 – 2 tablespoons shredded carrots, a few leaves of cilantro and a sprinkling of toasted sesame seeds.
 Put a Mediterranean spin on your wrap by adding in some quinoa or tabbouleh. These whole grains are high in fiber and protein and can help keep you satisfied longer.Lay out a whole wheat pita bread and top with 1/2 cup of premade tabbouleh.
Top with 2 tablespoons of a shredded parsley and basil. Then sprinkle on 2 tablespoons of feta cheese.
Tucking the ends of the tortilla in, roll up until the wrap is completely closed. Slice in half and enjoy.
 A very common and tasty wrap is the buffalo chicken wrap; however, it's usually filled with fried chicken strips and high-fat blue cheese. Try this version for a lower calorie wrap:


Smear a 12" whole wheat tortilla with 1 tablespoon of light mayonnaise and top with 3 – 4 oz of sliced grilled chicken strips and 1/4 cup of packed down and shredded romaine or iceberg lettuce.
Drizzle on 1 – 2 tablespoons of buffalo sauce, 1/2 ounce of blue cheese and two to three diced cherry tomatoes.
Tucking the ends of the tortilla in, roll up until the wrap is completely closed. Slice in half and enjoy.
 The one downside to packing lunches is the possibility of opening up your lunch to find a soggy sandwich or wrap. Experiment with these tricks to keep your sandwich crunchy and fresh:


Pack your wrap components separately. If you're unsure of how to keep your wrap from getting soggy, pack everything separate. This is a sure way to keep your ingredients fresh and crunchy.Put juicy or "wet" ingredients in the center. Put juicy tomatoes, pickles or marinated proteins in the center of your wrap. You may want to consider sandwiching them between lettuce leaves to keep their moisture contained.Mayo is higher in fat and can keep your wrap from getting super soggy; however, other condiments — like dressings or vinaigrettes — can make your wrap soggy. Use very little or consider keeping them on the side if possible.
 If you're packing your wrap to-go, make sure you tightly wrap it up so it stays in a formed roll and the ingredients do not spill out.


Plastic wrap is a great tool to use. You can keep your wrap fresh and tightly rolled together by fitting the plastic wrap snugly around your wrap.
Aluminum foil is another material that you can use to keep your wrap contained. Foil is especially good if you're keeping your wrap warmed.
Parchment paper also works well. But you'll need to secure the ends with some tape to make sure it doesn't unfold in your lunch box.
 If you're bringing your wrap to work or packing it up for a picnic, it's important to make sure that it stays cold. If your wrap, or any food, gets too warm and stays warm, you could get sick.If your wrap contains meat, vegetables, salads (made with mayonnaise) you'll want to keep the temperature under 40°F (4.4°C)if possible. If it remains between 40 – 140°F (4.4 – 60°C), this is the "danger zone" where bacteria can grow.Include at least two cold sources when packing your wrap. You can pack in two freezer packs or a freezer pack and a bottle of frozen water.Refrigerate your wrap as soon as you're able or make sure to plan on eating it before your cold sources melt or get too warm.
Foods that do not need refrigeration are whole fruits and vegetables, peanut butter, unopened canned tuna or chicken, pickles, mustard and hard cheese.