 Brushes and combs create friction that can damage your hair or upset the strands, causing more frizz. Breakage and frizzing are even more likely when using a dry brush on dry hair. To reduce frizz from brushing, use your fingers to untangle your hair when it is dry.








If necessary, use a wide-tooth comb in the shower to properly distribute conditioner and untangle hair. Avoid using combs on dry hair. Boar bristle brushes are a good choice for dry hair.;
, Air drying your hair can help to prevent frizz. Friction and heat are major causes of frizz, so avoiding blow-drying and towel-drying can help to prevent your hair from getting frizzy.


To help the hair cuticles dry flat, try tying your hair in a loose bun or braid as it dries. This will keep the strands lying flat and prevent flyaways and frizz while it dries., When drying your hair, try using a t-shirt or microfiber cloth instead of a towel.Regular towels create more friction, which may cause frizz. T-shirts and microfiber cloths are gentler and will help your hair lie flat as it dries.
 It is possible to reduce frizz by washing your hair less often. Frequent washing can strip natural oils away from your hair and this may cause your hair to frizz. Fine hair only needs to be shampooed every other day and thicker hair only needs to be shampooed about once every three days.People with oily hair, or those who sweat daily due to activities like work or exercise may need to wash their hair more frequently. Use conditioner on non-shampoo days to remove sweat and dirt and allow for easy styling.
 The more you touch your hair throughout the day, the more friction is created. This can ruffle your hair cuticles and cause frizz. Try to avoid touching your hair, or putting it up and down throughout the day., Treatments such as coloring, perms, and relaxers can dramatically change the texture of your hair, causing it to frizz in ways it hadn't previously. Reduce the number of times you get chemical treatments in a year to help combat frizz.


Consider using root touch up powders in between colorings, and find styles that allow you to rock your natural texture rather than having it chemically altered.

