 Avoid buying backless shoes if you walk quickly or tend to have a long stride.Look for backless sandals, such as Crocs, if you have high arches, swollen ankles or leg inflammation.Don’t buy backless heeled shoes if you tend to rely on the straps or backs of wedges/pumps to keep your feet securely in your shoes.;
, Try the shoes on in a store, if possible. Walk around in them and make sure they don’t cause pressure on your feet. Choose the next half size up if your feet are in between sizes. Opt for the larger size if your feet are slightly different sizes.Once you’ve found shoes that fit well, you can buy the product in the correct size online if you don’t want to purchase them at a department store, outlet mall or wholesaler.
If you can’t try the shoes on first, measure your feet and check the measurements of online products.
Don’t assume you can “break them in.” Look for shoes that feel comfortable right away., Choose backless sneakers or casual clogs for an informal look. Opt for pumps or loafers to dress your look up a bit for a night out. Avoid wearing backless shoes to a job interview, as mules are more casual than business casual.For a trendy look, pair backless peep-toe heels with black or white slimfit pants.Wear backless loafers with just about anything, from a shift dress to rolled-up jeans.
Try backless sneakers with jeans, a skirt or capris.
 You can wear backless sandals or clogs to the pool or beach. Avoid wearing them for long walks, or long stretches of time daily.Bring a pair of backup shoes, if needed. It’s not advisable to wear high-heeled shoes while driving.People tend to trip in rubber clogs. Look for shoes with good traction on the bottoms.
 Add traction to the inside of your shoe with textured shoe inserts. Such inserts can also help to prevent pain in the ball of your foot from wearing heels.You can find shoe inserts online, at drug stores, or at sports supply stores.
 Don’t flex your toes to hold your shoes on. Clenching your toes can cause muscle spasms in your legs, blisters and foot pain. Avoid dragging your feet as you walk., Examine your shoes occasionally to make sure they are still in wearable shape. Look at the tread on the bottom of the shoe as well as the midsole. Replace your shoes if you find any indication of uneven wearing., Looked for cropped trousers, which are a great companion to mules. Display just enough ankle to showcase your shoes. A pair of black cropped pants accompany most types of backless shoes well for a chic street style.For example, try stiff jeans with frayed hems that cut off at the ankle.
Pair nude, square-heel, backless pumps or sandals with wide-leg cropped pants and a nice tank top. Instead of cropped pants, you can substitute shorts for a summery look., This is a bit more of a risk than pants, but can still work. Look for hemlines that are midi-length or longer. If you want to go with a shorter hemline, wear a heavier shoe style with heels, and make sure the amount of leg you’re showing isn’t overdone.For example, wear open-toed backless shoes with an above-the-knee leather skirt, a tucked-in top, and a super-long trench coat. The coat ensures that the bare-leg look doesn’t go overboard., Wear backless, pointed mules with long, ripped and cuffed jeans, or with shorts.Add backless sneakers to just about any casual look.For example, pair backless tennis shoes with slimfit jeans, a loose cotton dress in a neutral shade, or casual wide-leg pants.