 One week before the party is slated to start, go shopping for everything you need. If you aren’t able to drive, ask your dad or one of your mom’s friends to help you with the shopping trip.Don’t forget to pick up things like cups, plates, napkins and utensils. You can hide these things somewhere in your room so your mom won't see.
If you’re buying lots of food, don’t store it in your family refrigerator.
Ask a friend or family member if you can store the perishable party supplies at their house so your mom won’t notice.
 In order to throw a good surprise party, you need to be good at deception. People are often able to tell when something is up, so your mom may start asking questions. In the event this happens, do not panic. Try to smooth over the situation.Play dumb. If your mom asks if something is going on, say something like, "I don't know what you're talking about." Keep playing dumb and your mom's suspicion may pass.
Try to distract your mom as you plan party events. If your mom has something else going on, she is less likely to notice you sneaking around. You can, for example, have your dad take your mom out to the movies when you need to start gathering decorations.
 Since this is a surprise party, you need a way to get your mom out of the house while you’re setting up and while guests are arriving. Ask one of your mom’s friends to invite her over on the day of the party.Make sure the person hanging out with your mom knows to bring her to the party at a certain time.
You could also try having your dad take your mom on a date. When they return, the party begins.
 If you’re holding the party at your home, you need the place to look nice. But cleaning the house for a surprise party can be tricky because you don’t want your mom to get suspicious.Make sure your mom is out of the house before you start cleaning.
Prioritize cleaning the bathrooms, living spaces and kitchen. These are the places where people are likely to congregate.
 While your mom is still out, hang all the decorations and set out the food, drink and cake. Make sure you have lots of ice in the freezer and avoid setting out any food that needs to be refrigerated until just before the party starts.If guests bring presents to the party, group them together on a table.
Put on some background music to keep the party from feeling still and silent. It's a good idea to make a playlist featuring your mom's favorite songs.
 There are a lot of ways to successfully execute a surprise party. The classic idea is to have the guest enter a dark room where everyone is hiding. Then, when the guest enters, the lights are turned on and everyone jumps out and yells "Surprise!" However, this has become somewhat cliche and it may give the party away prematurely. A dark room is suspicious.If you want a dramatic surprise, you can go with the classic. However, a low-key surprise can be just as fun for your guest. You can have the party in progress when your mom enters. She'll be surprised to come home and have friends and family members waiting for her.
 Sometimes surprise parties go awry – someone spoils the surprise accidentally or someone comes home too early. No matter how hard you plan, you can’t account for everything that might happen before or during the party.If the surprise gets spoiled accidentally, shake it off. Your mom will still be touched that you thought to throw her a party in the first place.
Be a good host. Even if you’re upset about the way the party is going, it’s your job to make sure everyone else is having a good time.

