 Green tea is known for its high level of antioxidants, a cancer-fighting chemical. Additionally, green tea can boost your metabolism and may reduce your risk of developing neurological disorders.However, green tea is high in caffeine and can make you jittery if you drink too much.;
, Black tea has powerful antioxidant properties that can sooth intestinal distress and reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease. Additionally, researchers speculate that black tea can dramatically reduce the risk of breast cancer in younger women.Black tea is also high in caffeine.


Most British breakfast tea blends are made from black tea.
 White tea is less popular than black or green tea. However, white tea can kill bacteria, viruses, and fungi in your body better than other teas can. Additionally, the fluoride in white tea helps prevent cavities and strengthens your teeth., Oolong tea is famous for its antioxidant properties that can prevent cancer and arthritis. Additionally, oolong tea can boost your metabolism, helping with weight loss and blood sugar regulation. Early research has also shown that oolong tea may promote healthy skin and reduce the effects of eczema., These brightly flavored teas are made from herbs, fruits, seeds, or roots instead of actual tea leaves. They have less antioxidants than other kinds of teas. There have been many claims about their health benefits. However, there is limited research to support these claims. Chamomile tea is used as a sleep aid.
Echinacea tea is said to fight the common cold.
Hibiscus tea may lower your blood pressure.
Rooibos tea said to have cancer-fighting properties.
 Most teas can be bought in tins of loose tea or in small packages of tea bags. Some people believe that loose leaf teas have a fresher flavor than tea bags. However, many people prefer tea bags because they’re easier to use and don’t require an infuser.


A tea infuser is a small metal or plastic orb that traps the tea leaves in one place so that they can easily be removed.
 You will need a kettle or saucepan to boil water, a teapot or mug, and some tea. If you’re using loose leaf tea, you will also need an infuser to steep the tea. If you’re using tea bags, you don’t need an infuser.


If you want to make more than one cup of tea, use a teapot. If you only want to make one cup of tea, use a mug.
Tea infusers can be purchased online or at most gourmet grocery stores.
 Fill a kettle or saucepan with fresh water and place it on your stove over medium-high heat. Heat the water for five to ten minutes, allowing the water to come to a boil. If your kettle has a whistling feature, you will know that the water is boiling when you hear a loud shrieking sound. Otherwise, wait until you see large bubbles rising quickly to the surface of the water.


You can also use an electric kettle to boil water. Follow the manufacturer instructions when using these appliances.
Avoid boiling water in the microwave. The water can become superheated and explode, causing severe burns., First, carefully measure out the loose leaf tea into your infuser. The instructions on the container of tea will indicate how much tea to add. Generally, only a teaspoon is needed per 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of water.Next, attach the lid onto the infuser and place it in your empty mug or teapot.


Each brand of tea infuser is different. Follow the manufacturer instructions when adding tea and securing the lid of the infuser.
 Some teas come in small, pre-portioned bags instead of tins. To brew a bag of tea, you will need to add one bag for every 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of water. First, carefully open the tea package. Next, place the tea bag in your empty mug or teapot. For example, if your teapot holds sixteen ounces (480 milliliters) of water, you will need two tea bags.
Drape the string and small paper tag over the edge of the mug or teapot. This will allow you to easily remove the tea bag when it’s done steeping.
 Once the water is boiling, carefully pour it from your kettle into your mug or teapot. If you’re using a teapot, fill the pot completely and place the lid on it. Let the tea steep according to the package instructions. For example:


Green tea needs 2-3 minutes of steeping time.
Black tea should be steeped for 3-5 minutes.
White tea should be steeped for 2-3 minutes.
Oolong tea needs 2-4 minutes to steep.
Herbal teas can be steeped for 6-7 minutes ., Once the tea has steeped, remove the tea bag or tea infuser. The tea infuser can be washed and reused. Any used tea bags should be discarded. Next, serve the tea. If you’re serving guests, be sure to warn them that the tea may still be hot.
 Many people all over the world enjoy adding milk and sugar to their tea. These additions can turn a stout, bitter cup of tea into a sweet and creamy delight. Sugar can be added to any kind of tea to give it a sweet flavor boost. However, only Oolong tea and Black tea are enjoyed with milk.Sugar can be substituted for any kind of sweetener. Popular natural sweeteners include honey, molasses, maple syrup, and brown rice syrup., Cold tea is a wonderful drink to enjoy during hot summer days. First, brew a cup or pot of tea. Once the tea is done steeping, remove the tea bags or diffuser and allow the tea to cool to room temperature. Next, fill a tall glass with ice. Carefully pour the cooled tea over the ice to make a tall glass of ice-cold tea.Add any sweeteners to the hot tea before pouring it over the ice. Sweeteners such as sugar and honey are more easily incorporated into warm liquids than cold liquids.
Avoid pouring hot tea into a glass full of ice. The temperature differences can cause the glass to crack.
 In the past, socialites from all over the world have enjoyed serving tea at social events. You can either provide tea at an event or host an event that centers around the tea itself. For example:


Host an “Afternoon Tea” party. This is a British tradition involving a pot of tea, a few friends, and some light snacks. Everyone sits around the teapot, serving themselves tea and gossiping.Provide a pot of hot tea, a small pitcher of milk, and some sugar to your guests after a dinner party. This will allow them to relax after a good meal.

