 You may not even realize you're being bullied, or contributing to the bullying of others. The first sign is often that you feel bad about yourself when certain people are around.This is especially true of bullies who are girls. While girl bullies may use violence and verbal taunts or threats, they are skilled at using relational aggression to hurt others too.


Relational aggression refers to behavior that aims to diminish social standing and relationships. A bully might spread rumors, try to get you to do embarrassing things, or point out flaws or mistakes to humiliate you, exclude you from group activities, and/or convince others they shouldn't talk to you.;
, Bullies feel powerful because they believe they are able to exert control over the feelings of others.The goal of bullying is to illicit a reaction from the bullied. Refusing to respond diminishes the sense of power the bully feels.


Continue doing your activity without acknowledging a bully's comments. For example, if you are hanging out with your friends, continue your conversation as if the bully wasn't there.
If the bully has positioned him or herself to be intrusive in your activity, turn your back to the bully and continue what you were doing.
If the bully physically attacks you, protect yourself and get away. This type of behavior needs to be reported immediately. Violence is never okay, and this type of behavior typically escalates; reporting it is absolutely necessary for your safety and possibly others'., This can be tricky, especially when the bullying occurs at school. Girls tend to bully covertly, so making a girl bully go out of her way to engage in bullying behavior will expose her.Don't tiptoe around the bully, as this will be perceived as a reaction, but there is no need to hang out in the same area of the quad.
If you have lockers near one another, you can ask school office staff to reassign your locker.
If avoiding the bully isn't possible, ask friends to go with you when you must be in the same area as the bully to create a buffer., Cyberbullying is becoming increasingly prevalent, particularly among girls.Change privacy settings on social networking profiles to prevent bullies from contacting you. Refuse to read or acknowledge anything the bully posts online targeted at you.


If you do become aware of threats or attacks directed at you, do not respond, but save the evidence, as it may be important if you choose to report the bully.You might also block known phone numbers of the bully on your mobile phone to prevent unwanted calls and texts.

