 The eleventh doctor is a little bit quirkier than the tenth doctor so act a little quirky and random. For example, in the middle of a conversation say some completely random fact or reveal an interesting piece of information.;
, Know a little bit about everything, especially science history and math. Learn phrases in different languages. Use a big vocabulary. Of course, this all means you'll need to read a lot––and widely!

, The Doctor stands by his friends through thick and thin. Be someone who listens and cares, and also be someone who learns from your mistakes with friends and do your best to patch things up when needed.
 Never stay in the same place. The Doctor hates staying in one spot for to long. Develop your wanderlust by visiting nearby towns and cities, then going further afield until you're traveling to other countries.


Learn to travel on a budget. The Doctor isn't about being a travel snob, he's all about the experience and about learning all you can about other cultures. Again, read widely; travel novels and stories are a good place to start, such as Eat, Pray, Love by Elizabeth Gilbert.
 Being persistent is a trait of the eleventh Doctor, even when it seems like he's stopped pondering something, it's often still bubbling away underneath everything.
 Doctor Who often winces at the conformity of those who are sticklers for the rules and regulations that have long outlived their usefulness. Be a sensible thinker when it comes to rule making and breaking.
 This Doctor usually walks with very long strides. He is flexible and comfortable with his style, so like him, stand tall and straight and look people in the eye.
 You can buy the suspenders, tweed jacket and bow tie. Or, you could wear button-up shirts and overcoats ( not trench coats). Matt Smith also wears his hair parted in the right but you don't have to be a mirror image of him; a hairstyle that suits you and isn't the latest fad is a good choice.
 Don't assume that your companion is helpless though. The Doctor is all about uncovering the hidden strengths and brilliance in everyone.

