 By far the safest and surest way to move a piano up or down flights of stairs is by hiring professional piano movers. A piano's large size, incredible weight, and unclear center of gravity make it a dangerous item to move through vertical space for those who are not experts.
 Visit an equipment rental store and talk to a knowledgeable clerk there about the size and weight of your piano to help decide what setup will be best for your move.


A piano dolly or furniture dolly with straps can help make a move up a flight of stairs much easier.
Specially designed piano skids are also a sensible option.
 Find out whatever information you can about its age, design, and composition. In some cases, a staircase may not be able to properly support a 700-pound piano and four or five grown movers all at once, in which case the move should be aborted. It is better to know ahead of time than risk causing severe property damage and possible injury.
 If, for whatever reason, you decide not to get professional assistance moving your piano up or down a building, remember that the downward-pointing end of the piano will carry even more of the piano's overall weight on a staircase than it does on flat ground.


The majority of people helping you move the piano should be at the lower 50% of the piano at all times to help keep it stable. However, nobody should stand directly behind the piano without plenty of room to step aside, since one slip from another crew member could mean being crushed underneath its weight.
Ensure that everyone can easily step to the side if control over the piano is lost.
 Even more so than during a flat move, taking regular breaks to readjust and catch your breath is vital during a staircase piano move. Plan to stop at each new step, gently set the piano down, reset your grip, and lift for the next step. By being slow and methodical, you will ensure a solid grip from beginning to end and minimize the risk of injury.
 At each landing, even on skids or a special piano dolly, it is possible that the piano will have to be turned on-end or otherwise manipulated in order to turn the corner. A few strong and well-balanced people can make the turn. Just be sure that everyone has as much room as possible and is planted firmly on both feet.

