


Forehand Side – Use an Eastern or Western Grip (grip like you're using a fry pan)
Two-Handed Backhand Side – Use a combo of Continental and Western Grips
Volleys and Serving – Use Eastern or Continental (handshake grip)

, Choose a light racket and then add lead tape for more control. A good racket for most people is 100-105 square inches and about 10-12 oz. String your racket with the most comfort tension and material. If you notice your racket is slowly losing control, it's time to restring your racket. Ask the tennis stringer for help choosing the right combo of strings and tension.
 See if they have any tips on playing tennis or would like to join your group.


You can also practice on a tennis wall. Start from one side then move to the other side while hitting. Next, try moving back and forth.
 Play with different people and try doubles tennis.
, This may seem easy and you may think you already do this, but lots of people don't. Many people watch the ball all the time but look away right before the ball hits the racket. Make sure you watch the ball actually hitting your racket strings for every shot: serves, ground strokes, volleys.
 There are two types of stretching: Static and Dynamic. For tennis, do a dynamic warmup. This means you move and stretch at the same time. Static stretching is good for after you hit or play a match.
 For forehands, you can use an open stance, facing your opponent and hitting the ball just in front and to the side of you, at the highest point of its bounce. There is also a semi-open stance and a closed stance that you may try, however it is best to seek advice from a professional coach when first learning technique. Concentrate on the movement and arc of the ball and watch it hit your strings, this will help you hit the sweet spot on your racquet more often. Then, to finish off the shot, follow through with the racquet in the direction that you want the ball to go, after the ball has left the strings. For both ground strokes your racquet head should start off low (i.e below the knees) behind your body and then finish up high above your shoulders slightly behind the neck. Try to follow this procedure for each shot.;
, Many people don't realise that, technically speaking, tennis is about balance and stable postures. If your feet aren't planted and firm, you do not then have a strong base for your torso to swing on, meaning little power is generated. When you are waiting for the ball, be on the balls/toes of your feet, ready to move quickly. Once you have locked on to an approaching ball, set yourself up as discussed above and plant your feet on the ground, moving off only when you have finished your follow-through.
 There are only two areas where you may return a ball and then not keep moving. These are: at the net or at the baseline. Of course you will have to move where your opponent plays the ball but anywhere in between these two areas you should play the ball and then move, either up to the net or backwards to the baseline. Do not stop! This middle area is known as 'no man's land' and if you get caught there, returning the ball will be very difficult.
 Only you can decide what this is because it is based on what kind of person you are in terms of personality and (more specifically) temperament. Many people generally don't have a clear plan in their minds about what shots they are good at or how they want to move their opponent around on the court. Playing styles are unique to each person and you may well have a very flexible one or a rigid one. In either case you will have to alter your serving style, length and movement as well as your rallying style to suit. Aggressive players like to force their opponent into errors by hitting hard, deep shots, thereby controlling the rally and putting pressure on the opponent. These players may also try to move up to the net as often as they can. Once there, they will try to finish the point off. More conservative playing styles will involve less hard hits of the ball, seeking rather to wear out the opponent's stamina and focus.
 Do they try to attempt a particular move often? This may be, for example, a serve out wide, prompting a weak return from you which they then put away to gain the point. Whatever your playing style, you will lose very quickly if you don't take your game plan to your opponent and challenge them. Passive playing will get you nowhere, especially against aggressive players. If you show your opponent that you are aware of his tactics and maybe that you can predict what he's going to do, that will be a psychological advantage to you, they will then be under pressure to try to adapt their style to beat you.
 When returning the ball, as was explained above, you should not feel cramped or restricted, the stroke should be very bold and swift, with plenty of racquet-head movement. This means your feet will have to dance around your body to get your shoulders in position to swing. Furthermore, your shots should be varied in both length and direction. An unexpected short ball near the net can catch your opponent off-guard. Also, don't be afraid to go for the lines and the corners of the court, the more effort you make to do this, the more you force them to get into position quicker, and the more awkward it will be for them.
 It is a common misconception that a low, bullet-like shot that looks flashy and fast is the best to hit in rallies. Not so, a fast, high, looping ball with plenty of topspin can be equally if not more effective. It will bounce up high near the waist or chest of your opponent, making their stroke technique (discussed earlier) harder to implement.
 When playing against a good baseline player, varying your spin from topspin to backspin keeps them guessing, as they will have to slightly adapt their stroke and their racquet head orientation to control these different spins. However, this can be a double-edged sword. Some players tend to use spin on every shot (mostly with backhands) because it gives more control. This is true, but there are times when a hard, flat shot is the best way to dispatch a flailing opponent. Spin allows them more time to recover.
 This does not mean run wildly after your returned ball and hope to catch a volley. Net play requires a carefully chosen moment to act. You would first want to hit a deep or heavily spinning shot to either push your opponent back, getting them off balance or out of the court. Then move in, this is done in two stages. First approach the middle of the court and check your run. Pause slightly here, waiting for the moment to pounce; the opponent may have clawed a shot back earlier than you expected, if so, you are now prepared for it. Approach the net and play the volley. Generally speaking, volleys should be deep, fast and flat. In terms of technique, it's more of a punch or stab than a swing. Footwork is paramount with volleys as you have less time than with ground strokes. Step forward to meet the ball with the opposite foot to the hand you are hitting with, this will ensure you are slightly side on to the shot, allowing you to aim for the corners and get a good angle on your shot.
 This can be ok for amateur games but it is worth being aware of the serve as an important tool to give you the edge in points. If you are serving in a game then you are expected to win it as you have the advantage of playing the first ball for every point in that game. This can mean you can virtually win the point before your opponent even hits the ball. Bearing in mind what was discussed above about using the whole of the court, vary your serves' spin, speed and length. try to aim for the body to mix things up. Tennis becomes a ridiculously easy game if your serve is dependable and accurate.

