 In the first four months, a baby can only focus on an area between 8 and 12 inches from their face. Your baby will respond to movement in the first week.Exposing your baby to light during the day and small amounts at night can not only soothe them, but also help develop their ability to focus on you and other movements.Use a nightlight or another dim lamp in your baby’s room. The best way to tell if the nightlight is dim enough for your baby is that you can’t see the light through your eyelids.Choose a red or amber light to avoid disrupting the production of melatonin.;
, Each of your baby’s eyes will develop on its own. In order to stimulate each eye equally, change your baby’s position in your arms or a crib frequently.Move the position of the crib frequently as well as where your baby is in it.
Alternate sides when you are holding or feeding your baby., You likely interact a lot with your baby by talking to them or showing them toys. During your baby’s first four months, they will begin following you and other objects when they move. Make sure to keep any objects within 8-12 inches of your baby so that they can focus on them.Speak to your baby when you’re walking around the room. This can help further develop the ability to focus as they grow.
Hold toys that are in bold geometric patterns and colors close to your baby. Recognize that babies don’t generally develop color vision until about 4 months old. However, showing them bold colors such as red, orange, yellow, blue, black and white can help develop color vision., At any age, your baby may have a problem or exhibit other potential issues with their eyesight. Seek prompt medical attention if your baby shows any of the following signs from birth to 2 years:Inability to track an object with their eyes by 3-4 months
Trouble moving either or both eyes in all directions
Jiggling eyes that cannot hold still
One or both eyes crossed or turned outward
Light sensitivity (blinking, closing eyes, or showing distress in light)
Pupils that appear white
Persistent draining or watering from eyes

, Your baby begins to develop hand-eye coordination and depth perception at around four months.Hanging objects such as mobiles or crib gyms above their crib or changing table allows your baby to pull, grab, and kick at the mobile. This helps further develop your baby’s eyesight.Make sure that toys and other objects you hang above the crib are easily within sight of your baby. Grasping for things will stimulate their vision.Remove mobiles or any other hanging objects from above your baby’s crib once they can push up on their hands and knees. This can prevent your baby from reaching the mobile, which increases the risk of strangulation.Consider hanging up a colorful poster near your baby’s changing table or close to the crib for further stimulation., Every baby needs plenty of time to play and explore. This can help your baby further develop and stimulate their vision, including hand-eye coordination and depth perception. Plan for plenty of play time for your baby that includes exploring the floor or base of a playpen.Place an array of colorful plastic or wooden blocks that your baby can grasp and hold. You can also use household objects such as ladles and balls to stimulate your baby’s vision., Games that move your baby’s hands and legs and involve talking further stimulate vision.As a part of your daily playtime, incorporate games such as patty cake and peek-a-boo. This can help develop your baby’s eyesight., If you haven’t started already, read your baby books. Select books with a simple story and colorful pictures that you can show to your baby. This helps develop your baby’s visualization abilities as well as providing even more enjoyment for you and your child., At around seven to ten months, your baby will recognize partially hidden objects.Incorporating hide and seek games with toys or even your face can further develop your baby’s eyesight, including visual memory.Place a soft blanket partially over a favorite toy such as a stuffed animal. Then say, “What is that, Vera? Where is Mickey Mouse?”Use a window to play hide and seek with your baby. Your baby will likely recognize you through the glass.
 Your baby is likely becoming more curious with each passing month. Naming toys or other objects that your baby plays with helps develop their eyesight even more. It also encourages your baby’s word association skills and vocabulary development.Say the object clearly and offer praise when you’re naming things your baby has. For example, “Is that a block, Gabriel? Wow, you have a red block! And look, you stacked it on a blue block.”

, Between 8 and 12 months, your baby’s eyesight is connected to movement and memory. Encouraging crawling and creeping, along with other activities, can strengthen your baby’s ability to see things as well as touch and remember them.Let your baby have plenty of playtime that incorporates time on the floor for crawling or creeping from one piece of furniture to another.
 Your baby began following movement with their eyes during the first few months of life. This skill will continue to develop as your baby gets older. By the time your baby is one to two years old, rolling a ball back and forth with them can further develop their eyesight. It also helps your child learn to track objects visually as well as develop hand-eye coordination.Use a brightly colored ball to further stimulate your baby’s eyesight. Identify the color to help with vocabulary and word association.
 Eyesight is important to helping your baby develop fine motor skills as well as small muscle development. Give your baby toys such as zippers and building blocks that encourage hand-eye coordination. This can not only help develop their eyesight, but also boost fine motor skills and small muscle growth.The following toys and activities can help further develop your baby and toddler’s eyesight:Bright balls
Blocks
Zippers
Peg hammering toys
Markers and crayons
Puzzles

, Many people start reading to their babies at a very young age or even in utero. Continuing to read and tell your baby stories past their first birthday can both help develop your child’s eyesight and visualization skills. This also will help your child learn and read in the long run.Show your child the pictures in storybooks or describe images to your child as you tell stories. For example, “Snow White was a fierce warrior who lived in a big white castle. The gardens were filled with beautiful and fragrant flowers in lots of pretty colors.”

