 If you wear natural insulators like down or clothing made from cotton, the water seeps into the fabric and takes away the warmth. These fabrics can pull the heat from your body. Wool, fleece, and synthetics stay warm even in a downpour, so they are a better option if you know the weather will be rainy., Stay warm by wearing long sleeved wool, polyester, or microfiber clothing under your rain gear. If the weather will also be cooler, add multiple layers. Your clothes will likely still get wet under your rain gear, but fabrics like wool and fleece can remain warm. On the other hand, you may want to look for items that dry easily, such as polyester.Choose items that will feel comfortable and flexible under your heavy raincoat.Avoid cotton, which will hold the water and drain your heat., A hard shell raincoat will hold up better than a soft shell raincoat in a sustained storm. You can protect your legs with rain pants or vented pants, depending on the temperature of the area and your preference as a hiker.

Vented pants will be less insulating but dry quickly.
Rain pants can help keep in your warmth and repel water, but they will eventually succumb to the onslaught of water., For shorter backpacking trips, waterproof boots and gaiters are your best bet, while longer trips are best accomplished with breathable trail runners. If you’re in the rain for long periods of time, your feet are going to get wet no matter what shoe you wear. Trail runners are easier on your feet and dry quicker than other options., Your weakest link in staying warm is your head. Even with a hood, heat will escape from your head. Keep your head warm by wearing a hat. If you choose a hat that has a brim, you can also keep some of the rain off your face., While they’re expensive, waterproof bags far outrank pack covers in keeping your gear dry. A pack cover can easily be compromised by a wayward branch, which can pull off the cover. Additionally, water can still seep into the unprotected back of the bag. While a waterproof pack is preferable, a pack cover is better than nothing.Line the inside of your bag with a heavy-duty garbage bag., Protect items that need to stay dry, such as food, electronics, your map, your light source, etc. into plastic Ziplock bags, heavy-duty trash bags, or dry bags made for backpackers. If you are carrying a sleeping bag, tent, or other related items, make sure they are protected as well., If you’re camping, make sure that you have a set of dry clothes to sleep in so that you can change out of your wet gear overnight. Not only will you be more comfortable, but it will help you keep your body temperature regulated. Store your dry clothes in plastic with your other dry gear.