 Because of this, it is recommended to increase your intake of vitamin C while you are dealing with a virus.Aside from taking a vitamin C supplement, you can also:


Eat fruits that have high amounts of vitamin C. These include grapefruit, kiwi, strawberries, lemon, lime, blackberries, oranges, papaya, pineapple, pomelo, and raspberries.Eat vegetables that are rich in vitamin C. These include Brussel sprouts, broccoli, onions, garlic, red and green peppers, tomatoes, and radishes. You can also consider making vegetable soup, if you don’t like eating raw veggies., If you have ever wondered why people always give their kids chicken noodle soup when they are sick, it's because chicken soup is a wonder when it comes to recovering from a virus. Not only does chicken soup act as an anti-inflammatory, it also temporarily helps to relieve congestion by unblocking your nasal passages.You can also add onions, garlic, and other veggies to your soup to boost its vitamin and mineral count.
 Zinc governs enzymes in our body that activate different parts of our immune system that fight against infection. Most people choose to take a 25 mg zinc supplement before one meal each day, but you can also add zinc-rich foods to your diet. These foods include spinach, mushrooms, beef, lamb, pork or chicken, and cooked oysters.Zinc has been shown to be most effective when taken for two to three days at the beginning of a cold or flu. Start taking zinc as soon as you think you may be getting sick.
You can also purchase lozenges that contain zinc, which you can suck on. You can buy these and other zinc supplements at your local pharmacy.
Do not take zinc supplements if you take antibiotics (such as tetracyclines, fluoroquinolones), Penicillamine (a drug used in Wilson’s disease), or Cisplatin (a medication used in cancer), due to the fact that zinc decreases the efficiency of these drugs.
 Echinacea is a type of plant that is often made into a tea or taken as a supplement. When consumed, it helps to increase the number of leukocytes (white blood cells that boost your immunity) and other immune-related cells in your body. You can consume echinacea by drinking tea or juice made from the plant, or by taking supplements bought at a pharmacy or health foods store.Other natural remedies to consider include eucalyptus, elderberry, honey, and reishi and shiitake mushrooms.

