 The most common reason why we daydream is because we are often tired, and our concentration begins to wander somewhere else. Starting a good sleep cycle and routine can guarantee feeling more focused throughout the day.


Sleeping eight hours a night is the most beneficial for prime focus power the following day. However, for some people the right amount of sleep can vary between 6 hours to 9 hours. Find what amount of hours is best for you so that you can work it into your routine. How sleepy and awake a person feels is controlled by the body’s circadian rhythm, which is really just a way of saying that human body will feel dips of tiredness and fatigue throughout the day naturally.If you’ve had enough sleep you won’t feel as tired during these dips.
 The blue light emitted from technology suppresses your brains production of melatonin. This chemical is what controls your sleep cycle.While you might think you got enough sleep, if your brain doesn’t produce the right chemicals to truly let it rest, you’ll still be tired the next day. Getting the right amount of sleep also entails making sure your brain has time to rest.


Blue light is emitted by most technology that we use in everyday life. Such as laptops televisions and cellphones.
If you need to check your cellphone android and apple offer amber light applications that allow you to use your technology at night without keeping your brain awake all night.
 It might be hard at first but the best way to always get the right amount of sleep is through routine. Going to sleep at the same time every night will help your body know when it’s time to shut off and refuel for the next day.


When you first start creating your routine you’ll need to take some extra steps to get yourself feeling sleepy. Drink some herbal tea such as chamomile, or read a book.
Even with routine you might not get your full nights rest to keep those daydreams at bay. Embrace that you might have a tough day ahead of you and put your best foot forward.

