 Before taking any action, especially if you are purchasing completely raw land, consider hiring professional legal help. Hiring a real estate attorney will ensure that your rights are protected during the bidding process for purchasing the land and during the financing process. A good attorney will also be able to help you with price negotiations.
 Before you can purchase your property, you will need to make an offer on the land and have that offer accepted by the seller. This process can be very simple, but can also follow a relatively complicated bidding process. For more information on the actual buying process for land, see How to Buy Raw Land. It may also be in your best interest to ask for an exclusive option on the property for a period of time so you can pursue financing, etc. Having an option is better than owning, since there is less money involved.


Before submitting an offer on the land, be sure that you have the proper permits and any requisite insurance. Ask your lawyer for assistance in this matter., If your offer is accepted by seller, you now will have to find a way to finance your purchase. Start by contacting potential lenders like local banks and credit unions to request a loan interview. Meet with these lenders and present your land portfolio. With enough salesmanship and good credit, along with a good land portfolio, you might be able to get a loan through one of these institutions., With some land types, especially raw land parcels, it may be very difficult to secure funding from a financial institution. Luckily, there are a bevy of other financing options available. The land serves as collateral for loan; additional security might come from downpayment in place of other assets. Be aware that some financing options may be more expensive than borrowing from the bank, so consider your options before setting down any of the following paths.


One option is owner financing. This essentially allows you to gradually pay the seller of property directly, rather than going through a lending institution. This will generally require a large down payments to secure the trust of the seller. Like any bank loan, owner financing will be secured by legal documents. Contact the seller of the property to see if they are willing to do this financing option.Another option is through a private-party loan. This will require you to find a friend or family member willing to loan you money. These loans can be secured with collateral (the lender takes possession of a house or car if you default) or unsecured.Additionally, if the land is being purchased for a specific purpose, like for farming or commercial use, you may be able to apply for government loans. Specifically, the Small Business Administration (SBA) offers loans specifically designed for the purpose of purchasing land and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) offers land loans to farmers who fail to qualify for traditional loans.See their respective websites or contact your local SBA or USDA offices to learn more.
 Estimate the total costs of each loan and compare them against each other. Generally, owner financing will be the cheapest option, unless you have great credit and are able to secure a low-interest bank loan. Also think about the durations of the loans; you don't want to take a great interest rate but be stuck paying it off for many years. Choose a loan that you can afford and, if you're utilizing your land for profit, one that will allow you to earn money in the long run.
 Select which loan works best for you and pay the down payment. Be advised that in many cases, this down payment may be as high as 20 to 50 percent of the value of the property.