 Rarely will pimples completely disappear overnight, but if you stick to a strict cleaning routine, that pimple will disappear faster and your general acne will improve.
 When you wake up in the morning and before you go to bed, splash your face with warm water to open your pores. Wash, don’t scrub, your face with soap meant for acne-prone skin. Then rinse off all the soap with cool water to shrink your pores.


Don’t over wash. Pimples are not caused by dirt. If they were, you’d probably have acne all over your feet. Excessive washing can actually strip your skin of its natural protections, irritating the skin further, and leading to prolonged inflammation.
Use soaps that won't cause acne flare-ups. Not all skin products are ideal for acne-prone skin. Use products that don’t have isopropyl palmitate, isopropyl myristate, butyl stearate, isopropyl isostearate, decyl oleate, isostearyl neopentanoate, isocetyl stearate, myristol myristate, cocoa butter, acetylated lanolin, D & C red dyes, or other oils. These ingredients may get into your pores, clog them up, and lead to further breakouts., Your hands and hair are two sources of grease. If you constantly touch your face or your hair rests against your face, this will lead to more breakouts.
 You want to keep oils and dry skin away from your face. Your pillowcase collects oils and skin flakes while you sleep night-after-night.
 Fatty, sugary foods can increase the likelihood of breakouts. Avoid milks, sodas, chocolates, candy bars, ice creams, and other similar products. Instead, eat more fruits and vegetables. Drink more water. By drinking more water, your body will be able to flush out those agents that lead to acne.
 Vitamin B3 increases hydration to your skin and reduces redness, while vitamin E fights dryness and increases your protection against UV radiation. , Just be sure to shower immediately after.
 Some studies have shown that acne can be caused by stress. So don’t stress out about that zit, because it might make it worse.