 Employers often end up employing immigrants illegally because they haven’t checked the employee’s immigration status. In other situations, the employer is in on the fraud. You should look for common signs of fraud:


The employer doesn’t use E-Verify. This is a free online system that allows any employer to enter certain information and check the legal status of the employee.Currently, only some states require its use. If an employer is not using the program, then it might be employing workers illegally. You shouldn’t report an employer solely for failing to use E-Verify. However, you should look for other signs of illegal employment.
Employees use the same Social Security Number. Often, workers in the country illegally steal or buy Social Security Numbers to use. If two or more employees have the same number, then they are likely working illegally.
The company employs a high number of temporary immigrant workers. It is certainly legal to hire temporary employees, and an employer can get visas for certain temporary workers.However, the employer might have been careless or deceptive when applying for the visas.
 You should get as much helpful information as possible about the illegal employment of undocumented workers. In particular, gather the following before reaching out to the government:company name
company location
nationalities of the undocumented workers
any employee Social Security Numbers (if known)

, The federal government is charged with investigating the employment of undocumented workers. You can report an employer by calling ICE at 1-866-347-2423. You may report anonymously., If you don’t want to call, then you can report using an online tip form. You only need to report suspected violations once. Accordingly, if you already called ICE, then you don’t need to report online.On the tips form, you can check “Employment/Exploitation of Unlawful Workers” under the Suspected Violation heading.
You are given up to 2500 characters to provide helpful information about the violation.
At the bottom of the page, you also have to answer a basic math question so that the agency knows you are not a spam bot.
 After you report the suspected violation, ICE will investigate. You shouldn’t expect any updates. However, ICE might decide to give you a monetary payment as a reward for your reporting. You are not guaranteed payment, but ICE has the ability to provide one.