 Bleaching and dying hair can really dry it out, so you'll want to give your hair a good head start. In the days leading up to streaking it, don't shampoo it or use hairspray and other hair products. Let your hair's natural oils protect it from the chemicals you'll be applying. When you're ready to streak it, start with hair that is completely dry.Your package of bleach may specify that you start with clean hair. Check the instructions before use.
 You need to separate the hair that will be bleached and colored from the rest before you can begin the process. You can do this with a highlighting cap, or by using hair clips and aluminum foil. Beauty supply stores sell caps used to highlight your hair. You place the cap on your head and use a hook to pull strands of hair through tiny holes. Use this if you want all-over streaks.
Hair clips and aluminum foil is the better technique to use if you want just a few large, bold streaks. Pull back the hair you don't intend to streak and clip it away from your head. Now take a long strip of aluminum foil and place it underneath the section of hair you want to streak. Pinch it around the roots to keep it in place.
 Put the bleach, developer, and red gold corrector in a bowl. Read the instructions that came with the bleach powder and developer to figure out how much to mix together. The amount you use depends on the size of the bottle you bought, and the brand of product you’re using.If you're only streaking a few sections of hair, you can half the recipe, since you won't need enough to bleach your entire head.
The finished mixture will look bluish white.
 Use the tint brush to apply bleach from the tips to the roots of the sections of hair. Use only enough bleach needed to cover and saturate the hair. Continue applying bleach until the hair is completely covered.It is important to wear gloves when applying bleach. The chemicals used in bleach are strong and can stain your hands and burn your skin. Do not get bleach anywhere near your eyes.
If you're using the highlighting cap method, cover your head with a large piece of plastic wrap while the bleach sets in.
If you're using the aluminum foil method, fold the foil over the section of hair to cover it and protect it from drying out.
 Use a towel to wipe off a little bleach. If your hair is blonde, the bleaching process is finished. If it still looks dark, apply more bleach to the area you wiped off, replace the plastic wrap or aluminum foil, and give it more time. Keep checking every 10 to 15 minutes until it is finished.


Don't leave the bleach in for more than 45 minutes, even if your hair still looks dark. Your hair can get damaged if you leave the bleach in longer.
You may have to wait a day and bleach it again to achieve the desired effect (this is common for people with very dark brown or black hair).
 Carefully rinse the bleach from the strands of hair that you treated. Keep the rest of your hair separate so that it doesn't get bleach on it. Rinse until the water runs clear., A purple shampoo is made to tone your hair and take the yellow out of it. Wash your hair with purple shampoo as soon as you are done rinsing the bleach from your hair. Allow it to sit on your hair for about five minutes. Then, rinse it out thoroughly, and pat your hair dry with a towel.You can find several brands of purple shampoo at a beauty supply shop.

