


The best time of year in terms of weather and Miami attractions and events is also the most expensive.
If you're looking for the best value for your money, you can avoid the crowds, but Miami weather can be uncomfortable and volatile.;
,


Temperatures are in the 70s (20s Celsius), and the sun is always shining.
A popular Miami attraction is its nightlife, which kicks into full gear during the peak season.
Dinner reservations can be hard to get.
Due to the crowds at Miami attractions, the advice is usually to arrive early.



Hotels fill up quickly, so book early.



Many hotels offer great deals in the off-season; however, some use off-season to make renovations.
Daily rains aren't unheard of, but sometimes they're over quickly.
Labor Day weekend finds Miami bursting at the seams, however, as visitors try to get one more vacation weekend under their belts.



Visit Miami in October through December to benefit from great Miami weather while avoiding the worst of the crowds.
Avoid Miami trips around holidays like Thanksgiving and Christmas, when the crowds visit Miami.



June through November is hurricane season with hurricanes typically peaking in August.
August tends to be the most humid month, with humidity pushing the heat index over 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.8 degrees Celsius).
Miami weather in August doesn't mean the most rain, however. That distinction belongs to June. However, August usually has the second most rainfall.
If Miami travel must be during summer, remember that you can cool off in the Atlantic Ocean at Miami's great beaches.



Look at specific Miami areas, like the Art Dec district, Little Havana, South Beach or Calle Ocho.



Two tracks offer thoroughbred racing: Calder Racecourse and Gulfstream Park.
The city's home football team is the Miami Dolphins.
The Miami Heat is the professional basketball team.
The Florida Marlins won major league baseball's 2003 World Series.
If you want to catch professional ice hockey, Miami has the Florida Panthers.

