 From the main site, you have the option to browse titles, read movie-related news, watch recently released trailers and control your account activity all from one place. Account options can be found in the uppermost portion of the page.Enter the website’s URL (http://www.imdb.com) or run a quick search for “IMDB” and select the top result.
Before you can add new titles to the database, you’ll need to be officially registered and logged in as a member.;
, If you’re already a member, you can also use this link to sign in.


Signing in or registering with your Facebook account can save you time filling out forms. Your account will be created using the email you used to register for Facebook.
None of your activity on IMDb will be tracked or reported on other websites in any way without your express permission.
 About halfway down the page you’ll see a large yellow button that reads “Create a New Account.” Selecting this link will take you to a new page where you can input your personal information to become a registered member.Make sure you don’t already have an existing IMDb account before you create a new one.
Registered members will also be able to take advantage of additional features like writing reviews, creating personalized watchlists and posting in discussions on the message board.
 You’ll be prompted to provide your full name, email address and a password of your choosing. Input your info, then click “Create Your IMDb Account.” After that, you’ll be able to submit new titles, add production and credit details, look over your contribution history and make use of other functions reserved for members.


You may be asked to confirm your registration before you can continue.
Choose the option to “stay logged in” so you won’t be forced to put in your information every time you visit the site.
 Use the search bar at the top of the homepage to scan for any existing titles or keywords related to the title you wish to add. It may be that the title has already been archived. If you find the title in the results, there’s no need to do anything further. Otherwise, you can proceed to fill out a new title submission form.Enter both the film’s international title and the title as it appears in the original language.If you were part of a film’s production and you want to submit a listing for the new title, task one member of the crew (ideally the director or producer) with handling the process. This will prevent overlapping submissions that may be rejected.
 This will pull up a dropdown menu containing a list of various options. Under the “Community” heading, click the “Contributor Zone” link. This will take you to a page that briefly explains submission guidelines, as well as the role of the community in adding to IMDb’s growing selection of titles.New members are advised to browse the articles in the Contributor Zone before attempting to add new entries to the database.
 You should find the link, along with other useful informational resources, in the section entitled “Adding Data to IMDb.” Clicking it will redirect you to a separate form you can fill out with relevant details about the new title.Be sure to review the site’s submission criteria and Frequently Asked Questions page before adding a new title. Answers to any questions you may have can usually be found there.You’ll have to repeat this process every time you want to submit a new title.
 The form will ask you for the title of the film, the specific type of media, its current status (in development or already released), the year it was produced and your relation as a contributor. Provide as much precise detail as you can in order to make the listing a more authoritative resource.Record the title of the film in its original language, with the exact spelling and capitalization as it appears in the title screen of the opening credits.Only films that have received wide release or distribution are eligible for listings on IMDb. This doesn’t include things like home movies, student films or content produced for public access broadcasts., Before you send in your submission, make sure all information is complete and accurate to the best of your knowledge. Scan for spelling and capitalization mistakes and verify that you correctly entered other critical information, such as the date of release. Title pages should be as factual, thorough and up to date as possible.Listings containing errors may mislead readers.
If the information you provide for the new title isn’t accurate, your submission may be rejected outright.
 Once you submit the new title, it will be sent to the IMDb’s title managers for review. Provided that the info you submitted meets the criteria outlined in the site’s submission guidelines, the new listing will typically be published within a few days.Anyone can submit new titles to IMDb, but they have to be approved by the website’s administrators before a listing is created.
 It may take as long as two weeks for the new listing to be uploaded to the database, so check back periodically to see its status. Approved listings will be accessible via the main website or through search results. Keep contributing new titles to help IMDb continue to grow as the internet’s leading resource for all things cinematic!When your submission has been approved, you’ll receive confirmation in your account activity, as well as the email you registered with.
You’ll also receive notice of rejected submissions, which will be accompanied by a short explanation of why they were passed over.

