 The best way to know your weight is to use a scale. Scales are readily available for purchase in many pharmacies and home goods stores. Step on the scale and look at the display. Most displays show your weight in both kilograms and pounds.


The best time to weigh yourself is in the morning.When you step on the scale, try to wear as little as possible. By weighing yourself the same way each time, you’ll get a more accurate understanding of your weight.
Weigh yourself daily. Mark your weight in a small notebook or spreadsheet. This way you can track changes in your weight over time. This information will help you discover if you need to take in more calories.
 If you exercise a great deal, you will need to eat more calories than the average person. If you are exceptionally sedentary, you will need fewer calories than the average person.


Tracking calorie needs using activity levels is difficult, since each person’s activity level varies, even within the same exercise. Someone who runs one mile will burn more calories than someone who walks a mile. In other words, the more intense the workout, the more calories you will need to maintain your current weight.To better track your activity levels, use an activity diary. The CDC has a template available at http://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/pdf/physical_activity_diary_cdc.pdf.
There are also many apps and devices that can help you track your activity levels. For instance, the FitBit is a wearable watch-like device that can help you monitor vital stats like how far you walked, ran, or rode your bike. It also monitors how many calories you burn, and tracks other biological statistics like your heartbeat and sleeping patterns.
 Men and women have different caloric needs. If you’re trying to figure out if you should be consuming more calories, you’ll need to check recommended daily guidelines for your gender.Men usually require 2,000-3,000 calories each day.
Women usually require 1,600-2,400 calories each day.
 For women, that means that the caloric recommendations are based on the assumption that you’re 5’4’’ (162 cm). For men, the average height is 5’10’’ (178 cm). If you are shorter than the average person, your caloric intake should proportionally less than the recommended average. If you are taller than the average height, your caloric intake should be proportionally greater than the recommended average.
 This is because older people are generally more sedentary, but it also reflects changes in the metabolic rate (the rate at which the body transforms food into energy). Your caloric needs will probably continue to decline, and your overall average will likely drop again when you reach age 60 – 65.


If you are very physically active even into your older years, your caloric intake will need to remain high.
 Your ideal weight should be within the healthy range relative to your height, age, and sex.


If, for instance, your target weight is less than your current weight, you’ll need to consume fewer calories while maintaining or increasing your level of physical activity.
If you want to gain weight, you should increase your caloric intake while reducing or maintaining your current level of physical activity.
To better track your caloric intake, use a food diary. The CDC has a food diary template available at http://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/pdf/food_diary_cdc.pdf.
Don’t take caloric recommendations as gospel. Both men and women might need more or less calories than what is recommended. Use these recommendations as guidelines only.

