 Chances are, you know someone who was adopted. Talking with them can help you understand how they learned they were adopted and what they did afterward. Friends may also be able to offer you advice on how to bring your questions to your family.
 Thanks to social media, it is now very easy to get in touch with people from your past even if you can’t visit your childhood home in person. Understand, though, that people may not feel comfortable discussing their knowledge of your family with you. Explain to them why you want to know, but don’t press them for information if they seem reluctant.
 Many people go through the process of discovering that they’re adopted and dealing with that information every year. A support group of other adoptees may be able to offer you advice and resources for your own search, as well as help you handle the process emotionally.
 DNA sampling can track your genetic markers and compare them to those of other family members. You can visit a genetic specialist, or you can use a mail-order test like the “Family Finder” test. For this option, though, you will need to get another close relative (a parent, sibling, or first cousin) to agree to have a test done so that you have a point of comparison.


If you buy a DNA test online, go with a reputable provider. The three biggest providers of online DNA testing are Ancestry.com, 23 and me, and FamilyTreeDNA. These companies also often maintain large databases of other individuals who have had these tests and can compare your DNA to theirs.
 A DNA test can offer you clues to your genetic identity, but it is often limited in its effectiveness without a large pool for comparison. If you are having a DNA test done without the participation of another family member, your information may be less useful.


There are 3 basic kinds of DNA tests: mitochondrial (inherited maternal DNA), Y-line (inherited paternal DNA, but only works for males), and autosomal (inherited relations to others such as cousins).Autosomal DNA tests may be the best option for adoptees, as they can connect your genetics to a wider network of people.
A DNA test can verify whether or not you are biologically related to your immediate family, usually through mitochondrial DNA. However, it is less likely to be able to connect you to another family if your genetics don’t match your own family’s.
 The International Soundex Reunion Registry and Adoption.com are both considered reputable, reliable registries for individuals who are seeking to reunite with their biological families., This option can be very expensive, so it is usually reserved for once you know you've been adopted but can't locate your birth parents or information about them. Look for an investigator in your hometown as they are probably familiar with the town's record archives.

