 With young children, art isn’t about creating a beautiful final product. Let them learn about materials and suggest what they might use. Before starting a project, show them what they will be using and allow them to explore their materials. Let them look at and touch items that engage their senses and open up their self-expression.Have some paper, markers, crayons, paints, buttons, beads, pipe cleaners, fabric, yarn, and other craft items that are safe and engaging for your child.
Use sensory materials like clay or playdough to help them integrate their senses and create at the same time.;
, Create an area for arts and crafts that will excite your toddler. Let them sit down and create to their heart’s content! Making art accessible is a great way to get your child involved. Buy a table and chair that are size-appropriate for your toddler. Keep materials in easy reach so that they can get what they need on their own without your help. As your child gets older, add more crafts and activities.
 Grab some art supplies and have your child watch you draw or paint. Have them guess what you’re drawing. They can watch how you make marks, choose colors, and create something on the page. Ask them for ideas to draw and interpret them in silly or serious ways.Ask your child to copy what they see on their own paper.
 Finger paints are a great way for your toddler to explore creativity, color, and art without having to hold a marker or crayon. They can learn to make dots, squiggles, and lines with their fingers and then transition these skills to using a paintbrush.

Have an easel for your child to easily create art with finger paints.
 Purchase some bath crayons for your toddler. When they are very young, you can use them to draw shapes and patterns and teach colors. Once they are able to hold the crayons, have them copy your pictures or create their own art.Talk about what you’re drawing and let them explore the various elements of your picture.
 Create some fingerprint art by using multiple colored ink pads. Your child can learn about colors while making beautiful creations with their own hands and fingers. Ask your toddler what animals and objects they can make by using their colored thumbprints or fingerprints.Have them place each fingerpad onto a different color then create a rainbow.
 Introduce crayons, markers, and paints to your toddler. Let them create marks, squiggles, and other doodles so they can get used to holding a marker or paintbrush. Encourage them to cover as much of the page as possible, including the edges.Have them draw squiggles then fill in the spaces in with paint.
 Playdough is a great way to express creativity by shaping dough in many different ways. Ask your toddler to make different shapes, foods, animals, trees, etc. with their playdough. They can use cookie cutters to make shapes and build things. Playdough is a great introduction to sculpting and clay., Bring your toddler to a place with lots of art, like a museum. Play “I See...” with one piece of art at a time and notice the textures, colors, people, and objects. Notice as much as you can and share it with your child.If you have multiple children, see which one can find a detail or say what a person is doing first.
 Your community may offer children’s classes for art. Check your local community center or private art studios to see if they have classes geared toward budding artists. Your child can learn art skills and engage their creativity. Best of all, they will come home with projects and pictures for you to praise and display., Have your child’s playmates over for some fun and creation. Have the other children bring different materials and combine them together so that all the children have the opportunity to create, explore, and have fun.For example, throw an art-themed birthday party.
 Whether you see art in a museum, book, or you use your own, create some stories with your toddler. Ask, “What do you think they are doing here? Where are they going?” Discuss the actions in the art and also the feelings that may be occurring or may occur.Have your child draw something and tell you about it. For example, if they draw a monster, ask the monster’s name, favorite food, and where the monster may be going.
 Look for art everywhere you go and point it out. When out in your community, look around for art whether it be sculptures, painting, or street art and show your child. Let them interact with it and find something they appreciate in it.Show your child art books and museums, even if only for small bits of time.
 Use a book’s illustrations to teach your child to interact with pictures. Pick out books from the library that are beautifully illustrated and point out the pictures to your child. Engage with the pictures, ask how the person in the story might feel, look for details, and find ways to anticipate what happens next. If there are hidden details in the illustrations, encourage your child to find them.Stop every few pages and ask questions about the page. For example, say, “Can you find the balloon? Do you see the bunny hiding behind the rock? What can you see?“

, When your child brings home art or makes something at home, praise their work and their effort. Hang their art on the walls, refrigerator, or in their room. This shows them that their art is important.You can also place their art in a folder or cabinet and let them know that you’re saving their art.

