 Get a wick that already has a metal tab attached to it, and place a glob of hot glue on the bottom of the tab. Quickly press the tab against the bottom of the jar.


You can also use a candle votive. It needs to hold about 4 ounces (120 milliliters).
If you don't have a hot glue gun, you can use a piece of double-sided tape instead. You can also try to balance the candle wick as best you can.
For a fun twist, cut a small, sugar pumpkin in half, and scoop out all of the seeds and pulp. You make need to double the amounts for the wax and spices in order to fill the candle.;
, You can also use pens, markers, chopsticks, or even popsicle sticks. The goal is to keep the wick upright.
 Put the wax into a glass measuring cup, then set the cup down in a large pot. Fill the pot with water until it is level with the wax; make sure that the water can't get inside the measuring cup. Bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat, and wait for the wax to melt, stirring it occasionally.Use an old measuring cup that you no longer use for cooking.Alternatively, you can melt the wax in the microwave at 1 to 2-minute intervals. Stir the wax between each interval., For a more intense fragrance, add 15 drops of cinnamon essential oil.If you'd like a more complex fragrance, consider adding 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract and ½ teaspoon of ground clove.Use pot holders to handle the measuring cup. It will be very hot.
 If you notice any air bubbles, use a wooden skewer to wipe the inside walls of the jar. This will send the air bubbles to the top.Be careful not to knock the wick aside. Keep the sticks to either side of it.
 It may take up to 4 or 5 hours for the candle to completely harden. If you are in a hurry, you can stick it in the fridge to speed the process up.
 This will not only help your candle last longer, but it will also prevent it from smoking and creating too much black soot., Place the jar on a heat-safe surface, and light the wick. If you made your candle in side of a pumpkin, use it within a few days. Pumpkins do not last forever!

