 Technically, in North Carolina, you are not required to complete a training course. You are however, strongly encouraged to complete a state-approved 75 hour training course in order to prepare for the required state exam. State approved classes are offered at community colleges, health care facilities, and though private companies. Find a state-approved course near you and enroll.


75 hour courses are often divided over 12 weeks, meeting 6.25 hours per week.
16 of these 75 hours will be hands-on training.;
, One appeal of becoming a CNA in North Carolina is that it does not require a GED or High School diploma to enroll. Enrollment procedures will include instead a criminal background check, a health exam, and verification of your identity. You must be at least 17 years old with a valid ID. You may also be asked to take a drug test., In order to enroll in the course, you will need to provide up-to-date immunization records. This is crucial, as you will be working in a medical setting, and providing proof of your immunizations is required by law.


To train or work as a CNA in North Carolina, you must be vaccinated for varicella, Hepatitis B, TDaP, and two-step PPD., In North Carolina, the average cost of tuition for such a course is $400. This is significantly lower than CNA tuition in other states. Some schools may have financial aid or student loan options to help offset this cost., The most essential (and expensive) material you will need is the book required for the course. Purchase this book, borrow it from a friend, or find it at a local library. You will also need: a pencil, a highlighter, a notebook, scrubs in your size, a wristwatch with a second hand, and white closed-toed shoes.
 Your instructor will schedule a time for you to have your ID badge made. Part of your training will include “clinicals,” or hands-on training in a medical setting. You must obtain an ID badge before you can begin working on clinicals.
 CNA courses in North Carolina are typically 12 weeks long. This means that a great deal of information and training is packed into just a few months of study. In order for to you to pass this class, you will need to make it your top priority for these 12 weeks.


Courses in North Carolina are 75 hours in total, with 16 of those hours comprised of "hand-on" learning. So a typical course meets for 6.25 hours per week, spread over 12 weeks.
Many courses are offered at night or on weekends. Some meet twice a week, and others three times a week.
Online courses are not offered, as much of this training will be hands on.
 The "instruction" portion of your course will be divided across three main areas of study: physical care activities, psychosocial care skills, and the role of a nurse aide. It will be crucial for you to study your materials at home, pay attention in class, and ask questions about anything you do not understand.The physical care skills section will be the most extensive, covering the activities of daily living (hygiene, dressing and grooming, nutrition and hydration, and so on), basic nursing skills (infection control, emergency situations, therapeutic procedures, and data collection and reporting), and restorative skills (prevention and self care/independence).
The psychosocial care skills section will cover both emotional and mental health needs, as well as spiritual and cultural needs.
The section of the role of the nurse aide will explore communication, client rights, legal and ethical behavior, and becoming a member of the care team.
 As you cover material through the lecture portion of the class, and through your reading at home, you will be assigned quizzes and tests. Stay on top of your assigned reading, review what you’ve covered in class, and be sure to spend some quality time preparing for each test.
 Clinicals are done in a nursing home, an assisted living facility, or in a hospital., After finishing lectures, and clinicals, there is one more test to be taken in class. This is your final exam in the course. It will will test your knowledge and skills, and prepare you for the state certification exam.
 Locate a CNA testing facility in your area and sign up for the state exam. You will have the option of choosing a “written and skills” version of the test, or an “oral and skills” version.Written exam is only available in English. It consists of 70 multiple choice questions.
Oral exam is available in English or Spanish. The Oral Examination consists of sixty multiple-choice questions and ten multiple-choice reading comprehension questions provided on an MP3 player.
At the Skills Evaluation you will be asked to perform five randomly selected nurse aide skills. You will be given thirty minutes to complete the five skills.
 The written and/or oral component of the exam will cover the information you learned through the "instruction" portion of your CNA course. The skills section will focus on what you learned through your clinicals, or hands-on training.The written/oral portion of the test will cover physical care skills (activities of daily living, basic nursing skills, and restorative skills), psychosocial care skills, and the role of the nurse aide.
The skills you may be asked to perform include: proper hand-washing, recording a measurement (such as blood pressure, radial pulse, respirations, urine output, or weight); applying a knee-high elastic stocking; assisting with use of bedpan; transferring to wheelchair using transfer belt; or providing passive range of motion (PROM) for shoulder, ankle, or knee.
 Regardless of which version you select (written and skills, or oral and skills), the fee for the test is $101. You must pay this fee at the time of registration.If you should need to take the either the written or orals tests again, the fee is $24.
If you need to retake the skills portion, however, the fee is $77.
 You will need to arrive at the testing facility with all required materials thirty minutes before the start time for your exam. You must bring: two forms of ID, two number 2 pencils, a watch with a second hand, scrubs, and your white nurses shoes., Once you have passed the North Carolina exam, you are able to work as a CNA. You will be placed on the North Carolina CNA registry 1-5 business days after passing your state exam. Then, you can use any number of job-search tools (including Indeed, Monster, or even Craiglist) to find an employer who is hiring. You may also want to contact long-term care facilities in your area directly. Health care is a constantly growing field, and you should have no trouble finding work as a CNA.

