 That list of personal accomplishments will come in handy once you're ready to have that meeting. You should open the meeting by thanking your boss for taking the time to talk with you and then discuss all of the success you've brought to the company, being as specific as possible in terms of revenue, increased growth, and any factors that truly make you stand out as an employee.
 Once you've stated your accomplishments, you can discuss the position you'd like to obtain, whether it's a position that's just been opened or one that you'd like to create. You should be prepared with a list of goals you'd like to meet in this new position, and a game plan for achieving them. While you're doing this, think of what would interest your boss the most, and prioritize your goals accordingly.
 Don't do all of the talking -- let your boss help you find ways to grow and to offer his perspective on whether or not you're ready for a promotion. Though you should prepare some talking points, you should look at the meeting as a conversation, not just an opportunity for you to deliver a speech on how amazing you are.
 If your boss says you're not ready for a promotion, don't get upset or hurt. Instead, ask him to help you build a road map for future success. This can help you have a better vision for your future, and feel like you have a concrete plan for achieving your goals.Be proud of yourself for starting the conversation, and know that the meeting will have your boss thinking of you for future promotions, even if it didn't come out the way you planned.
 If you didn't get a promotion, don't just tell your boss you'll try to meet your new goals and hope for the best. Instead, follow up from time to time and ask your boss about your progress and see if you're meeting his needs. If you check in once in a while without being too insistent, then your boss will be paying more attention to you and will know that you're serious about accepting more responsibility.And if you did get the promotion, then go out and celebrate! You deserve a break after all of the hard work you've done.

