 Be aware that dehydrating your vegetables will preserve them as is. Do not expect underripe vegetables to continue ripening after rehydration. Cut or slice any areas that appear overripe, bruised, or blemished., Wash them with cold water under a running faucet. Do so even if you plan on peeling your vegetables before dehydrating them, since your peeler may transfer dirt or chemicals from the skin to the flesh. Use a cloth or paper towel to pat them dry afterward., Allow your vegetables to dehydrate evenly. Cut larger veggies into smaller, roughly uniform pieces. Be sure to follow these basic slicing guidelines:⅛” slices: beets; carrots.

¼” slices: carrots; celery; onions; peppers; potatoes; squash.

⅜” slices: mushrooms

¾” slices: tomatoes

1” pieces: asparagus; broccoli; cauliflower; green beans

, Preserve certain veggies’ flavor and color by ridding them of enzymes that might strip their flavor and color over time. Either submerge them in boiling water, or place them in a steaming tray over boiling water. Follow the recommended times for the following veggies::



Asparagus: 3.5 to 4.5 minutes in boiling water; 4 to 5 with steam.

Green beans: 2 minutes in boiling water; 2 to 2.5 with steam.

Broccoli: 2 minutes in boiling water; 3 to 3.5 steam.

Carrots: 3 minutes in boiling water; 3 to 3.5 steam.

Cauliflower: 3 to 4 minutes in boiling water; 4 to 5 with steam.

Celery: 2 minutes in boiling water or with steam.

Corn: 1.5 minutes in boiling water; 2-2.5 with steam.

Peas: 2 minutes in boiling water; 3 with steam

Potatoes: 5 to 6 minutes in boiling water; 6 to 8 with steam.

Squash: 1.5 minutes in boiling water; 2.5 to 3 with steam.
 After they have dehydrated, transfer them to a clean, sealable container to keep out air and moisture. If you dried multiple kinds of vegetables, store each one separately to avoid crossing flavors. Store them in an area that is cool, dark, and dry. Vegetables should last 6 months in average temperatures of 60 degrees Fahrenheit, or 3 months in 80 degrees.,