 Any senate has certain requirements for its members, but you can often become eligible even if you aren't now. Senators in the United States and Australia are elected by popular vote, while senators in other English-speaking countries are mostly appointed by other politicians. Here are the requirements for the United States senate:You must be at least 30 years old when you begin your job. You can run for election when you're 29 as long as you have your 30th birthday before the term begins.
You must be a citizen of the United States for 9 years. If you were born in the United States, you are automatically a citizen. Otherwise, there are several ways to become a citizen.
You must "inhabit" the state you represent. You have to live at least part of the time in the state you represent, but you are allowed to spend most of your time outside of it. Most senators spend a lot of time traveling between their home state and Washington, D.C., the U.S. capital.
If you have many years to wait, you could try running for a different political office. Representatives do similar work, and only need to be 25 years old and a citizen for 7 years.In some states, you can run for governor when you're as young as 18!

, Once you have some education and experience with local politics, try to get a job working on someone's election campaign. Make sure to find out about campaigns for non-national positions first, such as for the state legislature or city mayor.
 When you're considering running for election yourself, you'll need support from a wide variety of people. Start with your friends, family, and coworkers, but talk to local voters and organizations as well.
 Get your supporters' contact information so you can ask for donations. You'll need money to get your message out.


Learn about campaign finance laws in your area. There may be a limit on how much each candidate can spend, or the government may give each candidate a certain amount of money if they agree to a limit.
 Having experience in a different political office, or several of them, is an excellent way to get noticed, get experience, and build connections. Try running for city or county government, the board of a school district, or another position that suits your interests. Build up to the state legislature and other mid-level positions until you are ready for a senate campaign.
 In the United States, Australia, and many other countries, entering the senate means winning another election campaign. In others, such as Ireland or Canada, you need to be appointed or voted in by another politician or group of them. Either way, the preceding steps are the most successful way to gain the visibility and experience you need to end up in your country's senate.

