 Fashioning a unicorn horn and ears to a headband will make an instant costume. For this project, you’ll need a headband, felt (white and pink), cotton stuffing, thick gold thread and a glue gun. These supplies are available at a fabric or craft supply store.


You can also use a piece of ribbon or elastic instead of the headband, although it might not stay on your head as well., Cut out a large triangle from a piece of white felt. The triangle should be about the same height as the headband, and the bottom end of the triangle should be about 2-3 inches in diameter.


Roll the felt into a conical shape. Use the hot glue gun to glue the horn in place.You can also sew the horn into a conical shape.
Stuff the horn with cotton stuffing. Use a knitting needle or a pencil to poke the stuffing into the tip of the horn.
 To make the horn look more magical, wrap the thick golden thread around the horn in a spiral pattern. Glue one end of the thread to the top of the horn and wind the thread around the horn over and over until you reach the bottom of the horn. Glue the horn to the bottom of the horn.


Tighten the gold thread slightly so that the horn is squeezed a little bit.
 Cut out a circle of felt just slightly larger than the bottom of the horn. Place the headband in between the horn and the felt circle. Glue the circle to the horn and the headband.
 Cut out two sets of the bottom layer of the ears. Use white felt in double-layer tear shape, approximately 3 inches long. Keep the bottom of the double layer uncut, so that when you unfold the layers, you have two tear shapes reflecting each other. Cut two more ears from the pink felt, also in the tear shape, in single layers. These should be slightly smaller than the white ears., Wrap the white ears around the headband on either side of the unicorn horn. Glue the bottom folded part onto the underside of the headband’s top. Glue the ear tops together. Add the pink ears onto the white ears, facing forward, and glue them in place.

