 It is completely natural, and free of any harmful chemicals. It also tones down redness and inflammation. It can also be very soothing. Simply apply a thin layer of shea butter to your face, as you would any other moisturizer. Take care to avoid the sensitive areas around the eyes and mouth., You will need 1 ripe banana, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 2 teaspoons of lemon juice. Mix everything together in a small bowl and smooth it onto your face. Let the mask sit for 15 minutes, then wash it off using cool water., Mix 2 to 3 tablespoons (29.6 to 44.4 ml) of Greek yogurt with 1 to 2 teaspoons of honey. Apply the mixture to your face, taking care to avoid the area around the eyes. Leave it on for 20 minutes, then wash it off with warm water.You can add a few drops of lemon juice to brighten your face some more, but you will have to avoid the sun for a few hours afterward.
You can also add some blueberries. They are full of antioxidants, which makes them great for treating acne. You will need to mix your face mask in a blender to get everything smooth.
You can also use plain yogurt, without any honey, lemon, or blueberries., Start with a dry face; your skin does not have to be clean. Mix together some of the oils from the list below, and massage a quarter-sized drop onto your face. Avoid the eyes and mouth. Keep massaging, using a smooth, circular motion, for one to two minutes. Dampen a washcloth in hot water, and press it against your face. Repeat, if necessary, with the other side of the cloth. Use the corners to dab excess oil away from the hard-to-reach parts of your face, such as the nose. You may notice some oily residue, which is normal and actually helpful. Keep in mind that it may take a few days for your skin to get used to this; your skin may get worse before it gets better. Here are some combinations to get you started:If you have oily skin, use 1 part castor or hazelnut oil and 2 parts sunflower, grapeseed, or sweet almond oil. Hazelnut and sunflower oil are a great combination for acne.
If you have combination skin, use 1 part castor or hazelnut oil and 3 parts sunflower or any other oil.
If you have dry skin, go for pure avocado, apricot kernel oil, jojoba, or grapeseed oil. Use very little to no castor oil. Keep in mind that jojoba oil may clog pores.
Avoid using coconut oil or olive oil. Both tend to clog pores, which leads to breakouts.
 Instead of going out to buy a face scrub, you can try making your own at home. You might even have most of the ingredients in your pantry. Simply combine the oil and salt or sugar in a small bowl. Mince the fruit or vegetable of your choice, and add it in. You want to use just enough fruit or veggies to thicken the scrub, but not so much that it becomes clumpy. Massage the scrub onto a damp face for a few minutes, then rinse it off using warm water. Store any leftovers in the fridge for up to 2 weeks. Here are some recipes to get you started:To make a moisturizing mask, you will need 2 parts salt, 1 part olive oil, tomato pulp.
To make a clarifying mask, you will need 2 parts sugar, 1 part safflower oil, and peeled kiwi.
To brighten your skin, you will need 2 parts sugar, 1 almond oil, and strawberries.
If you have sensitive skin, try making a soothing mask. You will need 2 parts brown sugar, 1 part avocado oil, and peeled cucumber.

