 Playing together can help your children bond at any age. There are many ways you can get them to play. Try getting them to play a game, like tag, hide and seek, or even cards or a board game. For younger children, let them play with toys that are age appropriate for the youngest child.Very young siblings can play age-specific games, like peek-a-boo or patty cake.
If siblings are reluctant to include one another, try scheduling "sibling time" and "me time" into their playtime.
If your children have a battery-powered or pedal-powered car, let the younger sibling ride in the passenger side while the older sibling drives them around.
Simple games can help children bond if they have different interests or abilities that may impede their bonding.;
, Having children explore their imaginations and pretend together may help them bond. Think about what your children like to do and find a way to get all siblings involved. Pretend scenarios can help them explore their creative sides and find fun ways to play.


For example, they can pretend to be kings and queens in a castle or animals in the jungle.
Toddlers can also join in the pretend fun. An older sibling might pretend to be the doctor while the younger siblings are the patients. Older siblings may be the cooks and servers in a restaurant and the younger siblings can be the customers.
 Another way your children can spend time together and bond is by doing crafts together. You can adjust the crafts for each child based on their level of development, but they can use the same materials and complete the projects together. Craft projects are a great way for siblings to spend time together no matter their age, developmental stage, or ability.


For example, they can color together out of the same coloring book, or draw pictures together.
You can let them paint flowerpots in the spring or Christmas ornaments in the winter. If one or two siblings are too young to do it alone, let the older siblings help them.
Toddlers can also do craft projects with older siblings. Let them work on motor skills by drawing and coloring with crayons.
 Try to challenge your children in ways that require teamwork. Working together toward a common goal can help them bond while avoiding trying to compete for your affection. You can find ways for them to do chores or play together as a team, with a great reward at the end.For example, make it a team game where all the siblings put up their toys before a timer goes off. Make sure they all get involved and help each other, and encourage them as they complete the task.
Try setting up a treasure hunt around the house and yard, using hints and clues your children will have to work together to solve., Your children can bond by turning to each other to complete tasks instead of you or other adults. This helps older siblings feel important and protective while the younger siblings learn to trust older siblings. Because they are relying on each other, their bond will strengthen.For example, if your younger children need help picking out clothes, let the older siblings help. You can say, “Ask your siblings. They’re really good at picking out shirts!” If your older children can manage it, you can then let them help the younger ones get dressed.
Your older children can read stories to their younger siblings, or kiss them and help calm them down if they’re having a crying fit.
 It may be more difficult for children who have three or more siblings to bond because there are so many. However, you can help your children bond by providing them with activities they can do together. Choose activities that all children, despite ability or age, can do.For example, have everyone bake cookies together, make crafts, build forts, ride bikes, or play at the park. Encourage them to play board or card games that everyone can play, like Go Fish.
This is important if you have groups of children who are closer. The children who are closer may play together when unsupervised. Supervising activities where your children all spend time together can help strengthen the bonds between those who are not as close.
 Teaching your children the importance of family, love, and kindness will help their bonds. One of the best ways to do this is through example. You and your partner should treat each other and each child with love and kindness. This teaches your young children how families treat each other.For example, instead of yelling at your children or partner, talk about things calmly and find alternate ways of conflict resolution.
Show kindness and thoughtfulness to everyone in your family. Encourage them to do things for each other, like bringing their sibling a sweater or blanket if they said they were cold or remembering their favorite food at the grocery store.
 When you have infants or toddlers, try to help the siblings create a bond by letting the older sibling hold the younger one. Teach the older sibling the proper way to hold and interact with their younger sibling.By letting the older sibling hold the younger one, the older sibling starts to feel a connection to their new younger sibling, and the younger sibling emotionally attaches to the older sibling.
 Another way to have your older child bond with an infant or toddler sibling is by having them help take care of them. You can have the older sibling feed the baby, change the diaper, change their clothes, or help during bath time.If the older sibling is too young to do any of this on their own, have them help you as you take care of the baby.
Make sure to teach the older sibling how to properly take care of the baby so the younger sibling won't get hurt.

