 Before you can begin to design your stage set, it's important that you understand the particulars of the play and the period it is in. Here's what you need to do:


Make sure to read the script and note any specific requirements about the set. For example, certain parts of the play may require your set to have stairs or door placements.
Keep in mind that these details were included for a reason, so ensure that you lay out the set following the author's intentions.
Note the period in which the play takes place. This will help you choose the proper furniture and decorations.
Check to see if you'll need any specific antique inventory in order to match the set time accurately.;
, The typical stage set design needs a minimum of three walls, so consider beginning your layout with these. Here's what you should do:


Place the stage-right and stage-left walls at an angle that allows for maximum set area.
Make sure to include any door openings and windows within the walls.
Sketch where all movable inventory like platforms and furniture will be placed using overhead perspective.
 Once ready, draw another sketch of the set from the audience perspective. Don't forget to include specifics like colours, wall hangings and lighting fixtures in your plan.
 This will help bring your vision to light. This way you'll be able to visualize the way it will look in real size. The model will also enable set builders to get a better understanding of your set and design vision. A scaled model of stage set design can be constructed with particle board, cardboard, balsa wood and model furniture. Ensure that your set is built to scale or you risk dealing with complications when the actual construction work begins.
 This is the most important step in the stage set design process. You'll need to consider several important things here:


Functionality - your set must allow actors to freely move around it. Make sure you design distinct staging areas for the different acts of the play.
Time period - you should also keep in mind the time period in which the play takes play. Dated plays require greater attention to detail and accuracy of the dressing's timeliness.
Stage set details - consider keeping a simple stage dressing, that won't clutter the set and detract the audience from the action of the play. Aim for a well-defined, clean and minimal set to enhance the play's poignancy.

