 Chiropractors are doctors who specialize in the spine and other joints. They are trained to treat back problems in natural ways, such as with manual spinal manipulation. Manual manipulation, also called a spinal adjustment, is used to unjam or reposition spinal joints that are slightly misaligned, which triggers inflammation and sharp pain.


A single spinal adjustment can sometimes significantly relieve your lower back pain, but usually it takes three to five treatments to really feel much better. Keep in mind that your health insurance may not cover chiropractic care.
Chiropractors also use therapies meant more for muscle strains and ligament sprains, which may be more appropriate for your lower back issue. Electronic muscle stimulation, therapeutic ultrasound and TENS treatments are examples of such therapies.
Tractioning or stretching your spine with an inversion table can also help lower back pain. Some chiropractors use inversion tables, which allows you to recline your upper body and enlist the help of gravity to decompress your spine.
 As noted above, not all lower back injuries are joint related. Many are related to muscle pulls or strains. A pulled muscle happens when the small muscle fibers tear, which causes pain, inflammation and muscle guarding or spasms. Thus, a deep tissue massage can be great for mild-to-moderate strains because it calms muscle spasms, reduces inflammation and promotes relaxation.Start with a 30 minute massage from a licensed massage therapist, focusing on your lower lumbar spine and pelvis.


A single 30-minute massage session may be enough to soothe your lower back pain, but it often takes a few more sessions to see significant results. For chronic back pain, consider increasing your sessions to an hour and include some mid back and/or leg work also.
Drink lots of purified water after any massage in order to flush out inflammatory by-products from your body. Failure to do so might lead to muscle soreness, a headache or some mild nausea.
As an alternative to a professional massage, place a tennis ball underneath your low back and roll on it slowly for 15 minutes a few times daily until the pain fades away.
 Acupuncture is an ancient Chinese healing art that involves sticking thin needles into specific points within your skin in efforts to reduce pain and inflammation.Acupuncture for lower back pain can be very helpful, especially if it's done when your symptoms are acute (fairly new). Acupuncture apparently works by triggering the release of many substances, including endorphins and serotonin, which act to eliminate the sensation of pain.


There is some research evidence that acupuncture really helps chronic lower back pain, but your results may vary.Acupuncture points that provide back pain relief are not all located close to where you feel the pain — some are in distant areas, such as your hand.
Acupuncture is now practiced by many health professionals — whoever you choose should be certified by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine., Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) attempts to identify your negative thoughts and beliefs, and then replaces them with more positive ones. More specifically, a CBT approach to treating back pain would focus on how you respond to or perceive your pain symptoms.CBT has shown to help reduce stress and chronic back pain in many people.CBT can be a "last resort" treatment choice for low back pain when nothing else seems to be helpful.
Consult your family physician, psychologist or insurance company representative for the names of CBT practitioners in your area. Consider interviewing a couple of them before you decide on which one to proceed with.