 Everyone has negative thoughts from time to time, but having too many negative thoughts can begin to affect your behavior and how you see yourself. If you do not challenge these negative thoughts, you may not live up to your potential and be the person that you would like to be. To challenge these thoughts, write them down, evaluate them, and then respond with a more positive thought.For example, if your initial thought is “I am weak”, you would start by writing down that thought on a piece of paper. You would then ask yourself, “Is there evidence that I am not weak?” Lastly, you would replace your initial thought with a more positive one like, “I am a strong person. There are areas that need improvement, but I am working to be better.”You have to practice positive thinking until it becomes natural.;
, You will not always be able to control your circumstances, but you can control how you respond to them. Time spent worrying about a problem is a waste of your mental energy. If you find yourself worrying about something, identify exactly what you are worried about and then develop a plan to solve the problem.For example, if you are worrying about a big presentation coming up, you would start by writing down the reasons you are worried about the presentation. You would then come up with a plan to prepare for the presentation and address any of your specific concerns. Putting your energy into developing a great presentation is a much better use of your time than sitting and thinking about all the ways your presentation could go wrong.

Developing good habits and increasing your willpower are also ways to help you manage any stress and focus on your behavior instead of the problem., Set short-term, specific goals for yourself. This will help you focus your mind on one task at a time and instead of thinking about what you have to do next. You will also become more confident every time you achieve a goal.If you were setting a goal around working out, your goal would be to "finish the next 60 minutes of your workout" instead of "working out for 60 minutes, 5 times a week."

, There will be bumps in the road. How you handle them will determine if you are a hard man. Accept that setbacks are part of the growing process and stay focused on your goal. Take time to write and/or think about your experience and what you learned. You may ask yourself:What did I do?
What could I have done better?
What would I do if I could go through this situation again?
What did I do well?
What did I learn that I could apply to my future goals?

