 You should receive a copy of the complaint from your tenant. He or she will begin the lawsuit by filing the complaint with the court.


You should also receive a summons along with the complaint. The summons will tell you how much time you have to respond to the lawsuit.Write down the deadline to respond. If you fail to respond, then the tenant could get a default judgment against you. These are very hard to set aside. In effect, the tenant will win the lawsuit without you being able to defend yourself.;
, The complaint should also explain what action you have taken in retaliation. Most state laws prohibit you from doing the following:increasing the tenant’s rent
refusing to renew a lease
ending a month-to-month tenancy
filing a frivolous lawsuit in retaliation
engaging in “tit for tat” behavior, such as cutting someone’s cable or draining the pool

, Your state law will protect retaliation only if the tenant was exercising a protected right. What qualifies as a “protected right” will depend on your state law. Not all states protect the same rights. Some of the more common protected rights are:The tenant called and complained to a government authority (such as a health inspector or fire inspector) about the living conditions.
The tenant exercised a right to assembly by joining or starting a tenant’s union.
The tenant deducted money from the rent to make repairs that you have not made.
 If you have actually done any of the alleged retaliatory conduct, you should immediately stop. By stopping, you are not admitting that you have retaliated. Instead, you can defend yourself by explaining how the retaliatory conduct was motivated by other considerations.


For example, you might have needed the tenant to move out in order to make necessary repairs to the apartment, particularly when the repairs are ones the tenant complained about to the authorities.If you are removing lead paint from the walls, for example, then you don’t want the tenant in the apartment as you strip off the paint. This is a valid reason to ask the tenant to move out.
 After reading the complaint, you should begin gathering documents for your defense. You will want any evidence that can support your defense. For example, gather the following:


Proof that the tenant violated the lease agreement. You can evict someone for violating the lease. Get supporting documents. If the tenant destroyed the common area or doesn’t throw out his trash, then get pictures.
Notices to the tenant. If you tried to evict the tenant for failure to pay rent or for violating the lease, then your state law probably required that you send certain notices.Gather your copies.
 To make the strongest defense, you need to meet with an attorney. The attorney can read the complaint and help you identify your strongest defenses. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you can get a referral for a landlord-tenant attorney. Contact your local or state bar association.


Even if you don’t have a lot of money, you should still commit to getting some legal advice. It will be difficult to find the relevant law and understand it on your own. Many attorneys will provide a half-hour legal consultation for free or for a reduced fee.
Many attorneys will also agree to perform only certain tasks that you give them. For example, the lawyer might draft a court document or coach you about how to handle a trial.In many states this type of “limited scope representation” is legal. You can ask the lawyer if he or she offers this service.
 What you will need to prove at trial will vary by your state law. For example, in about 21 states, the tenant does not actually need to prove retaliation if you took an adverse action (like raising rent) within a certain amount of time of the tenant exercising his or her rights.For example, you might have raised the rent $100 a month 60 days after the tenant complained to the Department of Safety about the apartment. Your state law might presume that your adverse action is retaliation if it happened within 90 days of the tenant’s complaint.
If your state presumes retaliation, then you have the burden of showing that you did not raise the rent to retaliate. Instead, you must come forward with evidence of why you took the action you did.
Your best defense is to show a non-retaliatory reason for taking your action. These can include:The tenant hasn’t paid rent. You can evict someone for failing to pay rent. You will need to show that you followed proper state and local laws for evicting the tenant.
The tenant violated the lease. Gather evidence that shows the plaintiff broke a term of the lease. For example, if the tenant refuses to dispose of trash properly, then take photographs. If the tenant is a loud nuisance, get witness statements from other tenants.
The tenant complained to government authorities in bad faith. Take photographs or video showing that the apartment is not defective in the way the tenant claims.
 You formally respond to the complaint by filing an answer in the same court that the tenant filed in. If you have a lawyer, then let the lawyer draft the answer. In this document, you have to respond to every allegation the plaintiff made in the lawsuit.


If you are representing yourself, then ask the court clerk if there is a printed form answer that you can use. Many courts now have them.
If one isn’t available, then you can use this form answer as a guide: http://www.nysd.uscourts.gov/file/forms/answer-and-notice-of-appearance. Insert the correct header information (court, party names, and case number). You can find this information on your copy of the tenant’s complaint.
 Once you have completed your answer, make a few copies. One will be for your records and another copy will be sent to the tenant (or the tenant’s lawyer).Take all copies and the original to the court clerk and say that you would like to file.


There might be a filing fee. If you can’t afford it, then ask for a fee waiver form.
Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of serving a copy of the answer on the plaintiff.
 After you file your answer, your lawsuit will enter the “discovery” phase. During discovery, you and your tenant can request information from each other. You can also ask questions of each other in a “deposition.”


During a deposition, you answer oral questions while under oath. A court reporter typically records the questions and answers. The focus of your deposition will be on your motivation for taking the adverse action (raising the tenant’s rent, evicting her, etc.)
To give an effective deposition, remember the following:Always tell the truth. Some facts might look bad for you. For example, you might have threatened the tenant with an eviction during a heated argument. Nevertheless, you must tell the truth in your deposition. Let your attorney figure out how to explain away these bad facts at trial.
Make sure that you understand the question before answering. If you don’t, ask the lawyer to repeat it.
Don’t speculate. If you don’t know the answer, say “I’m not really sure.”
Do not volunteer information. Answer only the question asked and nothing else. Also don’t volunteer to show the tenant’s lawyer any documents. Instead, provide only the documents requested.
 Lawsuits can be expensive, and if you can resolve the dispute outside of court then you might save money and time. One way to resolve the dispute is to engage in negotiations.


During negotiation, you and the tenant try to hammer out an agreement. If you try to negotiate, then you should expect to give something up in return for having the lawsuit dismissed.
For example, the tenant might want to continue to rent from you. You can make the lawsuit go away if you agree. Think about what problems you had with the tenant. Was the tenant so noisy that he upset the other tenants? If so, you could agree to continue renting if the tenant has unauthorized guests (such as a boyfriend or girlfriend) leave the apartment., You might need someone to help you and the tenant come to an agreement. You can propose mediation. During mediation, a third party (the “mediator”) meets with you and the tenant. The mediator listens to each of you describe the dispute.


A mediator is not a judge, and he or she does not decide who is “right.” Instead, the mediator helps nudge you and the tenant to a solution that you both can agree on.
If you are interested in mediation, then contact your city or county manager’s office. These offices often run mediation programs. You can also contact your local courthouse or bar association.
 You should make sure any agreement you reach with the tenant is put in writing. This way, you will be protected in the future if the tenant claims not to have an agreement with you.


Both you and the tenant should sign the agreement in front of a notary public. If you used mediation, the mediator can help you draft your agreement.
 You should file the settlement agreement with the court. If you or the tenant is not represented by a lawyer, then the judge may have to approve the settlement terms.Hold onto your copy of the agreement. If the tenant violates the settlement agreement, you can sue.
 You must lay out the facts for the jury. Explain to the jury what witnesses you will present and what they will say.If you have a lawyer, he or she will handle the opening statement (and the entire trial) for you.


For example, you can say, “As the evidence will show, the plaintiff’s neighbor, Mr. Smith, called the police three times in one month because of a noise disturbance. He will also testify that he saw a man coming and going from the plaintiff’s apartment. The evidence will further show that this person’s name is not on the lease.”
The tenant might have sued you in small claims court. When in small claims, you often don’t deliver opening statements. Instead the trial is more like a hearing: you explain your position to the judge, who can jump in and ask questions.
The rules in small claims court differ from court to court. If you are in small claims, then stop in and get a list of court rules. The clerk should have something available for you to read.
 You will have an opportunity to cross-examine any witness who testifies for the tenant. You can also cross-examine the tenant as well. When asking questions on cross-examination, remember that you want to try to undermine what the witness has just testified to.You can try to undermine a witness by showing that the witness is biased.For example, if the witness is a relative or friend of the tenant’s, then ask about their relationship. A jury might assume that family and friends will bend the truth in the tenant’s favor.
However, you might be able to get helpful information out of a witness on cross examination. For example, the witness might have seen the tenant violate your lease terms. If so, you might not want to challenge the witness’s credibility. Instead, you could focus the cross examination on getting helpful information.
 You will probably have to testify at trial. If you have a lawyer, then the lawyer will ask you questions. If you are representing yourself, then you can probably deliver your testimony in the form of a speech. To be an effective witness, follow these rules:Dress professionally. The jury will probably judge you based on your appearance, so you want to look professional. For tips about what to wear, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
Take your time answering questions. Always think through the answer before responding. You don’t want to say something you need to later retract.
Stay calm. It’s not easy being accused of retaliation, but you can’t lose your cool. If you do, then jurors could turn against you.
Speak factually. You shouldn’t guess and you shouldn’t offer opinions. Instead, offer only the facts.
Speak clearly. You want the jury to be able to hear you. Sit up straight and make eye contact with the jurors.
 You might have witnesses who can support your defense. Make sure that you send them subpoenas before the trial. A subpoena is a legal document that commands the witness to appear at the trial.


Be sure that the witness has relevant information to share with the judge or jury. For example, a witness who testifies that the tenant is mean is not helpful. You can’t evict someone for being mean. However, if the witness is another tenant who constantly complained about how noisy the plaintiff is, then you can have that witness testify.
 After all evidence has been submitted, you and the tenant can make a closing argument. The purpose is to convince the jury that you did not retaliate against the tenant.


Be sure to remind the jury of specific pieces of evidence which they might have forgotten. Also explain the significance of this evidence.
For example, “The plaintiff testified herself that she held loud parties long into the early morning. Let me read you her testimony. Question: And how often did you have parties. Answer: Most nights. So it wasn’t retaliation for reporting a fire code violation that got the plaintiff evicted. It was her failure to follow the lease.”

, After closing arguments, the judge will read the jury its instructions. The jury then retires in order to deliberate. In many states, jury verdicts do not need to be unanimous.Instead, only nine or more jurors (out of 12) need to decide in the tenant’s favor.If you’re in small claims court, then the judge should decide who wins. He or she will probably deliver a ruling from the bench soon after the trial has ended.
 You might want to bring an appeal if you lose at trial and believe the judge or jury made a serious mistake. If you decide to appeal, you should fill out a Notice of Appeal form, which you can get from the court clerk.


You have a limited amount of time to file for the appeal. Generally, you only have 10-30 days. If you want to appeal, then don’t wait too long.
However, before appealing you should talk over the costs and benefits with a lawyer. Appeals can take up to a year and cost a lot of money. For example, you have to pay for the court reporter to type up all of the transcripts. Also, the tenant can probably still live in the apartment until the appeal is resolved.

