 Fights can get very heated on the Internet, so it is best to discuss it in person rather than on the Internet. Ask your friend what an appropriate time for a talk would be.


You can also go "impromptu" but this only works if your friend is available enough; if he or she is usually busy, it is best to set up a time in advance.
 If he or she becomes angry or lashes out, listen, but do not lash out in return. Stay levelheaded and respectful, and avoid shouting, yelling, name calling, or screaming out vulgarities and swear words.
 If you had upset or angry feelings about something that your friend did that caused the fight (or caused you to say something that you didn't mean or shouldn't have said), now is the time to calmly and respectfully take up your concerns with your friend.


For example, you could say, "Mary, I didn't appreciate it when you called me a nuisance and a loser the other day (just for mispronouncing your last name) when we were chatting on Facebook. It made me feel insulted and unappreciated. Please understand that just because you know how to pronounce a word or a name, doesn't mean that everyone in the world does. I would truly appreciate it if you avoided insulting me the way you did from here on forth".
 There are two sides to the story of a fight. As your friend shares his or her story, listen and don't interrupt (and don't finish your friend's sentences for him or her; wait patiently for him or her to finish the sentence).
 Perhaps you did something wrong that caused the fight, or escalated the amount of conflict between you and your friend, so now is the time to apologize.


When you are apologizing, be sure to use "I" statements. Address the apology to yourself and what you did wrong, not what your friend did wrong.

Example of a proper apology: "John, I'm sorry that I told you to back off when we were chatting on Instagram on Thursday. I was stressed and tired from a long day at work, plus thinking about the paperwork I had to file. I will take care to think before I respond to you in the future".
Example of a non-apology apology: "I'm sorry that I called you an insulting name, but you were annoying me so much that I got mad at you and decided to retaliate".
 Try to avoid contacting him or her on social media for a while until you both have had some chance to recover from the fight.

