 If the water damage is severe – for example if a pipe burst in your basement or it flooded or something like that – you may need to call professional carpet cleaners.


Professionals have devices to suck up water from carpet. They can also steam clean carpet to get out stubborn stains.
You may end up having to replace the carpet if the water damage is too severe or the carpet may give off a musty smell.
If you have carpet from natural fibers it might be a good idea to call a professional cleaning service because such carpets can be difficult to clean on your own.
 At most home improvement stores, and even some grocery stores, you can rent steam cleaners.


You could also purchase a steam cleaner at most home improvement stores. These are basically vacuum cleaners that apply a cleaning and water mixture to the carpet to clean it.
In addition to water stains, steam cleaners do a good job of lifting up other stubborn stains and can make your carpet almost look new.
The cost of renting these is probably between $30-50, depending on where you are located, and most stores that rent steam cleaners also have cleaning solution you can buy as well. You could also try a water/dry vacuum. These are special vacuums designed to suck up water., For more stubborn stains, and stains with color in them (such as Kool-aid), you may need to turn to ammonia.


Fill an empty spray bottle with 1 part ammonia and 1 part hot water. Then, spray the concoction on the stain.Put a clean white towel or cloth on top of the stain, and rub gently at the water stain area with the cloth.
You may need to repeat this process several times until the stain is gone. Try the detergent and water or vinegar and water methods first.
 You can buy carpet cleaner at most grocery stores in spray bottles. You could use the cleaner on the water stain.


Some carpet cleaners are designed to remove pet stains, like dog urine, from carpet. However, they will also work on water stains.
You could try the homemade method of water and vinegar before you apply chemicals to the stain, though. Move on to using chemicals when more natural procedures fail due to hardier stains.
As with the other methods, make sure you let the carpet dry naturally before people walk on it or use the area.

