 If you have not yet found this location, speak to a carriage driver in any major town and pay 20 septims to fast-travel to Solitude. Follow the road southwest of Solitude and stick to the general direction of your quest marker.;
, Upon arriving at Dragon Bridge, you will find Commander Maro and his son Gauis Maro engaged in conversation outside the Penitus Oculatus outpost. You can listen in on their conversation or you can ignore them and enter the outpost right away.


You can enter the outpost without incurring a bounty if you do so while the doors are unlocked. If the doors are locked and you force your way in by picking the lock, chances are you will be spotted by a nearby NPC or by the agents inside the outpost once you enter. Your entrance will then be considered a crime and you will have a bounty set on your head.
 The schedule is atop a table immediately to your right upon entering the outpost. You will know it is the schedule by moving close enough for a tooltip to pop up on your screen., There are 3 ways to stealing the schedule, and the fastest way is to simply take it off the table by neutralizing the nearby agents. You can force the issue by slaughtering them all with whatever weapons or spells you normally use, but you will have to deal with the resulting bounty for taking the violent route.


If you want to remove your bounty, sheathe and unsheathe your weapons until the guards talk to you. You can either pay off your bounty or go to jail and lose the progress you’ve built up for leveling your skills. Both options will result in all your stolen items being confiscated by the guards in Solitude and placed in the evidence locker located in Castle Dour.If you have completed the Thieves Guild city influence quest for Solitude “The Dainty Sload,” you can pay off a guard for half your bounty while still keeping your stolen goods., The second method you can use if you are patient: you can wait until you can steal the schedule without anyone seeing you do so. There are times when only one or two awake guards will be inside the outpost. Wait until there are no guards inside the outpost, or there is only one guard who has his back to you. Sneak and quickly pick up the schedule before anyone sees you doing the deed.


You will know that nobody in the outpost can see you when the “eye” on your screen is fully closed. If you are sneaking and someone can see you, this eye will open up and the words “Detected” will appear on your screen.
You can also quickly dispatch a single agent with a sneak attack while the other agents are asleep. The perks “Backstab” and “Assassin’s Blade” grant a hefty bonus to sneak attack damage. Combine these perks with a quality sword or dagger along with Shrouded or Ancient Shrouded gloves to double your total backstab damage, and you will often do enough damage to silently kill a lone Penitus Oculatus agent without waking up the others. You will then be free to steal the schedule without anyone watching. Just make sure you get out of the outpost before any of the guards wake up and find the body., The third, and quickest, way to steal the schedule without much fuss is to go invisible, sneak, and pick the schedule up. You can go invisible by casting the Invisibility spell, drinking a store-bought invisibility potion, or drinking an invisibility potion that you brewed yourself.Once invisible, simply grab the schedule and go on your merry way. This will break invisibility but will not incur a bounty nor draw aggression from nearby NPCs for doing so.


You can create your own invisibility potions by using an Alchemy Table and combining Luna Moth Wings, Chaurus Eggs, or Ice Wraith Teeth together. You don’t need a long-lasting potion to steal the schedule, as a few seconds are all you need to steal it.

