 Write down what day it starts, how heavy it is each day, when it stops, and how you feel each day. This record can help you predict your next period so you’ll be prepared for it. The average cycle is 28 days long, though this varies from girl to girl. Look back over three months of your notes and count how many days it is between when your period started one month to the next – taking the average of three months will give you a good idea of when to expect your next period.


It takes some time for your period to get regular – the first few months or even year of your period might not be very consistent.
It can be helpful to show this record to your doctor or gynecologist if you ever want to discuss your heavy period with them.
 Keep enough pads or tampons in your purse or backpack to last you an entire day. You probably have to carry more products than others because your heavy period requires extra protection for your clothes. When you need to change your product, excuse yourself and go to the bathroom – you’ll already have what you need with you.


If people ask you why you keep going to the bathroom, just say that you drank a lot of water earlier. You can also say, “I am not feeling too well today,” or something else vague.
 Keep extra tampons, pads, and panty liners in your car, your locker at school, your purse, or that spare pocket of your backpack. If you have extra products in several different places it’s unlikely that you’ll be caught without one, even if you have overflow.You can make a small period travel-kit with a couple of pads and tampons, some ibuprofen for cramps, and even a spare set of underwear – just in case.
If you have limited space, just put 1-2 pads or tampons in your secret spots. They don’t take up much space and can at least get you through a few hours.
If you happen to run out, many school and office bathrooms have machines that sell tampons cheaply. The school nurse might have supplies, too.
 Often, girls with a heavy period get painful cramps. It’s appropriate to take pain medicine for uncomfortable cramps. Ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), acetaminophen (Tylenol), and naproxen (Aleve) can minimize cramp pain. Start taking medicine when you first start noticing symptoms, and take it regularly for 2-3 days or until your cramps subside. If you regularly get painful cramps, you can preemptively start taking medicine as soon as you get your period.
For severe cramps, your doctor can prescribe stronger pain medicine, like Ponstel.
Only take medicine as directed by your doctor or the bottle. Talk to your doctor before using any medicine if you have health problems.
 If you don’t want to take medicine for your cramps, try natural solutions for pain relief. Take a hot shower or put a hot water bottle on your abdomen. Distract yourself with a good book or puzzle to take your mind off your discomfort. Elevate your legs and get some rest. Other ideas for minimizing cramps naturally include:Take a walk or do some light exercise, like yoga.
Meditate to lower your stress.
Avoid caffeine.

