 While you can’t make anyone feel gratitude, you can take actions that increase the likelihood that they will. Build others’ trust in you by thinking about how you can use your skills and personal qualities to help them. Then find simple ways to put your plan into practice.For instance, if you’re a good listener, you could make sure to be there for your friends when they need someone to talk to.
 Make sure your everyday behaviors show people that you are trustworthy. Tell the truth, treat everyone with courtesy, and be accountable for your actions. People are grateful for honesty and thoughtfulness, and these qualities will make them feel like they can trust you.Be consistent in your behavior, even if you are busy or have a bad day. People won’t trust you unless you are reliable in your actions.
 If you have a disagreement with someone, handle it fairly and maturely. Avoid bringing up old grievances, and don’t stoop to personal insults. Instead, focus on finding a solution that everyone is satisfied with. People will appreciate your fair behavior, and this will increase their trust in you.The same rule applies if you find yourself mediating a conflict between two other people. Listen to both sides of the story, and avoid siding with either person. Then help them come up with a reasonable solution.
 Talking about people behind their backs will undermine your trustworthiness immediately. Avoid two-faced behavior, and focus on what you appreciate about people instead. When others realize you won’t speak badly about anyone when they’re not around, they will trust you to protect their reputation the same way., Gratitude can promote prosocial behavior, improve your career, and improve your health. Avoid focusing on the negative aspects of your life and focus on the positive aspects as a way to enrich your life in all areas. Even if something does not go as you’d hoped it would, use the experience as a tool for growth and try to identify what you can learn from it.


For example, if you fail a test, then identify what might have gone wrong and how you can improve your studying and test taking skills to get a better grade in the future.

