 Instead of keeping your fear of needles secret and letting it snowball into a full-blown anxiety attack, talk to the medical professional who will be using the needle. Let them know about your fear. Expression and social connection often help people calm down. The medical professional will talk to you about your options and take special precautions to make the process less painful and anxiety-producing.


Instead of merely talking to the medical professional who will be giving you an injection or drawing your blood, make an appointment to talk to your doctor. Your doctor will be able to connect you with a counselor who can help calm the psychological fear, as well as prescribe medications that will ease your anxiety.;
, Anesthesia is a painkiller, usually applied onto the skin, that will dull the pain of the needle. Although needles only cause a small amount of pain for most people, a person with a needle phobia may feel an intense amount of pain during its use. In these cases, a topical anesthetic can help immensely.


Your medical professional should have a wide range of topical anesthetics available to assist you. The most common include, but are not limited to:

Needle Buster
Numby StuffEMLA cream, For some patients who faint and lose consciousness, lying down and/or elevating the legs can help ease some of the symptoms of needle phobia.This is a serious concern for many people, as many people with a needle phobia also report a fear of fainting associated with vasovagal syncope.In these cases, addressing both the fear of needles and the possibility of fainting is important.
 Anti-anxiety medication can especially help those who fear fainting or tend to faint during a shot or injection. Used together with correct body positioning and a topical anesthetic, your date with a needle can be a walk in the park. There are several things you'll want to remember when taking an anti-anxiety medication:


In order to overcome your fear of needles, and not just temporarily postpone it, you may want to begin with heavier dosage to begin with and taper the dosage on subsequent procedures. This will help train your mind that getting a shot doesn't have to be accompanied with anxiety and/or fainting.Because anti-anxiety medicine can make you drowsy, you may want to take a friend or family member with you to the hospital or clinic in order to drive you home. Otherwise, you may need to stay at the hospital or clinic afterwards while the medication wears off.
 Beta-blockers, which weaken the effects of various stress hormones, can also make the experience more pleasant, especially if your fear is of fainting and not the pain associated with the needle itself.Unlike other anti-anxiety medications, they usually don't produce drowsiness, which means they don't affect your ability to drive afterwards.
 Don't think about the needle, or getting the needle. Don't worry about the size of the needle, and don't stress over the pain. If you keep stressing over the needle before you even get the shot, you're just building up anxiety about it. In the long, this makes the whole process more uncomfortable.
 Distract yourself! Bring along friends with you so you could talk and joke with them. Think about that party that's coming up, or that special somebody you are fond of. If you want, count down in your head; count sheep even. You could try bringing an iPod with you and listening to music to take your mind off the needle.


Ask your friend or partner to hold and squeeze your hand during the procedure. This physical stimuli will help ease the pain of the needle and distract your body from the procedure.
 Do not watch them administer the shot. Look away and try to focus on something engaging. Do not necessarily focus on the nurse or physician administering the shot, as they may be focusing on the injection itself and will tip you about when the injection is going to happen.


Some people find that closing their eyes completely is helpful, although this may give your mind less sensory material to distract itself.
 Focus on maintaining your breathing. A slow, steady breath will calm your nerves and give your mind something to latch onto.
 Remember to relax, look away, count from 1 to 10, or backwards from 10. When you are distracted, you are not thinking about the needle. By the time you reach the end of your countdown, the procedure will be over and you'll be ready to leave.
 The needle is not your master. You are in control of your life, and there's no reason why a little sting should end it. Reclaim control over what you feel by being intentional, not reactive. You are the master of your own future!

, Your greater health is being helped by this procedure, even if your temporary sensation is that of hurt. Avoidance, like other tactics, usually isn't the answer.


Many people who have a fear of needles avoid going to the doctor and getting necessary blood tests as well as medications that can only be administered intravenously. This puts you at a health risk, which usually means more blood work and medications in order to compensate. So if you think about it, avoiding needles actually puts you at risk for more contact with them.
 Okay, so it's probably not the most effective emotional argument, but it's an okay rational one. This is something that happens day-in and day-out to lots of people, without cost to the patient. If they can do it, so can you!

, There are 86400 seconds in a day, and getting a shot or getting your blood drawn takes anywhere from 2 seconds to 30 seconds. After that, the needle is gone and the procedure is done. Even if there is pain or discomfort, that pain or discomfort is likely only to take about 0.0003% of your day!

, Okay, so the shot itself doesn't feel so good. But if you give yourself a treat or indulgence afterward, you may be more likely to associate the experience with at least something positive.
 Optimism is the belief that, all things being equal, everything is likely to turn out positive instead of negative, even if it takes a while for the positive to show. Getting a shot is not the end of the world. In fact, it's the continuation of the world. Life will go on, and everything will most likely be better after the shot is done with. The needle is just a little road bump along the way.

