 In this facial cleaner, you will be using oatmeal and almond meal, to cleanse your face. Almond meal will help exfoliate away dead skin cells while the oatmeal will act as a natural cleanser. Here is what you will need to make this cleanser:½ cups (40 grams) finely-ground oats
½ cups (60 grams) finely-ground almond meal
Liquid of choice (ie: water, milk, lemon juice, witch hazel, etc).
Jar

, You won't be using all of the ground oats and almonds at once; instead, you will be mixing only a small amount with some liquid whenever you go to wash your face. For this reason, you will need a container, such as a jar, to store your ground oats and almonds.


Consider decorating the jar by adding a label or tying some twine around the neck.
 Measure out ½ cup (40 grams) of ground oats and ½ cup (60 grams) of almond meal, and pour both into a jar. Close the jar tightly and shake it to combine the two ingredients.









If you cannot find any ground almonds or oats, you can make your own by grinding them using a blender, coffee grinder, or food processor. Be sure to grind each ingredient separately.
 These ingredients are not vital, but they can make your cleanser feel more luxurious and exfoliating. Herbs and essential oils will also give the cleanser a nice fragrance. Here are some suggestions of what you can add, based on skin type:








If you have oily skin, add: 2 tablespoons of fine sea salt, 2 tablespoons of finely-ground dried peppermint, and 5 drops rosemary essential oil (optional).
If you have dry skin, add 2 tablespoons of powdered milk, 2 tablespoons of finely-ground dried calendula, and 5 drops Roman chamomile essential oil (optional).
If you have combination skin, add 2 tablespoons cornmeal, 2 tablespoons finely-ground dried chamomile, and 5 drops lavender essential oil (optional).
 In order to use this facial cleanser, you will need to add some liquid to it. Here are some suggestions of what you can use for the liquid based on skin type:








If you have oily skin, use lemon juice, rose water, plain water, or witch hazel.
If you have normal skin, use glycerin, honey, rose water, peppermint tea, or plain water.
If you have dry skin, use milk, cream or yogurt.
 Dampen your face with warm water. Measure out two teaspoons of your facial cleanser and add just enough of your liquid to turn it into a paste. You can mix the paste in the palm of your hand using your fingers, or you can mix it in a small bowl using a spoon.
 Use gentle, circular motions, and be sure to avoid the sensitive areas around your eyes. The circular motion will help the ground almond exfoliate your skin.
 Gently massage your face to get rid of any excess cleanser. The cool water will help close an tighten your pores.
 Using a soft, clean towel, gently pat your face dry. Do not rub your skin, or you will risk agitating it.
 The moisturizer will help replenish your skin, and the toner will help tighten your pores as well as restore the pH balance.
 You have made enough cleanser to last you several washes. Be sure to keep the lid on it when you are not using it. Store it in a cool, dry location.

