 The best way to ensure you won’t look at internet porn is to eliminate the source—the internet. Put away your smartphone, tablet, and computer, or give them to a friend or family member for safekeeping. Spend a few days away from the internet and allow your mind and body to detox.


Try doing this with a friend. Spend a full day with a friend in which both of you leave your devices at home and do not use them at all. Having someone else’s support might make the process easier.If you are giving up your smartphone, temporarily switch to a disposable cell phone in the meantime. You can buy them just about anywhere, including most gas stations. Give this number to the people you talk to regularly so they can still contact you. Make sure you pick a disposable phone that does not have internet access.;
, If you are privately insured, look for a provider in your network. Some other therapists in your area may offer their services on a sliding scale. Do some research on your chosen therapist and see if one of their specializations is addiction.


There are online resources for overcoming pornography addiction. You can download e-books, or even seek e-counseling over the internet. The downside with this option is that you will need to access the internet to access these services and products., Find something new to do that you enjoy, particularly something that will get you out of the house, or at least out of the area in which you normally access internet pornography. Whenever you get the urge to access these materials, choose instead to do something new.If you find this challenging, consider how much time you spend watching or viewing internet porn, and consider what you could get done with that amount of time if you spent it doing something productive and engaging.
Many former internet pornography addicts say that finding new activities to engage their minds with has allowed them to improve their quality of life, and feel like more productive and useful people.
 If you traditionally use internet pornography to become sexually stimulated, try using your own imagination to turn yourself on. If you are in a relationship, focus on your partner. Imagine some fantasies and put yourself back into the physical world.


You might have noticed that when you view internet porn, you are doing so very passively—watching other people act out your fantasies or sexual thoughts. If you take that role on yourself, you might find it more engaging and satisfying.
 Keeping a serious addiction problem from your partner can jeopardize your relationship, and the trust your partner has in you. Be honest and open with them about your struggles, and continue to talk with them through your recovery.Understand that your addiction will affect your partner’s life, whether you notice it or not. Any addiction can put a strain on a relationship, as the other partner tries to understand what you are going through. Your partner may feel shocked, betrayed, or even confused by your addiction. But, it is important not to ignore their feelings as you work through recovery.Express to your partner that you need and value their support. Your partner may even need to attend therapy, in conjunction with your own. Consider couples’ therapy as an option.
 If you take the measure to automatically block all pornographic material from your electronic, internet-enabled devices, the temptation to view pornography may be more limited, and easier to avoid.


Ask your partner or a close friend to set the password, rather than setting it yourself. This way, even if you want to unlock the blocks or filters, you won’t have the access to do so.
 Some options include Google Chrome and Firefox. These browsers contain the capability to block certain types of websites, and are safe for your computer.


Both Google Chrome and Firefox offer add-ons or extensions that you can install within your browser to block pornographic websites and pop-ups. Once you have downloaded your chosen browser, visit the add-ons or extension database for that browser and install a blocker to your browser.Turn on the pop-up blocker in your chosen web browser. This way, if a pornographic pop-up advertisement is generated by any web page, it will be blocked by your browser automatically.
 With Google, this option is available under the “Settings” button on the right side of the search page. Click “Turn on SafeSearch” to activate this setting.The safe search setting will block all kinds of different inappropriate search results, including pornographic websites. It blocks the results in all search categories, including images.
You can turn this function on and off very easily, but there is also an option to lock it in place with a password or pin. If you want to block these search results from other people in the household, use the lock option.
 You can access internet pornography from any device that is connected to the web, including smartphones and tablets. Make sure you enable these safe search and blocker capabilities across all of your devices.


Check the manual on your smartphone or tablet on how to install these blockers. How you install and use them will depend on which phone model you have, and which browser is installed on it., Most email service providers have a dedicated spam folder that automatically filters suspicious email messages, but it’s important that you don’t open any of these messages, click any links in them, or download any attachments. If you receive an email from a suspicious account or an address you don’t recognize, avoid accessing any material it contains.


Up to 25% of all spam emails contain pornographic material. By avoiding opening or accessing material in these spam messages, you can protect your devices from pornographic material, and also from any viruses that these spam emails sometimes contain.Don’t respond to these messages. Responding will validate to the spam sender that your account is active, and that spammer might continue to use, sell, and spam your email address.
 You can use a number of free and effective anti-malware and anti-spyware programs to scan your hard drive for viruses and remove them. Having certain malware on your computer could be setting you at a higher risk to get pornographic pop-up ads, so erasing them from your hard drive is important.


Free programs like BitDefender are easy to download and use, and will effectively protect your computer from malware and spyware that can make your device more vulnerable to viruses.
 This extends from both internet usage on laptops and computers, to accessing the internet via a smartphone, tablet, or other handheld device.


Talking to your children is the first line of defense when it comes to keeping them safe from internet pornography. Let them know your views on accessing this kind of material, and what kind of things you think are inappropriate for them to see.Set consequences for breaking these rules. Make sure your children understand that they are not allowed to access these materials, regardless of the circumstance.
 Even with certain blocks in place, some young people have found ways around them. Searching for things like “childbirth” or “breastfeeding” can often generate search results that slip through the pornography filter, but are still inappropriate for your children to see.Check to make sure your children haven’t figured out how to unlock any filters or blocks you have installed. Make sure you have used passwords or pins that they would not be able to guess.
Keep browser security up to date. If you browser needs an update, make sure you download and install it. These security features will help block pop-up ads that may contain pornographic material as well.
 If your family members have their own computers or laptops, ask that they use them with their bedroom doors open, or out in a more public area.Since smaller devices like smartphones or tablets can be more difficult to monitor, try to limit your child’s time with these devices. You might even ask that they leave their smartphones and tablets out of their bedrooms at bed time.