 You will need to read the script several times. This will help you get a sense of who your character is. Pay close attention to the information that the script gives away about your role. You will learn a lot about your character from the setting, your lines, and the things that other characters say about your character. Have a pencil handy to mark up the script. Changes will be made to your script as you read, reread, and rehearse, so make sure you use a pencil.Mark the beats. Beats are changes in tone, language, or tactics. Like most things in understanding your character, beats are up to interpretation. You may interpret changes one way, while your director sees them another way. Remember that your analysis can change throughout the rehearsal process.

Use a symbol to mark your beats. One way to mark beats is to use forward slashes between words or sentences.;
, Analyze each line for the subtext, or the meaning behind the spoken words. Subtext is conveyed by the way you say the lines. Give yourself some clues by going through your character’s lines and marking words that need emphasis to convey the meaning of the line. Mark words by underlining them or writing an accent mark above them., As you read through each scene, pay close attention to the scenes in which your character appears. Make note of what your character wants in the scene. Write your notes in the margins so that you refer back to your ideas later. After you have read the entire script, think about your character’s main objective in the play. What did they seek to accomplish? Were they successful?Analyze your character. Once you’ve determined what your character wants, look at how they go about getting it. Do they say what they want? Do they express it through actions? Is it a secret? You don’t need to answer the questions, in any particular way, but you should be able to discuss your character’s desires, needs, and tactics throughout the play.
 Comb through the script for any words that you do not know the meaning of. You want to know exactly what your character is saying in order to accurately speak their lines.For example, if your character is a chemist who uses the word, “isotope,” and you don’t know the meaning of the word, you should look it up. After finding the meaning of the word, go back to the line and clarify what your character is saying.
 Your questions are meant to help you think more deeply about your character’s personality. You don’t necessarily need to talk to other people just yet. Your goal is to clarify your interpretation of the role for yourself. Look back at the script and question what is said. Use “how” or “why” questions to begin to think more deeply about your character.For example, if another character refers to your character as, “A poor little fellow,” you should investigate further. Is this the way you would describe your character? How would your character feel about that description?

, The more you know about your character’s environment, the better. You can do research by spending time with the kinds of people your character spends time with, or you can research online if you are unable to immerse yourself in your character’s world.


If you are in a play based on real events, read biographies about those involved. If you are playing John Lennon, for example, you should learn as much as you can about his life. Where did he grow up? What his relationship with his parents like? Who were his greatest influences?
If the play is fictional but set in a different time or place, find out about that era or area. If you are acting as Juliet in Romeo and Juliet, you might want to know about young women from that era. What did young women do for fun? How did they dress? What was expected of them?

, Notes about physical appearance may appear in the script. These may change or stay the same depending on the types of changes your director chooses to make for the play. If changes aren’t being made, use what is in the script to create a physical image of your character (even if this is not what you look like). You can ask yourself questions formulate your image.


What is my character’s height, weight, skin complexion, and hair color? What do they think of these things? For example, your character might be a tall, skinny, white man with dark brown hair who feels self conscious about his height.
How is my character’s posture? How is it affected by age, health, and emotions? For example, your character might slouch because he is uncomfortable about his height. He might be young but appear to be awkward because he slouches so often.
Does my character have any quirks or mannerisms? For example, he might have a habit of shaking his wristwatch when he is nervous.
Are my character’s movements quick, slow, intense, or smooth? For example, he might have a quick, jerky way of moving that shows his energy and anxiety., Use the script to help you think more deeply about your character’s psychology. The exact answers may not be in the script, but the script will help you interpret or invent an inner life for your character.


What does my character worry about? For example, a young character like Juliet might worry her what her parent’s think of her.
What are my character’s dreams and goals? For example, Juliet may dream of going on adventures or getting married.
What makes my character happy, sad, angry, or scared?
How does my character feel about themselves? Juliet, for example, might feel generally good about her self since she demonstrates confidence and bravery throughout the play., Turn to the script to get a sense of who your character is in their society. Again, answers may not be explicit. Your interpretations can be based on what you’ve read in the text and based on other research you’ve done about the time period and location of the play. Ask and answer questions about your character’s daily life.


What are my character’s daily routines and special hobbies? Routines could include feeding an animal, flossing, or getting a haircut. Hobbies could be playing a sport or an studying new languages.
How much education does my character have? A character who studied up until 8th grade will have a different set of knowledge and skills from someone who is studying law.
What are my character’s political and religious affiliations?
What are some memorable experiences from my character’s childhood., Use your knowledge of your character’s goals throughout the play to determine their beliefs about right and wrong. Remember that you need to understand and sympathize with your character’s motivations, not evaluate them from your own perspective. Use some questions to guide your thinking.


Does my character have certain moral standards? For example, they might have strong opinions about honesty, family obligations, work life, sex, murder and so on.
Who does my character admire? They might admire someone from their personal circle, or they might idolize a famous person from the time period in which they live.
How does my character feel about their choices?Perhaps they made a difficult decision in the past that affects the way they see certain events over the course of the play., Since you may be playing someone whose life is quite different from your own, it may help to use acting techniques that make your portrayal look more realistic.There are many acting systems used by actors today. The Stanislavski System, Stella Adler, and Lee Strasberg are just a few of the common techniques used today. Choose one that best fits your needs.Study Stanislavski. Many techniques are loosely based on a the Stanislavski system. This technique encourages the actor to ask practical questions about the character and ask themselves, “What would I do if I were in this situation?”Stella Adler was an actress who later founded acting schools in the United States. This system stresses the importance of using large body movements on stage.Lee Strasberg was an American actor and director. He stressed the importance of thoroughly studying the characters’ life and history. He also encouraged actors to remember their daily emotional experiences in order to apply those reactions when their character goes through the same issue., You’ve already thought about what your character looks like and how they move. Now it is time to put it to action. Use your whole body to move, stand, and sit like your character.


Use gestures. Gestures are body movements that convey a certain meaning. Use gestures to help your character express what they are feeling or saying.Know your motivation for moving. You will be given stage directions that force you to move about the stage throughout the play. Always know or create a motivation for moving from one place to another. Avoid moving simply because you were told to do so.
 Use your knowledge of your character’s age, hometown, and personality to speak like your character.Convey subtext. Pay attention to your tone, inflection, and articulation when you say your lines. Make sure that the sound and rhythm of the words conveys the meaning behind the text.For example, your line might be, “You think this is fun, don’t you?” This can be read very differently depending on what is happening in the scene. You can end the sentence in an upward tone as to actually ask if to say, “You are enjoying yourself, right?” You can also stress the word “fun” and end in a downward inflection to suggest disappointment. The subtext in that case might be, “I can’t believe you aren’t taking this seriously.”

