 When you make a presentation, whether to one person when you attend networking events or to 100 people when you make a formal presentation, project competence and authority, regardless of your position, to move ahead in your career or move your business to the next level. First impressions are crucial. Often, the first impression you make is when you shake someone’s hand in greeting. Your handshake communicates critical information. A firm, dry, warm handshake conveys power and confidence regardless of gender. Women, however, need to be especially conscious about and proficient with The Handshake as the process and technique is not taught to us at an early age.;
, A surprising number of professionals slouch or do not maintain eye contact when you speak.
 Erect posture and direct eye contact make a long-lasting impression that speaks confidence and assertiveness. Try maintaining eye contact with any one person for at least five seconds whether you are on stage or you are involved in a one-on-one presentation at a networking event.
 Meetings typically involve food and drink of some sort. Arrange your food and drink so that your right hand is free for shaking hands and passing out business cards. Wear your name tag on your left breast where your pocket would be. When you reach out to shake hands the other person sees your name clearly and you do not feel that they are staring at anything at which they should not be staring.
 Discreetly place one in your mouth after you finish a formal presentation in case you have to meet with individuals immediately after your presentation.
 An elevator speech is a presentation you can complete in the time it takes to ride an elevator with a person with whom you want to conduct business. The words you use are important to the impression you make. Use power words like “can” and “do” and “will”. Avoid ending sentences with question marks and saying, “I’m new”, “maybe, and “I think”.


These techniques convey similar messages whether you are networking or making a formal presentation. When you think you do not have time or cannot afford to practice or improve your communication and presentation skills, ask yourself if you can afford not to grow your business or your career. While interpersonal skills seem secondary to financial and business skills, the intangible messages you communicate have very tangible effects on your bottom line if you do not convey them with confidence and proficiency.

