 You will need five or six foot-long sheets of aluminum foil, a few sheets of newspaper torn into one inch by six inch strips, acrylic paint, paintbrushes, scissors, a ribbon or large rubber band, a cup of flour, a cup of water, a mixing bowl, and a spoon.


Most bat masks use black paint for the “fur,” white paint for the eyes, and red paint for the mouth. However, feel free to get creative!
You can measure out foil from a roll or purchase individual sheets of foil from a baking supply store.
 Add a cup of flower and a cup of water to a mixing bowl. Mix it well to remove any lumps. The mixture should be the consistency of glue. If it’s too thin, add some more flour. If it’s too thick, add some water.If you don’t feel like mixing up your own glue, you can buy non-toxic clear paper mache paste at a craft supply store., Crinkle each sheet of foil slightly. Next, lay the sheets of foil on top of one another. Press the layers of foil onto your face, using your fingers to outline each major facial feature.Pay special attention to the areas around your nose, brow bones, eyes, and chin.


The more detail you press into the mold, the better the mask will fit your face.
If your mold seems flimsy, gently stuff the inside with newspaper to help it keep its shape.
 First, dip a strip of newspaper into your glue until it’s completely saturated. Gently squeeze any excess glue off the tip. Next, lay the strip of newspaper down on your mask. Repeat this step, completely covering the mask with strips of newspaper.


If you’d like to add ears to your mask, fold pieces of wet newspapers into triangles and attach them to the top of the mask. These triangles will take extra time to dry.
 Allow each layer to dry before adding another layer.Once the fifth layer has dried completely press gently on the mask to test the strength. If you think the mask is too flimsy, add another layer of paper mache and test it again.


If you add a layer of paper mache before the previous layer has dried, your mask will take twice as long to dry.
 Paint from light to dark, allowing the paint to dry between each layer. For example, if your mask will have large eyes and pointy teeth, paint the eyes and teeth first, the red mouth next, and the black fur last. Otherwise, the lighter paint will mix with the darker paint and create a mess of grays and pinks.


Acrylic paint is water-soluble. Therefore, if you only have one paintbrush, you can dip it in water in between colors to clean off the paint.Avoid using oil paints and other paint types that take a long time to dry. Otherwise you’ll be waiting a few days for your mask instead of a few hours.
 Use a sharpie or pencil to mark out the mouth and eye holes before cutting them out with scissors. If you’re not sure where to put the holes, wear the mask while you carefully mark the areas to cut. If your mask is uneven, neatly trim the edges of your mask.


Most people cut small circles on the eye area to see through and a thin slit on the mouth area to talk through.
If you have trouble cutting small areas with scissors use a hobby knife instead. These knives can be found at most craft supply stores.
 Cut two holes on the sides of the mask. Next, thread a ribbon or large rubber band through this area. Place the mask on your face and tie the ribbon or rubber band tightly. The mask should rest tightly but comfortably.


If you have long hair, use a ribbon instead of a rubber band. Rubber bands can cause damage to your hair.