 If you just have some mild algae buildup on the inside of your glass, it's pretty easy to wipe it off with a sponge. Be sure to use a clean sponge that will not introduce any chemicals or detergents into your aquarium. It's perfectly fine to do this while your fish are in the tank as long as you don't remove much of the water.You can use a sponge with an abrasive side if you need a little extra scrubbing power.
If you don't want to put your arm in the tank, you can find a scrubber with a long handle at your local aquarium store.;
, If you just need to remove some tougher algae from the inside of your aquarium glass, it's easy to do with a scraper. Aquarium stores sell a special tool with a a scraper on one end and a brush on the other that is designed specially for this task.Let the algae fall to the bottom of the tank as you are scraping and scrubbing. You can clean it up with an aquarium vacuum when you are finished.
If the scraper is not working well enough, you can use a razor blade to scrape off the algae. Hold it at a 45 degree angle against the glass and scrape very carefully so as not to cut yourself.
Do not empty the tank to do this. Removing more than 25% of the water from your aquarium can destroy the beneficial bacteria colonies that live there, which can cause your fish to die.
 If you don't want to stick your arm in the tank to clean the glass, there is another option. You can buy an aquarium magnet at your local pet or aquarium store, which will make this task much easier. The part of the magnet with the scrubbing pad goes on the inside of the glass, and the part with the handle goes on the outside. As you move the outside part around, the inside part will glide along the inside of your tank, cleaning the glass.Be very careful not to bring your magnet within two inches of the sand or gravel at the bottom of the tank. If you get any abrasive materials stuck under the pad, you run the risk of scratching your glass.
Be sure to rinse the cleaning pad after each use, and never leave the magnet in the tank when you are not using it. This will help prevent any sand from getting under the pad.
Consider placing a piece of felt under the exterior part of the magnet to protect the glass.
Aquarium magnets are available in a variety of sizes. The size of the magnet you choose will depend on the size of your tank. Although any size will work, it may be tedious to clean a very large tank with a very small magnet.
The magnets are also available in different strengths. Use a stronger magnet for glass than for acrylic. (Be very careful not to get your fingers caught between them if you choose a strong magnet!)
Some of these magnets float so you don't have to worry about fishing them out of the tank if they become dislodged. Some also have razor blade attachments for stubborn algae.
 It's just as important to keep the outside of your aquarium glass clean as the inside, and this task is considerably easier. Simply use a lint-free cloth or soft piece of paper (coffee filters and newspaper both work well) and gently scrub the outside of your tank with warm water.Using chemical cleaners is not advised because it is possible that small particles could become airborne and contaminate the inside of your tank.
If you must use a chemical cleaner, spray it onto your cloth well away from the aquarium, instead of spraying it onto the glass.