 A genuine smile comes from genuine happiness. Studies on what makes people happy reveal that it doesn't have much to do with material goods or high achievement; it seems to whittle down to your outlook on life. In other words, try to how to Be Optimistic and real smiles will appear on your face throughout the day.


Think about who has the most genuine smiles: kids! They don't worry as much as adults because life is less complicated for them. Try to follow their lead and be laid back and playful!
Try not to force yourself to smile unless you're really feeling happy. Stop being a people-pleaser. If you constantly smile in order to be polite and agreeable, you're tightly controlling your countenance and not giving your Duchenne smile much of a chance to shine through. A real smile arises from your own personal joy, not someone else's.
 When you're in a situation that's not making you feel cheerful, but you don't want to appear as though you're having a bad time, you've got to find your happy place. Think of something that makes you want to jump for joy, something that brings a smile to your face without fail.


This exercise will help you recognize what really makes you happy. Look in the mirror and cover everything below your eyes with a handkerchief or similar. Then start thinking or talking out loud about your happiest memories. Smile as you do so. You'll notice that at some points, your eyes "twinkle" and you get "crows' feet" wrinkles near your temples. There's your Duchenne smile! The closest you're ever going to get to smiling with your eyes on command is to channel your happiest memories and let your face do the rest.
 If you're preoccupied with the color or straightness of your teeth, the prominence of your gums, the smell of your breath, and so on, you might subconsciously stifle your smile because you feel embarrassed. Taking care of the issues that distract you from fully smiling will help you have a brighter and more genuine smile.Look into whitening your teeth and getting rid of bad breath to take care of two easy-to-fix sources of self consciousness.
If you really want to rock the Duchenne, play up your eyes as well. Maintain your eyebrows and use a little eye makeup to make your eyes stand out.
 When you're in the moment, try to just go with it instead of thinking about yourself. Look into the other person's eyes and really see him or her. If you're genuinely glad to see the person, and they say something that pleases you, you'll break into a natural smile. When you're feeling nervous about how you come off to other people, it will come through in your smile. Instead of worrying about what impression you're making, let yourself feel free to be expressive.


Check out the other person's smile when you're talking. Is the person smiling with his or her eyes? If you see a Duchenne smile on the other person's face, you know it's genuine, which might set you more at ease and help you relax into the conversation a bit.
On the other hand, if the person's smile looks fake, it might be hard to flash a genuine grin. If you want to seem sincere, you might have to channel some happy thoughts for a bit, or at least remember to squint!

