 Practice any specific skills necessary for your desired job, but more importantly, practice how you interact with potential interviewers. You can practice by yourself or with others. Consider attending mock interviews hosted by colleges or career centers. They will provide you with great feedback on the impression that you give off to potential employers.When rehearsing potential interview answers, actually say your answers out loud in front of someone. This will help you prepare.
Your resume should be in 12 point font and free of grammatical and mechanical errors. , What you wear to an interview creates an image or perception of the type of person you are, so choosing your attire is very important when presenting yourself as the right person to hire.


Research the company to determine appropriate interview outfits.
Whenever you find yourself doubtful about what to wear, lean towards slightly over dressing, rather than show up looking too casual.
If you don't have an appropriate outfit you can go to a department store like Nordstrom or Macy’s and ask one of the sales associates for help.
 Find out the history, mission statement, founder, or anything you can about the company. You may be asked related questions during your interview and you want to come across as prepared and interested in the company.


You most likely will be asked why you want a job with the company you are interviewing for. Make sure you are ready with a good answer.
 Interview with any company that will meet with you for their open positions. Learn from anyone in the industry that you can. Interviews can be good resources for information and networking, whether or not they lead you to a job or not.


Take interviews even for jobs you may not want because the practice will help you become better at the process.
 The day after your interview, send a thank you to the person you interviewed with. This will help leave a positive lasting impression with them. You can send a thank you card in the mail or an email. Just be sure to thank them for their time and let them know how eager you are to hear back from them.
 If you are wondering why you didn't get a job for which you applied or interviewed, make a list of pros and cons to see what didn't go well. Work on your weakest links and stay focused on improving your performance. Interviewing for a job can have a lot of competition so it is important that you are always learning from your experiences and staying prepared.


Review your resume and make sure that it is free of errors.
Share your interview experiences with friends or family and get their advice on how well they think you answered questions. This will help you brainstorm for the next interview you have.

