 This is the only area in Pokémon Emerald that Feebas can be found. #*Route 119 is located in the top-center of the map, and connects Fortree City and Route 118.


You will need the bike to reach the area above the waterfall.
Bring a Pokémon with the Surf ability so that you can reach any water tile.;
, There are hundreds of water tiles in Route 119, but Feebas can only be found on six of them at any one time. These six tiles are random, and the spot you find Feebas will likely not be the same spot that your friend does.
, Any rod will allow you to catch a Feebas, but the Super Rod only catches Feebas and Carvahna, making it easier to tell if you’re successful or not.
 Start at the top of the river, and move back and forth as you make your way south. Make sure to stop at every tile possible.
 Feebas won’t always show up the first time you fish a tile. To ensure that you don’t accidentally skip a good tile, fish each spot at least five times.

.

Carvahna can appear in the same tile as Feebas.
 Once you’ve located a Feebas, catch a few extra while you’re there. You can catch multiple Feebas from the same spot, and the spots don’t change once you leave the area. You can use your extra Feebas to trade with people who don’t want to spend the time tracking one down.
 If you feel like shuffling the tiles will help you find Feebas, you can speak to the boy outside of the Dewford town hall. Entering a new “Trendy Phrase” will shuffle the tiles where Feebas can be found. Even if the tiles are shuffled, Feebas can still only be found in Route 119.

There is no trendy phrase that makes finding Feebas “easier”. Each trendy phrase simply shuffles the tiles where it can be found around, and the same phrase on two games will result in different tile locations.
You can find a Feebas without setting a Trendy Phrase at all.
 If you feel like taking a little shortcut to getting your Feebas, you can use the Pro Action Replay cheat code system to generate Feebas for you to easily capture. You will need to enter two codes in order to make Feebas become the next Pokémon you encounter in the wild.Master code:



D8BAE4D9 4864DCE5
A86CDBA5 19BA49B3





Feebas code:



25214170 0AB256A2
FFA6733C EE552E68
2E7B7A58 D0781742
5A6F8EDD 049BA190






