 Being grateful has been suggested to improve happiness and build stronger social bonds.Start finding what you are grateful for by taking inventory of what you have in your life that you enjoy.


Write a list of things you appreciate in your own life so that you can look back and reflect when you are feeling down. You can also invite friends and family members to help you create this list by adding their own items to it. This may help you to see things that you might not have considered.
Consider everything you have, from larger or more conceptual ideas such as the opportunity to earn a living or pursue a quality education down to the little things that make every day better, like your favorite snack.
Include people such as friends and family as well as pets if you are appreciative of them in your life.
Look online for lists others have created talking about what they are grateful for to help give you ideas., Journaling is a particularly effective tool for times when you need to work through sorrow to a point of being thankful. Take some time and write about what you currently feel sorry about, but also find some specific moments in your day for which you are thankful.Try to avoid expressing gratitude toward the same things every day. Instead, challenge yourself to find a few new and specific things each day for which you are thankful.For example, instead of saying you are thankful to have a friend in your life, instead cite a specific reason you are glad to have that friend, such as noting how they brightened your mood when they told a joke that day.
When you are feeling sorry, read over your journal to remind yourself of what you have to be thankful for in your life, even when times are rough. Another option is to post your gratitude list somewhere you will see it every day. This can help to keep you focused on the things you are grateful for.
 Mindfulness is a practice by which one tries to be fully aware of the present instead of focusing on the past or future. Practice mindfulness by taking some time each day to simply sit and observe the world around you. Put all of your focus and energy into knowing what is happening around you, rather than giving in to worries about the past or the future.When you practice mindfulness, it allows you to notice what you have around you. You focus less on what you are lacking, and start to build gratitude toward the world around you.
Start practicing mindfulness by setting aside small amounts of time, just ten to fifteen minutes a day, to notice the world around you. To get started, close your eyes and focus on what you hear, smell, and feel around you. Then open your eyes and try to see if you notice anything you have never noticed before. When you catch your mind wandering, gently bring it back by focusing on something happening around you.

