 Dandruff shampoos containing this ingredient are especially effective at treating dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis caused by malassezia fungi.Popular brands include Head & Shoulders and Jason Dandruff Relief 2 in 1.;
,
Some tar shampoos can discolor blonde, gray, or white hair, so this may not be the best option if you have light-colored hair.Tar shampoos can also make your scalp more sensitive to sunlight. If you use a tar shampoo, wear a hat when you go outdoors and stay under shade as much as possible., Additionally, selenium sulfide may also reduce malassezia fungi like zinc pyrithione shampoos do.Note, however, that selenium sulfide shampoos can discolor blonde, gray, or dyed hair. It might be best to avoid these shampoos if your hair color falls under one of these categories. Furthermore, you should thoroughly rinse these shampoos out of your hair to help reduce the risk of discoloration.
Popular brands include Selsun Blue and Dandrex.
 Results may vary with this type of shampoo; for some individuals, salicylic acid shampoos can cause more dryness and flaking.If you experience dryness and excess flaking with this type of shampoo, you might be able to relieve the condition by following each shampooing with a standard conditioner.
Popular brands include Neutrogena T/Sal and Keralyt Scalp.
 It's often used as a last resort when other dandruff shampoos fail to treat the problem.Many ketoconazole shampoos are available only by prescription, but there are some over-the-counter options, like Nizoral and generic drug store brands.
 No two dandruff shampoos are exactly alike; similarly, no two dandruff sufferers are exactly alike, either. The best dandruff shampoo for one person may not be the best one for you, so be prepared to try out a few different options before finding one that works.Zinc pyrithione shampoos tend to have fewer negative side effects and are generally well tolerated, making them a popular first option.
If you have darker hair, tar shampoos and selenium sulfide shampoos are equally good options as long as you follow the label instructions closely.
Since salicylic acid shampoos can cause additional dryness, they are generally a less popular choice, but are still safe for most people.
Ketoconazole shampoos are generally used when other anti-dandruff shampoo types fail to work or stop working.
For a more precise recommendation suited to your hair type and scalp needs, consult a dermatologist.
 You should always follow the label instructions closely for any dandruff shampoo you use, but generally, you'll need to apply the shampoo to wet hair and thoroughly massage it into the scalp using your fingers.In most cases, you'll need to let the shampoo sit on your scalp for about five minutes before rinsing it out. Others, however, should be rinsed out immediately after application (especially those containing selenium sulfide)., To bring severe cases of dandruff under control, you'll typically need to use your anti-dandruff shampoo once every one to two days.The exception is Ketoconazole shampoo, which should be used only twice per week.As your dandruff subsides, you can cut back the amount used to about twice per week, or once per week if you have coarser hair., One shampoo may work for a period of time before suddenly becoming less effective. If this happens, consider switching back and forth between two different ingredient types, using each one at least once per week.You may also consider switching entirely to another type of dandruff shampoo instead of alternating between the old and new ingredients,but doing so may prove less effective than alternating between two.
 Many anti-dandruff shampoos only have one formula, but others are formulated for different hair types.Focus on finding a shampoo that helps cut down dandruff first; if that shampoo makes your overall hair quality worsen (e.g., making your hair limp, dry, or weak), consider looking for a special formula that contains the same active ingredient while correcting the new problem.


While some dandruff shampoos are also available in multiple scents, the smell of your shampoo should be the last concern on your list. Dandruff control and overall hair health maintenance should be of greater concern.
 While the conditioner itself won't help fight the dandruff, it's important to select a conditioner that won't strip away the active ingredient in the shampoo. Your best bet is to select a conditioner specifically formulated to accompany your shampoo of choice.If you are unable to find a conditioner that matches your shampoo, try to find one made with natural or organic ingredients. Gentle moisturizers are usually best, but stay away from clarifying conditioners.
 If you eventually decide to introduce a normal shampoo back into your hair care routine, stay away from those containing ingredients ammonium lauryl sulfate and other anionic surfactants, which tend to dry the scalp and worsen the problem. Try to find a sulfate-free shampoo instead.Also note that washing your hair too frequently or not often enough can worsen dandruff.Once your dandruff problem is under control, you should only wash your hair once every other day at most, and at least two or three times per week at minimum.
 If you are unable to get your dandruff under control on your own, consult your family doctor or dermatologist and ask for a prescription-strength shampoo or steroid lotion.While dandruff is frequently caused by dry skin, it could also be caused by a medical condition, like seborrheic dermatitis, psoriasis, eczema, or fungal infections.Your doctor will be able to determine the cause of your dandruff and work with you to find the best solution for it.

