 For football, if a bet isn't otherwise labeled, it is usually offered at odds of 10/11.In other words, if you bet $11 dollars and win, you will make back your money plus $10 for a total of $21. This is called a "straight bet" and is very common in sports betting.
 Another common type of bet has to do with something called the "spread" or "point spread." In this type of betting, one team is favored to win the game by a certain number of points. If you bet on the favored team, it must win by this predetermined number of points (the spread). If it doesn't clear this hurdle, your bet loses, even if the team itself won. Conversely, a bet placed for the team predicted to lose will win if the other team can't make the minimum score (or "cover the spread").For example, let's say that Team A is favored to win by 6 points over Team B. You place a bet on Team A, but they only win by 3 points. In this case, you lose your money even though Team A won the game. If you had bet on Team B, you would have won money even though Team B lost the game.
 Another way that gamblers express odds is with a system called "moneyline" betting. In this system, each team is given either a positive or a negative number (like -500 or +350). A negative number means that you must wager that much money to earn $100 if the team wins. A positive number means that wagering $100 will earn you that much money if the team wins. In other words, teams with big negative numbers are heavily favored to win. Teams with big positive numbers are considered unlikely to win.


For example, let's say that Team A is rated at -300 and Team B is rated at $150. This means that we would have to bet $300 on Team A to win $100 if Team A wins. On the other hand, betting $100 on Team B will earn us $150 if Team B wins. In this case, it's often best to "fade" — make a small bet on the team with the positive number, or Team B. Team A has low reward potential.
 In this form of betting, it doesn't matter which team wins. Instead, you're trying to predict the total number of points scored by both teams. If the number of points is over a predetermined number, you win money if you place an "over" bet (and vice versa for "under").For example, let's say that a game between Team A and Team B has an over/under rating of 50. This means that the teams have to score a total of 50 points or more for the "over" bet to win. Otherwise, the "under" bet wins.

