 Did you feel out of control with your life? Is there a specific issue you can pinpoint (e.g. abusive parents, toxic expectations), or is it more difficult to figure out? Taking steps against what started it may help you feel more powerful and ready to recover.


A good therapist can help you pinpoint underlying issues. Medical help is important and can help you improve.;
, Cover mirrors if you need to, and try taping a picture of a smiley face with "You look great!" where the mirror would be.
 A lot of your time and energy has gone into habits that make things worse for you, and that isn't easy to undo. Rather than trying to go "cold turkey" and relapsing, make little changes bit by bit.


Add a stick of string cheese to what you usually eat. Continue with this until you feel comfortable with it. Then add a small cookie. Then start serving yourself bigger portions of meat.
Weigh yourself two times a day instead of three. Then weigh yourself only at night. Then try weighing yourself every other day.
 Would you tell a friend not to eat so much, or tell them they're fat and unlovable? You are your own best friend. Every time you're wondering what to do, imagine giving advice to a friend in that position. Then follow that advice.
 Fruits and vegetables are important and good. So are proteins, fats, and grains. You need to eat some of every food group in order to have a balanced diet.


There are no "good" or "bad" foods. Too much or too little of any food group is bad for you.
Think of desserts in terms of benefits—ice cream has calcium for strong bones, dark chocolate has antioxidants for lowering cancer risk, and fats boost brain and cellular health.
 Exercise should be fun, and it should not make you feel dizzy, too hot, faint, or nauseated. Practice taking it slowly, stretching beforehand, and drinking lots of water.


Try preventing over-exercising by exercising only with family members and friends who have healthy attitudes. Find something they like to do—walking, backyard sports, playing in a pool, et cetera. Try to match their pace, and stop when they stop.
 If you're used to thinking of some foods as "bad," then it may be hard to start eating healthily right away. Try eating first string cheese, then pudding, then ice cream. Get comfortable with incorporating more and more into your diet.
 Learn about feminism and introduce yourself to feminist theory (if you're a girl). This will help you understand the pressures that cause women to feel like they need to be small and nonthreatening. Feminism has helped several great thinkers recover from anorexia, and go on to write important essays. Also look for support groups, and groups of eating disorder survivors.


If you started restricting because you were or are overweight, pay especial attention to the Fat Acceptance Movement. Health at Every Size can help you focus on your health instead of your weight.
 Life is about more than calories and numbers on a scale—make a commitment to do one fun thing every day. Try making art, listening to music, talking to a friend, playing with a sibling or pet, reading a good book, playing with computer code, or doing whatever you love. You deserve to feel happy.

