 Leaving your spouse little love notes is a great way to surprise him or her. There are lots of different ways you can do this, which allows you to keep it varied if you do this more than once.


Leave lots of little love notes around the house, or in your spouse's car.Cut them in the shape of hearts if you want to get creative.
Slip a flirtatious note into your spouse's purse or pants pocket for him or her to find during the day.Use some quotes from songs or poems that really sum up your feelings for your spouse. Or, better yet, try writing your own love poems!Use text messages or email to send love notes throughout the day.;
, Many couples have a song or collection of songs, often from early in their relationship, that has special significance. There are lots of ways you can use this to create a romantic surprise.


If you're musically talented, you can produce your own version of the song at home using your laptop and whatever instrument(s) you play. If not, there are instant recording studios (often found in shopping malls) that let you make a recording of your favorite song with prerecorded backing tracks.If you aren't a singer, you can also just surprise your spouse when he or she comes home by putting on your song and dancing with him or her in your living room!

, If you know when your spouse's lunch break is, try to get a break at the same time and surprise him or her at work for a lunch date.You can bring your spouse something special or take him or her out for lunch.
 Create a romantic scavenger hunt based on your early dates or your many years of marriage. Create clues that lead to places or things related to your own romantic history.For example, if you went ice skating on your first date, leave a clue that will lead your spouse to the ice skating rink, where you are waiting for a skating session. Give him or her another clue that will lead to the restaurant you went to on your first anniversary for a romantic meal, and so on.
 Doing something fun and playful can also make for a nice surprise. Spontaneous and flirtatious games can help liven up your marriage.Leave out a water gun for your spouse with a note warning that you're waiting in the backyard and he or she better be ready to get wet because you're armed, too.
On a snowy day, buy a cheap sled and tell your spouse to meet you at the park for some winter time shenanigans.
You can also try something more flirtatious, like suggesting a game of spin the bottle with just the two of you playing.
 Sometimes, the best gift is something your spouse already owns. If your spouse has a prized possession that has seen better days, get it repaired for him or her.Perhaps your spouse has a favorite jacket that's coming apart at the seams or a favorite pair of shoes or boots that need new soles. Take them to a tailor or cobbler and get them repaired. This way, you are giving a gift that your spouse already loves!

, Sometimes an old-fashioned approach to romance is best. Here are some tried-and-true methods you can use to give your spouse a pleasant surprise.


Do all the chores. Another nice surprise is for your spouse to come home and find all the chores done. Have a surprise date night. Plan a special date night including some activity your spouse will really enjoy. You could, for example, buy tickets to a show or a surprise picnic dinner under the stars is another great surprise idea.You could, for example, suggest going out for a drink at your spouse's favorite pub, and arrive to find (surprise!) all his or her best friends are there.
Cook a favorite meal. Tell your spouse to stay out of the kitchen because you're handling dinner tonight. A special breakfast, especially delivered in bed, is another nice way to surprise your spouse.Buy flowers or a sweet treat. It may seem like a cliche, but some cliches exist for a reason. Flowers are a nice, romantic gesture. Surprising him or her with a box of favorite chocolates or a favorite cake is another nice gesture.