 Reading is one of the best ways to learn new information or to get away for a while into a whole new world. If you read, you’ll have a larger vocabulary, enjoy greater brain functioning and improve memory, as well as better sleep. Visit your local library to check out a fiction or non-fiction books that piques your interest.To counteract loneliness, start reading your book at a quiet table in the library rather than taking it away. You might fine a potential book club buddy who's read the book, too.;
, Going to a concert alone may seem awkward, but once you get there, you won’t feel so lonely. Everyone there has something in common—you all like the band or artist. Plus, if you're at a concert for one of your favorite bands, then you'll be much more likely to meet someone who shares your interests.


Don't worry about being alone there. Many people go to concerts on their own. You might spot someone else who’s there solo and strike up a conversation during intermission., Playing video games is a great way to entertain yourself and to escape into another world. Playing video games can also help you master new skills and appreciate the advances in technology over recent years.


If you play online games, you may even meet some friends who are also playing the games that way., You can write to your relatives or you can find a pen pal. Writing a letter to someone will help you get through tough times and stay in touch with the positive people in your life.


Get some nice paper and a pen and write a letter to a distant relative. Let them know how you’ve been doing.You might also write to a long-lost friend who you’d like to catch up with.
 If you're feeling lonely, making a YouTube video is the perfect way to reach out to the world and to share your thoughts and feelings with a variety of people. Whether you want to go on a funny rant, sing a song, or show off your juggling or makeup-application skills, you'll be able to charm a variety of people if you make a video that is tasteful and compelling.You'll feel less alone if you're in touch with members of the YouTube community. You might connect with potential friends who watch your video and comment on it.
Also, you might make friends by watching and commenting on others' videos.
 Starting your own blog is a great way to share your passion for a subject with the world, to have fun researching your subject, and to be part of a productive community that shares your interests. Though you may be a little scared to put your thoughts out onto the world, find something you're passionate about, such as baseball, yoga, or fashion, and start writing.Many bloggers end up making a community of friends when others read their posts and relate to them.
You don’t necessarily have to tell others about your blog, or even publish the posts if you don't want to.
 You can gain knowledge from the comfort of your own home -- often times, without paying a cent. Check out MIT's OpenCourseWare, or the free online courses offered by other universities. You may have already gotten your degree or chosen your major, but there are a wealth of courses out there, in anything from microeconomics to Portuguese history, that can help you gain knowledge in subjects that interest you.Taking an online class can also give some structure and meaning to your life. You may feel that your days are empty without friends, and this is a meaningful and productive way to fill that time.

