 Carefully place your ladder against the building, near the area where you want to start cleaning. If there are areas that allow you to work from the ladder without having to get on the roof itself, take advantage of those. If you have to get immediately on the roof, remember to step where the tiles overlap., Starting on one side of the roof and working your way backwards to the other end will make it easy for you to remain in a dry location. The need to walk on wet tiles will virtually be eliminated, or at the very least, dramatically minimized., Using a pressure washer set to a low psi, rinse loose debris off your roof with clean water. Start at the ridge of your roof (the top) and spray down toward the gutters. Doing this ensures that debris is always heading in the right direction – off your roof. Once you finish one small section, move over and work on the next one, always starting at the ridge and working down to the gutters.Allow the roof to dry completely before applying the chemical solution.
If you don’t own one, a pressure washer can be rented for the day from most hardware stores.
 Moss, lichen, algae and other organic growths are the major issues when it comes to cleaning tile roofs, especially moss. Fill your pressure washer with an anti-moss/fungicide cleaning solution, mixing it as the product instructs. Use a low psi to spray the tiles with the treatment, starting on one side and slowly working your way to the opposite side of your roof.There are many products available at hardware stores to treat your tile roof. Make sure it includes a fungicide and advertises that it kills organic growth. Look for words like “anti-moss” “fungicide” “moss killer” and so on.
 Most products will direct you to let the treatment sit on the tiles for several minutes (or longer) so that the tile soaks it up. Allowing the chemical treatment to seep into the pores of the tile ensures that moss and other organic growths are fully eliminated. Follow the product instructions for specific time frames., Using a slightly higher psi, start rinsing the treatment off your roof with clean water. As before, start at one end and work your way to the other. Direct the spray at the top of the ridge and spray downward so that the treatment runs off the roof, taking moss, lichen and dirt along with it. Spend a little extra time on the areas with the most moss and staining; the pressure of the water will loosen any stubborn remains.