 Be sure that the power source of the computer is in an open switch mode. In the case of a laptop, this power source is the battery. In the case of desktop computers, it maybe wise to leave the computer plugged in if your grounding device is connected to the case of the computer.;
, Most computers cases can be opened by removing screws that hold the case together.
 After the portion of the case is removed that harnesses the computer components, the Sata and power supply cables must be disconnected. After they are removed, the hard drive may physically be removed from the case.
 It is very important to store the hard drive in a safe place for both long and short storage. Hard drives and other computer components are sensitive to static electrical discharge, vibration and electromagnetic fields among other risks.
 Be sure that the power source of the computer is in an open switch mode. In the case of a laptop, this power source is the battery. In the case of desktop computers, it maybe wise to leave the computer plugged in if your grounding device is connected to the case of the computer.
 Most computers cases can be opened by removing screws that hold the case together.
 After the computer case is open, prepare the installation of the hard drive by locating an empty port on the motherboard.
 This will be used to transfer data from the CPU to and from the computer’s processor.
 After the Sata cable is connected to the port, locate an available power supply cable connected to the power supply of the computer.
 Use the Sata cable to connect the hard drive to the motherboard of the computer.
 Use the spare power supply cable to do this.
 After the hard drive has been stored in a secure location inside the computer, close the computer case and reinstall any screws or fixtures used to hold the case closed.
 After the computer has been closed, power on and check the bootable drives. This will require interaction with the computers interface before the loading of windows. If the install was successful, the newly installed drive will appear in the hard disks section of the bootable drives. It is important to note that booting from this drive is not possible. This step is to verify the bios of the computer sees the drive functioning properly.
 This can be done with right clicking the start button on the taskbar, or pressing the window key and the e key simultaneously.
 This will begin the process of clearing all stored data from the drive and restoring it to factory settings.
 Insert a CD ROM with an operating system loaded on it. Check your bootable drives the same way that you checked to insure that your hard drive was installed correctly. Now Press the CD ROM option and follow the operating systems instructions from there.

