 Used book stores, library book sales, and thrift stores are good places to find a tome that will suit this purpose.

Look for something with an attractive cover in a color that suits your (or your recipient's) style. Some old books are bound with leather (or a lookalike) and embossed.
Look around for textbooks, mismatched/outdated encyclopedias, Reader's Digest Condensed Books or anything that you think will be worth more for its cover than its contents.;
, You can use scissors or a craft knife. Open the cover and cut along the gutter (crease) line.





 Empty cover, ready to become a purse.

If you like, hang onto the pages or part of them for use in a collage or other paper crafts. Text, even if it's nothing in particular, can lend character to craft projects, and things like old encyclopedias can be great sources of images and inspiration. You can also cut out text to glue onto the cover of the book- the name of the person, etc.
 Heavy mailing envelopes work fine., Cut slightly INSIDE your tracing lines so that you get a cardboard rectangle that is just slightly smaller than your book cover(s).,,, This will support and reinforce the bottom of your new purse.,, You may starch the fabric to make it stiffer and easier to use if you like., Lay the cardboard on the cloth and cut around it, leaving an inch or so in every direction.,,






Fold a quarter yard (23cm) of fabric into quarters (fold once along a vertical centered fold line, then once along a horizontal fold line). You should end up with a rectangular shape, with folds on two adjacent edges and four layers of material.
Measure and mark the following:






One spine width from the corner where the two folded edges meet, along the edge with two folds. This measurement is shown by the red line in the previous diagram.
One book cover width from the corner where the folded edges meet, down either of the longest sides. This measurement is shown by the blue line in the previous diagram.
A diagonal line from the end of the first measurement to the end of the second measurement.











 Blue line is the folded edge. The red line is a folded edge that should be cut to separate the triangle(s) from each other.

Cut the triangles from the markings you made.






You should now have two triangles that measure as follows:
A = twice the spine width.
B = the length of the short side (width) of the book cover.
C = the distance that you want your book purse to open up.
Repeat the process to make two more triangles with these dimensions, making for a total of four triangles.
 (see photo for pointers), Right sides together.,,,, Stitch up the fold at least an inch. This will help your purse to close cleanly without the fabric bunching outward., You may glue the fabric to the front side if you wish as well., Be certain that the dart lies to the inside of the cover. Glue into place.,, Glue into place.,,,,,,,,