 You will need duct tape in any color you want. Choose two colors of duct tape -- one for the rose and one for the stem -- if you wish. You’ll also need some wire or a drinking straw for the stem. But if you want the stem to be sturdier than a straw-based stem would be, opt for the wire. If you don’t have either item, use a pen for the stem instead. , Ten inches (25.4 cm) is a good size. Roll the tape lengthwise sticky-side up around the wire, straw or pen. If you are using a pen, just tape around the outside until everything except for the tip of the pen is completely covered.
 Again, it doesn’t need to be exact. Fold the top right corner down so that the point touches the midpoint of the square. Leave the sticky side of adhesive showing on the side and bottom. Then repeat with the other corner.
 (These are the classic first two steps in making a paper airplane.) The two folded down corners should look like a triangle, and below it there should be about 1/2 an inch (2.54 cm) of the adhesive side showing on the bottom.Make about 79 petals to make a really full rose.
 Place the first petal about 1/4 inch lower on the stem. The center should be lower on the stem than all the rest of the petals to create a look of realism. You’ll need about 4 or 5 petals to form the base of the rose.Wrap the first 4 to 5 petals around the base of the stem tightly to form the center of the rose. Make sure to keep them relatively close to the first petal. To achieve this, roll the first few petals around the stem to form a bud. Use the 1/2 and inch of adhesive on the bottom of the petal to secure it to the stem., But, this time spread the petals out more by not wrapping them as tightly. Continue to wrap the petals around the stem to form each layer of petals. Stop when you have reached your desired fullness.
 You’re going to make a leaf to hide the seam between the rose and the stem. Repeat steps 3 and 4 with duct tape the same color as the stem to make the leaf. Then, stick it under the rose to cover the place where the rose and stem meet. Make two leaves.!

