 Try to book direct flights to minimize the amount of time your dog is left unattended in the cargo hold. It is best to make reservations for your dog by calling the airline directly to speak to a booking agent. Let the agent know that you are shipping a dog, and ask if there are specific guidelines and accommodations that the airline can provide.


Travel with your animal, whenever possible.
 Within 10 days of your flight, you will need to obtain a health certificate from your veterinarian confirming that your dog is healthy enough to fly, and that all of its vaccinations are up to date.Some destinations may require a separate certification that your dog is up-to-date on rabies vaccinations. Your vet can provide this at the time of the exam.
 Make sure that your shipping container has the words "Live Animal" written in letters at least one-inch tall on the top and at least one side of the crate, along with arrows indicating which way is up. Also write the dog's name, along with the contact name, address, and telephone number of your pet's destination on the crate, and indicate whether or not you are accompanying the animal on the flight.It may also be helpful to affix a photo of your dog to the outside of the crate for identification purposes.
If your dog is on any medication, also include this information when labeling of the crate.
 It is also helpful to carefully label your dog's collar with name, flight, contact, and health information, in the event that your dog escapes the crate.</ref>

, If you know your dog won't eat paper, put a piece of clean cardboard at the bottom of the crate to help prevent sliding during transport. You can also add a low-sided dog bed, blanket or towel to the bottom of the crate for your dog to lay on., Affix one or two water bowls inside the crate with zip ties. Freeze some water the night before travel, and at the airport, place the ice into each water dish so that it will thaw during the journey and give your dog something to drink.


It is not advisable to give the dog food during the flight to prevent air sickness, but you may attach a packet of the dog's food outside the crate that airline personnel may be able to give the dog in case of delays or other emergencies., Make sure that the dog has time to urinate and defecate before you place it in the crate. Once the dog is checked in at the airport, it will not be able to get out of the crate until you pick it up at baggage claim.
 A dog with a full stomach is more likely to experience air sickness, so be sure your pet gets to eat well before the flight., This can cause the dog to have breathing problems on the flight, and is not recommended unless absolutely necessary. Check with your veterinarian for specific advice., Most airlines restrict the number of pets that can be in the cabin on each flight, and spots are allotted on a first-come, first-serve basis. If you plan to take your dog in the cabin with you, be sure to check in for your flight early to guarantee a place. Also, give yourself and your dog extra time to get through airport security., They will most likely have been appraised of this before boarding, but it can't hurt to make a human connection with the staff on your plane., Although accidents do occasionally happen, with proper preparation, your dog will almost certainly arrive at your destination happy and safe.

