 The wiring here will be similar to wiring a single voice coil (SVC) sub-woofer. The difference to remember is that dual voice coil (DVC) subs have two coils, and thus four input terminals. Two of them are positive and two are negative. Choose one of the positive terminals and connect it to the positive bridged terminal of the amp.
 Just like wiring two separate speakers, the two coils within your DVC can be wired in series (increasing the sub's impedance) or in parallel (decreasing the sub's impedance).If you are wiring the coils in series then run a wire from the positive terminal of the first coil (the one wired to the amp) to the negative terminal of the second coil and from the negative terminal of the first coil to the positive terminal of the second.
If you are wiring the coils in parallel then run a wire from the first positive terminal to the second positive terminal and a wire from the first negative terminal to the second negative terminal.
 Again, you have the series verses parallel debate.If you choose to wire the subs in series, connect the negative end of the second coil in the first sub to the positive end of the first coil in the second sub (these circuits can get complicated fast). Next, connect the negative end of the first coil to the positive end of the second coil. Finally connect the negative end of the second coil to the negative bridged terminal on the amp.
If wiring in parallel, connect the negative end of the first sub's second coil to the negative end of the second sub's second coil. Connect the positive end of the first sub's first coil to the positive end of the second sub's first coil.
 Follow the same guidelines as when you connected the first sub's coils., Now comes the easy part. Regardless of which combinations of series and parallels you chose above to get the proper impedance and power distribution in your system, closing the circuit will be one easy step. Run a wire to connect the negative terminal of the second coil in your second sub to the negative bridged terminal of the amp.
 Power up your system and test it out. Start at a low volume and then slowly increase it to listen for anything that doesn’t sound right, like static or a difference in volume between the two subwoofers. If the bass and sub-bass are quiet or not present at all, something is mis-wired.