 If you are unsure of how to use your iPhone's built-in camera application, read our tutorial about how to use an iPhone camera.
 Choose the video you want to upload by tapping on it.
 Click the icon in the bottom left of the screen. You may need to tap the screen once to reveal this icon.
 Depending on the apps you have installed, you may need to swipe left to find the YouTube icon.
 You may be prompted to enter in the credentials for your Google/YouTube account.
 Try to make the title relevant to the content of your video. This will make it easier for people to find your video. Avoid titling the video something irrelevant just to get more views. Not only does this aggravate viewers, it also almost guarantees lower likes on your video.
 You don't have to include much in your description, but it helps viewers know what is happening in the video. For example, if your video is of fireworks on the 4th of July, think about including where you saw the show. Try to anticipate questions your viewers will have, and include answers in the description.
 You will see three different options for privacy options under the "Privacy" header. You can change the privacy options later on, even after uploading the video.



Private: Only you will be able to see the video. This is a useful option if you want to just have a place to store your video. It is also a useful option for testing out how a video looks on YouTube before making it public.

Unlisted: Only people with the link can view your video. This is a useful option if you only want to share your video to certain people, such as friends or family. Be aware, though, that nothing stops them from sharing the link with others.

Public: Anyone can view your video by searching for your title or by seeing it in their suggested video list.
 Tags help YouTube in determining when to show your video when a user searches for a term. For example, if you had a "League of Legends" tag on your video, it will be more likely to show up when a user searches for a League of Legends video. Adding tags will also make it more likely that YouTube will suggest your video to users interested in your tag.


Try to keep the tags relevant to your content. You could get a spam notification if you are too liberal with your tagging.
 Press the blue button that looks like an arrow pointed upwards.

