 You should brush your teeth about 30 minutes before applying whitening strips directly to your teeth. Different whitening strips have different instructions on exactly how to apply them and how long to leave them on, so read the packaging instructions before whitening.Whitening strips should have some level of peroxide to be effective.
Be careful about using strips too often or for too long as this can irritate your gums and cause tooth sensitivity.
Whitening strips work faster than whitening toothpaste and are a lot more cost-effective than in-office or dentist-dispensed treatments., Tom’s of Maine Simply White toothpastes also carry this seal.Whitening toothpastes will not change the natural color of your teeth, but rather work on extrinsic (surface) stains. It will show extrinsic whitening after a few weeks of consistent use., There’s only one set of products that the ADA recommends for dentist-dispensed home whitening treatments, and that’s Opalescence Whitening Gel 10%. It is important to follow your dentist's instructions when using this product. The process involves putting the bleaching agent in a tray that fits in your mouth, and leaving it for at least four hours. It will have a significant effect on the whiteness of your teeth.If you feel any pain or sensitivity stop the treatment right away and call your dentist.
 Going to the dentist for whitening allows for a safer and quicker — though more costly — whitening service. It is safer because they can protect your gums and faster because they can use higher concentrations of whitening agents than in at-home products. If you really want white teeth fast, this is the way to go., Staining foods such as soy sauce or red wine will undo the work you've just done. Because whitening can cause your teeth to be sensitive for a short time, you should avoid very hot or cold foods, and any other food that can be painful for sensitive teeth for at least one to two days., Almost everyone gets a cavity at some point in their life, and to help preserve a white smile, it’s best to ask for fillings or crowns that match the color of your teeth, also known as resin fillings.The downside of resin fillings over amalgam (silver) fillings is that they aren’t as cost effective; however, if you want a whiter smile, or the appearance of a perfect smile when you open your mouth to laugh, they are the best bet.