 If you are unsatisfied with the DOJ’s response to either your FOIA or Privacy Act requests, you can file an administrative appeal. One reason you may be dissatisfied is if the DOJ did not release all of the records to you but instead held them back and cited an exemption. The DOJ’s describes their exemptions as follows:


Classified national defense and foreign relations information;
Internal agency personnel rules and practices;
Information that is prohibited from disclosure by another federal law;
Trade secrets and other confidential or privileged commercial or financial information;
Inter-agency or intra-agency communications that are protected by legal privileges;
Information involving matters of personal privacy;
Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, to the extent that the production of those records:

could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings; would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of and/or information provided by a confidential source;
would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions; or
could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual;


information relating to the supervision of financial institutions; and
geological information on wells., Your appeal must be a persuasive argument setting forth the reasons for your appeal, and why the DOJ was incorrect in making its determination. Specifically, your letter should include the following:


Address of the Agency to whom you are submitting your appeal: Freedom of Information Appeal  Office of Information Policy  U.S. Department of Justice  Suite 11050  1425 New York Avenue, N.W.  Washington, D.C. 20530-0001
Subject line that states: FOIA Appeal and/or Privacy Act Request Appeal
The date that you made the request, to whom you submitted the request and a brief description of what you requested.
State that the reason why the agency denied your request (whatever exemptions the agency cited).
Provide a brief argument as why the agency was incorrect. You should provide specific arguments for each exemption cited. You can find guidance on the exemptions and policy reasons to release the information in the Federal Open Government Guide located at: www.rcfp.org/fogg/index.php?i=ex1.
Restate that you are requesting the information for personal use and the information is about you.
Sign and date the letter.
You can find sample appeal letters and an appeal letter template at: http://www.rcfp.org/federal-foia-appeals-guide/sample-appeal-letters-and-templates., You can mail a hard copy of your appeal to: Freedom of Information Appeal  Office of Information Policy  U.S. Department of Justice  Suite 11050  1425 New York Avenue, N.W.  Washington, D.C. 20530-0001.


You must submit your appeal within 60 days of the date of the letter you received releasing your information to you.
 You will receive a letter with the agency’s decision about your appeal. If they agree with you, they may send you the documents or raise additional exemptions or concerns. If they deny your appeal, you cannot appeal any further.


If you are still dissatisfied with the agency’s decision, you could consider filing a lawsuit and having a judge decide on the issues.
This could be a costly and time-consuming process and you should contact an attorney experienced in handling FOIA disputes.