 Start with a flesh-colored eye shadow that you spread over your whole eyelid. Next, use a soft brown that matches your skin tone, and spread it along the crease of your eye. It will give your eyes some definition but not stand out too strong, letting your eyeliner shine. Then, using a black eyeliner, line the edge of your top eyelid, bringing it out into a little wingtip past the corner of your eye.








Another option is to create a smoky eye. Start with a kohl eyeliner, and use it to line your upper and lower eyelid. Then, use a sponge or brush to smudge it upward and downward onto the lid, which will create a smoky eye.
Use a light brown or taupe eye shadow on both lids, then line your waterline with a dark eyeliner., For this look, you want dramatic lashes. One option is to ramp up your own lashes. Another option is to apply fake eyelashes. Fake eyelashes can dramatically increase your volume and length, making them stand out.For dramatizing your own lashes, you may want to start by curling them or use a mascara that does the curling for you. Next, apply several coats of mascara to make them darker.To apply fake lashes, start by curling your own lashes with an eyelash curler. Use tweezers to apply the fake lashes, so you can place them right on your natural line. Also, make sure to trim them so they follow your natural line., Now's the time to apply a liquid foundation. Using a sponge, spread it out over your face. Next, add a concealer in problem areas, such as where your face is splotchy. It can help to hide red spots, too. After, set the foundation with a powder. Make sure the foundation, concealer, and powder all blend with your skin tone.
 Apply a bronzer underneath your cheekbones to help create dimension, blending it in to the powder. After you've got the bronzer down, add a splash of pink rouge across your face. You want to keep this light, so you don't look like a clown.
 For your lipstick, you want something bold. Red is a classic choice for Valentine's Day.You may need to look through a few reds to find the right one for your skin tone. You can test them out on the back of your hand to see how they look.

For color that stays, line your lips with a lip liner first. Obviously, you need to use a color that matches or that provides an interesting contrast.
If you make a mistake with the lip liner, you can cover it with concealer. When you're done, fill in the lines with your bold lipstick choice.

