 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cupcakes, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, take a 12 cup muffin tin and fill the compartments with paper cupcake liners.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. It will usually flash an indicator light or beep to alert you.;
, Add 1 ⅓ cups (167 g) of all-purpose flour, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of baking soda, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of baking powder, 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground cinnamon, 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground ginger, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground cloves, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground nutmeg, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground allspice, and ¼ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of salt to a large bowl. Stir until the ingredients are fully blended, and set aside.If you don’t like the flavor of ground cloves, you can substitute an equal amount of ground allspice.
 In a separate large bowl, beat together ½ cup (115 g) of softened butter and ½ cup (100 g) of packed dark brown sugar with a hand mixer set to medium. Blend the mixture until it’s light and fluffy.You can use a stand mixer with the paddle attachment in place to mix the batter.
You can also mix the batter by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
You can substitute light brown sugar for the dark brown sugar if you prefer.
 When the butter and sugar mixture is light and fluffy, mix in 1 egg. Blend until it is totally incorporated into the butter and sugar.It’s a good idea to break the egg into a separate dish before adding it to the butter mixture. That way, if the egg is bad, you won’t ruin all of the batter.
Make sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl if necessary to ensure that all of the egg is blended into the butter and sugar.
 Once the egg is fully mixed into the batter, add ½ cup (118 ml) of water and ½ cup (156 g) of molasses. Beat the mixture together with the hand mixer on medium for 30 seconds to 1 minutes.Don’t worry if the molasses isn’t fully incorporated into the mixture. It’s normal for the batter to have a piece-y consistency at this point.
 Turn the hand mixer’s speed to low, and gradually add the dry ingredients into the batter. Beat the mixture until the dry ingredients are just combined with the wet ingredients.Be careful not to overmix the batter. You may wind up with tough, chewy cupcakes.
Scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl as you’re mixing to ensure that the ingredients are blended.
 When the batter is completely mixed, spoon it into the lined muffin tin. Add enough batter to fill the cups ⅔’s of the way.Don’t overfill the muffin tin. The muffins may puff up and bake into one another if the compartments are too full.
 Place the muffin tin in the preheated oven, and allow the cupcakes to bake for 20 to 25 minutes. They’re finished when you stick a toothpick in the center and it comes out clean., Set the muffin tin on a wire rack and let the cupcakes cool for 10 minutes before removing them. Place the cupcakes on the rack, and allow them to sit for another 20 to 30 minutes or until they’re cooled completely.It’s important to ensure that the cupcakes are entirely cool before you frost them. If you place the frosting on warm cupcake, it will melt.
 Add 8 ounces (224 g) of softened cream cheese and ¼ cup (60 g) of softened butter to a medium size bowl. Use a hand mixer to beat them together on medium speed until the mixture is smooth. It should take approximately 2 minutes.For the best results, use full fat cream cheese.
 When the cream cheese and butter are combined, add 2 cups (240 g) of powdered sugar and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of heavy cream. Blend them into the cream cheese and butter on medium for approximately 2 minutes or until the mixture is smooth.You can substitute milk for the heavy cream if you prefer.
 Once the powdered sugar and cream are blended into the frosting, mix in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract. If the frosting is too thick, stir in another tablespoon (15 ml) of heavy cream to thin it to a spreadable consistency.If the frosting tastes too sweet, mix in a pinch of salt to help balance the flavors.
To give the frosting a spicy flavor, add 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground cinnamon.
Give the frosting a bright citrus flavor by mixing in ½ teaspoon (1 g) of orange zest.
If you like maple, stir ¼ cup (79 g) of maple syrup into the frosting.
 When the frosting is mixed, use a butter knife or spatula to spread it on the cooled cupcakes. You can also place the frosting in a piping bag and pipe it onto the cupcakes. Place the frosted cupcakes on a platter and serve.If you don’t plan to serve the cupcakes right away, store them in the refrigerator. They’ll stay fresh for 3 to 4 days.
Allow refrigerated cupcakes to come to room temperature before serving.

