 To really get the best deal you need to determine the best time to use your coupons. This could mean a particular time of year for seasonal goods, or when there is already a sale on. The benefits of using a coupon are compounded if you use them when something has already been discounted.


Wait for a sale, especially if you are buying an expensive one-off purchase.Follow sales cycles so you know when the prices of particular goods are likely to be reduced.If you are buying something seasonal, buying off-season can mean a cheaper price. For example, a warm woollen jumper will often be on sale in the Spring.
 Being familiar with the fine print can save you some hassle at the register, as well as allowing you to budget accordingly. Start by determining whether it is a "manufacturer's" or "store" coupon. Manufacturer's coupons come from the company or manufacturer of the specific product and are accepted in any store.


Store coupons are only accepted in the specifically listed store(s).
Ensure the barcode on the coupon is not ripped or damaged as this might prevent the cashier scanning it, and render it invalid.
 Often there will be clear limits and restrictions on how you use specific coupons. Check the detail and find out if you are limited to one coupon per specific item, or perhaps one coupon per transaction. If your coupon is not limited, you may be able to use a number of coupons in the same transaction to increase your discount.


If your coupon says "Limit one coupon per specified item(s)," you may only use one coupon when you buy the product.
If your coupon says "Limit one coupon per transaction," you will only be able to use that specific coupon in the transaction.
Be sure to check the expiration date so you know at what point the coupon will become invalid.
 Though many coupons may say "limit 1 per customer," this often only applies to the type of coupon. Sometimes you can use a manufacturer's coupon in addition to a store coupon to double your savings.Stacking coupons like this can really make a dent in the price of a product.


For example, if you buying a new TV you can use a coupon from the company that made the TV together with a coupon from the store you are buying it in.
You can also stack coupons for smaller everyday items such as groceries.
Be sure to check the eligibility criteria and fine print on the coupons before you try to use them.It's also a good idea to go online and read the coupon policy for the store you want to use them in., Just because you don't need something now, doesn't mean you won't need it later. Stockpiling coupons and keeping an organised collection will help you get the absolute most out of them. Get a binder and keep all you coupons together. You can organise them by type of product, or by store.


You could also organize them by expiry date so you have a clear picture of which coupons are due to expire soon.
If you want to increase your stockpile you could tell friends and neighbours that you are collecting coupons.