 Disagreeing with your parents doesn’t always have to be an uneasy or awkward experience. Focus on being respectful and polite, rather than angry and frustrated. As an adult, you have more rights to assert yourself. Say what you need to say, just be careful and thoughtful in how you do that.Keep in mind that you are not obligated to be accountable for other people’s feelings, but responding with kindness and compassion is still a good idea.


If you are not able to stay calm, excuse yourself until you’re ready to talk in a more respectful way.
When your parents say something that you disagree with, avoid being passive or aggressive in your approach. Show your parents that you have a difference of opinion in a direct and concise way.
Let’s say your mother is trying to tell you how to spend your money in a certain way, and you want to take a different approach. Consider saying, “I hear what you’re saying, Mom, and I respect your thoughts on the matter. But I have learned another approach, and would like to try that instead.” Or, "Thank you for your helpful information, it is appreciated and I will take it into consideration, but...."

, As an adult, independence allows you to make your own decisions, express your own opinions, and establish yourself. Independence also gives you greater freedom to disagree when you have arguments about money and career choices.The more self-reliant you are financially, the more at ease you’ll feel with making your own choices and expressing a different opinion.
Make small but clear steps towards self-sufficiency. That way, when you are arguing with them about life choices such as becoming an artist rather than an accountant, you'll have proof of your efforts towards independence.
Use social and financial support from your parents for important turning points in your early adult life like college, but avoid depending on them each month to help you with your bills. The more they control your expenses, the easier it is for them to make arguments against your life choices.
 Your parents may have particular views about child-rearing or relationships. They may make this a point of conversation that ultimately leads to arguments. Try being the bigger person on hot-button issues like relationships and family roles. Respectfully move on from the argument that seems to go nowhere.If you and your parents have a fundamental difference, be willing to let go of changing them.
Set boundaries about when they can step in and get involved, and when it's not okay.
If they are trying to press you about how to discipline a child, remind them that you are an adult and have a right to choose how to discipline your own child. Consider saying, “I know that we have our differences. Please respect that I am an adult and a caring parent for my kid. I hope that we can move on from this, and respect each other’s views.”

, In addition to arguments over finances, career choices, and parenting, a common source of contention may be about your romantic relationships and dating. While it's important to be respectful of their input, make it clear your life and your relationships are yours, not theirs.


Parents often want to give advice to prevent the same mistakes that they may have made.
Hear them out, but make it clear that ultimately your romantic decisions are your own. For example, say, "I know that you want to provide advice, and I understand what you're saying. I hope that you can respect my decision and support who I'm dating."

