 Exercise is a great coping method, especially for Parkinson’s disease. One way to cope is to get moving. Exercise helps reduce symptoms associated with PD. It helps with mobility, strength, flexibility, balance, and overall quality of life. Having strong muscles, being flexible, and improving your balance can help with many physical symptoms of the condition. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist about the right exercise plan for you.You can try walking, swimming, dancing, gardening, water aerobics, and stretching.
Exercise helps boost your mood. It can help with some of the mood swings associated with PD. It can also help relieve stress.
Research has shown that exercise helps slow down the progression of PD, along with helping it to be milder., A balanced diet full of all the nutrients your body needs can help you stay healthy as your condition progresses. Your medication and symptoms may cause you not to want to eat, so when you do eat, you need to make sure you eat the best foods you can.Consult a nutritionist if you need help coming up with a healthy eating plan that matches what you like to eat.
Drink eight eight-ounce glasses of water each day.

Include vitamin E into your diet. You can find this in green leafy vegetables. Include foods with fiber, such as vegetables, fruit, whole grains, and brown rice.
Dairy foods provide nutrients that will help your bones be stronger.
 It is pivotal that you reduce stress when you have Parkinson’s disease. Stress is a major contributing factor that makes all symptoms worse. Work on finding a stress relief management technique that works for you, or talk to your doctor or a therapist about managing stress.Try deep breathing exercises. Start by inhaling through your nose for a count of four, holding it for a count of four, then releasing it for a count of four.
Try guided meditation.
Exercise is an effective stress relief.
 A diagnosis of Parkinson’s doesn’t mean that you have to give up your life. Some things may have to change as you manage the condition, but you can do almost everything you used to. Stay both physically and mentally active, socialize, go places, try new things, and enjoy your life.For example, you can join a gym or start taking ballroom dance classes. You can travel to a new exotic place. You can visit family and friends, go to the park, walk your dog, or take a painting class. You may even decide to get involved in volunteer work.

