 When you need some information such as past records or assistance with something like assistance with an event you are planning, it is best to write a formal letter that outlines exactly what it is that you need.
 As always, you want to format your letter correctly. The heading is an important part of this. At the top of the page in the left margin, put your name and contact information such as your phone number and address. Below it should be the address for whoever you are asking for information or assistance from.


If you are writing for something personal, use your home address. If it is for a job or company you are volunteering for, use the address for the business.
 If you know you are writing to, then that is great. Use the proper title such as Ms., Mrs., or Mr. Dear Mrs. and then their name. If you do not know, do some research to see if you can find who it should be directly written to.


Call the company or location to inquire about who would be best to ask. If you call the main line and tell them what you need, they could be able to direct you in the right way.
If you cannot find a name, then opt for To Whom it May Concern as your default.
 The first paragraph should explicitly tell what it is that you are requesting Give as many details as necessary so that the person or company you are asking for knows exactly what you need so they can properly decide whether or not they can fulfill your request.


Try not to omit any details. You do not want to spring something on them at the last moment and they decide to not go through with your request. You also do not want to make it more difficult at the last minute. This could lead them to deny you for any requests in the future.
Keep it simple. Do not ask for more than you need. You are requesting a favor, and it would be considered rude to ask for the world when you do not actually need it. Keep your request as simple as you possibly can.
 The second paragraph should focus on what the information or assistance is going to be used for. For instance, if you are asking for a paystub for proof of income in the first paragraph, use this one to state that it is to prove consistent work history for a rental application. This is important so that whoever you are asking knows what their information or request is going to be used for and this could impact their decision.
 Being polite and gracious could positively affect their decision if they know you appreciate their help. This could keep your reputation favorable for possible future requests.


If you are planning on following up, let them know. Let them know the best time to contact you so that they can know when they are able to reach you, as well.
Do not make it seem as if they have to do what you are asking. This is a request and not a command.
 Now, is when you wait. If you stated you will be following up, do so. If it has been over a week of time, give them a call or direct email to remind them of your request or have them go find your letter in a pile of mail they have not yet reviewed.


Be considerate of their decision either way. You do not want to burn any bridges in case you need to ask for another request in the future.
Include a self-addressed, stamped envelope to make it easier for any documents to be sent to you if need be.

