 Every race except orcs can be a Priest, and all the starting areas are pretty much the same difficulty. Just choose what you like the most.
 Starting areas are often filled with other new players. Consider reaching out to another player in order to do quests together. This will make it easier on you, and you'll be able to level faster., Getting to this milestone is a little slower playing as a Holy Priest, but it is still not very difficult. Take this time to learn how to play the game and become familiar with your skills, both offensive and defensive., Instances are special dungeons you can run with other players, and it's easy to find a group using the in-game Dungeon Finder. Instances are crucial for a Holy Priest since you can focus on healing while other players focus on tanking and DPS (damage per second). You unlock the first instance at level 13., If you can, do quests with a party to level faster. Make sure you stay in areas that are equivalent to your level. If you go into a questing area that is much higher, you'll quickly find yourself in trouble, especially as a Holy Priest., You will begin earning talents at level 10, and you'll continue earning them with each level. As a Holy Priest, you'll want to work on the Holy tree, but there are some other useful talents as well. If you are not having trouble soloing, you can focus on your healing build right away. Here are some talents to consider as a Holy Priest: Desperate Prayer - an instant-cast self-heal
Angelic Feather - gives the player a speed boost
Surge of Light - gives you the chance to have a free Flash Heal
Twist of Fate - gives the chance for a boost that gives you 15% extra damage and healing

, As you start to reach higher levels, consider joining forces with a guild. Guilds are communities of players, and often times, there will players around your level that you can group up with. As a Holy Priest, this is really going to help you get through some of the tougher questing zones. To find a guild, look in the Guild Recruitment chat channel, or make your own post in chat. You're sure to get some responses!, Glyphs are a specific enhancement that can boost your character stats and change your cosmetic appearance. You start unlocking glyphs at level 25, but the higher your level gets, the more important it is to have your major glyphs in place. Some of the most useful glyphs include:

Glyph of Renew - Renew heals for 25% more, but active time is reduced by 3 seconds
Glyph of Deep Wells - gives you an extra Lightwell charge
Glyph of Circle of Healing - Circle of Healing now heals an additional target
Glyph of Binding Heal - Binding Heal now heals a third target

, There are more ways to get experience in WoW then just through questing. Build your professions, explore the maps, and do dungeons in order to mix it up a little. Your gathering profession, such as herbalism or mining, will give you some experience when you gather materials. Exploring new areas and unlocking the map will also give you some experience boosts. Instances sometimes have quests, but also tend to have harder enemies with great experience rewards. This can keep you from getting too bored or frustrated as you level your Holy Priest., Now that you are approaching max level, you'll need to start worrying about your stats and find equipment with the primary stats you need in order to fight against the toughest enemies. The best equipment can be found through instances or raids, and it will vary depending on the class and style you are playing as. Having good equipment is key to reaching the final level. As a Holy Priest, your most important stats are:

Multistrike
Haste
Intellect
Mastery

, Now that you are getting to the higher levels, you'll be participating in more difficult quests and instances. Use items to give you a boost, otherwise you might find yourself getting frustrated as you encounter some of the harder enemies in leveling dungeons. Food items and flasks should always be on hand. Some good choices for Holy Priests include:

Feast of Blood/Feast of the Waters - +75 in second highest stat
Calamari Crepes - +100 Multistrike
Rylak Crepes/Fiery Calamari - +75 Multistrike
Greater Draenic Intellect Flask - +250 Intellect

, Now that you are getting close to the highest level, you'll want to start preparing for end-level raids and instances. Get used to the skills you'll want to always have your bar, and practice pumping out those heals. As you start doing some of the harder instances to get through the final push to 100, focus on how you can best make battles survivable. The most important skills for Holy Priests are:

Heal
Flash Heal
Renew
Prayer of Mending

