 According to Wikipedia, Sprint All-Star Race is the annual race that is held in Daytona. This race is available to all pole winners in 2005 season (season 1), and the 2005 winner of the shootout that had not gotten pole last season. You will be qualifying from the back of the grid just to make the grid as a Wild card entry the day before.;
, To race in the All-Star Race in 2006, gain an average of Gold in the All-State Qualifiers at the beginning so you can drive for a Sprint Cup team to race as a driver. If you are an owner, upgrade your pit crew even if you are using unlimited fuel and tires and racing in minimum number of laps (which is what this page is assumed). The reason will become clear later.
, The set up should serve you well for the week, and also the week after that. This is a non-championship race that has no championship points at stake, but next week's race at the same circuit does (Daytona 500). So set it up well.
 You can get away with speeding into the pit. The track is long enough for you to not be down by a lap. You can have team controls, so this is the only race (if you are on unlimited fuel and tyres) to change one of the orders to 'pit now'.
 The best call is to pit earlier than everybody else. Pit after lap 1 because most never pit until laps 3-6. Your pit crew (even on perfect upgrade) needs a little more than 10 seconds to change two tires... and that is not including the time you get into the pit lane at 70 mph (110 km/h) or less (or else you incur a time penalty), and out of it in full speed.
 When the others pit, you'll catch up to them if you drive cleanly. You may not know your track position with all the shuffling going on, but you should win comfortably if you pit early and keep the pace up.
 If you win, you've guaranteed yourself entry in this event for the next year unless if you win again to extend the free pass. However, don't get complacent. As mentioned above, the race has no bearing on the Sprint Championship. On the next week, you will have a proper race weekend here ("Daytona 500"). But of course, with a car nicely set-up, and you knowing the track very well, winning again 'should' be easier, unless if any rivals you made are trying to shunt you off. In this case, it's just like a normal weekend. Qualify well in the two laps given, then stay out of trouble to win. And DO NOT pit. Nobody will in a short race, and you'll be left behind.

