 In addition to facial expression and tone of voice, humans express emotion in other ways.While nonverbal cues can be misleading, learning to pick up on them can help you read emotion. Important nonverbal cues that convey emotion are body movements, posture, and eye contact. Make an effort to notice whether she appears animated and moving around or is stiff and tense. Also, does she stand up straight and make eye contact, or hunch her shoulders, fidget with her hands or, cross her arms.


Moving around and standing up straight shows she feels open and comfortable. However, too much movement (e.g. energetic arm waving) combined with a loud voice could mean she is excited or angry.
Hunched shoulders, a quiet voice, and crossed arms are signs she feels uncomfortable or nervous. If she refuses to make eye contact with you, it could mean she is upset or feels guilty.Keep in mind that culture, social situations, and individual personalities influence how we express emotion through body language.In this sense, facial expressions are considered more universal and reliable. For example, Italians tend to move their arms when they speak, but this could be considered impolite in Japan. Or, making eye contact is a sign of respect in the United States and Europe, but is considered rude or aggressive in some Asian and African cultures.
 Focusing on the entire body in addition to the face is the best way to read and interpret emotions.Posture and body movements not only reflects emotion, but also the intensity of an emotion. There are degrees of positive and negative emotion. For example, positive emotions range from interested (low) to elated (high), and negative from sadness (low) to violent anger (high).


Shoulders and torso: hunching the shoulders and leaning forward is associated with intense anger. In contrast, leaning backwards can be a sign of panic or fear. If she stands up straight with her shoulders back and head held high, this is a sign she feel confident. However, if she hunches their shoulders or slumps forward, then she is looking for sympathy, is bored, or feels nervous.Arms and hands: If she is sad, she will likely place her arms next to her side and put her hands in her pocket. If she is annoyed or irritated, she might place one arm on her side or hips, and gesture with her opposite hand (pointing or flat palm). If she feels indifferent or doesn't care, then she will place her hands behind her back.






Legs and feet: If she shakes her legs or taps her toes, then she might be anxious, annoyed, or in a hurry.However, some people naturally shake their legs while sitting without it meaning anything.
 When something unexpected happens, whether it is good or bad, it stimulates a part of the brain that is outside of our direct control. This results in physical responses such as dilated pupils, rapid breathing, increased sweating, and increase heart rate.You can tell if she is nervous, stressed, or anxious by looking for signs such as a sweaty palms or armpits, red or flushed faced, or shaking hands.


When men are upset or stressed, they tend to show signs of aggression, frustration, and anger. In contrast, women might become more talkative or seek social support. Depending on their personality, some men and women become more withdrawn and quiet when experiencing negative emotions. , Sometimes the best way to read emotion is to be direct. While the other person might lie and say she is fine when she isn't, it never hurts to ask. You can also use her response to read between the lines by noting tone of voice combined with facial expression and body language. You can also look for specific verbal cues that suggest how she feels inside.For example, if she is bored or sad, she will speaker slower and at a lower frequency.If she is excited or upset, the speed and frequency of her voice will increase.


Try speaking to her alone rather than in a group. She may be more open and truthful about her emotions if she is with a trusted friend or family member.