 Two to four hangers are enough to make wings, depending on how many you want. Bend two hangers in the shapes of wings, then lay them on top of each other to see if they are even. Adjust as necessary. These wings should appear rounded, but you can create two additional square wings to attach to the bottom like Tinkerbell from the Disney movie Peter Pan., Place the wings on a table, facing the hooks towards one another. These ends can be cut off so you can twist the resulting four ends together, but you can combine the hooks together by using a little strength to twist them around each other.

Make sure the twists are secure with no sharp ends sticking out.
 To avoid the twisted part of the hangers from jabbing into the wearer, pad the center of the wings. To do this, you can apply any sort of felt or fabric you have laying around the house. Wrap the fabric around the metal and then tape it secure., Cut the legs off a pair of tights. Take one of the legs and put a wing inside of it. Do the same with the other leg of the tights and repeat the process if you have additional wings. The loose fabric should be in the center of the wings. Wrap the excess fabric around the center of the wings. Tie it into a knot, then trim it so it looks neat.

If you can, match the tights to the base color you want the wings to be. You can also spray paint the tights when the wings are finished to achieve flashier colors.
 Cut the legs off a second pair of tights. Take one of the legs and wrap it around one end of the center part where the wings meet. Tie the ends of the fabric into a loop for your arms. Repeat this process with the other leg on the other side., The wings can be customized as you please. One way to do this is to add a flower or puff from a craft store by sewing it or attaching it with a hot glue gun onto the knot where the wings meet. The knot may also look good in spray painted duct tape. Children can help with decorating by adding material such as plastic jewels or glitter.