 Since you're doing a right-handed lay up, angle your approach toward the right side of the basket. You want to get close enough to have easy access to the basket, but not so close that you end up directly under it.








Lay ups are often taken off of a running dribble. Practice approaching the basket slowly at first, and increase your speed once you've got the footwork down.
You can do a right-handed lay up if you're starting near the center or right side of the basket. If you're approaching the basket from the left, you'll want to do a left-handed lay up.;
, When you're just a few feet from the basket, take a step toward it with our right foot. Use this step to gain distance and position yourself within easy shooting range. Dribble the ball one last time just outside your right foot.
 As soon as your left foot lands, use it to jump in the direction of the basket. Your body should be moving toward the basket, but don't lean forward. Ideally, you'll be positioned close enough to the basket that you can jump straight up to take your shot. As you jump, bring the ball out of the dribble to your chest to prepare for the shot.
 As you jump, imagine a string attached to your right arm and your right leg. Move them at the same time as you shoot, as though someone were pulling upward on the string. Your right knee should be bent and pointed toward the basket while your right arm moves up to shoot the ball. Arch your arm toward the basket. Shoot with your elbow slightly bent, so that your arm looks like the neck of a swan.









When you're doing a lay up, the shooting technique is slightly different from that of a regular shot. Instead of using your left hand to steady the ball, you want to shoot the ball using only your right hand. This gives you more reach, and since you're so close to the basket that it's difficult to miss the shot, you don't really need your left hand to steady the ball.
As you shoot, slightly rotate your wrist inward to give the ball a little bit of spin, rather than snapping your wrist forward as you would for a regular shot. The gentle spin will keep it from hammering off the rim or backboard with too much force.
 One of the reasons a lay up is such a sure bet is because you can always use the backboard to help ease the shot into the basket. When you're doing a right-handed lay up, the sweet spot is slightly to the right of the square in the center of the backboard. This spot absorbs the impact of the ball and drops it right down through the net.









You'll get two points no matter how you make your shot, but it's better to aim for the backboard instead of trying to just tip the ball over the rim. The backboard allows more room for error, but if you hit the rim funny the ball will bounce right out. There's nothing worse than missing a wide-open lay up when you have full access to the basket, so work on hitting that sweet spot every time.
 The lay up is a fundamental basketball move that will become second nature after you practice it enough. You should get to the point where your body remembers what to do and you don't have to think about which foot to put forward and which one to jump off: you just do it. Do lay ups as part of every basketball practice.









As you practice, you'll start to get a good sense for how fast to approach the basket and from what distance to begin your lay up footwork and launch into a jump.
Work on doing lay ups while you're being defended or off of a long pass.

