 Use a highlighter or a pen to underline sentences that stand out to you. Look for sentences you find striking or interesting. Do not be afraid to markup the text with underlines and highlights, as this will force you to read the text more closely.Try to only highlight or underline sentences that you think are really important. Highlighting or underlining the text too much can make it hard for you to identify sentences that are important, and you’ll end up with pages of underlines and highlights.
Only highlight or underline the book if you own it and it is okay to do so. Library books, borrowed texts, and old texts may not be suitable for highlighting and underlining.
 Reflect on the text as you read by jotting down notes in the margins. Write down short thoughts you have about the text. Put a question mark next to sentences you do not understand. Put one to two words next to lines that spark a thought for you.For example, you may write in the margins “key detail” or “explores main theme.”
Only make notes in the margins if you own the book and you are allowed to do so. Do not write directly in library books and old texts that are not yours.
 You can also make notes about the text in a notebook or on a piece of paper. Pull quotes from the text that you find interesting or important and write them down in the notebook. Then, add notes next to it. Or put the page number from the text down next to the note.

For example, you may make a note about a particular passage like, “important discussion of title” or “key character moment.”
You may designate a notebook to a particular text so you can return to it for reference later. Having separate notes in a notebook may be a good idea even if you can write in the book.
 Asking questions about the text will help you become a better reader. Pretend you are having a conversation with the text directly. Ask questions about passages you are confused about or intrigued by. Add to the list of questions as you read.For example, you may ask questions like, “How does this sentence explore key themes in the text?” “Why did the author include this example?” “How does this passage make me feel as a reader?”
Keep the list of questions in a separate notebook so you can refer to them later.
 Identify any vocabulary that you are not familiar with or do not know the meaning of. Keep a running list of terms. Use a dictionary to look them up and then consider the definition in the context of the sentence. This will help you better understand the text and read it more closely.You may keep a dictionary handy while you read the text so you can look up words quickly and easily.
Keep the list of vocabulary in a separate notebook so you can look at them later.

