;
, Make sure your friend's parents are comfortable with having their kids watch "Alien" if they are under 18.
, Any craft store sells oval, egg shapes Styrofoam pieces that you can paint to make it look real.
 If you have a spider toy, you can probably use that, but you can also create one by using a small pillow and sewing on small finger-like pieces around the edges of it. Look up at picture of a face hugger for ideas.
 This will be very messy, so find an area where you don't mind getting fake blood everywhere. A chestburster looks like a long worm, that, as it's name implies, burst out of your chest. One way to get the chestburster out of your chest and looking realistic is by sitting at a table and pushing it through your shirt and having it already covered in fake blood. But if you really don't care if it looks real our not, you can just keep the chestburster under a jacket then have it bust out after having the facehugger come of your face.
 This might be hard to replicate, but wearing black clothes and a large black face-mask can help, if you are in a dark room.
,, Being in the dark will help with the effect.
 They will be very freaked out when they see it.
 Say you don't understand why everyone is scared, after it is just a movie, then say you are going to just throw it away and be done. Go into the room with the facehugger, and hide the egg. Then bang on the walls and scream, as if you are being attacked. The place the facehugger on your face and come out of the room struggling. Your friends will have no idea what is going on.
 If a friend comes to pull it off, quickly wake up and pull it off yourself because you don't want anyone to know what your facehugger really is. If no one comes to help, wait a moment before taking off the facehugger, and act very drowsy and confused.
 Grab a jacket and the chestburster and stuff it under the jacket (make sure there are no noticeable lumps) then head back downstairs. Act faint and confused.
 Unzip the jacket slightly so you can grab the chestburster and shake more rapidly and scream for help. Stumble into the room where you are keeping the facehugger, egg and Alien costume. Then throw the blood-covered chestburster into the air and into the room where your friends are.
 Wait awhile in the room to build up suspense. Slowly come out, making loud footsteps. Once your friends see you, freeze in place. If you are using drool, then let it flow quickly. After a stare-down between you and your friends. Charge at them. Screams should follow the attack. This could go on for a while, but when you are done, just take the mask off and enjoy a bundle of laughs!

,