 You’ll want a rectangular or square glass aquarium that is the right sized for your turtle when full grown, which will mean plenty of room for swimming, as well as space for a rock or shelf where the turtle can get all the way out of the water.The bigger the tank the better, but be sure to meet the minimum size requirements:30 gallons minimum for turtles between 4 and 6 inches in length
55 gallons for turtles between 6 and 8 inches
75-125 gallons for adults over 8 inches
Minimum length: 3-4 times the length of the turtle
Minimum width: 2 times the turtle’s length
Minimum height: 1.5-2 times the length of the turtle, plus 8-12 inches above the highest spot it can reach in the tank;
, Turtle’s cannot regulate their own body temperature, so you will need to keep their water at the appropriate temperature for them by installing a water heater. Most baby turtles will need water between 78° and 82° F, though you should check here to find the care sheet for your turtle type.Make sure the heater covering is plastic or metal, not glass, which turtles may break.
Consider using two heaters to heat the water more uniformly and in case one malfunctions.
Check the water temperature regularly with a thermometer.
Be sure the heater is powerful enough:

75 watts for a 20 gallon tank
150 watts for 40 gallons
250 watts for 65 gallons
300 watts for 75 gallons.
 Turtle’s need UVB light to synthesize vitamin D. They need basking lights for warmth because they are cold blooded, meaning they cannot regulate their own temperature.You will need to install artificial lights to provide UVB (ultraviolet light B) as well as warmth.UVB Lamps – Come in compact and tubular. Use the 2.5% or 5% UVB lamp – aka Tropical UVB or Swamp UVB lamps. Desert lamps are too powerful. Place the lamp 12 inches from the water for a 2.5% lamp and 18 inches for a 5% lamp.
Basking light – These are normal incandescent or halogen bulbs. The type of lamp does not matter so much as making sure it is the right distance to heat the basking area properly. For baby turtles, the center of the basking area should be close to 95° F, with the edges cooler. Use a thermometer to be sure the temperature is correct.
Timer – You will need to turn off the lights 12 hours a day to mimic the natural cycle of light and day. Consider getting a light timer to do this for you.
WARNING: Never look directly into the turtle light, as this can damage your eyes. Place it at an angle such that the bulb is not visible to people sitting in the room.
 The screen will protect your turtles from things falling into the tank. It is very important, since UVB bulbs will sometimes explode, particularly if splashed with water, and the glass can hurt your turtle. Make sure the screen is metal, since UVB light cannot penetrate glass or plastic.
 This can be a log, rock, or floating turtle dock. Make sure there is a slope so your turtle can crawl out of the water onto it, and make sure it is big enough:The land area should take up about 25% of the surface area of the tank.
It should be 1.5 times the length of the turtle and it should be solid enough to not to break.
The top of the tank should be 10-12 inches above the land to prevent your turtle from escaping.
 For baby turtles, the water in the tank should be at least one inch deeper than the width of your turtle’s shell. This will allow them to swim freely.As your turtle grows, you can provide deeper water.
 Turtles are messier than fish; they pee and poop a lot. Without a water filter, you’ll need to change your turtle’s water daily to avoid disease. With a filter, you’ll still need to change some of the water every 2-5 days and replace all the water every 10-14 days.There are special turtle tank filters, but you can also use a fish tank filter so long as you make sure to get one that is rated for 3 to 4 times the volume of your tank. Otherwise, it won’t be able to keep up with your turtle’s mess.There are several types of filter:An internal aquarium filter – These filters, which usually attach to the side of the tank via suction cups, are too small to be the primary filter for tanks over 20 gallons. However, you can use them in larger tanks to help circulate the water.
A canister filter – The best filters for turtle tanks, they usually mount under the tank and provide great filtration, often using an ultraviolet light sterilizer to kill bacteria and algae. Again, you’ll want to get one rated for 3 to 4 times the volume of your tank. Check here for a review of the most common filters.
Hang-on-back (HOB) filters – These filters are designed to be set close to the water in a fish tank. Because water is lower in a turtle tank than a fish tank, you will need a filter cutout – i.e. a place where the glass is cut lower than the rest of the top of the tank – for these filters to function properly in a turtle tank. Again, you’ll need one rated for 3 to 4 times the volume of your tank.
Under gravel filters (UGFs) – Reverse flow UGFs pump water up through the gravel at the bottom of the tank, allowing bacteria in the gravel to help filter it. For maximum effectiveness, they should be used with a gravel substrate of 2 inches of rounded pea gravel. Unfortunately, they will not filter large food particles, meaning these must be netted out regularly, and cleaning them is more difficult since they are under the gravel., Keeping your water oxygenated will discourage the growth of the anaerobic bacteria that make the tank dirty and endanger your little turtle’s health.