 Some items, such as chenille, towels, and flannel are more likely to shed lint in the washer than others.Once you know what the culprit is, wash it separately the next time you do laundry. This will keep lint from transferring to the rest of your clothes in the wash., Some fabrics, such as corduroy and velvet, then to attract lint more than other fabrics. It might be a good idea to wash them separately, or at least apart from fabrics you know shed a lot of lint.If you cannot wash the items separately, try to turn the items that attract lint inside out before you toss them into the wash., The vinegar will help remove lint from clothing. It will also help keep the lint from sticking as much.


Vinegar will also help deodorize laundry.
 Items, such as tissues, will deteriorate in the washer and dryer, and cause even more lint. Be sure to check the pockets and take out any scraps of tissue, fabric, or paper., If something has a lot of lint on it, try to remove the lint using a lint roller before you toss it into the wash. If you don't remove the lint, it will just transfer to everything else., Whenever you wash something you know sheds a lot of lint, wipe down the drum of your washer with a towel. If you don't do this, any residual lint may get onto the rest of your clothes during the next wash.
 Take each garment, and give it a good shake before you toss it into the dryer. This will help knock off any lint that may have gotten onto the fabric in the washer.
 You will only need half a sheet for a small load, and a full-sized sheet for a regular load. The dryer sheet will help reduce static, which is what causes lint to stick to clothing in the first place., When you open your dryer, there should be a tray inside the door, or just inside the machine. If you can take out the try, do so, and tap the lint off into a trashcan. If you can't take the tray out, scoop the lint off with your fingers. If you don't do this, that lint may get onto your clothes the next time you dry them.
 Dryers catch a lot of lint, and if they are not clean, they can transfer the lint to your clothes. Air-drying clothing reduces lint. The wind may also help knock off any specks of lint. You can dry your clothes on a clothing line, or on a clothing rack.The sunlight and fresh air will also help kill any odor-causing bacteria, leaving your clothes smelling nice and fresh.

