 Do not worry about the staff judging you or thinking you are a "bad" parent. You have done the best you were able to with the situation you were dealing with.


Without all of the details, the staff at the hospital will not be able to help your teen to the fullest extent. If necessary, allow your teen to tell his version of the history first, then ask to speak to the staff privately so that you can fill them in with your version of what has been happening in your teen's life and what may be causing the suicidal feelings. This can be a delicate process, and emotionally draining, take it slow if you need to, the staff will understand.;
, By doing this you have direct contacts when you need them, and can call daily and get updates from the staff rather then just your teen. Their accounts of what is happening may be quite different from your teen's, and you need to tell the staff what you are seeing and what your opinion is regarding your teen's behavior while they are hospitalized.
 Most hospitals have one or the other. Patient centered rounds are when your teen joins you, the doctor, the social worker assigned to the case, the charge nurse and sometimes the educational director, as well as anyone else that is assigned directly to your teen. Very often these types of rounds are scheduled once or twice a week very early in the morning. Doctor's rounds with parents are usually large meetings that include the staff that is working closely with your teen (including the people mentioned above) and just the parents—the teen is not included. These meetings can be anytime during the day, but are usually only scheduled one day a week. While this can be inconvenient, it's worth going to in order to get information directly from the staff working the closest with your teen. These meetings allow you to get the inside view on what is happening, as well as spend a much more significant amount of time with staff members then is regularly provided.
 Get to know them by name.  If you know the nurses' and aides' names, they tend to be friendlier and more receptive to talking to you on a more compassionate, personal level. Be cordial and polite to them; many parents call and yell when they are displeased so your attitude will be a welcome change. Never yell at them, no matter how frustrated or angry you may get at something that is happening at the hospital. Staff tend to turn off when a parent is yelling or swearing at them and will not listen as intently as they will if you are polite and explain your concerns in a calm way. Having a personal connection that you can call at the hospital to check on your teen and express concerns to is a resource that many parents do not cultivate.  If you have trouble reaching staff, remember they are often very busy. Try not to call when shift change is occurring. In most hospitals this is usually at 7 a.m, 3 p.m, 7 p.m and 11:00 p.m. There is a shift change meeting which usually takes place a half hour before the staff changes over—do not expect anyone to be available to speak to you during this time, as most of the staff are in the meeting, other than the few taking care of the teens.
 There will be a social worker assigned to your teen who helps determine after care when hospitalization ends. You want to keep the lines of communication open with them. It can be pivotal in what happens to your teen when he leaves the hospital. The social worker is the one who calls other facilities such as a substance abuse treatment center, a day treatment program, or placement and gets insurance approval for any after hospitalization treatment other than doctor's visits. There are usually very few social workers and many teens, so do not expect calls every day from them. Be proactive about calling them if you don't hear from them every few days, as well as returning their calls. The social worker assigned to patients usually only works business hours, so don't expect to reach them after hours. There is normally another social worker who is an emergency and admissions social worker that is at the hospital after hours, but they will not know your teen as well as the day social worker.
 Show him that you are supportive and loving. Understand that while there can be circumstantial reasons your teen is suicidal it is often a chemical imbalance that needs to be corrected, and that it is not your teen's fault. Tell your teen you are proud for getting help and that you will be supportive when he returns home. If you don't visit, at least some of the time, it can increase the feelings of loneliness and abandonment that many teens who are suicidal feel. Sometimes visitation can just be a time to sit there and hold hands with your teen. There doesn't need to be any conversation at all, other then "I love you".
 Plan on helping the social worker and your teen work out plans for after your teen is released from the hospital. Often, teens regress somewhat after hospitalization and need assistance with taking their medications, going to doctor's appointments and just life in general. Be patient with your teen, understand that with work he will hopefully feel better at some point, it just may take a while. During that time be as supportive and helpful as possible. Reduce your expectations so you aren't disappointed and make sure you have your teen do all of the after care recommended by the doctor. Doing so may help your teen recover faster.

