 Chemotherapy is the treatment of choice for feline intestinal lymphoma.Chemotherapy drugs work by disrupting cancer cell growth and replication. The common treatment recommendation is multi-agent chemotherapy, in which several chemotherapy drugs are used at the same time.Several chemotherapy combinations are available.


Chemotherapy will help extend your cat’s life and improve its quality of life.To decide which chemotherapy drugs to use, your vet will consider several factors, such as the cancer grade (likelihood of cancer growing and spreading) and whether your cat has other diseases.Prednisone, which is a steroid, is often used in combination with chemotherapy to treat feline intestinal lymphoma. It can help reduce the severity of symptoms, especially in the early stages of the cancer.Chemotherapy drugs used to treat feline intestinal lymphoma include vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide.;
, Chemotherapy drugs can either be injected into a vein or given by mouth.If your vet prescribes oral chemotherapy, you can treat your cat at home. Because chemotherapy regimens can be confusing and complicated, make sure your vet clearly explains how often you should give each drug.


Your vet will administer the chemotherapy if it is injectable. You will need to schedule regular appointments for chemotherapy treatments.
 Fortunately, most cats with intestinal lymphoma tolerate chemotherapy very well. Side effects tend to be mild. Examples of side effects are vomiting, diarrhea, and appetite loss. They usually occur a few days after treatment and stop on their own.Chemotherapy can weaken a cat’s immune system, which increases the risk of infections like urinary tract infections.Signs of a urinary tract infection include painful urination and blood in the urine.
If your cat becomes sick while on chemotherapy, call your vet. Your vet can either adjust the drug dosages or increase the amount of time between treatments. If your cat still can’t tolerate the chemotherapy, your vet may have to discontinue therapy., The ideal response to chemotherapy treatment is remission, which is the temporary disappearance of cancer signs. If your cat enters remission, it will feel like it did before it developed lymphoma.Remission for feline intestinal lymphoma commonly lasts one to two years, but the duration can vary depending on the cancer's severity and extent., Oral chemotherapy treatment of feline intestinal lymphoma is lifelong.Lifelong chemotherapy can become expensive, so talk with your vet if you have financial concerns about lifelong treatment.

