 Exfoliation removes dead skin cells and allows your skin to regenerate. Exfoliating two or three times a week may help reduce the appearance of hyperpigmentation especially dark spots and acne scars. Do not exfoliate more than three times a week, as this can cause microtears, excessive shine, or break outs.Physical exfoliation uses a rough surface to gently roll off dead skin cells. Types of physical exfoliation include wash cloths, sugar or fruit scrubs, and konjac sponges. Wet your face, and scrub it with your chosen exfoliant before rinsing off. Be extremely gentle to prevent microtears.
Chemical exfoliation uses low doses of acid to remove excess skin cells. BHA and AHA are the primary acids used. If using a chemical exfoliant, start by only using once a week to build tolerance. Before use, apply a pH-adjusting toner to your face. Use a cotton swab to apply the acid, and wait twenty minutes before applying other products. After a few weeks, you can start using it two or three times a week. Do not overuse, or you may cause a chemical burn., Sunscreen is the best way to prevent future sun damage, dark spots, wrinkles, and other age-related hyperpigmentation. Use an SPF of at least 30 every day underneath your makeup. Even if you don’t plan on going outside much, daily use of sunscreen can protect your current dark spots from worsening and future ones from developing.You should use at least a nickel-sized dollop of sunscreen on your face and two tablespoons on the rest of your body., Hydrocolloid bandages heal acne by absorbing water from the wound or pimple. They are effective at reducing acne without the subsequent hyperpigmented scarring.Apply the bandage to the pimple, and remove when it is healed.


If you have lanced a pimple, the hydrocolloid dressing can prevent scarring. Sometimes you may only need to wear it overnight.
Hydrocolloid bandages are widely available. They are sometimes marketed as blister bandages or pimple stickers.If the bandage is too large for the pimple, cut it to size.
 Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, can lighten dark spots and reduce hyperpigmentation. It is also sometimes used to treat acne and rosacea. Vitamin C can be found in serums, moisturizers, patches, and spot treatments.If using a Vitamin C serum, apply after you wash your face and before you apply your moisturizer.
If you are using a cream or serum that has niacinamide in it, it may react with the Vitamin C. This will render both ingredients useless, and it may cause your skin to flush red. Wait at least thirty minutes between applying each product., A dermatologist can help diagnose exactly what is causing your dark spots. They can also prescribe powerful topical remedies to reduce the dark spots on your face.


Hydroquinone and retinol are common prescriptions meant to reduce hyperpigmentation. Both may dry out your skin, so make sure that you pair them with a good moisturizer.If your dark spots are severe, ask your dermatologist about laser treatments or chemical peels. These are much stronger treatments that, while expensive and harsh, can have dramatic effects.