 Get a paper grocery bag and cut down one of the corners to the bottom. Cut out the bottom panel and discard it. Pull off the handles and discard them as well. When you are done, you should have a long rectangle.









This method works best for text books.
If this is for a smaller book, you can use a paper lunch bag or even a sheet of brown craft paper. Make sure that it is wider than your opened book.
 Set your text book down next to the bag. Fold the top and bottom edges of the bag until it is the same height as your book.









You can tape these flaps down or cut them off.
You will be covering the bag with duct tape. It does not matter which side is facing up.
 The bag will be much wider than the book, which is good. Make sure that there are equal amounts of paper bag to either side of the book.
 Fold the paper bag over the back cover. Make a crease, then turn all of the pages to the right. Fold the paper bag over the front cover and make another crease.









If the paper bag flaps get in the way of the binding, trim them back a little. It's okay if they touch the binding, but they shouldn't squash against it.
Keep your book open with the inside of the front cover visible.
 Aim to make them 2 to 4 inches (5.08 to 10.16 centimeters) taller than your book. You will be wrapping them around the top and bottom edges of your book cover.









You can use solid-colored duct tape or patterned duct tape.
 Align the edge of the duct tape with the inside edge of the flap. Make sure that there are equal amounts of duct tape sticking over the top and bottom edge of the book cover.
 Simply push the top and bottom duct tape flaps down onto the front of the text book. Do not trim them off. They are what holds the flaps in place!








, Overlap each strip slightly and fold the excess tape over the top and bottom edges.
 If your last strip extends past the edge of the cover, fold it over onto the front cover, then trim off the excess tape at the top and bottom. If your last strip is even with the edge of the cover, lay down another strip of tape so that it extends past the side edge of the cover. Fold the excess back onto the front of the cover. Trim off any extra at the top and bottom. This will make your cover stronger and prevent wear and tear.
 Turn all of the pages to the left so that the inside back cover is visible. Tear off more strips of duct tape. Lay them down across the back flap, overlapping each one slightly. Fold the excess tape over the top and bottom edges of the cover. Remember to bind the side edge!








, You may have to bend the covers back slightly in order to pull the cover off. Set the book aside when you are done.
 Lay down a strip of duct tape along the left and right edges first. Make sure that they are aligned and don't extend past the edge. Fold the excess tape over the top and bottom edges of the cover.
 Use the same method as you did for the side flaps. Remember to overlap each piece of tape slightly.For a more professional touch, work your way inward from the left and right side. Finish by laying down a strip of duct tape along the center, right where the spine is.
 There is a chance that the duct tape at the front covered the inside edges of the flaps. This will prevent them from opening all the way. Flip the cover so that the inside is visible. Look at the left and right flaps. If the tape is right over the inside edge, cut a slit into it so that you can open the flap all the way.
 Your text book is now ready to use!








