 You want to begin by stretching your tongue as much as you can. You may try by pressing your tongue to the bottom of your mouth. You will need as much tongue as possible to make the three-leaf clover.
 If you cannot make and hold a taco shape with your tongue, do not attempt this technique. You will only frustrate yourself. The skills learned in both making a taco shape and a two-leaf clover are prerequisites for the three-leaf clover shape.
 Preferably your index finger with the fingerprint side toward your tongue. Whichever finger you use it must be strong enough to resist your tongue. You will be pressing your tongue against it to form your three-leaf clover shape. You don't have to put it on your lips but you want it close enough that you cannot stick your tongue all the way out without moving you finger.
 Don't use your mouth to hold the taco shape. Move your finger so it is close to your mouth but not in your mouth. You need room to move your tongue forward and backward as you learn this trick.


one way to position your finger is to stick your taco shaped tongue out. Put your finger beneath your tongue, point toward the ceiling. The nail of the finger should be under the tip of the tongue. Move your tongue back an let your finger come straight up. That's a good place for your finger to stay.
 During the two-leaf clover trick these muscles to the left and right of your finger relax. They should relax here too. The taco shaped tip will point upward creating the single, third leaf. This is the most difficult part. If you are going to get stuck, this is where you will get stuck.


If you can't yet do the two-leaf clover, practice that instead. The three-leaf clover trick requires much more tongue dexterity. During the two-leaf clover you will learn to manipulate the tip independently of the sides. You will need this skill to successfully form the three-leaf clover shape.
 The more practice you have rolling your tongue, the more you will not need supports. You will be able to form the three-leaf clover without assistance. Pull your finger back from your tongue while holding the shape. It may take several times but eventually you will be able to hold the shape.


You may need to take a break while practicing. You tongue muscles may become fatigued from overuse in ways they have not been used before. This may make holding the shape impossible until later.

