 The way to get the ultimate bacon is to simply make it yourself. The following recipe can be customized to your liking, but contains all the basics of a good curing:


Place 2 1/2 lbs of pork belly, rind removed, in a zip lock bag with 2 1/2 tablespoons kosher salt, 1/2 cups of a sugar (white, brown, maple syrup, molasses etc.), 1 teaspoon black pepper, and a dash seasonings you desire (liquid smoke, garlic, paprika, fennel, mustard seeds, etc.) Coat the meat in the mixture.
Let the bag soak in the fridge for 7 days, flipping over once a day. You should notice liquid building up in the bag.Rinse the meat off and cook it at 225℉ for 90 minutes, or until the internal temperature is 150℉. You can also smoke the meat on the grill to this temperature, usually 3-5 hours.Cool the meat and cut it into thin bacon strips. You now have bacon that is ready to be cooked in the oven, microwave, or pan until your desired crispiness.
 This New England breakfast meat may sound like a joke, but the combination of sweet and salty is heavenly. To do so, put your strips of bacon in a bowl and cover with maple syrup, preferably the thin, traditional kind. Let the it sit covered in the fridge for 30 minutes, then take the strips out and cook like normal.The caramelized sugars will make a mess as they cook, but the resulting bacon will be worth it.
While you can use "fake" syrups, like Aunt Jemima, the high-quantity of corn starch in imitation maple syrup will be tough to clean and leave a thick, sticky coating on the meat.
 Let the bacon sit out at room temperature until it is warm. Rub both sides of the strips with brown sugar (dark or light) and wait 4-5 minutes before cooking like normal., Do not try and cut the bacon ahead of time and then cook the pieces -- they will heat up too fast and release all of the delicious juices. Instead, cook the bacon on a stovetop as normal. However, before you start heating up the pan, add 1-2 tablespoons of water to the pan with the meat. The water will evaporate, leading to crispier, easily crumbled bacon perfect for salads or recipes like Bacon Mac and Cheese.