 Begin with clean, unpainted nails. First, you will need to apply a top coat of polish. Any type of polish and color will do. You can choose a nude polish for a subtle look. If you want the water droplets to show up well, a bolder color of nail polish works better. For example, the droplets show up well on bright blue and green. Wait ten or fifteen minutes for the nail polish to dry. Paint multiple coats if necessary.








You can apply the water droplets to unpainted nails, but the completed look won’t appear as nice as it would on top of a base coat.
Choose a green top coat and paint it in streaks to look like grass.
Purchase fast drying nail polish for a quicker drying time.;
, You can choose to paint the water droplets on top of a solid base coat, or you can create a design. A fun design for the water droplets is a cloudy sky design. First, you would need to choose a blue base coat. After that, rip off a small piece of a cotton ball. Dip the piece of cotton into white nail polish. Dab the cotton ball onto your nails to create the look of a cloudy sky. Allow about ten minutes for the “clouds” to dry.








You can also choose to paint other designs on top of your base coat. Keep in mind that the water droplets may not show up well if you create too complicated of a design.
 The matte nail polish gives your base coat of nail polish a flat effect so that the water droplets will show up better. Apply the clear layer. You should only need to apply one or two layers. You can buy clear matte nail polish at many supermarkets and at beauty supply stores.
 The water droplets may mix with the other layers and not apply well if you don’t allow time for your nails to dry. Take time after you’ve applied the base and matte coat to inspect your nails for any mistakes. Wait until the nail polish to dry to move on to creating water droplets., You will need to create the water droplets with clear nail polish. Any type of clear coat nail polish will do. The ideal polish to use, however, is a clear, quick-dry topcoat because it hardens quickly and is glossy. It is possible to use a color for the water droplets, but they won’t appear as water. Instead, they would look like 3D polka dots., You don’t have to use a special tool to create the water droplets. Nail salons use dotting tools, which can be bought online or at a beauty supply store. You can also make a dotting tool out of everyday items, like a pin, toothpick, or bobby pin. The easiest method is to use the applicator brush that comes with your clear nail polish., Begin by dipping the applicator into the nail polish. Make sure that it is not too saturated with nail polish. If it is, the nail polish may spread instead of making small dots. Hold the brush at a 45-degree angle. Tap the corner of your brush on to different parts of your nail to create dots. Vary the size of the dots if possible. Create the dots until you are satisfied with the number of dots on each nail.








This look appears better if don’t fill your nails with dots and allow space between them.
 The dots may appear flat on the first few layers. Repeat the drops on top of the first set of drops you have created. Allow a minute for the first layer of dots to dry before building up the layers. Continue to build up the layers until you have 3D water droplets. Then, allow the droplets to dry.
 Look over your nails for any mistakes or problem areas. Correct the problems before finishing the look with a clear top coat. Use a Q-tip and nail polish remover to carefully remove excess nail polish on your cuticles and skin. If necessary, redo any nails that have been messed up in the painting process.








You can disguise imperfections with a glittery or pearly top coat. This, however, will lessen the effect of the nail droplets.
 Protect and complete your water droplet nails with a clear top coat. The top coat will protect the nail polish and add a matte finish that won’t obscure the water droplets. Only apply one or two light layers of the top coat. Too many layers could dull the look of the water droplets.








Use a fast drying top coat if you don’t have time to relax after painting your nails.
 Make sure you give plenty of time for your nails to dry. The best time to paint your nails is at night before going to bed. If that’s not possible, do your best to avoid using your hands for the next few hours after painting your nails. Be careful not to hit your nails on anything. The water droplets can be easily damaged. .Avoid wearing gloves.

