 Tell your parents that you want to talk to them about playing the sport. Ask them if it’s a good time to talk, or if you should set up a time to talk later. This is a mature approach, and it will show your parents that playing the sport isn’t just a whim.Say something like, "I wanted to talk to you both about joining the soccer team. Is this a good time to talk about it?"

, When it comes time for the conversation, talk to your parents about why you want to play the sport. Make sure to express that you’re interested in the sport itself, and let them know that it’s an interest you have been developing.


For example, you could say something like, "I've been getting really interested in cheerleading recently, and I think joining the squad would be a great way to get exercise and learn something new."
Don’t say things like, “Well, all my friends are going to be on the team.” You want your parents to know that the sport is not just a social or status thing for you.
 Talk to your parents about why playing the sport will benefit you. You can use personal arguments that relate to you in particular, or you could explain the benefits of team sports in building leadership skills and good physical health.You can also explain why the sport would benefit your parents. For instance, if you are always bouncing off the walls, explain how participating in a sport could allow you to use your energy in a positive way and make you calmer at home.
 Tell your parents the best way you can participate in the sport, and give them any fliers or papers that you’ve picked up. Your parents will be impressed by the lengths you went to pursue the sport, and it will make giving their permission much easier if you already have everything planned out.Tell them something like, "These are the schedules for the gym I would go to. I would take my lessons every Monday, Wednesday and Friday after school."

, Your conversation with your parents shouldn’t be a monologue. After you have told them your reasons for wanting to play and your plans, listen to what they have to say. They may still be against the idea. If they are, try to counter their arguments.Ask them something like, "I know that you had some questions about the sport. I was wondering how you feel about me joining the team now that I've told you more about it."
If, for example, your parents are worried that sports could interfere with your schoolwork, show them the study schedule you drew up for yourself.
If they are worried that the sport is too dangerous, use your research to show them that the sport may not be as dangerous as they think. Try to point to specific methods that your school or gym takes to reduce the risk of injury.
If they are concerned about money, tell them how you can cut the cost of playing the sport.
 Throughout this negotiation, stay calm and respectful. You want to show your parents that you are trying to make a mature decision. Acting rude or angry will only justify their belief that you shouldn’t play the sport. Even if by the end of the discussion they still won’t give you permission, be respectful.