 For women who suffer from water retention, there is often a connection to hormonal issues. Water retention is one of the most common symptoms of premenstrual syndrome. If you generally experience water retention every month, check it against your menstrual cycle on a calendar.Most women who experience this, will feel the unpleasant bloated feeling of water retention a week or two before their period begins.
Hormonal changes during pregnancy and menopause can also prompt water retention., Although there is still a lot of uncertainty about the various potential causes of water retention, there is some evidence to show that strict dieting and binge eating may be a causative factor. This is difficult to diagnose, but these sudden shifts may prompt your body to retain water., If you are standing for a long period of time, or are sitting still throughout a long journey, you may experience some water retention and swelling of your legs and ankles.If the blood ceases to flow at a good rate through your body, your lymphatic system may become congested, which in turn can cause swelling.


If you are on a long-haul flight, be sure to stand up and walk around every now and again.
Keep the blood flowing by moving your body to help prevent fluid retention and swelling., There are some medications that can cause water retention. If you are on any medication you should discuss this with your doctor and ask for her advice. Some of the medications that cause fluid retention include:Drugs that contain estrogen, such as oral contraceptives and hormone replacement therapies
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin and ibuprofen
Beta-blockers, which are typically used to treat abnormal heart rhythms

, There are number of more serious medical conditions that may cause fluid retention and swelling. If you experience swelling, it is important that you take it seriously and investigate whether it is connected to another medical condition. Fluid retention can occur as a result of:Congestive heart failure. Heart failure can cause swelling in your abdomen and cause fluid to be stored in your lungs, resulting in shortness of breath.
Cirrhosis. Damage to your liver may cause fluid to gather in your legs and abdominal cavity.
Kidney disease or kidney damage. The extra fluid and sodium caused by kidney disease can lead to swelling in your legs and around your eyes.
Weakness or damage to the veins in your legs. If you experience acute swelling in one leg, together with pain and/or redness in the calf, there may be a blood clot and you should seek medical help immediately.
Problems with your lymphatic system. If your body is not draining excess fluid from tissue, this can lead to swelling.

