 Location is key. You want to open in a place where there are enough dogs to support a business. Roughly 50% of houses have a dog, but only a fraction need dog training. If you open your business in a town of 10,000 people, then you might not be able to generate enough clients to support yourself full-time.The best place to open a dog training business is an urban area. There is a higher density of dog owners, and owners in cities want their dogs to be especially well behaved.
Remember that you don’t need an office to run a dog training business. Instead, you can travel to your clients’ homes or kennels. Nevertheless, you’ll want to map out a basic geographic range that you will service.
If you do want a business location, then you should search for commercial space. You can begin a search online and then contact a realtor if you can’t find anything.
You might also use your own home. Check with your city’s zoning commission to see if you can open a business in your residential area.;
, Dog trainers can offer many kinds of services or specialize in only one. You should decide ahead of time what your interests are and what you excel at. For example, dog trainers typically provide the following:obedience (on and off leash)
puppy obedience
competition obedience, such as how to handle the dog in a competition
pre-pet awareness
hand signal and voice command
owner participation training, which helps an owner handle a pet

, You want to price competitively, so you need to know what other dog trainers are charging.Look on the Internet. If you can’t find anything, then contact the dog trainers directly.


Trainers typically charge an hourly rate and bill in either hourly or half-hour increments.
 You should spend a considerable amount of time with dogs before starting your training business. Most trainers have worked with dogs in some capacity before starting their business. You might gain experience in any of the following ways:pet sitter
dog walker
dog groomer
dog show handler
doggie daycare owner or manager

, As a dog trainer, you work with more than dogs. You also work with people. You will need to sharpen your mentoring and interpersonal skills.Your success will depend on making your human clients happy.


If you’ve never taught or mentored, then volunteer your time. For example, you can volunteer to teach people to read at your local community center.
Alternately, you could coach a children’s sports team to gain experience. Anything that helps you practice communication and instruction will be valuable.
 You don’t generally need a certificate to start your business. However, a certificate program can give you expertise you might not otherwise obtain through work experience. You can also advertise that you are a certified dog trainer.


You can get certified by either the Association of Pet Dog Trainers (APDT) or the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers (CCPDT).Visit their websites for more information.
You could also get a four-year degree in Animal Behavior, though this is not required.
 A business plan helps focus your thinking. In it, you will identify your services and estimate your financial needs. If you ever want to seek lending from a bank or credit union, then they probably want to see a written business plan. Include the following:



Executive summary. This is your overview. State where you are located and the services you will offer. You can also summarize how much it will cost to open your business and when you project being profitable.Company summary. Identify the ownership and what equipment you will need to purchase to start the business.Services. Explain what services you will offer and how owners will benefit from them.

Market analysis. Identify your potential customer base. Also explain how you will reach this customer base with your marketing.Sales forecast. Explain how you will gain a competitive advantage in the market place and project your sales for the next three years. Also list milestones, such as the date you intend to open and when you anticipate being profitable.Employee information. Explain your educational and work experience. Also identify if you’ll need to hire other employees.

Financial plan. Break out your anticipated monthly profits and losses. Include projected cash flow and a balance sheet for the next three years.If you don’t know how to create these financial documents, then visit a Small Business Development Center near you. Find the nearest center here: https://www.sba.gov/tools/local-assistance/sbdc.
 You want a business name that is catchy and stands out. Look at what your competitors use and try to find something distinctive. You might call your business “Behave Not Bite Trainers” or “Puppy Etiquette.”


You should also search to see that the name hasn’t already been taken. Your state’s Secretary of State website might have a database of names you can search. In some states, you can pay them to search for you.
You’ll want to use your business name as your website’s domain name, so check that it hasn’t been bought already.
 You can protect the uniqueness of your business name by registering the service or trademark. A trademark is a unique symbol or name used to identify goods. When used to identify services, it’s a service mark.


You can register your mark with the federal government.
You aren’t required to register. But it can help in many ways. For example, you’ll establish when you first used the mark. If someone else steals your name, then you can sue and stop them from using it.
 Your dog training business could take one of several legal forms. You should think carefully about which one you choose. You have the following choices:Sole proprietorship. Most dog training businesses are probably sole proprietorships. This is the easiest business entity to form. You use your Social Security Number as your tax ID, and you report your business income or losses on your personal 1040 form. You don’t need to file any paperwork with the state. However, you are personally liable for business debts as a sole proprietor.

Limited liability company. An LLC is owned by its members. Depending on your state, you may be able to form a one-person LLC. You’ll have to file paperwork with your state. However, an LLC protects you from personal legal liability. Any business debts are the debts of only the business, not its member owners. For example, if a customer sues you and wins, then they can only come after your business assets, not your personal ones.

Corporation. A corporation is owned by its shareholders. You must file paperwork with your state to form, and you’ll also have to file annual reports with the state. A corporation requires more work than a sole proprietorship. However, it also shields you from personal liability like an LLC.

Partnership. Two or more people can jointly form a partnership. You typically don’t file anything with your state. However, you are personally liable for your business debts. You are also jointly liable with the other partners. For example, if a partner takes out a loan for the partnership, then you’re personally liable on that loan.
 If you form a corporation, then file your Articles of Incorporation with your state’s appropriate office. Generally, you file with the Secretary of State. There should be printed, fill-in-the-blank articles to complete.


You can file your Articles of Organization (to form an LLC) in the same way.
You’ll have to pay a filing fee. Check with your Secretary of State for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 Visit the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online and get an Employer Identification Number. You’ll need this number if you hire any employees. You’ll also need it to pay your taxes (unless you’re a sole proprietor who uses their Social Security number).
 You’ll need permission to run a business in your state. For example, you probably must get a business license.You may also need to get a license from your local government and other permits.


Use the Small Business Administration’s tool at https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/business-licenses-permits/state-licenses-permits to check what permits and licenses you will need. Click on your state.
 You’ll need to write up rules for how to run your business. For example, you’ll want to describe how the owners can call meetings and who handles the day-to-day activities. You will also want to explain how your business’s profits and losses will be divided between owners.


If you have a sole proprietorship, then you don’t need any document.
Corporations should have bylaws. You must keep them at your principal place of business.
LLCs should have an operating agreement. Keep them at your principal place of business.
Partnerships should have a detailed partnership agreement in place before opening. You’d benefit from consulting with a lawyer to make sure your agreement is thorough.
 Talk to other business owners and ask what kind of insurance they have. You might also want to contact an insurance broker. You’ll probably want a basic liability policy for a small business.Ask the broker for different prices.


If you’re running a business out of your home, then check with your homeowners insurer to see if accidents are covered. Most homeowners policies do not extend to home businesses.Instead, you’ll probably need to purchase a business insurance policy.
 Many people look for businesses on the Internet, so a web presence is essential. You’ll want to use your business name as your domain name so that you are easy to find. The best websites will inform potential customers of your services and get them excited to use you. For example, you could provide short videos of dog training tips dog owners could use. These videos would showcase your skills.


If money is tight, then you’ll need to design your own website.Many businesses (like GoDaddy) provide domain names and templates to create a basic website.
If you can afford to hire someone else to design the website, then you should probably pay. This will free up time to spend on other forms of marketing, such as networking.
 You might want a glossy, color flyer that lists your services and your fees. Also include how to contact you. The more ways the better. Also save a digital copy of all flyers so you can email them to people.


You can also have business cards made cheaply. Look online for a provider.
Depending on your budget, you might want to turn your car into an advertisement. You can put your company name and logo on the side. This is a great way to increase the visibility of your business as you drive to and from clients.
If you have a business location, then signage is also key. You’ll want to be visible from the road.
 You want to identify other businesses that might refer their clients to you for services. You can call them or stop by and introduce yourself. Share a flyer or other promotional materials. Also offer to make referrals to them in return.For example, reach out to the following:


dog walkers
vets
pet sitters
pet boutiques

, By joining a professional group, you get to meet other dog trainers and learn valuable business tips. You also can increase your credibility with the public, since people assume you are a serious trainer when you belong to a professional group. Think about joining the following:


National Association of Dog Obedience InstructorsAssociation of Professional Dog TrainersInternational Association of Canine Professionals, A promotion is a good way to get new customers. For example, you could offer a free training session for a limited amount of time.If you’re good, then customers will continue to use you in the future.


Facebook allows you to create a coupon offer, which you can advertise on your Facebook page.Your page will need to be categorized as a “local business” in order to use the feature.
You might also look to promote your business using Groupon. You can create a merchant account to get started., Ads cost quite a bit of money, so you might not want to advertise depending on your budget. However, there’s no better way to introduce yourself to a mass of people than to use paid advertising. Consider the following:


Advertise in your Yellow Pages.
Use Google Ads.
Place ads on Facebook.
Run radio or television ads.
 You should keep constant tabs on what works and what doesn’t with your marketing. If paying for ads yields few customers, then try something different. Ideally, you should review your marketing each month.


For example, you might volunteer to write an “Ask the Trainer” column for your local paper.This is a good way to increase your visibility in the community.
If you aren’t getting many referrals from your network, consider how you can provide them with free value. You may be competing with other dog trainers, and you want to stand out. Write a newsletter which they can share with their clients.Volunteer to provide trainings to pet boutiques and veterinarian offices. The staff will recognize your expertise, and will remember you when one of their clients asks for a referral to a trainer.
Also stay in touch with your network. Send a card if a referral is made, and stop in regularly. Bring a treat that the staff might like.

