 Your deductible is the amount of money that you will have to pay for any repairs to your car before the insurance coverage begins. (A common analogy is a co-payment for doctor visits.)If you want a lower deductible, then you will pay more in premiums but have less responsibility at the time of an accident. On the other hand, with a higher deductible, you are accepting some risk that you will not have an accident. If you do, your eventual cost may be greater at that time.If you want to count on avoiding accidents, and you wish to reduce your premiums, then you should select a higher deductible level.
Increasing your deductible from $300 to $500 may reduce your premium by as much as 30 percent.
Increasing your deductible to $1,000 may reduce your premium by as much as 40 percent.
 If you have good health insurance, you are already protected for personal injury protection and medical expenses. Therefore, you probably do not need additional medical coverage as part of your auto insurance. Find out from your health insurance agent if you are indeed covered in case of an automobile accident, and then make the decision.Check with your agent or broker to find out if your state requires a minimum level of personal injury coverage as part of your car insurance policy.
 Insurance companies base their premium rates, in part, on the type of car that you drive. Some vehicles are known to be higher risk for theft or accidents. When you are looking for a new car, you should talk with your insurance agent before making your final selection. Find out if the car you are considering is on the list of high-risk vehicles. If so, you may wish to select a different car.Cars with two seats, high-performance engines, and racing tires generally fall into the sports car category. These are often deemed to be high-risk because they are enticing to car thieves and they have a history of accidents due to unsafe driving. They may also be more expensive to maintain and repair.
 Many insurance providers offer discounts for combining auto insurance with other policies such as medical or homeowners insurance. This practice is commonly referred to as bundling, and if you shop around carefully, you can use it to save significant amounts of money.For example, by purchasing your auto insurance from the same company that provides your homeowners or life insurance policies, you may qualify for a multi-line discount on your premiums.
 When you are shopping for a new car, consult with your insurance agent first to find out which safety features will reduce your premiums. Some safety features not only make your car safer to drive but also reduce the likelihood that your car would be stolen. You can earn discounts on your auto insurance cost if you install such optional safety features as alarm systems, anti-theft devices, daytime lights and passenger seat airbags., One of the best ways to keep your insurance premiums low is to keep a clean driving record. Tickets for traffic violations, such as speeding or reckless driving, nearly always increase your insurance rates. After time, these items may drop off your record and your rates will go back down again, but this can take years. Insurance companies consider drivers who get tickets to pose a higher risk for accidents.In addition to receiving tickets, your premiums will likely increase if you are found at fault for any accidents as well.
 Ask your broker or agent for any discounts that might apply to you. For example, many companies will give a discount to drivers over 50 or 55 years of age with a clean driving record. Additionally, while drivers under age 25 often face higher premiums, some companies offset this by offering discounts to students with good grades. Students who complete a defensive driving course or an approved driver education program also may qualify for discounts.Insurance companies or agents may not always be quick to advertise the discounts, so you should ask.
 For example, if you are an alumnus of a college or university or a member of a professional organization, you may qualify for an affinity discount or a special group plan with one or more insurance companies. When you are researching companies, ask about group discounts. You may also ask the leader of any group or organization you belong to about incentives they know about., For many people, once they pick an insurance company, they stay there. This can be good, because some companies give discounts or reward to longstanding customers. However, some companies give rewards to new customers but not existing customers. You should ask your company about loyalty discounts and occasionally check prices or incentives at other companies.