 Probably the simplest way to bring color into your garden is to take an old window frame and glue colored glass beads to it.


You should use glue such as E6000, which dries clear.






This can be displayed by standing it upright in a bed so that the sunlight comes through it.






Try anchoring it into the ground by attaching wooden stakes to the lower sides that can be driven at least 2 feet (0.6 m) into the ground for stability.






Silver or blue-tinted beads work well for giving the effect of bubbles.
 The joy of old window art is bringing lots of translucent color into your garden.


You can try to source an old window with colored glass in – or create your own.
Add a colorful mosaic to an old colorless glass window by gluing on a pattern of glass beads, transparent colored mosaic tiles or even sea glass gathered from the beach.






You can source colored glass receptacles, such as kitchenware, from thrift stores and smash these up to make glass shards.
You’ll need to get some glass glue and a grout – try following an online glass mosaic tutorial.
Home Depot can source a grout that works well – ask for 100% solids epoxy grout when ordering ahead.
 It can be fun to paint your own works of art onto blank windows.

Not all glass paint will survive out of doors and some will peel, so choose your paint carefully.






You may find it helps to wipe down the glass surface using alcohol before you paint.






Paints such as the Martha Stewart Glass range are said to be outdoor resistant.






Also try sealing using Polycrylic for added protection.






As some paints need to be baked in the oven to seal the paints, you can either try removing the glass pane from the window to do so, or alternately paint a separate bit of glass and simply glue this onto your old window pane.
 Creating a mini greenhouse can be a great place to store plants in a colorful way.


You’ll need 6 small window frames of the same size and shape for this.






Make them safe by removing protruding nails and resealing the windows where needed.






Using hinges or small wooden blocks, attach 4 of the smaller windows to each other at right angles. This forms the 4 sides of your mini greenhouse.






Then use hinges to add a peaked roof using the last 2 windows.






Put some plants inside to finish it off. Remember, it will get pretty hot inside so choose plants that like heat and keep them well watered.
 Remember, you don’t need to have glass in the frames of your old windows to use them in the garden.


In fact, empty panes will make a great place for birds to perch.






Try painting old window frames using distressed paint techniques.






Outdoor chalk paint also works well.






Hang these on chains on the edge of your porch, from a tree branch, or on a barn door.






A collection of frames painted different colors works well.
 An old window can be hung on a fence to create the illusion of a real window.


This works especially well if you replace the glass panes with mirror panels.






It also helps create a sense of space in a small garden.






You can make a nice effect if you use a window with shutters.






Try painting these in a color that complements your fence.






Try some paint distressing techniques to create an aged effect.
 You can use an old window as a planting display by adding a window box or ledge to your window and putting a planter in it or several plant pots on it.


Another nice effect can be achieved by taking some old metal food cans, making some drainage holes at the bottom using a screwdriver, painting them in bright colors and patterns, and nailing them to the window frame before planting in them.
This is a nice way to display plants against a colorful window frame.
 Take an old window (or picture) frame that is empty of glass to create a plant frame.


Attach a small hook to the center of the inner frame at the upper side.
Attach a chain to this and hang a planter from it – a small bucket or basket planter works well for this.
This is a neat way to display a trailing plant.
It works nicely if you paint the frame in a color that complements your planter, and its flowers and foliage.
 Gather a good collection of colorless cut glass plates and pot lids, decanter tops, and other clear glass items to create a glass mosaic.


Glue these to your clear glass window and fill in the spaces between them with clear glass beads or marbles.
The idea for this display is to make it colorless but emphasize the textures provided by the cut glass items you use.
 Since garden art lives outdoors, it’s best to protect it before leaving it out for extended periods of time.

Remember that any wood in contact with soil will get wet and may start to rot.






To preserve the life of your garden art, treat it with a wood preservative if it is in contact with the ground, or raise it on a pressure-treated wood block.







