 Chaos can make you believe that if you only work harder, you can bring everything back into harmony. However, becoming a workaholic will only add to the stress you’re feeling. Take a step back from work or obligations to get some perspective. Doing so can relieve stress and give you the mental boost you need to problem-solve your way out of chaos.Make sure to set aside plenty of time for self-care as well. For example, you might set aside 30 minute every night to take a bubble bath, meditate, or do an evening yoga routine. You can also do little things to treat yourself, such as getting yourself a special coffee drink, going for a walk in nature, or getting a massage.
 A key to thriving in chaos is in the small actions you take throughout your day. Large projects or goals can seem impossible and intimidating if you view them from start to finish. However, tearing them down into smaller, controllable parts enables you to feel more capable of completing them.For instance, if you are trying to plan a fundraiser, separate the event into various sections. These may include volunteers, marketing, t-shirts, and sponsors. You might delegate each section to a different team to help you coordinate each part.
 A great way to find the peace of mind to excel during in the face of chaos is by turning to your support system. Thinking you can manage on your own will lead to you feeling isolated and overwhelmed. Instead ask for help or support if you need it.Go to a friend and say, “I am working on this school project. Do you think you could give me a hand?” Or, merely ask for support: “There’s a lot happening at home with my parents separating. Is it okay if I hang at your house for a while to get some distance from everything?”

, Use your thoughts to transform chaos into calm. Mindfulness is an excellent practice to start when life seems unpredictable. It can help you stop fretting about past mistakes and quell worries about the future by focusing your attention on the present moment. Mindfulness seems like a challenging practice at first glance, but, in reality, it can be implemented right away and used at any time.


Get the most benefits by practicing mindfulness every day. To start, set aside a few moments to sit without distractions. Take some deep, cleansing breaths. Observe the present moment. What sounds do you hear? Smells? Sights? Keep your focus on the moment as it is. When competing thoughts come into your mind just let them roll away without judgment. Continue breathing and observing the present moment.You can incorporate mindfulness into a range of daily activities such as eating, driving, walking, or showering.

