 You will need a count table and enough chairs for all counters, tally forms, Transaction sheets, pens, calculators, stapler, deposit slips, deposit account ink stamp, deposit bag(s).;
, No one person should be in the room once the offering has been taken. This is known as dual control.
 The offering will not be counted until after the close of service.
, (Men, do not wear your jackets into the count area.) Once entering, put all purses, books and papers, etc. in a designated area away from the count table. Your table should already be set up with everything needed to do the count.
,,,, Check the following for each:


Make sure the envelope is filled out with at least a name. If it is not, you can fill out the envelope if it contains a check. If it contains cash there is no way for you to know who the contributor is so put the cash in with the loose plate cash.
Check the amount in the envelope against the amount written on the envelope. Make a correction on the envelope if necessary.
Write on the envelope either "Cash" or "Check". If the envelope contains both, make sure you write both "Cash and "Check", specifying an amount for each.
As you empty the envelopes, separate the checks from the cash, and further separate the cash by denominations. Put each denomination in the proper denomination basket and the checks in a pile.
After all envelopes are emptied, run a tape on the cash envelopes and a separate tape on the check envelopes.



Cash counters will each take a tally sheet. Each will fill out their tally sheet as they count the cash. In the end all tally sheets should be the same. If they are not find and fix the error.
Cash counters will counter the loose cash, following the same process as outlined in step 13.
Check counters will sort the checks from lowest amount to highest amount (by sorting them in this manner, it will be easier to find an error later should the totals not match). One person will run a tape on the checks. Then another person will run a tape. The two tapes should be the same. If they are not find and fix the error.
 They each should match.

