 This is a romance tool that extends into the mature dating world. Ask about her to her friends and tell them you like her. Do not play hard to get. Let her know that you are interested in her. If she shows you any attention make sure to return the affection. Even if it sounds frivolous, try saying something like this to her friend:


"Hey do you know if Lauren has a boyfriend?"
"I want to ask Kris to the movies. You think she’d go with me?"
Use your friends to relay information as well., While making a girl jealous may seem like a way to make her notice you, in the end, you aren't getting attention in the right area. Focus on making the girl you like feel appreciated rather than jealous.
 Think about what you truly like about this girl and tell her directly. It should not be over the top. You can casually slip in a compliment within a conversation. Try compliment her on what she is wearing if it looks good.


If you notice she got a haircut, compliment her on it.
Try complimenting her if she is wearing something that looks like it took effort.Compliment her in aspects other than her appearance like: "Woah, Sujata, you really killed it on the electric guitar" or "I wish I was as good as you at Math."

, Be there for her if she needs assistance in any way, whether it is helping her carry something heavy, cleaning up a spill, or helping her with a math problem. She will notice the time you took out of your day to help her.
 Portray genuine interest when listening to what she has to say. Ask her questions about what she is telling you so that she knows that you care. Try not to talk about yourself too much and instead ask her questions. Your chemistry together will increase if you engage properly in conversation.


You can also try asking open-ended questions, or ones that require more than a yes or no response. Try something like "So Jamie, what movie would you recommend?" or "How did you figure out that problem so fast?"
This will establish a closeness with her that could develop into something more., Starting an inside joke with the girl you are trying to impress is a great way to connect and get a little closer. It will become a thing you share while making her laugh at the same time. Romance shouldn’t be pure chivalry and modesty. Have a laugh every now and then.

