 CBT helps IBS patients to cope with the stress and anxiety that often come hand-in-hand with the condition.It trains people to identify and to change inaccurate perceptions they may have of themselves and of the world around them. People are trained to analyze negative, distorted thoughts, and to replace them with positive and realistic thoughts. CBT has been used as a strategy to help IBS patients ease symptoms and improve quality of life.


Many IBS patients show symptom improvement after undergoing CBT. In one study, 60% to 75% of participants had improvement in their symptoms after a 10-week CBT program. Some patients who suffer from prolonged anxiety and/or depression as a result of the challenge of living with IBS find it helpful to try antidepressant medication.Speak to your doctor if you feel this may be a helpful option for you.
 Stress is a well-known trigger for IBS symptoms. In times of stress, nerves in the colon can contract and cause abdominal pain. People with IBS are more sensitive to stress-induced abdominal symptoms. Learning relaxation techniques may help to alleviate IBS symptoms.


Try setting aside time every day to do something that relaxes you, such as taking a nap, reading, or listening to music. Another option is to try meditation. Stress-relieving meditation has been shown to suppress the activity of genes that contribute to inflammation in people with IBS. One study showed that people who did yoga and meditation regularly for two months had fewer symptoms as a result., Regular exercise is even more important for people with IBS than it is for others. In 2011, researchers reported that people with IBS who exercised with the support of a physical therapist several times a week experienced improved IBS symptoms compared to a control group that did not exercise with a physical therapist.Exercising also helps the digestive system to work properly and it may help to decrease constipation. Another study showed that IBS patients who performed moderate exercise for 30 minutes a day, five days a week, had significantly less constipation symptoms.Aim for exercise that gets your heart pumping. Try cardiovascular activities, like biking or walking. These activities will improve your overall health and help to release tension and stress.