 There are a variety of reasons people may be apprehensive around dogs. The first step to overcoming your fear is identifying potential sources. This can help you see where and how a fear is based in irrational thinking.


Oftentimes, people fear dogs because their parents instilled a fear in them at a very young age by overreacting in the presence of a large, unfamiliar, or overactive dog. If this is the case with you, remember your parents were striving to protect you when you were a small child. You were likely more vulnerable and less likely to understand boundaries with strange animals. In adulthood, you probably do not need to fear the majority of dogs you encounter.People often fear dogs because of past experience. If you were bitten by a dog, or witnessed a friend or family member being bitten by a dog, you might have developed a fear because of that incident. Try to remember the majority of dogs are friendly and harmless and that one bad experience should not influence your relationship with dogs for your entire life.;
, Many times, people fear dogs because they do not understand how they communicate. Dogs are fairly straightforward in terms of behavior. Learning to read when a dog is being friendly is a great way to alleviate an unnecessarily fearful reaction when you encounter a dog.


A happy dog will appear relaxed and will hang his tail and head in a natural position. He may gently wag his tail from side to side or in a circular motion. His mouth will either be closed or slightly open and he might be panting at an even tempo. The corner of his mouth might even be turned up as if he's smiling. If you notice a dog behaving like this, he's probably safe to approach and touch.An exited dog is often mistaken for an angry dog, and dogs may get excited when you encounter them in public or enter someone's home. However, there are important differences. An excited dog will center his weight on his rear legs and might bounce around. His tail and head are held upright, and he may wag his tail. His mouth is generally open and some barking might occur. If a dog is being aggressive, however, he will be showing his teeth and wrinkling his nose rather than just opening his mouth and his weight will be centered equally on all fours. His tail will be held straight up or, if scared, will be between his legs. An aggressive dog will likely not break eye contact. Dogs are rarely unprovoked, so you are not likely to encounter an aggressive dog very often.An alert dog is often also mistaken for an aggressive one. When alert, dogs might bark or growl but this is unlikely a sign of aggression. An alert dog will have his ears pointed forward and be staring at whatever's interesting him. The hair on his back might be standing up and his mouth is typically closed. You probably do not have to be afraid of an alert dog. However, you should not attempt to pet or interact with a dog when they're engaged with something else. They might become startled and nip., Dogs pick up on cues from people and can tell if someone is afraid in their presence. This can cause dogs to become fearful. Trying to remain calm around a dog can help you have better interactions with dogs and gradually reduce your fear.


Oftentimes, people tend to freeze around dogs if they're afraid. Before dogs attack, they tend to lock up and stare. If a dog notices you engaging in this behavior, they might interpret it as a sign you're being aggressive. Instead of freezing up around dogs try to relax your muscles and ignore their presence. This might be difficult and even feel unnatural at first, but a dog is more likely to be friendly towards you if you remain calm.If you're going somewhere where you know you'll encounter a dog, try engaging in breathing and relaxation techniques beforehand. Close your eyes, imagine entering the room with the dog, and then take deep, calming breaths.If you feel brave enough to reach out, let the dog sniff your hand. Move slowly and offer out your hand in a fist,and keeping it below the dog's eye level so that he can see it easily and doesn't mistake it as a threat. do not snap your hand away if the dog moves to lick or sniff you. It's normal for dogs to nose the hand of a stranger and it does not mean the dog is going to bite. If you move your hand away too quickly, you might frighten the dog. He might think you're moving to hit him or becoming aggressive. You want to keep your interactions positive to help gradually get over your phobia., Once you've had several positive interactions with dogs in public or at social gatherings, start to consciously spend more time around dogs. .


Gradual, prolonged exposure to a fear-producing stimuli is a very effective means to cure phobias. If you make an effort to interact with dogs, eventually your fear will slip away.Start small. This does not mean starting with puppies, which can be frightening because of their unpredictable behavior. Start with older, well-trained dogs that are unlikely to jump or frighten you.Remember to stay calm. If you feel compelled to leave the room when you're interacting with a dog, do not leave. This only reinforces that there is something about dogs to fear and you need to engage in behaviors like running and hiding to protect yourself. Remain in the room until you calm down.Remember that a direct stare is a threat to a dog. If you are anxious and stare at the dog, he is more likely to interpret you as a threat and become tense as a result. This then escalates a cycle of fear and suspicion. Instead, be sure to blink regularly, and watch the dog from the corner of your eye or keep moving your head so as to avoid a direct stare.
Talk to friends, co-workers, and family members who own dogs about how you're trying to get over your fear. They can help by allowing you to interact with their dogs or taking you to dog-friendly places like dog parks and nature trails.

