 Avoid junk food like chips, cakes, pizzas, and ice cream. Your body will thank you. Eat foods high in protein and fiber, and remember to opt for smaller portions. Shoot for 3-4 small meals per day.


Fruits and, more importantly, vegetables will keep you from gaining the same gut you are losing doing all that cardio. Go for vegetables that have lots of color in them: beets, carrots, kale, tomatoes, spinach and broccoli. Combine them in a salad or eat them with hummus if you don't have a taste for them.
Don't starve yourself. Starving yourself will actually hurt your chances of losing weight, because your metabolism slows when it doesn't get food. (It's preparing to save more energy.) So eat regular, small portions if you want to lose that extra weight.;
, Although diet soda offers a "zero" calorie alternative to regular soda, it still interferes with weight loss. If you're serious about getting that body looking in tip-top shape, don't drink anything but water. Substituting water for every other drink will drastically lower your caloric intake.


If you don't know how to keep up with your water uptake, you should keep a water bottle with you and drink whenever you are thirsty. It may improve your complexion as well.
Cut alcohol out of your diet. This can be a tough one, especially if you're used to drinking that glass of red wine after you come home from work. Alcohol has lots of calories in it, especially those cosmos. So, even though a glass of wine may be healthy for you for other reasons, it's not the greatest way to slim down.
 Sleep is the third part of the puzzle for many looking to lose weight. Many women (and men) go obsessively to the gym, eat like vegetarian monks, and still don't see a reduction in their waist size. Getting a good night's sleep is an important part of shedding those extra pounds, so be sure you are getting 7-9 hours of sleep.


Sleep deprivation hurts your ability to lose weight.This because your body produces the glucose and insulin levels of some diabetics when you don't sleep! So depriving yourself of sleep is a no-no for healthy weight loss.
Less sleep kills your motivation to workout and eat well. We've all been there: It's the end of a stressful day at work, we're tired, and we have no energy to do the things we told ourselves we'd do at the beginning of the day. Getting a good night's rest helps keep you energized and motivated, so that when it comes time to hop on the treadmill, you'll have the motivation to push through.
 This walk is important because it will help your stomach to digest food properly and will prevent pyrosis or heartburn.

You can listen to music to keep you motivated.
 Cardio is great way to burn calories and get your body in shape. The goal is to get your heart rate going at a healthy clip so that it burns extra energy.


Start off running for half an hour a day for two weeks, or ride your bicycle at an intensive level. If you think you can handle it, jump into an hour a day for better and faster results.
If you run out of breath, it is ok to stop and rest for about a minute, but don't stop long enough for your heart rate to slow down.
When you are ready to stop, take a cool-down walk. Walk at a fast pace first then slow down gradually. Don't forget to stretch after your workouts.
 If you don't do anything else, get yourself to walk at least 15 minutes a day. Walking is a great way to exercise, and studies show that even 15 minutes can increase your lifespan by three years.So you'll live longer and look better to boot!


Take the stairs instead of the elevator when possible. Walking up stairs is a great way to work your leg and glute muscles.
Get a pedometer. A pedometer measures how many steps you take over the course of the day. People who wear pedometers tend to walk more than people who don't.
Find excuses to be outside! The more you're outside, the harder it is not to walk. Especially when it's nice out, eat lunch outside, take a walk after dinner, or walk your dog regularly in the morning.
 Working on the parts of your body you want to show off will better tone and define your muscles, which will make you look even better.


Warm up dynamically by moving all the joints, muscles and body parts you'll be working on through their full range of motion. Move around enough to increase your heart rate and temperature a bit. The exact motions or exercises you choose aren't so important as long as you are hitting all the right areas, just don't overexert yourself before your actual workout.
Begin with 50 crunches. You must do a proper crunch to get results. Always keep your hands across your chest. Lift up using your abs without relying on momentum. You shouldn't move your back when doing a crunch. Come down only until your shoulder blades touch the ground. Don't use the ground to bounce back into your next crunch.
Do as many push ups as you can do; push your limits as much as possible. Arms straight, bend all the way down, your bottom must stay in line with your body, not pushed up in the air.
Do squats and lunges. Try some simple bodyweight squats at first. From a comfortable standing position, hold your arms straight forward and lower down as far as you comfortably can, keeping your head level and your knees over your toes. Try to work your way up to 20 reps. For lunges, stand comfortably, put your hands on your hips and, engaging your abs, take a large step forward and lower your hips until both knees form 90 degree angles. Then return to starting position and repeat on the other leg. Try doing 20 reps, that is, 10 for each leg. You can make either exercise more difficult by holding onto some weights, just be careful not to increase the weight too rapidly.
Do the "Superman." Lie flat on the ground with you arms outstretched in front of you. Lift up your legs and arms and chest off the ground as high as you can. Hold this for 10 seconds. Then return to starting position and rest for 5 seconds. Then repeat. Do a total of 10 reps.
Do as many arm curls as you can on each side. This is a basic starting work out. Once you feel no burn until you pass 12 reps, increase the weight you lift slightly. The optimal amount of weight to lift is an amount you can lift at least 8 times, but begin to feel a burn before 12 reps.
After your workout pick out some stretches, but always use a hurdle stretch and a saddle stretch to increase flexibility. Try using stretches that simulate what you would be doing when you do exercise. This will get your muscles ready for the real work.

