 Here, you specify which song to play, select which outputs to display, and also access some special functions like "shuffle" or "scan". The main window mimics to a large extent, video or music tape players and works pretty much the same. You can be intuitive about getting around this window.;
, A new playlist identified as "(default)" will be created. If there is already a playlist entitled "(default)", its contents will be replaced (if you want to keep that playlist, simply rename it via the Playlist Window so it won't be overwritten later).


To play -- click the blue PLAY button. While playing, this button will become a PAUSE button, for temporary stops.






To 'rewind' to an earlier part of the song while playing, select the REW and don’t release the click until you have ‘rewound’ enough. You can judge that by observing the visual display of the song counter and the time/total values.






To skip forward to a later part of the song, select and hold down (click delayed release) the FW button.


PREV and NEXT buttons refer to earlier and later songs in a playlist of songs.






STOP stops the playing of the song or playlist. If you push PLAY then, playing will start in the beginning. (Use PAUSE if you want to stop play temporarily and then pick up where you left off.)







,

To create or edit a playlist, select the PLAYLIST button in the lower left of the main window. This will bring up the Playlist Window. You can also select which windows you wish to see while playing. Choices are KARAOKE (for singing, if the current file comes with lyrics), OUTPUT (to see the detailed channel information), PIANO (real-time keyboard), and CONTROL (tempo, key, volume control setting).






These are toggle buttons to select on or off. Red means ON, black means OFF:






Autoplay ON causes dragged-and-dropped files to play instantly
Shuffle ON causes random re-order of the songs in the current playlist
Scan ON allows you to listen to just a single frame of each song (usually in the beginning of the song, by default ranging from 00:10 to 00:20; can be configured via the Setup Dialog). This is very useful for trying a series of files.
Repeat is actually a three-state option allowing to either repeat the current song, loop the whole playlist, or don’t repeat.







Save As... (the diskette to the left of the magnifying glass) -- allows you to save the current file to a local drive.






Options (the note in the upper left corner) -- opens a menu which will allow you to access the setup dialog, toggle the playlist and the additional display windows, open the help file, etc. Note: Using this button will save the original MIDI file -- any changes made in the output window, such as muting a channel, or changing the tempo in the control window, will not be saved. However, you can save these changes to the playlist from within the control window.
 Here, you can easily navigate to any song in the current playlist, which is very convenient for on-stage usage, for example. There are three ways to do this.






you can use the cursor keys.

you may enter the song number (provided that the song position display is activated)
you can type in the first few characters of the song name.
 If you don't want to make any selection, you can dismiss the Quick Select Window by pressing Escape (Esc).


By the way, vanBasco's Karaoke Player can also be controlled via several other keyboard shortcuts.
vanBasco's Karaoke Player can be controlled via the following keyboard shortcuts:

keyboard shortcut alternative shortcut action

Space Bar Play / Pause
Escape (Esc) Stop playback
Ctrl + N F4 Next song in playlist
Ctrl + P F3 Previous song in playlist
Right Arrow Fast Forward
Left Arrow Rewind
+ Transpose up by one semitone
- Transpose down by one semitone
Num * > Increase tempo (speed)
Num / < Decrease tempo
[ lower volume (softer)
] increase volume (louder)
Ctrl+0 F2 Reset
Alt + Q F12 open Quick Select Window
Alt + F F11 toggle full screen karaoke
F1 Open help file table of contents
Alt + L Toggle Playlist Window
Alt + C Toggle Control Window
Alt + O Toggle MIDI Output Window
Alt + P Toggle Piano Window
Alt + K Toggle Karaoke Window
Ctrl + A Toggle Autoplay
Ctrl + S Toggle Shuffle
Ctrl + C Toggle Scan
Ctrl + R Toggle Repeat
ALT + S Open Setup Dialog
ALT + X Exit program





