 When experiencing stress, your brain produces hormones that tell the body to prepare to respond to a threat. Serious stress can compromise your mental health and may cause physical symptoms, too.One good way to manage stress is through exercise.


Exercise and physical activity can bring relief to tense muscles.
Exercise also causes the body to release endorphins. Endorphins are neurotransmitters that make you feel good and inhibit your body’s stress response. They also help to improve your mood and help you feel calmer.
Try different activities to find one you enjoy. Good activities are yoga, walking, dancing, and sports that help get your heart pumping.When you are feeling stressed, it may be tempting to skip exercise because it is one more thing you have to do. However, the benefits will be clear in the long run.;
, Proper diet and eating habits can also help reduce stress. Specifically, keep the following tips in mind:


Limit your caffeine and alcohol. Too much of either of these substances can promote anxiety. More than one or two alcoholic beverages per day can make it harder to cope with stress.
Make mealtimes a calm, relaxed experience. Don't rush your eating.
Don't overeat. Avoid using food as a way to cope with stress.
Some foods contain nutrients that help your body manage stress. Specifically, avocados, bananas, tea, whole grains, fatty fish, carrots, nuts, yogurt, and chocolate are all thought to help manage stress., Sleep is a time for your body to repair and process the stress from the day. It is the time your brain has to unwind. It also allows your body to relax after using tense muscles throughout the day.


Sleep acts as the reset button for your stress level. It helps you to avoid serious stress responses such as anxiety.It is important that your get enough sleep and that the sleep you get is of good quality. For example, you don't want noises waking you up frequently during the night. To help reduce stress, get 6-8 hours of restful sleep each night.
 Mindful meditation is meditation that requires you to focus on the present moment. Practicing mindful meditation puts focus on simply being and not doing anything else in the moment.


You can meditate for as little as 30 minutes per day. Even this amount produces beneficial changes in behavior and brain function. Mindfulness decreases emotional reactivity, anxiety, and depression.Start by finding a quiet place where you will not be disturbed. Sit comfortably and pay attention to your thoughts. Let your thoughts pass through your mind, coming and going from your awareness.
Focus all of your attention on the present moment, and pay close attention to your breathing. Take note of what you see, hear, and feel. Notice where in your body you are holding tension. Acknowledge any thoughts, worries or emotions that come up, and then let them go.
If your mind starts to wander, or you start to dwell on worries, refocus your attention on your breathing.

