 In order to keep your horse healthy, you need to warm him up before each race, the same way you warm him up before each workout. Give him plenty of time to warm up his muscles. Walk him, and give him a chance to run a little if he needs to.


Make sure to cool your horse down after the race. Warm up and cool down are critical for keeping your horse healthy.
 Your saddle position is one of the most important components in riding a successful race. As you go around a barrel, make sure to keep your rear end and your hips solidly in the middle of the saddle. This will help you maintain your balance as your horse picks up speed, and will keep you from pulling on the reigns to stay balanced.


Make sure that you keep your core tight. This will help you stay upright and in control. Your upper body actually shouldn't move much.
Maintain plenty of pressure in the stirrups. This will keep your body from moving up and down and distracting your horse.
 In barrel racing, "the pocket" is the area directly in front of and surrounding the barrel. This is the area where your horse will reduce speed in order to make a tight turn. Keep your eye on each pocket as you approach. Horses tend to run where their riders are looking, so this will keep him on track.After you circle a barrel, focus your eyesight on the next pocket.
When you enter the pocket, use your body cues to signal your horse to slow down.
 "Cues" are how you communicate with your horse. Giving him cues with your hands is one of the best ways to help him learn to speed up, slow down, and turn. Most barrel racers ride with two hands, meaning you will hold one rein in each hand.When you are circling a barrel, use your inside hand to steer your horse around the barrel. Pull the rein back towards your hip.
Use your legs to cue your horse between barrels. Squeeze your inner thighs and bump with your heels is he is too slow.
 Once you have learned to barrel race, your next step is to become faster. Often, a second or two is the difference between winning and losing this event. The more time you spend with your horse, the better you will learn to communicate. This will help you work better and faster together.It's important to train together, but it's also important to enjoy your time with your horse. Take time to go on trail rides with him.
Keep practicing. Work on the strength of your muscles and your horse's.

