 This is one point that a lot of racers neglect. Being an aggressive driver may help you gain a few places but will eventually force you to make a mistake and you may lose all the places you took.;
, If you feel that you are overtaking your opponent before entering the corner but are unable to carry out the overtaking move through the exit of the corner then you are probably doing it wrong.


This could be because you are either unable to manage a faster exit speed through the corner or you are too aggressive on the steering and the brakes which in turn make you slower through the corner, which helps your opponent to keep pace with you.
 There could be a possibility that you may have the inside line for a corner but the very next corner could be in the opposite direction and may give your opponent the inside line making your overtaking move useless!

, This method of overtaking does not come easily. It takes practice and a lot of patience. 

, This is the point that you always brake at before turning into a corner.
 If you exit too slowly because your kart loses a lot of traction, you might want to experiment more with your braking points.
 Note whether that driver brakes a lot earlier than you. You can use this knowledge to your advantage and try to steer away from the racing line brake later than the other driver. This allows you to not only overtake the driver but also to make a comfortable exit through the corner, as you are now able to out brake your opponents.
 This is the time you start finding a particular corner or a set of corners that you can take flat-out or in which you save a lot of time while doing timed heats.
, For example: If you are approaching a hard braking corner after a long straight and you believe that you can overtake the driver then think about the next set of corners. This would help you to analyse how you would have to tackle the next set of corners in order to maintain your position.
 You have to be very attentive about how the opponent takes these corners. Notice whether the driver is struggling or is fairly good through these set of corners. Use the opponent's line through the corner and quickly work out your ideal line to overtake the opponent.
 You know your strong corners and your opponent will now try to be defensive of his or her space, trying not leave any for you to overtake. Use this behavior to your advantage and push the opponent to make a mistake through a corner; that will be your key to overtaking him or her.
 Karting is an expensive sport, so use your time on the track wisely. When karting, think and experiment with your line, so as to be well prepared when you actually have to use all of your practice to overtake your opponents.
 In a high paced sport like karting, never let fear get the best of you. If you do, the other driver behind you will not hesitate to drive you off the track!

, If you have a gap that you can fit through and overtake, stare into the gap because that's where you want to go.


If you stare at the kart in front if you and keep thinking that you will crash, you are bound to crash then!

