 Protection from UV rays is essential for wound healing and scar care. No matter what approach you take, sunscreen should be part of your routine. Choose a sunscreen that is SPF 30 or higher, and wear a hat on sunny days. Proper sun protection can also reduce the risk of hyperpigmentation of scars.


Massage sunscreen around a wound or scar to prevent thickening of the scar from sun exposure.;
, Topical, self-drying silicone gel has been shown highly effective at treating both raised and sunken scars.Silicone gel is transparent and dries on its own, so once you apply it to your face you can go about your day. Silicone sheets or bandages can also reduce scar itching, thickness, and pain.


You can buy silicone gel sheets over the counter at most pharmacies.
Use the silicone gel sheeting for at least three months for optimal results. Silicone will not make your scar disappear, but it will reduce scar thickness, discoloration, and discomfort.Fully evaluate the silicon/silicone toxicity studies and associated problemsbefore pursuing this avenue. You are likely to experience side effects from this treatment, some of which might reduce your quality of life.
 Keeping a scar covered and hydrated will help it heal. Massage recent scars with oil or moisturizer twice a day for about a minute. Massage helps reorganize immature collagen bundles that form while the skin is scarring. Do not massage or apply oil to an unhealed wound. Ask your dermatologist to recommend the right lotion or cream products for your skin.


Opt for an inexpensive substance such as olive oil or petroleum jelly.
Avoid expensive skin treatments such as lotions that boast cocoa butter or vitamin E, as their effectiveness has not been scientifically proven.
No over the counter lotion has been shown to be as effective as silicone sheets.
Wearing oil on your skin may promote acne. Speak to your dermatologist or doctor about the best skincare routine for your type of skin.
 Use fragrance-free water-based (noncomedogenic) products, as oil-based products can cause acne and prevent your scars from healing. To use, clean and moisturize your face, or apply a moisturizing sunscreen. Apply primer to your scars, or across your whole face. Apply concealer in an x across your scars. Cover with light, even layers of foundation until satisfied with the result.


If you are prone to acne, you may want to use a brush or sponge to apply your makeup. Clean your brushes and sponges at least twice a week.
You can use primer with SPF for added protection from the sun.
Match concealer to your skin tone. Concealer that is too light or dark will highlight your scars. Mix two shades of concealer if you cannot find one that matches your skin.
If you are trying to hide hyperpigmentation, try applying a green concealer, or another color that contrasts with the discoloration. Cover well with foundation.
 Buy a microdermabrasion kit, or skincare kit that includes microdermabrasion. These kits are less expensive and less intensive than being resurfaced by a dermatologist. If your scars are not severe, or if your skin is particularly sensitive, it may be a better choice for you than surgical dermabrasion.

