 Open a blank word processing document. Set the font to a readable size and style. For example, Times New Roman 12 point works for many people, though you can choose something different if you want.;
, At the top of the page, insert “Assignment Agreement.” Center it between the left-hand and right-hand margins. You can make the title stand out by putting it in all caps or by making it bold.If you are printing the agreement on letterhead, make sure to leave enough room at the top.
 In the first paragraph, you want to identify both parties to the assignment. Also include the date of the assignment.


Sample language could read, “This Assignment (‘Assignment’), dated as of (‘Effective Date’), is made between (‘Assignor’) and (‘Assignee’).”, Recitals provide background information about the assignment. In particular, you will want to mention the parties to the contract that is being assigned. Recitals are usually written as “whereas” clauses and do not need to be whole sentences.


Sample recitals could read, “Whereas, Assignor entered into the following Contract with on (‘Contract’); and whereas Assignor wishes to assign all of its rights and obligations under the Contract to Assignee. Now, therefore, Assignor and Assignee agree as follows.”, When you grant an assignment, the assignee gets all of your rights—and all of your obligations—under the contract. You should start off the body of the assignment with a grant.


A sample grant could read: “Assignor and Assignee hereby agree that the Assignor shall assign all its title, right, and interest, and delegate all its obligations, responsibilities, and duties, in and to the Contract to Assignee.”, The assignee must also explicitly accept the assignment of duties and obligations, as well as the rights in the contract. A sample provision might read:


“Assignee hereby accepts the assignment of all of Assignor’s obligations, responsibilities, and duties under the Contract and all of Assignor’s right, title, and interest in and to the Contract.”, Ideally, you should only allow modifications done in writing. This way, you can prevent the assignee from claiming you had an oral agreement to alter the agreement.A sample modification provision could read: “This Agreement may only be modified if the modification is made in writing and executed by both Assignor and Assignee. No verbal agreement is allowed.”

, You “indemnify” someone when you agree to defend them against any legal claims made against them because of the contract. When a contract is assigned, there are three different parties which could be sued: the assignor, the assignee, and the obligor (the party the assignor formed the original contract with). You could allocate indemnification in the following ways:


The assignor could agree to indemnify the obligor: “Assignor agrees to defend and indemnify from any and all claims, judgments, actions, proceedings, liabilities, and costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs of defense and damages, resulting from Assignor’s performance prior to the assignment of the Contract and resulting from Assignee’s performance after the assignment of the Contract. However, after the assignment of the Contract, shall first look to Assignee to satisfy all claims, actions, judgments, proceedings, liabilities, and costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs of defense and damages resulting from Assignee’s performance.”The assignee should also agree to indemnify the obligor: “Assignee agrees to indemnify the from any and all claims, judgments, actions, proceedings, liabilities, and costs, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs of defense and damages, resulting from Assignee’s performance after the assignment of the Contract.”

, You can decide which state’s law will be used to interpret the agreement should a dispute break out between you and the assignee. Typically, businesses choose the law of the state where they are located.


You could write, “This Assignment shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the parties determined by, the laws of the State of Maine (without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof or any other jurisdiction).”, If you end up in a lawsuit involving the assignment agreement, then a judge might find that some provision of the assignment is illegal. In this situation, the judge might void the entire agreement. You can prevent this from happening by including a severability clause.


A sample clause could read, “If any part of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue to be valid and enforceable.”, Both the assignor and assignee should sign. The obligor might also need to sign, especially if the contract requires their approval of the assignment. In that situation, you will need three signature lines.


Just above the signature line, insert: “In witness whereof, the parties have caused this Assignment to be duly executed as of the date first written above.”, This article describes a simple assignment of contract. You might need to add other provisions or change particular language. You should meet with an attorney to discuss your situation.


If you don’t have an attorney, then you should contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.When scheduling the consultation, ask how much the attorney charges.

