 Because the exhaust is located on the underside of the vehicle, it often gets caked with mud, dirt and rust. Once you locate the leak, use a steel toothed brush to scrub the area surrounding it. Most repairs will not stick or seal if done over dirt and grime.Scrub the entire portion of the pipe around the leak, including the top side if you can reach it.
Make sure to wear eye protection while scrubbing the area to prevent debris from getting in your eyes.
 Once you have scraped off most of the dirt and grime, take a piece of fine grit sandpaper and use it to scrub the portion of the pipe you need to repair. Sandpaper will remove the last bits of dirt as well as creating tiny micro abrasions in the metal to help the tape or epoxy adhere to it.If you are using exhaust tape, make sure to scrub the pipe all the way around with the sand paper.
Roughing up the surface of the metal will create a stronger bond for the patch.
 Once you have brushed and sanded the pipe around the leak, wipe the area down with acetone to clean it and help the exhaust epoxy bond to the metal. Acetone is the primary ingredient in nail polish remover, so using nail polish remover will work well for this purpose.Be very careful not to drip acetone into your eyes or mouth while wiping down the pipe with it.
You can purchase acetone in the cleaning chemicals section of many retail stores, or nail polish remover in the health and beauty sections.
 Small cracks or pinholes can be sealed using just epoxy or exhaust tape, but larger holes will need a patch. If the leak is a thin crack or small hole, you can proceed without purchasing or making a patch to help. If the hole is larger, you will need a patch as well as epoxy.Attempting to seal too large a hole without a patch can result in an imperfect seal or the exhaust leak resurfacing after a few hours of driving.
 If you are using exhaust repair tape, wrap it all the way around the pipe, covering the exhaust leak with at least two layers of tape. Make sure to wrap the tape around the pipe for a few inches to either side of the leak as well. Different kinds of exhaust repair tape will require different application methods, so be sure to read the instructions thoroughly before you begin.Some exhaust repair tape must be applied to warm pipes in order to establish a seal, so you may need to start the vehicle and let it run for a few minutes before applying.
Other forms of exhaust repair tape needs to be wet before applying.
You can purchase exhaust repair tape at most auto parts stores.
 If you are using epoxy to seal the leak, mix the two parts together using a wooden dowel. Once the two parts are mixed, it will begin to cure immediately, so apply it to the leak quickly. Dab the epoxy over the leak, then use the wooden dowel to spread it around the area. Leave a thick layer of epoxy over and around the leak.You may also choose to wrap the leak in exhaust repair tape after applying the epoxy.
Different types of epoxy have different curing rates, so read the instructions on the package to know how long to allow it to sit before driving the vehicle.

