 To set yourself up for a structured exercise program, you may consider joining a gym that is in your home area or close to your workplace. Look for a gym that will suit your budget and your exercise needs. Joining a gym will give you access to exercise equipment and exercise classes. You may also feel you will be more likely to exercise if you have a specific place or area for exercise that is not in your home.


If you cannot afford to join a gym or just prefer not to join a gym, you can do equipment-free workouts or you can buy some basic gym equipment. Designate an area of your home for exercise so you have a specific space where you can work out.
If you decide to buy exercise equipment, then buy a set of free weights and an exercise ball to start. Over time, you can also invest in an exercise bench and an exercise band for other exercises at home.
 Doing cardio exercises like running, jogging, or biking can all help to boost your mood and fight off feelings of depression or anxiety. Try to do 30 minutes of intense cardio exercise a day.You may go for a 30 minute run in the morning or later in the day as part of a structured exercise program. You may also warm up with 30 minutes of cardio exercise at the gym before moving on to other exercises.
 You can add interval training to your structured exercise program to push yourself and get fit. Interval training is when you perform bursts of intense physical activity, followed by intervals of lighter physical activity. Interval training can be a good way to get in shape and challenge your body with different levels of physical activity. You may create your own interval training program or use an existing interval training program that you find online or by talking with a professional trainer.For example, you may do interval training when you go running where you sprint for one minute, followed by two minutes of running at a regular speed. Or you may alternate between running at a high speed for two minutes and walking fast for two minutes.
You can also do interval training where you do several different exercises at various speeds. For example, you may run on a treadmill for five minutes, followed by three sets of push-ups. Then, you may run on the treadmill for five minutes, followed by three sets of sit ups.
 You may find it easier to exercise on a regular basis by taking an exercise class once a week or several times a week. You may commit to a weekly exercise class with a friend at your gym or take a class on your own. Having a set time for a fitness class every week can help you channel any stress or anxiety you may be feeling into exercise on a consistent basis.Many people find aerobics classes and dance classes to be a fun way to exercise and burn calories. You may also try a yoga class for a more calming, relaxing workout.
 Working with a professional fitness trainer can help you get the most out of your exercise program and ensure you are exercising safely. You may request a trainer at a gym or arrange for a trainer to visit you at home.Sessions with a trainer can be expensive so you may decide to only do a few training sessions at a time. You may ask for tips from the trainer and work with them to create a custom exercise plan.

