 Rather than presenting yourself for mental health care, you may know someone who you believe needs to be examined. This process begins by completing a Petition and Affidavit Seeking Ex Parte Order Requiring Involuntary Examination. This form is available online at http://myflfamilies.com/service-programs/mental-health/baker-act-forms.


“Ex parte” is a legal term that means you will be submitting this form to a court for a decision, without involving the person you are seeking to have examined.
You are not required to use this specific form. You may write out your own petition that states the relevant facts for examination. However, the form is recommended by the Department of Children and Families because it is designed to include all the information that you will need.
 The Petition and Affidavit is your statement to the court that you believe someone you know should be taken by law enforcement for a mental examination. You need to know that you are completing the form under oath, and the completed form will be made available to the person you are trying to have examined. Your statements must be completely truthful.First, you will be asked to provide information identifying yourself. This includes your name, home and work addresses, and your relationship to the person you are writing about.
The next series of questions asks about any history you have regarding the Baker Act, whether you have filed reports about this person before, or whether the person has filed reports about you.
The remainder of the form is optional and gives you the chance to report whatever behaviors you have witnessed that you believe supports having the person involuntarily examined. The more information you can provide, the better the judge’s decision will be.
Finally, you are asked to provide identifying information about the person who is the subject of the form. You are asked to give the person’s name, physical description, and your assessment of whether the person is currently dangerous to himself or others. If you know that a legal guardian has been appointed, you are asked to provide that information as well.
 You need to sign the form in the presence of a notary public, who can verify your identity at the time of signing, or in front of the clerk of the court when you file it. So if you do not have access to a notary, then do not sign the form until you go to court and are ready to file it. Ask the clerk for instructions., You need to take the completed form to the court clerk for the county in which the person resides. The clerk will accept the form and get it to a judge for review and approval. You may need to speak to the judge to answer any questions about the form and your knowledge of the person.After you file the Petition and Affidavit, your role is over. The court will consider your petition and act on it. If the petition is granted to have the patient examined, a law enforcement officer will find the person and transport him or her to a receiving facility for examination.
The involuntary petition for an examination may also be completed by a law enforcement officer who observes behavior that leads him or her to believe that the subject needs to be examined. Finally, it may also be completed by a physician who believes that the person meets the criteria for a mental health examination.