 Pet stores do sell bug sprays formulated just for animals. If you are planning to be out for extended periods of time with your dog or other pet, find a spray that is appropriate for them, and apply it to their coat according to the directions on the bottle.You may notice more flea and tick formulas than ones for mosquitoes. Look more closely at the bottle, as those sprays will sometimes guard against mosquitoes.
Pick one that contains one of the following ingredients for dogs: permethrins or pyrethrins. However, if you are spraying a cat, avoid permethrins, as it's not safe for cats; pick one with pyrethrins.;
, Like the repellent you apply for fleas once a month, you can also apply mosquito repellent this way. In fact, many repellents combine protection against both. When applying these repellents, you generally put them where your pet can't get to them, such as near the skin on the back of the neck.For dogs, one to try is K9 Advantix. However, this repellent should be kept away from cats, as it's toxic to them. If your cat does eat some of it (such as licking it off the dog), take your cat to the vet immediately.
You may not be able to find this type of product for a cat that also covers mosquitoes, so stick to sprays or wipes.
 This spray is a natural remedy made from lemon eucalyptus oil, which can help prevent bites. It's at least as effective as DEET sprays, and it can be used for humans, dogs, and cats. However, be sure to get one specially formulated for your pet to make sure it's safe for them.Many commercial sprays contain the chemical DEET, which is a chemical that makes it harder for bugs to catch your scent. DEET is one of the main ingredients recommended by the government for use in bug sprays (for humans, not animals).
For instance, it's sometimes placed in a holder on the pet's collar. That way, they can't eat it, and it doesn't touch their skin.
 Similar to lemon eucalyptus spray, a combination of soybean and geranium oils can be an effective repellent. It comes in a close second to lemon eucalyptus in effectiveness and is safe for most pets. Look for a brand such as PetFresh Bite Blocker., Citrus is a natural mosquito repellent. You can boil citrus, such as lemons, in a ratio of three lemons to 2 cups of water. You only need to boil it for a minute or so, then take it off and let it sit for an hour. Strain the mixture, and spray it on your animal. You can also just cut open citrus and rub it on your animal's fur.Avoid spraying the animal in the face. You can just rub it in instead.
Don't spray or rub citrus into an open sore or cut.
This treatment is safe for both dogs and cats.
 Bug spray for humans isn't safe to use on pets, particularly since most pets lick their own coats. You don't want them ingesting bug spray, as most contain DEET. Even if they don't ingest it, it can cause problems for your animal, including seizures and skin irritation.Also, try to keep your pets away when you spray it on yourself. It can also cause harm if they lick it off of you.

