 There are a number of different hormones that can be used to simulate pregnancy and stimulate the production of breast milk.


The most widely used hormone is domperidone, which suppresses the body's production of dopamine and therefore indirectly increases the amount of prolactin in your system, which is the hormone directly responsible for breast development and the production of milk.
Sometimes, additional hormones are recommended for use alongside the domperidone, such as estrogen and progesterone. Having higher amounts of these hormones in your system helps to mimic your body's natural state during pregnancy. If you are under the age of 35, you can take these hormones using the estrogen-progesterone combination birth control pill.
If you have time before the arrival of your adopted child, it is recommended that you begin your "fake pregnancy" six to nine months in advance (however, there are accelerated programs for people with less time). Start taking the three hormones recommended above, following the dosages recommended by a qualified lactation consultant.
Keep taking the hormones over the course of several months, until approximately six weeks before the baby's arrival. Then you should abruptly stop taking the progesterone and estrogen, thus tricking your body into believing you have given birth.
Keep taking the domperidone and begin physical stimulation of the breasts using an electric pump or other manual techniques. The milk should start to arrive in as little as a few days, or as long as two weeks. Once it arrives, you should continue taking the domperidone until you achieve a substantial milk supply, or the baby is ready to be weaned.Taking hormones without adequate medical supervision can result in serious side-effects. Therefore, it is highly recommended that you set up an appointment with a qualified lactation consultant at a hospital or clinic before you start the process., If you are using the hormone method of inducing lactation, you will also need to use a breast pump. However, it is sometimes possible to produce breast milk using the pump alone, although it can take a little longer.


Physical stimulation of the nipples triggers the release of the prolactin hormone, which aids in the development of the mammary glands and stimulates milk production. It also releases oxytocin, the key hormone necessary for the release, or "let down", of milk.
The best equipment for the job is a hospital-grade electric breast pump, which allows you to pump both breasts at the same time. These are expensive, but are worth the money if you consider the amount of time you'll spend using them. You can also use hand pumps, however the motorized versions are better at simulating the sucking motions of an infant.
If you decide to go down the breast pump only route, you will need to begin pumping at least two months before the arrival of the baby. You will need to set a strict schedule, pumping every 2 to 3 hours, for 15 to 20 minutes at a time.
You will also need to include at least one nighttime pumping session, as your body's natural prolactin levels are highest between 1 am and 5am, so it's important to take advantage of this fact.
Before you begin pumping, use your hands to to gently massage your breasts and nipples. This will make them erect and ready for pumping. Apply the pump to both breasts simultaneously, doing your best to keep your nipples centered.
Turn the pump on to a low suction and high speed, as this best mimics the rapid suckling motion of a baby. As you get used to pumping, you can gradually increase to a medium suction, or as high as you can comfortably go without making your nipples sore.
Don't panic if you're not seeing any milk at first. It can take weeks before you see a single drop. Just stay calm and focused and stick to your schedule - the milk will come.
 Instead of using a breast pump, it is possible to induce lactation by hand, using nipple stimulation and breast massage.


Producing breast milk this way will take more time and require greater effort than the previous two methods, but it is more natural than using hormones and cheaper than buying a breast pump.
In terms of technique, you will need to use both hands to massage around the entire breast - almost as if you were giving yourself a breast exam. Then you will need to stimulate your nipples and areolas using your fingers and thumbs, massaging them and rolling them between your fingers. Try to press the areolas as you pull the nipples, as this is the motion that best replicates an infant's sucking.
You will need to do this at least 8 times a day (including one nighttime session) for about 20 minutes at a time. If you feel comfortable with it, you can enlist the help of your partner or a close friend to massage with you. In order to have milk in time for the baby's arrival, you will need to start this process at least two months in advance.
As you get closer to producing milk, you will need to lean over, so both of your breasts are pointed towards the floor. Gently shake your breasts, as this allows any potential milk to make its way towards the nipples.
You may find it necessary to purchase a nipple lubricant or balm to protect your nipples from chaffing and becoming sore. However, no matter how sore your nipples become, it's important not to give up. Try to persevere and remember how how glad you will be once your baby arrives.
 If your baby has already arrived but you still have not produced any breast milk, don't worry. Allowing your baby to suckle on your nipple, even if they are not receiving any milk, will help to speed up the process.


Instead of pumping or manually stimulating your breasts, simply allow your baby to latch on. A baby's natural sucking motion is the best possible way of stimulating the hormones necessary to produce milk. That's because the entire experience - from the feeling of the baby's mouth on your nipple to the suckling sounds your baby makes - feels a lot more real than pumping or manual stimulation.
In fact, the production of breast milk is as much a psychological process as a physical one. The knowledge that your baby is present and needs milk can be enough to trigger a natural let down response from your body.
The only issue with this method is that babies can become frustrated if they are attempting to feed but are not receiving any milk. To solve this problem, you can invest in a lactation aid. This is a simple device, consisting of a tube that attaches to the mother's nipple on one end and a bag of formula on the other. In this way, the baby receives food while the nipple is stimulated, eventually allowing the mother to produce her own milk.
Even if you never achieve a full milk supply, the simple act of breast feeding your baby is an important and irreplaceable bonding experience, which allows you to connect with your adopted child in a special and intimate way. When you look at it this way, any milk you produce is a bonus.
If your baby has not yet arrived, you can still use the suckling method to induce lactation - you just need to get your partner to do it instead. This requires a huge commitment from both partners, but can be quite effective and can actually create a deeper connection between the two of you. Some couples also do this for erotic reasons, even when there is no baby involved. However, if you are doing it for milk, it is essential that your partner learns the correct latching on and suckling technique, and that you stick to a strict schedule.