 Any baking pan will work, but this recipe makes a good thickness of fudge in 8x8 or 9x9 pans. Spray the paper with a light cooking spray or rub with butter.


The greased paper will make the fudge much easier to remove and slice once it's finished.;
, Using a slow, steady heat and a heavy pan will give the best results here. Try starting the sugar on medium-low heat and only turning the burner up cautiously. Turn down the heat slightly once you notice boiling to keep the mixture at a gentle simmer.


Only stir until the sugar dissolves in the water. It can be tempting to give the mixture lots of vigorous stirring, but this can actually mess up the texture by introducing air and causing clumps to form., Let the mixture continue at a gentle simmer without stirring. As the water evaporates and the sugar starts to caramelize, the liquid will gradually turn amber-colored, then orange-ish brown as it thickens. You're looking for a light amber shade — the caramel should still be quite fluid at this point.
 Add each of these gradually and in order. Cut the butter into thin slices and toss them throughout the mixture so they incorporate well. At this point, you can and should start stirring again. Fold the edges of the caramel (which usually cook faster) in from the sides of the pan to the center.Be careful when you add the cream — the caramel can bubble and sputter when it touches liquid. At this point, it's very hot and sticky, so you do not want to get hit with any splatter. Try wearing gloves and adding the cream at arm's length.
 Fill a cup or bowl with cold water. Your caramel is ready when a small amount of dropped into the water can be gathered and pressed into a soft, gooey ball. This is, appropriately, called the "soft ball stage." If it only forms soft strands, it's not done yet. If it forms a firm or hard ball, you've gone too far.


At this point, the mixture should have a pleasantly tan or brown color turned somewhat orange by the cream. Keep a close eye on your caramel — it can go from "under-done" to "burnt" in a matter of minutes.
 Remove the caramel from the heat. Use an electric mixer (or, if you're careful, a whisk or spoon) to beat the mixture. As you beat it, it will gradually become thick, smooth and somewhat firm. This can take three to five minutes. Use your best judgement — if the texture seems appealing, you're probably fine.
 Be careful as you pour it — it is still very hot and sticky. Protective mitts or gloves are a must.
 Set the pan full of hot caramel into the fridge (uncovered) for about one hour. Remove it, cover it, and set it back in the fridge to cool for two to four more hours. When it's pleasantly firm but chewy, transfer it out of the fridge and set it on the counter (somewhere safe from children and pets) until it comes to room temperature.
 Carefully pull the baking parchment out of the pan to lift the fudge in a single block. Use a kitchen knife to chop it into small cubes. Serve these as-is or in a decorative arrangement for a gift box.


Small pieces are best — this recipe is very dense.

