 There is no point sitting in your bedroom worrying over your looks. You can change yourself and there are ways of bringing in confidence. Walk with your back straight, and don't slouch. Have a positive outlook on everything. You are beautiful no matter what in your own way.;
, Bathe or shower every day. Wash your hair on a regular schedule that works for you. Use a bath gel that smells great, and try skin lotions if you have dry skin.
 It's best to leave this to the professionals and have it cut at a salon. Not only will this be more accurate, the style will frame your face properly, the stylists will help pick a style with you to suit you, and the products used will be much better. Try out products like:


Mousse
Straightening cream
Heat protector serum or spray
Hairspray
Gel (for wearing hair up)
Hair accessories

, If you wear makeup, remove it properly with makeup remover. Cleanse the face with facial wash (this will help with spots), try a spot cream if you get acne often, and moisturize skin daily.
 Make sure fingernails are never dirty. Wear nail polish if you like. If you're not a fan of color on nails, wear clear nail polish. This will not only make nails stronger, but will add shine. Try dipping them in olive oil each night, this will help build strong nails and heal cuticles. (Be sure the olive oil stays on your cuticles for 2-3 minutes.) Why not jazz them up a bit with a sensible but pretty pastel shade? A French manicure is always most effective. False nails are over-rated and unnecessary in the opinion of many.
 If you're under 18, it's best to keep it toned down. If you have acne, then try getting rid of it with home remedies or consider foundation—but make sure it is the same color and tone as your skin, and wear the color powder over the top. For an easier option, apply concealer which matches your skin color. Try covering under-eye circles in the same way. Add Vaseline to your lips and lightly add pink to your cheeks for a rosy glow (then add a little Vaseline for a 'glow'). Try a little bit of mascara.


Don't feel like you have to wear makeup to be beautiful.
 Don't go as far as false lashes, and make it look natural, yet noticeable. Always make sure you look natural—and don't wear any more makeup than that except for special occasions.
 If you are horrible on the inside, then it will show on the outside. Be nice to people, share your things, and work hard in lessons.
 Smiling makes you look more attractive. When somebody catches your eye, smile confidently. Be polite to people. This looks a lot more attractive than frowning and mumbling.
 Try out mints for good breath, and a little teeth whitener but don't over-do it.
 Instead of wearing boring jeans, try out skirts and tights (or leggings). Alternately, try a classy scarf and some earrings—and if you're sticking to the 'classy' category, hoops aren't recommended. Studs are a better idea.
 It's what's on the inside that counts.
, Stay fit! Make sure to play or get outside at least 60 minutes a day and eat healthy! Exercise doesn't have to be boring! Try swimming, or horse riding, or walking, WiiFit or even yoga or martial arts. Fruit and yogurt helps, and try to stay away from more unhealthy foods such as cake, candy, ice cream, etc.
 Wear colors that you think will make you look good. Be bold, wear good quality clothes and plan outfits ahead of time.
 Remember that they only try to make you feel worse and make themselves feel better than you. You don't want to sink to their level by saying something back.
 But always remember, don't always count on your prettiness, it's about what's inside your heart that counts. Always be yourself, even if people don't like you for who you are!

