 Quality time with just you and your friend can help your friend in a lot of ways.Your time together gives you the opportunity to address your friend’s isolating behavior. It also gives them a chance to spend time with someone they're comfortable with, which may motivate them to be more social.


You might just want to spend some time just being in each other’s presence. You don’t have to do or say anything while you're together.
You could also make plans for the two of you to do something, like watch a movie together or go for a hike.
 You can help a self-isolating friend by encouraging them to participate in social activities. You can do this by inviting your friend to hang out and do things with you and other people.Being in social situations with someone that they can trust can help give them the confidence they need to stop isolating themselves.


For example, if you’re planning to volunteer at your local community center, ask your friend to come along.
Or, as another example, you could invite your friend to come along with you to a party or other social event.
 People are more likely to participate in activities that they enjoy so make some time to do things that your friend enjoys doing. Letting your friend know that you support their activities and hobbies can help encourage them to participate in those activities more. When they know someone cares about their interests, it can help them stop isolating themselves, as well as boost their self-esteem.


If you feel like you don’t know enough about your friend’s interests, then ask them, “What are some of the things that you like to do?”
Tell your friend you want to do something that interests them. You might say, “Let’s do what you enjoy. Tell me what will get you out of the house.”

, Enlisting the help of others can be very useful when you’re trying to help a self-isolating friend. You can ask other people who care about your friend to help you encourage the friend to socialize.


For instance, you might say, “Could you invite Toni out sometime? I think she’s starting to self-isolate and time with you can help.”
Or, you could tell a mutual friend, “I think it might help Mark stop self-isolating if you go by and spend some time with him.”

, It can be frustrating when you're trying to help someone be more social but they seem to be resisting your efforts. Don’t give up on your friend, though. Keep working with your friend on ending their self-isolation. Over time, your persistence will pay off and you’ll help your friend become more social.


Don’t stop inviting your friend places or trying to socialize with them. Even if they seem to always refuse, keep trying to get them to be less isolated.

