 This can be a great and safe solution to wearing your ring if you are involved in work or activities where it may get in the way. Slide your wedding ring onto an attractive chain and wear it around your neck, close to your heart, as a pendant.


If your work or activities make wearing lose jewelry dangerous, wear your wedding band as a snug choker.
This can be a safer way to wear your wedding band if you are involved in work like machinery or activities like scuba diving or rock climbing where wearing your ring on your finger is impossible.
 Bracelets are another style of jewelry popularly used instead of traditional wedding rings.Bracelets give you more freedom of movement with your hands without having to worry about your ring getting caught, damaged, or broken. Here are some things to consider about wearing your wedding band on a bracelet:


Bracelets can be personalized extensively. Try a charm bracelet of a precious metal and add gemstones to represent milestones in your marriage like your first year, the fifth year, and so on. This way, your wedding band bracelet will become a collection of memories to signify your love.
Wedding band bracelets may not be for everyone. If your bracelet is loose and dangling, it may still be at risk for getting caught during your work and activities.
 In Indian cultures, it is traditional for couples to wear their wedding rings as a nose piercing. For those interested in Indian culture or who love body piercings, this can be an elegant and unique way to wear your wedding band.
 This is a common alternative for men. An expensive watch can be turned into a symbolic heirloom by extensive personalization. Here are some things to consider:


Watches can be engraved with your wedding date, partner's name, romantic message, or whatever you'd like.
This option is fully functional and stylish.
 This method takes all the trouble and worry out of wearing a ring on your finger and may be more comfortable for some. If you are thinking about getting a wedding band tattoo, here are some things to consider:


There are plenty of beautiful and elegant wedding band tattoo styles that have become popular lately. You can get matching tattoos or create your own designs.
This is a way to never ever have to take your wedding band off. What could be more romantic?
A great tattoo idea is to include your wedding date and partner’s name.
 If you love to wear your wedding band, but need to take it off for work or things like going to the gym, this might be the perfect solution. Here are some things to consider:


For those who cannot wear conductive metals on the job, this type of ring can safely be your wedding band at work.
Because silicone bands are soft, they are safe alternatives to a wedding band when playing sports, participating in recreational activities, or any time when wearing your wedding band is uncomfortable or unsafe.
 There are countless variations when it comes to wearing your wedding band and expressing your sentiment to your partner. Couples looking for alternatives to the traditional should think about their interests and what their partner would enjoy the most.


Looking for things that truly stand out in your relationship may give you the inspiration you need to pick the perfect wedding ring style and arrangement for yourself and your partner.

