 Once you've reflected on what went wrong, improved yourself, and caught his attention, there's nothing left to do but to tell him how you feel. This part will be hard, but you'll have to swallow your pride and get over the nervousness in your gut if you want results. Opening up and letting him know that you want to try again won't be easy, but it will be worth it. Here's how to do it:


Pick the right place and time. Try to get him alone at a time when he's in a good mood and when there isn't a chance his friends will be lurking in the background.
Swallow your pride. If you've made any mistakes, apologize for the past, and be as specific as possible to show that you're self-aware.
Be honest. Tell him that you really miss having him in your life, and that you made a big mistake and want him back.
Say that you want to make it up to him and to show him how much you've changed.
 If your former guy is receptive, then you'll start spending more time with him, whether he asks you out on a date or just spends more time with you in the company of others. You have to make the most of the time you have with him to make sure that you don't lose him again. Here's what you should do:


Don't repeat your mistakes. Remind yourself of what went wrong and vow not to do the same thing this time. Remember how hard you've tried to improve yourself.
Don't put too much pressure on yourself. If you're constantly worried about not messing up again, you won't be able to focus on the present.
Start fresh. Think of this as starting a brand-new relationship while having a bank of information to work with. Don't dwell on the past or rehash old arguments.
Be yourself. Though you're an improved version of yourself, you're still you at the end of the day, so remember to be the girl he fell for in the beginning. If you try too hard to prove how different you've become, you'll lose sight of who you are.
 If you've tried everything and then some, but your former man still won't give you the time of day, then too much damage has been done for you to pursue the relationship further. If he's ignoring you, resisting your advances, or just downright being mean to you, then it's time to walk away before you get even more hurt.


Remember that not very relationship can be salvaged. You've done your best and can applaud yourself for trying.
Walk away with your head high. Don't be embarrassed about opening up and sharing your true feelings.

