 Before you apply your skin care products to your face, make sure that any makeup or dirt left over from the day (or night) has been completely removed. You can use makeup removal wipes or an oil cleanser for this step. Oil cleanser is better if you have particularly sensitive skin.Remove dirt or makeup from wiping from the center out with one wipe, then move to removing the make up from your eyes.
Repeat the process to make sure you get everything – even stuff that isn’t necessarily visible.;
, Before you begin the rest of your routine, your face needs to be soaked, not just damp. Splash water on your face at least three times, making sure you get every part of your face.
 A cleanser will give your face a deep clean – a deeper clean than makeup wipes can. There are many different types of cleanser available, based on the condition of your skin – normal, oily, or dry. Check the labels to make sure you’re using the correct formula.Massage in the cleanser, beginning at your hairline and working your way down toward your neck.
Rinse your face thoroughly, rinsing at least ten times, then pat your face with a towel so that it’s damp, but no longer wet., Toner tightens up your skin and can reduce the visibility of spots and wrinkles. For it to work properly, it needs to be fully absorbed into your skin, so it should go on first after you cleanse your face. As with your choice of cleanser, make sure you choose a toner formula that addresses your particular skin type.If you’re doing a daytime routine, you can skip the next two steps and jump right to applying sunscreen., Not everyone will necessary need to apply serum as part of their skin care routine, but it’s an excellent product to use if you have very specific skincare needs that you want to target. Apply your serum before your moisturizer to ensure that the potent ingredients in your serum absorb properly.For acne issues, look for serums that include vitamin C, retinol, zinc, and salicylic acid.
For dry skin look for formulas that include vitamin E, glycolic acid, and hyaluronic acid.
To brighten your skin look for serums that include antioxidants like green tea extract.If you have very sensitive skin, swap the moisturizing and serum steps. This can help reduce skin irritation and therefore redness by preventing the full effect of your serum's potent ingredients., Starting from your neck and working your way up toward your hairline, massage in your moisturizer of choice. Be generous in the amount that you use and make sure you don’t skip this step. Moisturizer seals in everything else you’ve put on your face.


Massage in your moisturizer using upward strokes to ensure the moisturizer soaks in to your pores.Avoid your lashes. Moisturizing cream travels on its own, so avoid massaging moisturizer directly into your lashes. You don’t want to risk burning your eyes and the moisturizer will find its way there on its own., If you like to use extra cream on your eyes, use your ringer finger to apply minimal pressure, tapping in a small circles. You should use cream if you’d like to reduce the appearance of fine lines or wrinkles on your eyelids., You can end your routine with eye cream if you’re applying your skin care products at night. If you’re beginning the day with your routine, you should end with sunscreen. Some moisturizers already include a sunscreen so you might be able to combine steps.You’ll have to wait until the rest of your products have dried – about ten minutes – to apply your sunscreen to make sure it soaks into your skin and actually provides protection.
You should apply sunscreen to both your face and your neck.

