 If you are wearing braces, it’s a good idea to get to know the types of foods which can cause you problems. Some foods might damage your braces and others could get stuck and be difficult to clean off. Hard foods may damage your braces by bending the wires and potentially snapping off brackets.


Try to avoid hard foods, such as nuts, hard pretzels, popcorn, chips, hard pizza crust, corn on the cob, apples and carrots that haven’t been chopped up first, and always avoid eating ice.
Sticky foods can also cause problems. Avoid chewy and sticky candies, caramel, chocolate, biscuits, peanut brittle, candy apples and licorice.
Avoid chewing gum as this can also get stuck around the wires and brackets., You should try to avoid sticky and sugary foods, and things that could easily get stuck in your braces, but if you do eat them you will have to spend some time cleaning your braces thoroughly. There is no magic bullet for cleaning things like caramel or gum. You will have to carefully brush, and use any other tools you have. Interdental brushes and floss are the main tools that you should use to supplement brushing.


Carefully clean around the braces to dislodge food that is stuck in your braces.
Don’t get frustrated and be too forceful or you might damage the braces.
If you do eat sticky or sugary foods without thinking, act quickly to clean your braces.
If you don’t thoroughly clean off foods that get stuck around your braces, you could develop cavities and other tooth problems, such as gum problems, gingivitis, and tooth sensitivity., If you have opted for clear braces, such as Invisalign aligners, you will find that they are susceptible to staining just like your teeth are. Keeping your teeth clean is absolutely essential for those with aligners, as any bacteria will be trapped and pressed up against your teeth by the braces. Be sure to brush after every meal and floss at least once a day. If you do find your clear braces have become stained, you can clean them.


You can use a specialist cleansing solution, which you will soak your clear braces in to tackle any stains.
Consider trying an effervescent denture cleaning product.
You can also use cool water and a soft-bristled toothbrush to scrub gently at the braces. For a better antibacterial effect, you can even add some chlorhexidine gluconate mouthwash.
Set aside a toothbrush that you will use just for cleaning your braces.