 If your itching doesn’t subside after a week or you become very uncomfortable, see your doctor. The doctor may prescribe oral medications, steroid creams, or light therapy for your itching.See your doctor if: you're so uncomfortable that it disrupts your sleep or ability to function daily, your skin is painful, self-care and home remedies haven’t worked, or you suspect your skin is infected., Applying a calamine lotion or non-prescription anti-itch cream can relieve the symptoms of itching. You can purchase these creams at grocery and drug stores both in-store and online.A nonprescription anti-itch, or hydrocortisone, cream, can help relieve itching. Make sure to purchase a cream with at least 1% hydrocortisone.Look for anti-itch creams that contain camphor, menthol, phenol, pramoxine and benzocaine
Apply these creams to your hands and feet before you moisturize your skin.Your doctor may also suggest applying the cream to the affected area and then covering it with a moist bandage to help your skin absorb the cream more effectively.Follow the specific product instructions for how often you can use the cream on your skin.
 These drugs can neutralize allergens and help relieve itching and skin inflammation. There are many different over the counter antihistamines that are available at drug and grocery stores both in store and online.Chlorpheniramine is available in 2mg and 4mg. You can take 4mg every 4 to 6 hours. Don’t exceed 24mg per day.
Diphenhydramine is Available in 25mg and 50mg. You can take 25mg every 4 to 6 hours. Don’t exceed 300mg per day.
These drugs often have the added benefit of sedative effects, which can help if you are having trouble sleeping., There is evidence that selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, may help relieve pruritis. Talk to your doctor about this option if other treatments aren’t working.Common SSRIs used to treat skin itching are fluoxetine and sertraline., When the itching is not relieved by applying an over the counter topical corticosteroid, your doctor may prescribe either a stronger topical or oral corticosteroid such as prednisone.Oral steroids can have serious side effects when used long term.Continue to moisturize your skin while using oral and topical corticosteroids. Not only will they keep your skin hydrated, but they may help prevent itching when you discontinue use of the steroids., When no other treatment works, get a calcineurin inhibitor cream that can help repair your skin. These drugs, which include tacrolimus and pimecrolimus, can help maintain normal skin and minimize itching.Calcineurin inhibitors directly affect the immune system and come with potential side effects including kidney problems, high blood pressure and headaches.These drugs are prescribed only when other treatments have failed and are approved for anyone over the age of two., A doctor may prescribe multiple sessions phototherapy (light therapy) to help relieve your itchy. This very effective treatment can be as simple as limited sun exposure to using artificial light, though it does not come without risk factors.Phototherapy exposes the skin to controlled amounts of natural sunlight or artificial ultraviolet A (UVA) and narrow band UVB. This treatment can be used alone with in conjunction with medications.Light exposure increases your risk for premature aging and skin cancer.