 It's important to work with a very sharp knife, since butternut squash is firm and smooth. A blunt knife could slip and cut you if you aren't careful. Use a thick, heavy knife to do the job.;
, Place the squash on a large cutting board. Hold the thicker end of the squash with one hand, and use the other to cut approximately 1/2 inch (1.2 cm) off the narrow end, just below the stem. The slice should be clean and even.
 Hold the narrow end of the squash and use your other hand to cut approximately 1/2 inch (about 1.2 cm) off the wider end.
 Now that you have a flat base to work with, it's time to peel off the rind. Use a vegetable peeler, or if you don't have one that's sturdy enough, a very sharp knife.


Stand the squash upright on its wider end. Hold it from the top with one hand and use the other to run the vegetable peeler in vertical strokes down the side of the squash.
Alternatively, you could hold the squash in one hand and use the vegetable peeler to remove the rind in horizontal strokes.
 Stand the squash upright on its wider end. Place the knife in the middle of the top of the squash and slice downward. Make one clean cut to slice the squash in two.


Cutting butternut squash can sometimes be difficult because the squash is dense and hard. If this is the case, gently tap the knife end with a rubber mallet to help it cut through the flesh of the squash.
If the mallet method doesn't work, you can switch to a serrated knife and use a sawing motion to cut the squash in half.
 Use a metal spoon to scoop the seeds and stringy pulp from the both halves of the squash. The seeds can be roasted like pumpkin seeds, so save them if you'd like.
 Lay both halves of the squash cut side down on the cutting board. Make a horizontal cut in each half, separating the bulbous end from the thin end. You should now have four parts of the butternut squash to work with.
 The thickness of your strips will vary depending on the specific recipe. Generally, the strips will range from 1/2 inch to 1 inch (about 1.2 cm to 2.5 cm).
 You could leave them as strips if you'd like, or cut them crosswise to create uniform butternut squash cubes.


If you want to save some time with the cubing process, stack several lengthwise strips on top of each other and cut them at the same time. If you utilize this technique, don't let the strips slip while cutting. This will create uneven cubes.
Keep in mind that the smaller you slice the squash, the more quickly the cubes will cook. Determine how small the pieces should be for the recipe you are using.

