 Don't stop taking your medication without talking to your doctor first. Medications for mental illnesses such as bipolar disorder require constant medical monitoring. If you are not compliant with your medication regimen, negative side effects may occur. These may vary from person to person, but tend to include intense anger episodes, irritability, nausea, fatigue, and suicidal thoughts.Keep in mind that bipolar medications may take several weeks to start working. Don't give up on your meds and stop taking them because you're convinced they're not working. Give it time.
Quitting a medication cold turkey can have disastrous consequences. You may experience withdrawal symptoms, which can be unpleasant or even dangerous, or you may relapse into a manic or depressive episode. If you think you need to stop taking a medication, talk to your doctor first., Talking to friends and family can help relieve bipolar symptoms. Reaching out to make new friends can also help you stay upbeat and positive. Consider joining a support group in your area to meet people who are dealing with the same issues as you.Try inviting a friend to exercise with you, asking a coworker if they want to get lunch, or scheduling a weekly Skype session with relatives who live far away.
There are warm-lines that are sponsored by the county or state that are available for talk and support therapy. Further, there are crisis lines that are there for people that have had challenges or are suicidal.
Certified Peer Support Specialists are people that provide support and guidance to people who have mental disorders. These are people that have a mental disorder themselves and who work in the healthcare system to treat others and provide help and guidance.
 Processed foods that contain sugar and white flour can have an adverse effect on your mood, while nutrient-dense, unprocessed foods can help keep your mood stable. Fresh produce, high-quality meats, whole grains such as brown rice and oatmeal, and legumes are good choices for maintaining your health and avoiding blood sugar problems., Gentle cardiovascular exercise like walking can help regulate your mood naturally. Try to get 30 minutes of exercise five days a week.Exercise can also help ease insomnia and anxiety.
Check with your doctor before you begin an exercise program. Exercise may interfere with certain medications.
 Too much or too little sleep can leave you feeling cranky and foggy-headed. To avoid sleep-related mood swings, aim to get seven to nine hours of sleep a night. Try to get up and go to bed at the same time every day., You may be able to prevent a full-blown manic or depressive episode if you notice the symptoms early enough. Stay in touch with your emotions and call your doctor if you start to feel unusually sad, listless, or hyperactive. Journaling is a good way to keep tabs on your mood.

