 The Bengal breed’s most distinctive physical feature is their beautiful spotted coat. These cats have inherited these spots from their leopard ancestors. All Bengals will, without exception, have a spotted coat.Bengal cats usually have a shine or shimmer to their coat that is most visible in direct sunlight. Breeders often call this the “glitter” effect.;
, All Bengals have spotted coats, but they can come in a variety of colors. The most common color pattern is a brown or golden background color. But these cats can also come in cinnamon-sorrel colors, gray-beige, charcoal, silver, or blue color patterns.Sometimes the spots link together to resemble more of a striped patterns, but these are still considered Bengal cats. This is often called a marbled pattern variation.
 Bengal cats are usually quite large and lean. They have an athletic build and very rarely develop the saggy belly that many other cat breeds get when they gain a little extra weight.Bengal cats typically weigh between 8 lb (3.6 kg) and 15 lb (6.8 kg) once they reach their adult weight.
 Bengal cats are descendants of wild Asian leopards, so it is in their nature to be active and energetic. They have a penchant for playing and exerting large amounts of energy. Bengals spend more time playing and less time napping than many other breeds of domestic cats.If your cat seems quite docile or lethargic, it is unlikely that the cat is a Bengal.
 Despite their wild ancestry and feral appearance, Bengal cats are very affectionate towards humans – especially their owners. They love to cuddle and play with their family members and spend much of their time engaging with humans.A Bengal cat will not be reclusive or aloof. It will spend most of its time around the humans and other animals of the household.
 Bengal cats are quite vocal and loud, more than many other breeds of cats. They regularly communicate with their owners about what they want and how they feel. They will not hesitate to let their owner know if their litterbox needs cleaning or if they want more food.Even though Bengals express themselves often, their meow is actually more of a gruff little bark sound than an actual loud meow.
 Well-respected Bengal breeders will be able to provide you with a guaranteed Bengal kitten with documented Bengal ancestry. They may even be able to advise you about a cat you already have to determine whether or not it is a true Bengal cat.To find a reputable breeder, you should consider looking for recommendations from Bengal breed organizations.
The International Cat Association has a list of approved Bengal breeders., For almost every breed of cat, there are breed-specific organizations that regulate the standards of the breed and provide information about the breed to interested parties. Find a Bengal organization near you and ask them for more information about the breed.

Try the International Bengal Cat Societyor the Bengal Cat Association., When all else fails, take your cat to your vet’s office and ask for their advice. Your vet will be able to help you analyze the cat’s physical features and personality traits in order to arrive at a conclusion about the cat’s breed.Bengal cats are immune to feline leukemia, so your veterinarian will be able to help you determine if this is the case for your cat.

