 Once you know how to wink, the next step is knowing when to do it. One common use of the wink is just to greet someone or say hello.For example, imagine you are at a party and are deep in a conversation with some friends. Another friend comes into the room, but you don't want to break up the flow of the conversation you are already in. A quick wink can be gesture of greeting that won't interrupt the conversation.
 Like Odin's missing eye, the wink can be a sign that you know something. It often has a conspiratorial meaning, suggesting that you and the person you are winking at understand something that others do not.Winks can be used, for example, as a way to indicate humor between you and another person. A wink can mean: "I know you get this joke, even though other people may not." It can also be a way to show someone you are joking when you say something ironically. For example, if you have a friend who knows a great deal about history, you might say: "I have a really tough history paper to write this week. Too bad I don't know anyone who could help me out with that!" and then wink.This kind of wink can also be used to mean that some plan you made should be put into motion. If you and some buddies are going to ambush a friend with water balloons, for example, a well placed wink could mean "Go get those water balloons now!"

, A wink can also be used to reassure someone who seems to be experiencing difficulty in some situation. It works almost like a pat on the back.For example, imagine a friend of yours is giving a public speech, and you know he or she is really nervous. If you are sitting in the audience and your friend makes eye contact with you, a wink can send the message: "You've got this pal."

, A wink can also be a suggestive or flirtatious greeting to someone you are attracted to.This kind of wink sends the message: "Hi there cutie!"
Some people find a slow wink works best for this purpose., There are some cases when winking can cause socially awkward situations or even get you in trouble. Be careful, in particular, about winking at the opposite sex.


Winking at someone of the opposite sex is often assumed to be an act of flirting. If this isn't your intention, think twice about winking. You may be misunderstood, especially if the person you are winking at doesn't know you well.
A misplaced wink can make people angry, especially if it might convey that you aren't taking them seriously or that you are being inappropriately sexual. Especially if you are in a position of authority, be careful about the situations you wink in.