 For example, if you continue doing something that upsets your child (such as exposing them to painful sensory stimuli or pushing something they don't want), they may lash out. Children melt down more frequently if they believe that it's the only way to make parents acknowledge their feelings and desires., Coercing him, ignoring the fact that they are not comfortable with something, or physically restraining him is damaging. Respect your child's autonomy.


Obviously, you cannot always honor a "no." If you are not going to do what they want, tell them why: "It's important that you sit in the car seat because it keeps you safe. If we get in an accident, the car seat will protect you."
If something bothers him, find out why, and try to fix the problem. "Is the car seat uncomfortable? Would it help if you sat on a little pillow?"

, Medications such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), antipsychotic medications, and mood stabilizers can be partially effective in helping children who are easily upset. However, like with any medication, there are side effects, so you must take the time to really decide if medication is the best option.There is enough research data to show that a medication by name Risperidone is quite effective for the short-term treatment of aggressive and self-injurious behaviors in autistic children. Speak with a doctor or therapist about the pros and cons of this medication.
 A therapist can help your child improve in their communication as well. Be sure to find one that works with autistic children. Your doctor or many of the good autism spectrum disorder support groups will be able to help find a recommended therapist., For example if your child does not like to get dressed, break up the complex process into basic "one-at-a-time" steps. This will help you understand where some of the difficulties are with your child undertaking a particular activity. As such, without even speaking, your child is communicating with you about a concern they have., The library is full of children's books that teach skills, and you can teach skills through play time as well.


For example, if one of your dolls is angry, you can have that doll step off to the side to take deep breaths. The child will learn that this is what people do when they are angry.
 Work with a specialist to implement a reward system so your child can be rewarded for remaining calm. Rewards can involve praise ("You did such a good job handling that crowded grocery store! That was very nice deep breathing"), gold stars on a calendar, or physical rewards. Help your child feel proud of their accomplishments., When your child has a strong bond with you, they will learn to come to you when they need help and listen to you.

