 There are two burial options for you - ground burial and mausoleum burial. With a ground burial, the body is placed in a casket and buried in the ground beneath typically six feet of dirt. A mausoleum burial entails being placed in a casket and then sealed in a wall, sometimes with other caskets.


In many cities, a mausoleum burial may be required if you live in a city that is below sea level, such as New Orleans.;
, Be sure to consider any religious customs that you and/or your family observes as well. It may be upsetting to your family if you do not take these customs into account.

For example, in Judaism cremation is forbidden and there are other specific burial rituals that must be observed.
 If you do not want a burial, there are other options for you to consider. Cremation is an option and many opt to have their ashes either housed in an urn for family members to keep or to have their ashes spread in a location that is important to them


Another option is donation to science. You can donate your body if you choose and often times they will be used by scientists or doctors in studying disease and/or medical school students practicing surgical technique to develop their craft.
You can also consider being an organ donor if you do not want to donate your entire body. This is a way to both contribute to science and medicine while allowing your family to give you the burial they may desire.
 If you have a friend who has already made their burial arrangements, have a talk with them about your options and what they chose. Make sure to ask them why they made the decisions they did, as you may have different motivations than them.


For instance, if they chose cremation because it is the most cost effective option, but finances are not a major concern for you, you may want to consider other options more in line with your own wishes and lifestyle.
This may be a difficult topic to broach, but you can start it by saying something like “I know that you have already made your arrangements for how you want to be buried, and I was wondering if you could give me some advice?”

, Though your friends will be able to help you in the beginning stages of your information gathering process, a professional, who is often times a funeral director, will tend to offer even greater insights. They will be able to provide you information about burial options, vaults, costs, and funeral processions. They will likely also bring up other arrangements that you may not have thought of, like flowers.


Don’t be pressured into making any decisions that you are uncomfortable with. Though there are many funeral directors who will have your best interests at heart, there are certainly some who are more concerned about making money. If you make decisions that feel right to you, you can have peace about your burial arrangements.
 The average burial can cost anywhere from $4,000 - $6,000, so you must consider this before making any final decisions. Take some time to look at your finances and both consider what you can afford as well as what you are comfortable spending.


Remember, donating your body to science is free.
Cremation is typically cheaper than a burial, ranging from $2000 - $4000.Mausoleum burial will remove the requirement for purchasing a vault, making it cheaper than a ground burial.
You might consider getting some life insurance to help cover your costs. Some plans even allow you to borrow against them while you are still alive.
Make sure that you let your family know how to access these accounts after you die and educate your family about your finances (debts, savings accounts, life insurance policies, estate plans, etc.). A financial planner or lawyer can help with these matters.
 In addition to thinking about how you would like your body to be handled after death, and if you should choose to be buried, you must also consider where you want to be buried. If your family has a family plot somewhere, you may want to be buried there. Or perhaps you would like to purchase a plot for your family to be buried in to alleviate future costs for them.


If you want your body taken out of state, you may need a permit.If you are married, consider purchasing a joint plot.
 After considering all of the options, you should begin thinking about your funeral. You may want to include your spouse and/or family in the planning process as well. This will help to ensure that you don't plan something that goes against their wishes by accident. This will also allow your family to have the time to grieve without having to worry about the details. Consider the kind of funeral procession you would like to have as your family tells you goodbye.


One thing to consider is the music you’d like at your funeral. If there is a certain song or singer you’d like, make a note of that.
Many also have made requests that those who attend their funeral wear a certain color other than the traditional all black garb, like wearing all white or even red.
Consider if you would like a certain preacher to preside over or officiate your funeral.
Also consider if you would like your funeral to be at a church or at the funeral home.
 Find a time that works well for your loved ones to sit down and have an informal, yet serious talk about your decisions. Thought this may be unexpected for them, it will prevent a lot of confusion and worry in the future.


You may want to call your family together to have dinner. You can begin the conversation by saying something like, “I’ve always taught you all the importance of planning for the future, no matter how distant that future may be. I wanted to let you know that I’ve taken my own advice by putting together some burial and funeral plans for myself after talking to some of my friends who have done the same. I wanted to let you all know these plans so that you don’t have to fret over the details when my time does come.”
Talk to them in a place that is quiet and private, like your family home.
 Once you begin discussing this topic with your family, they will likely immediately begin worrying about your health. You should be as honest as possible with them about your health condition so they are not blindsided in the future. If your doctor has told you that you will likely not live beyond a certain point, you should be honest with them.However, you may be in perfect health and simply pre-planning before it begins deteriorating. Assure your family that you are okay but want to make the proper plans for the future. You may want to say something like, “My doctor tells me that I’m as healthy as a horse, and I feel great, but you simply never know what is going to happen. This is my way of securing your future so you don’t have to worry about planning when you are needing to grieve.”

, After all of the research and decision making that you have been doing, communicate to them your wishes for burial. Assure them that you will draft these decisions in a document and you will tell them where the document will be kept in the event that something does happen to you.


If they have questions about why you choose a certain method or place, answer them to the best of your ability. This is a sensitive topic and any clarity that you can provide will be helpful to your love ones.
If they have any suggestions, keep them in mind, but at the end of the day, make the decision that seems best to you.
 If you are considering purchasing burial insurance, let your family know. Your family will need to know this information when it comes time to bury you and you don’t want them to miss out on utilizing the money you have been setting aside for this occasion. Include this information in any funeral and burial documentation that you draft.


You can say something like “In addition to making these plans, I’ve also began paying for the arrangements so that you all don’t have to deal with that burden, either. Funerals can be very expensive and I don’t want my death to hit you in the pockets.”

, This conversation may be highly upsetting, intense, or uncomfortable for your family members. However, there will come a time when we all will have to face the death of a loved one, whether untimely or in their old age. Remind them of this to put things in perspective and let them know that these arrangements are more for them than they are for you.


Reassure them. You may want to say something like “Even though I believe that I have a lot of time left on this Earth, I wanted to do all that is possible now to avoid the stress for either of us later. I don’t want to make these decisions when my health is failing and I certainly don’t want you to have to make them after I am gone. Death can cause a lot of confusion in families and I don’t want any of you to have to deal with that.”

, After you have done the proper research and had a discussion with your family, it is time to begin the documentation process by choosing a funeral home. Take some time to choose the right funeral home for you and begin working with the funeral director there to plan your burial and funeral.
 After making your decisions with the funeral home, begin the documentation process with the funeral director. They will typically keep a copy of your requests on file. If you choose to purchase burial insurance or prepay for your funeral through the funeral home, they will keep these records for you, as well. However, you can record all of your requests in as much detail as possible in a letter that your family can keep.
 This will cover most if not all of your funeral and burial expenses in the event of your death, but you may have needed to make a certain number of payments beforehand. Another method of coverage is to just prepay for your funeral and burial costs, so that you can secure a set price beforehand. Sometimes, funeral directors can sell this to you directly., Though the funeral home may have a copy of your requests, make sure that you have a similar document for your family. Keep the letter/document in a safe place in your home and make sure your family knows where the letter is.


If you keep it in a safe, make sure your family knows the combination or has a key.
 Upon your death, there will be things to settle beyond your burial wishes. Consider having a will drafted up as well to handle the allocation of any assets or finances that you might have. Other issues, like power of attorney, should be considered as well as your medical wishes, such as if you would want to be resuscitated or not. These decisions should be documented by an attorney or else they may not be considered as legitimate after your death.


One of the major issues that families fight over after a death is money. Though you cannot prevent such fights, you can eliminate confusion over who should get what. Do what you think is fair and consider talking to your spouse about it if you are married.

