 The water should be about room temperature—not too warm and not too cold. It should be deep enough for you to stick your hand into., You can use just about any type of liquid soap, including: body wash, dish soap, and hand soap. Keep stirring until the soap has completely dissolved and no streaks remain.Plan on using about 1 part soap to 10 parts water.You can also liquid glycerin. The glycerin will react with the silicone and cause it to clump together., Purchase a tube of pure silicone from the home improvement store; make sure it is not the quick-set kind. Squeeze enough of the silicone into the bowl to cover your desired item with.Construction silicone may also be labeled as silicone caulk.
If your tube of silicone did not come with a syringe, you will need to purchase a caulking gun, insert the tube, cut the end off, then poke a hole in the tip., Put on a pair of plastic gloves, and reach into the water. Grab the silicone with your fist and squish it together. Knead it until it is no longer sticky while keeping it under the water. This will take about 5 minutes., Begin by rolling the putty into a ball between your palms. Press it against a flat surface, and lightly push down on it. It still needs to be thicker than the item you will be molding.If the silicone is sticky, coat your hands and work surface with a thin layer of your liquid soap., Make sure that you are pressing the item with the design side face-down into the putty. Gently press the edges of the mold against the item so that no gaps remain., Silicone will never turn rock-solid; it will always remain flexible. Simply wait a few hours for the silicone to turn rigid enough so that you can still flex it, but no longer dent it., Take the mold by the edges, and bend it backwards and away from the item. The item should loosen or pop out on its own. Tilt the mold upside-side to tip the item out., Fill the mold with clay, then pull the clay out, and let it dry. You can also try to use resin in this mold as well, but let it cure and harden first.