 Shedinja appears when a Nincada evolves into Ninjask as long as you meet the right conditions. You can find Shedinja in the following locations depending on which version you are playing.Ruby, Sapphire and Emerald - You can find Nincada in the Grass in Route 116.

FireRed and LeafGreen - You'll need to trade for Nincada.

Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum - You can find Nincada in the Eterna Forest, but you'll need to the Poké Radar.

HeartGold and SoulSilver - You can get a Nincada in the Bug Catching Contest at the National Park on Thursday and Saturday.

Black, White, B2, W2 - You will need to trade for Nincada.

X and Y - You can find Nincada in the Grass in Route 6. You can also find it in a Ground-type Friend Safari.

Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire - You can find Nincada in the Grass in Route 116.;
, In order to receive a Shedinja when Nincada evolves, you'll need an open spot in your party. This means you can only have five or less Pokémon with you, including Nincada.
 Certain versions of the game require you to have at least one spare Poké Ball in your inventory. It must be a standard Poké Ball, not a special one like an Ultra Ball.


Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum do not require an extra Poké Ball. All other versions do.
Note that since Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum do not have a Poké Ball requirement, Shedinja will copy the Poké Ball that was used to catch Nincada. This is the only way to get a Shedinja in a non-standard Poké Ball.
 This is the first level that Nincada will attempt to evolve into Ninjask. Make sure that you meet both the space and Poké Ball requirements before allowing Nincada to evolve, or you won't get Shedinja. You can raise Nincada's level by battling or by using Rare Candies.Preventing your Nincada from evolving will allow you to continue to train both your Nincada and Shedinja at the same time, since the Shedinja inherits everything from the Nincada when it evolves. You can prevent an evolution by holding B during the evolution. For example, preventing your Nincada from evolving until it hits Level 50 will create a Level 50 Shedinja as well, with all the moves the Nincada has learned up to then.
 As long as you meet the requirements, Shedinja will appear in your party. You won't receive a notification that you've received it.


Since Shedinja comes from Nincada, if your Nincada is Shiny your Shedinja will be as well. Shedinja also inherits all of the Nincada's EVs and IVs.
Shedinja has 1 HP, but is not vulnerable to much. Shedinja's Wonder Guard ability only lets "Super Effective" moves hit. These include moves like Fire, Flying, Ghost, and Dark. It also packs quite a punch. If you teach Shedinja Quick Claw, you can strike first and take you foes out before they use a super-effective move.