 Your body needs rest to fight off the virus, as rest gives your immune system time and energy to work.One way to sleep better is to lightly elevate the top half of your body with pillows, making breathing easier.Another way to get better sleep is to relax before bed with teas such as chamomile.Nasal strips relieve congestion at night, making it easier to sleep., You'll get more rest at home, and stress can make symptoms worse. Also, you won't infect colleagues if you stay home.You're generally contagious for 24 hours before you show symptoms and for 5 to 7 days after you begin showing symptoms., Try fresh ginger chopped with hot water poured over it. Place your head over the bowl with a towel over your head. You can also add Vicks VapoRub to the water in place of the ginger.Hot beverages and soup also help, especially if you try to breathe in the steam as you drink or eat them. Steam helps break up congestion.
 It turns out that chicken noodle soup does help with colds and flu. Like hot beverages, the steam breaks up congestion. However, it provides other benefits, as well. The amino acid cysteine in chicken is similar to a bronchitis drug, which may explain why soup soothes symptoms., A hot shower can also help congestion through steam, and it can soothe achy muscles, as well. Take a few deep breaths of the steam while showering to cut through congestion., Humidifier moisten nasal passages and help with congestion at night.Be sure to clean it twice a week, change the water daily, and use distilled water. Humidifiers can be breeding grounds for bacteria and mold, which can worsen allergy and asthma symptoms., Honey can reduce irritation in the throat, which can decrease dry coughing., Gargling soothes a sore throat.Add a small amount of salt to water, and dissolve the salt. Use it to rinse out the back of your throat, and then spit the water out.
 Staying hydrated breaks up thick mucus, making you less congested., While washing your hands reduces your chances of infecting other people, it also stops you from catching something else while you're recovering., Zinc and ginseng can strengthen your immune symptom. However, you shouldn't take more than 50 milligrams of zinc a day, as it can actually suppress your immune system if you take too much.