 Pack as little as possible. Don't carry a camera bag that looks like one. If you're in a crime-ridden area, put the camera strap over your right shoulder, under your jacket, with the lens facing toward your body. It's a quick flip of your wrist to bring the camera to your eye with your right hand.;
, If the Taj Mahal is underwhelming but the street vendors are fascinating to you, shoot the street vendors. You can always get clichéd tourist shots at the postcard shop, so don't bother with those. Be adventurous. Approach locals and ask to photograph them as they go about their business If you are told not to take photos then acknowledge their request and looks elsewhere, however most people will agree, and you'll end up with better photos and maybe a good story.
 Carrying bricks, playing stickball in the street, selling fish, having dinner... anything that lets a viewer in on how they live their lives. Don't ask people to pose! Let your subjects go about doing their thing rather than stopping them to pose. Occasional portraits in front of spectacular views are great, but more than a few of them are tedious for the subject and your audience.
 If your pictures are not turning out very well, you may want to get closer to the subject. Use your zoom, or better yet your feet, to fill the frame with your subject and eliminate anything in the background that is distracting. But don't get too close either, as this may lead to distortion.
 Taking vacation photos is all about making memories. You will definitely want to remember how beautiful the area was that you visited. If you see something that you consider remarkable, such as a sunset, flowers, mountains, etc., take a photo.
 Include them in photos with scenery; such as near the ocean, or near places you went; such as a restaurant or museum. That way, you not only remember where you went, but who went with you.
 The light is most interesting in the hours just after sunrise and just before sunset, and at those times even mundane scenes can look magical. Plan some of your landscape and street-scene photography for those hours. Also, bad weather and the shadows or mist it creates can lead to good photos, so put on the raincoat and go explore.
 The use of a flash will freeze movement so if a picture repeatedly turns out blurry, try using the flash. Even if it's not necessarily needed, it usually helps decrease the blur. Similarly, if it is a sunny day, the faces of your subjects may even so be in shadow. Using the flash will get the light where you need it and keep the faces from being overwhelmed by the sun in the background.
 On digital cameras, you have both 'Optical Zoom' and 'Digital Zoom.' It is common when you take photos with digital zoom that the result is a blurry picture. Optical Zoom makes a clearer photo. Look at the settings of your camera and turn off Digital Zoom.

