 You need to be totally confident. That is the most important. Don't be shy, know how to start a conversation with anyone! Know you're better than them and dominate in every situation. Do not push it! If you do this wrong, you'll be annoying. If you don't, you'll be average. Also, you must know good comebacks and insults.

Purchase a great facial cleanser, toner and moisturizer and use them twice a day. You want to have clear, healthy skin.



 


Attain a classy, fashionable wardrobe.






Wear light makeup, NEVER overdo it. Kissable lips, eye-enhancing eyeshadow, and light blush are a must. Get some golden shimmer powder too, for special occasions.






Try to be perfect in every aspect. Bath and Body works has amazing stuff like hand scrub, body lotion and so on.





;
, Here's the positions of a clique:


Beta: She is your best friend. Betas get the gossip and have more power than anyone besides you. She is basically a clone of you and gets your clique known. Make sure to choose a beta that is confident and beautiful, but can't overthrow you. Trying to overthrow the beta is punishable by banishment.
Gamma: They are third in command. Gammas are followers and not nearly as powerful, but are more important than the deltas and omegas. They don't get as much input, but girls outside the clique would still kill to be one. The gammas should be pretty good friends with you. They have a fixed spot in the clique, not another 'come and go' girl. Choose gammas that have beta potential, aka the girls you might have chosen as a beta. You can usually have 1-3 gammas.
Delta: These girls are popular and funny, and don't exactly belong to a clique, they are just known everywhere. They come and go, and don't stand out. They have average/pretty good looks. Deltas don't have that 'one thing' that alphas, betas, and gammas have. Choose a delta(s) that is social and funny (that can increase your exposure) Don't be afraid to kick them out. They usually last 4 days-3 weeks. Let the gammas, deltas, and omegas fight amongst themselves for titles. You only need 1-2 deltas. They don't do anything really.
" Omega: People wonder how she even got into the clique. They aren't very pretty, funny, or popular. However, they are used for the dirty work. Later you can make them eavesdrop or whatever. They can be annoying and clueless. Choose an omega that is desperate to be popular, but not an LBR. Make her do anything the gammas won't, then dump her on another clique.
 Once you become friends , now is the time to become popular!

,, and then say "I'm not sure I can, I have a sleepover/I'm going to the movies/I'm going to the mall with my friends."Then make an excuse to walk away.Laugh together a lot, share gossip, and say comments to others.
