 Fabric markers draw like ordinary markers, but are made with permanent inks that are designed not to wash out. Fabric markers are likely to work best on white or light-colored denims, although some are designed to show up on darker fabrics.









Try drawing or writing free-hand designs on your jeans. You may wish to sketch in your designs with pencil before going over them with fabric markers.
You can use lace to create a delicate marker pattern on your jeans. Just pin the lace to the part of the jeans you’d like to decorate, color over the part of the pattern you’d like to transfer with a fabric marker, and remove the lace when you’re done.;
, You can use fabric paint to create your own designs. You may wish to lightly sketch in your design with pencil before starting to paint. Keep your painting surface completely flat and prevent bleed-through by inserting a piece of cardboard into the part of your jeans that you’d like to decorate.









Fabric paints come in a variety of textures and application types. Some come in tubes with applicator tips and are designed to be applied in a controlled line, while others are designed to be brushed or sprayed on. Keep in mind what sort of design you would like to do and select an appropriate paint for the job.
 You can purchase stencils to use or make your own. Stenciling usually works best with fabric paint that can be brushed on or applied as a spray. If you are using spray paint, make sure to protect the area around the stencil with a sheet of cloth or plastic so that you don’t get paint where you don’t want it. For brush-on paint, try using a foam brush with a small amount of paint on it so that your stencil designs don’t become runny or smudged.
 You can use pre-made rubber stamps or make your own stamp with a small block printing kit. You can even use ordinary household objects to stamp simple shapes and patterns. For example, use the flat end of a pencil eraser dipped in fabric paint to create polka dots.
 Put strips of masking tape on your jeans to create the desired pattern, and paint over the exposed areas of the jeans. The tape will help you achieve perfect straight lines and crisp edges.







