 Your baby might relax if given a warm bath. To bathe your little one, fill a tub up with a few inches of warm water. Sit your child in the tub and use a cup to pour warm water over their legs and shoulders. You could also use a mild soap in the water, but be careful not to get any in your baby’s eyes.Never leave your little one unattended in a tub.
If your child cries as soon as they get out of the warm bath, you could combine bath time with feeding time by feeding the baby while they sit in the warm bath.;
, A baby sling is an apparatus that allows your baby to stay safe and secure against your chest. Carrying your baby about in a sling should make them feel more safe and secure. These feelings will help your baby relax and, hopefully, stop crying long enough for you to feed them.You can easily obtain a baby sling online or from many retail stores.
Follow manufacturer instructions when using your baby sling.
 Before feeding your colicky baby, walk around with them, or even just rock them gently back and forth. Try a variety of positions like rocking while walking, rocking while sitting, or rocking while standing.Your child might also relax if driven around in a car. If you have a car seat, strap your baby in and go for a drive just before feeding time.Your little one might also benefit from spending time on a swing or vibrating seat. Ensure your child is secure when moving them gently on a vibrating or swing seat.
 Talk to other people who have had children with colic. You might be able to get other ideas about how to feed your baby from people who have been there. Connect with your friends or family members who have also fed colicky babies, or with other parents in online forums and chat rooms.You might also ask questions such as, “Do colicky babies play with toys?” or “How did you get your colicky babies to sleep?”

, When you feed your little one, do so in a space that is quiet and free of distractions.Turn the TV and radio off. Keep other people and barking pets away. This could help your baby relax and reduce their symptoms.You might also try feeding your child in a darkened room.
This is most likely to work if your little one is younger than two months old., While some colicky babies are best fed under quiet and stimulation-free conditions, others are easier to feed when presented with other things to occupy their attention. For instance, you could play gentle music by Miles Davis or Mozart while feeding your child. Your little one might also be easier to feed if you feed them in a room with a running dryer or vacuum., Whether you are breastfeeding or bottle feeding, adopting the right position can help your baby avoid developing a worse case of colic. In either case, it is important to support your baby’s head and aim their mouth toward either the breast or nipple of the bottle. Your little one should not have to turn their head in order to feed. Clutch the child close to your chest during feeding.If breastfeeding, allow your baby to lean toward you, rather than leaning toward your baby.
Colicky babies might be happier feeding if the mother lies on her back or reclines while feeding. They might also benefit from a mother who lies on her side.If bottle-feeding, do not lay your baby on their back. This could cause them to choke as they drink.