


Some coffee makers do not allocate enough wattage to the heating element, and fail to reach the ideal coffee brewing temperature range of 195-205 degrees Fahrenheit, or 90.5-96 degrees Celsius.
Another problem is that when coffee makers take too long to brew the coffee, it can result in bitter and harsh flavors. Ideally, the process should only take 6 minutes.;
, This will allow the coffee maker to heat up, which will help the water get closer to that ideal brewing temperature. Once it's done, pour that hot water right back into the coffee maker and immediately run it through again, this time with coffee.
 Actually, only a few grains are needed. Throwing in a little bit of salt with the coffee grounds will tone down the bitterness and may bring out more of the coffee's better flavors. Some people add it after the cup has been brewed.If you're skeptical, or worried about ending up with a salty cup of coffee, follow all of the other steps, and only add salt if the coffee leaves something to be missed; sprinkle a little bit, taste, and add more salt as needed. It may take a little experimentation to find out how much salt is needed to "fix" a cup of coffee, and it may vary by brand and coffee maker.
 Set a timer. When around 6 minutes have passed, pull the pot (or glass carafe) off the burner and serve whatever coffee is already made. Put a mug in the pot's place so that the remainder of the coffee being made (which will probably be pretty harsh, and worthy of being dumped) doesn't drip everywhere. This cuts off the brewing process before the coffee gets bitter. Even though you won't have as much coffee, at least it'll be good coffee, and you can always start a new batch.


Another option is to use only half of the amount of water to brew (which shortens brewing time), then add hot water to the coffee afterwards to dilute it. Depending on how you obtain the hot water, this might result in lukewarm coffee.
 Don't leave brewed coffee in the pot or glass carafe on the burner. Pour it out into a mug or cup as soon as it's finished, and start sipping before the coffee starts to taste like hot ashes!

