 Some people may even make their judgments of you apparent. For instance, someone may question why you’re eating something, or you may notice their demeanor change if they ask about your diabetes and you reveal that you have type 2. When you're treated this way, it can be frustrating, but try to take the opportunity to educate someone instead of becoming upset.For instance, say something like, "I appreciate your interest in my health. I am eating this in order to get my blood glucose levels back up to a safe level."
Alternatively, "I know that lots of people don't know what to say when I tell them I have type 2. Trust me, I've learned a lot about how to address my own behavior, as well as how to educate others about the additional factors that cause diabetes."

, Since educating others is the best way to reduce stigma against type 2 diabetes, it’s worth educating yourself as much as possible about the disease. Perhaps more importantly, knowing as much as you can about the disease can put you in the best position to keep it from hindering your life.


Your doctor and other members of your health team are likely the best source of information about type 2 diabetes. If there is anything you don’t understand about causes, treatment, or anything else, do not hesitate to ask them where you could find more information.
Do research through reputable sources such as university websites about anything you want to know more about.
 The unfortunate reality of a stigma against type 2 diabetes is based on a few popular misconceptions that you’re likely well aware of. Instead of being frustrated when these misconceptions arise, have a fact-based response ready to go.For instance, other people may believe you can’t eat sugar, that you’re diabetic because you’re overweight, or that you could cure your diabetes if you exercised more or ate a healthier diet.
By familiarizing yourself with specific common misconceptions, you’ll know exactly what to say when someone makes one of these assumptions.
For example, you could clarify with something like, “While lifestyle factors are important to development of type 2 diabetes, some people develop the disease despite maintaining an extremely healthy lifestyle.”

