 Who you invite is important. If you have friends who are in relationships, they're probably doing something romantic on Valentine's Day. Instead of inviting couple friends, invite your single friends who may feel lonely or left out on Valentine's Day.However, you may have some couple friends who don't celebrate Valentine's Day or who are in long distance relationships. They may want to attend the festivities as well.;
, When you're planning to host an anti-Valentine's Day party, get the theme going with the invitations. Send out invitations online or physical invitations that express some animosity towards Valentine's Day.For example, you can send an e-vite saying something like, "Let's celebrate Singles Awareness Day!" You can also send out physical cards that say something like "R.I.P. Valentine's Day" on them.
Make sure to include basic information like the location, date, and time on your cards.
 Instead of playing sappy love songs, compile a playlist made up of anti-love songs. You can use songs to set a particular ambiance. You can go for anti-love songs or fun songs about enjoying life and being single.If you want anti-love songs, you can include songs like "Love Stinks" and "You Give Love a Bad Name."
You can also include songs like "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" to express appreciation for the single life.
 You can stop by a candy store and look for specially molded chocolate. You can also buy chocolate online. Instead of getting heart shapes, go for shapes like skulls. This can reflect a "Death to Valentine's Day" theme., Most drugstores, department stores, and grocery stores sell decorations around Valentine's Day. Stop by one of these stores and pick up some conventional decorations. Then, you can take them home and alter them with negative messages.For example, you can use spray paint to paint X's over hearts on Valentine's Day signs.
Try using markers and write the words "stinks" under words like "love" and "Valentine's Day."

, Candles are often thought of as romantic. However, if you're throwing an anti-Valentine's Day party, use them to cultivate a dark mood. Instead of lighting pink or red candles, opt for black candles.If you have any sinister candle holders, use them on Valentine's Day. For example, use skull-shaped candleholders from Halloween to decorate.
 Valentine's Day is often associated with refined food, such as champagne and strawberries. To work against this, go for messy food. As many people will be kissing on Valentine's Day, they may avoid strong smelling food. As you're throwing an anti-Valentine's Day party, opt for food with a strong odor.For example, serve something like messy nachos with onions and garlic.
Get pizza with extra cheese and loaded with extra toppings, especially strong smelling toppings.
 Make basic cut out cookies shaped like hearts and frost them. Then, use icing sarcastic, anti-love messages on them.For example, write things like "You Wish," "Go Away," and "Love Stinks" on the cookies.
 If you're serving cocktails, go for darker colors. Opt for drinks made from dark liquors, like bourbons and rums, over lighter options like vodka.You can also add dark pieces of fruit to glasses of champagne or sparkling wine. For example, add a few blackberries or cherries to a glass of Prosecco.
 This is a game in which guests bid farewell to failed relationships. Give everyone a pen and paper. Let everyone spend 15 to 20 minutes jotting down everything they hated about their last relationship. Then, you can do something to destroy the notes.If you can safely burn the notes, do so. If you have a fireplace, for example, burn them there. You can also start a bonfire outside.
If you can't safely burn the cards, you can destroy them or get rid of them in other ways. For example, everyone can rip their cards up at the same time.
For a twist on the game, have everyone inflate a balloon and write down negative things on it. Then, everyone can pop their balloons at the same time.
 Board games can be a fun way to pass the time. Go for board games with a darker twist to stay away from cheesy love themes. For example, play a war game such as Risk or Settlers of Catan., Instead of decorating cookies before the party, just make a batch of cut out cookies. Then, provide things like icing, sprinkles, and frosting. Allow your guests to decorate their own anti-love cookies., Instead of watching love movies, opt for things like horror movies, comedies, or documentaries. You can also watch very cheesy love movies and make fun of them.You can also try watching movies about how relationships are complex and can end easily, as these may feel like anti-love movies. For example, watch something like Annie Hall or 500 Days of Summer.

