 If you have access to a handheld blow-dryer, you can use it to quickly and intensively dry your clothing. First, wring out the wet garment and lay it on a clean, dry surface. Turn the hairdryer to a warm or high setting – it's more about the air flow than the heat. Hold the blow-dryer near the clothing, and dry it spot-by-spot with quick blasts of hot air. Work your way slowly around the entire surface of the garment, front and back, inside and out, until the whole thing is dry.


Rotate the garment frequently to dry any pockets, sleeves, and collars. Dry them from the inside and the outside to ensure that you do a thorough job.
Be careful not to point the blow-dryer at one spot for too long. If some garments or surfaces get too hot, they might catch fire.
 Hang your clothing on a line, if possible, or use a drying rack. A line is usually fastest, but it is not always practical. Make sure to hang each item individually so that it has the space and ventilation to dry quickly. Rotate and flip garments periodically to ensure an even dry.Try setting up your line or rack near a heat source. Hang your clothing a few feet away from a fireplace, radiator, boiler, or furnace. Be very careful when placing flammable materials near heat; if you let your clothes get too hot or cover up a heat source, you may risk fire. Do not drape your clothes over a heat source.
Try setting up your clothing to dry somewhere with a brisk airflow – anywhere air is moving. Hang your clothes by a window (or outside) if there's a breeze, or set up a fan to simulate the airflow inside the house.If you use a drying rack with individual bars, try hanging must-dry items over two bars rather than just one. The more surface area you expose to the airflow, the more quickly a garment will dry.
 Lay your wet garment on an ironing board, as if you are going to iron it, but lay a thin towel on top. Iron the towel firmly and thoroughly using a high heat. Make sure to turn the garment over so that you press both sides. The iron-and-towel combination channels some warmth into the fabric, and the towel will absorb some of the moisture.


Do not put a hot iron directly onto a wet piece of clothing. This may stretch and damage the fabric, rendering the garment unwearable. If you use an iron on wet clothing, always use a towel for protection.

