 Before the date do something that relaxes you, exercise, reading, yoga, singing your favorite song, whatever puts you in an easy going, happy mood. Wash yourself, put on antiperspirant/deodorant, brush your teeth, brush your hair, and don't forget to wear clean clothes! Make a list of conversation starters and questions you can ask them if you're having trouble finding a topic. Questions about their pet(s), taste in music, good books they've read lately, favorite thing to do outdoors, would you rather questions, are all good ideas. Remember these and read the front page of the newspaper, too.;
,, If you're not sure what he or she will like, ask. You may want to take him or her out to eat someplace out of the ordinary (don't go overboard, as this can set a bad precedent).
 For example, a small box of chocolates or a single rose. This is even better if you know what types of flowers or candies are your date's favorites. Never try the single red rose on a casual first date, you may come on way too strong, as this signifies passionate love. Try baking a nice treat, getting a small stuffed animal, or something else that is unique to them. Never do anything big on the first date. The best gift you can give is your company.
 Talk to your date during dinner and listen to what he or she has to say.
 They are trying to be nice. If you are a gay/lesbian couple, just ask them what they prefer to do and explain what you prefer to do and then compromise. A lot of gay/lesbian couples run into this problem because both sides want to pay for themselves, the best bet is to either take turns paying or pay for yourself. If you were the person that suggested the date it is generally accepted that you at least offer to pay for both yourself and your date.
 Do a lot of listening, it's important not to over-chat them, try to listen a little more than you talk, but don't let the conversation just die out.
 Eye contact shows interest.
 But don't lecture.
 Find one or more qualities in which to sincerely compliment them.
 Don't do anything huge, just go for a stroll in your neighborhood or offer them cocoa, show them your favorite constellation, something interesting that you alone will be remembered for.
 As you escort your date to their place of residence shift the conversation to something romantic like the moon, or the stars or something. Use visual cues and body language from your date to let you know when the time is right to "make your move".

