 Mix one cup of bleach for every gallon of warm water.Grab a medium-bristled brush, dip it in the bleach solution, and attack the mold or mildew stain. Be sure to dry the surface off as much as possible, as moisture promotes mold and mildew growth.









For harder-to-reach places, put the bleach solution in small spray bottle first. Apply the bleach solution directly to the mold or mildew by spraying. Then attack with the brush as normal.
This solution is best used mold or mildew present in bathrooms, kitchens, and other household rooms with tiles or non-porous surfaces.
Bleach is very effective at killing mold and mold spores. The active ingredient in bleach, sodium hypochlorite, is also the main ingredient in many mold-removal products. However, bleach will often simply remove the color from a mold patch, leaving it still present, but invisible.
 Pour undiluted white or apple cider vinegar into a spray bottle. Spray the moldy surface with the vinegar and wash affected area thoroughly with a brush. Dry area completely.









Use the vinegar solution only on non-porous surfaces such as tiles — not on wood.
Unlike bleach, vinegar is non-toxic and does not give off heady fumes. A mild acid, vinegar is said to be about 80% effective at destroying mold, mildew, and their respective particles.
 Mix about one cup borax for every gallon of warm water. Dip a brush into the borax solution and attack any mold growths vigorously. Wipe away excess borax and water with a clean rag.









Use borax only on non-porous surfaces. Tiled bathrooms and kitchens take borax better than wood surfaces do.
Although borax is toxic if ingested, it is a natural cleaning product that doesn't give off fumes and shouldn't contain additional chemicals. It is effective at both killing existing mold and preventing future mold growth.
 First, make sure the product you use says "clear ammonia." Next, mix one part clear ammonia with one part water and pour into a small spray bottle. Hit moldy and mildewy surfaces with the ammonia solution, scrubbing away. Wipe away excess ammonia with a clean towel afterwards.










Make sure you never mix ammonia and bleach. Ammonia and bleach, when mixed, create a toxic chemical called chlorine gas.It is harmful if ingested, even by fume.
For extra-tough mold or mildew stains, spray the surface with ammonia and let stand for several hours before scrubbing and wiping away.
 Baking soda is both mild — meaning it's safe for your entire family and pets — and effective. It is renowned as a gentle household cleaner and helps deodorize (no wonder it's used as a deodorant). It can be used in two basic ways:









Mixed with water and vinegar. Apply two tablespoons of baking soda to eight ounces of water and mix thoroughly. Pour into spray bottle and attack moldy surface, such as bathroom tiles. Take another spray bottle filled with vinegar and spray over the same surface. (This should create a chemical reaction creates carbon dioxide.) Vinegar is often used along with baking soda because it kills a different species of mold.
Apply baking soda directly to moldy surfaces. This works especially well on porous surfaces such as wooden furniture or drywall. Allow the sodium bicarbonate to penetrate the damp surface and then wipe away.
 Find a 3% hydrogen peroxide solution and add undiluted to a spray bottle. Spray the moldy surface with the hydrogen peroxide, let wait for at least 10 minutes, and then scrub off.Wipe away excess moisture to prevent mold from resurfacing.









Hydrogen peroxide is a great alternative to bleach and other stronger cleaning solutions that give off heavy fumes and happen to be toxic. Hydrogen peroxide is also effective at removing stains caused by mold infestations.
Hydrogen peroxide can be used on a variety of surfaces. It can safely be used on clothes, floors, fixtures, walls, and even appliances. Just make sure to spot-test any areas before attacking them at scale, as peroxide can bleach clothing and other surfaces.

