 Each state has its own regulations regarding bike safety requirements. Following your state's laws about bicycle lights can offer you legal protection in the event of an accident. For instance, if your bike is not properly equipped, for instance, you will have a harder time claiming damages from a driver, and may even be partially at fault. Look up the website for your state's Department of Transportation for the rules that apply to you.For instance, the Washington State Department of transportation states that a white front light visible for 500 feet and a red rear reflector are required for night bicycle riding..;
, Some states require that you add a white front light to your bike for nighttime riding, but it is a good idea to add one for added protection either way. A light with good beam quality (i.e. wide, evenly lit, and projecting far into the distance) will cost upwards of $60 but serve you better in the long run. The same is true of a small, portable sized light. Look online, or visit bike stores or departments stores to purchase a front light that suits you.You should also opt for a USB-rechargeable model as opposed to AAA and AA battery powered versions, which require you to purchase and carry spare batteries.
 While rear red reflectors are required by law by most states for night cycling, a rear red light is also a good idea for keeping visible. In recent years, lights that blink have grown in popularity due to their effectiveness in making bicycles visible to drivers. They have also drawn criticism from some cyclists who claim that a blinking light alone is not enough to make their exact position on the road visible to drivers.Look for a model that features a mode combining a static LED with a flashing LED. This will attract a driver’s attention while simultaneously allowing them to gauge the distance between their vehicle and your bike.<

, Reflectors work by bouncing light back towards its source (i.e. light from a car’s headlights being reflected back towards the eyes of the driver.) Most bikes are equipped with foot pedal reflectors; front and rear reflectors should also be added, as they are legally required in most states (and can be purchased easily at a bike shop or department store.) Reflective tape can also be purchased to add to areas of your bike like the fenders, forks, and seat tubes.Note that reflective tape may be difficult to remove from your bike, so take time to think about where you want to apply it.
Spoke reflectors are another option, available in a wide range of colors and shapes.

