 Do this by searching on YouTube for Angry German Kid.
 This can be found through Google., Something that your computer does that frustrates you generally works. Having the Angry German Kid do a regular everyday task, but with a few minor inconveniences works well too., These can often be found on YouTube. The video should be shot from the first person view. If the Angry German Kid is operating a computer program or visiting a website, try to capture screenshots of the program or website on your own computer using a program such as CamStudio., A Blue Screen of Death occurs in almost every Angry German Kid video and you will most likely need one. One can be found by searching for blue screen of death in Google Images., Import the clip you acquired in the first step into your video editing program. Windows Movie Maker will work for this, although you may experience difficulty getting the subtitles the right length., The Angry German Kid is extremely controversial and many viewers will leave comments that the actor needs mental help and that your translation is incorrect. Insert a message along the lines of the following:

ATTENTION: The subtitles here are incorrect on purpose for humorous purposes. Everyone knows that they are wrong and that the real translation can be found by searching for "angry German kid correct translation". Do not post comments stating that the subtitles are wrong and that he is actually playing Unreal Tournament, either because you speak German or you have seen the real translation. Furthermore, do not post comments saying that the Angry German Kid has mental problems or needs help that "can't be acquired from the Help and Support Center". He is a very talented actor who simply wishes to entertain people. Also, it is not true that his father secretly videotaped him while he was on the computer to send the recording to a mental hospital. This was made up by the German media. Comments mentioning this will be deleted.

The message may take up more than one screen if necessary.
 The Angry German Kid video starts off with the Angry German Kid arriving at his computer and shouting at it to turn on. For this part, it is best to write something along the lines of Come on computer! Load up!. Then, the Angry German Kid should say what he wants the computer to do (e.g Load up Internet Explorer! or Start up the Pinball game! so the viewer understands what the video is about., There should then be a screenshot of the program that he has launched if you were able to acquire one. Following this, the Angry German Kid is now excited and his excitement shows. The Angry German Kid should make progress in whatever task he is doing, building up to the climax., The Angry German Kid video contains two parts of keyboard smashing: a short part when the Angry German Kid encounters a minor error but fixes it with "positive thinking, and a major part in which the Angry German Kid severely damages his keyboard and leaves." For the former, you should create a minor error that the Angry German Kid quickly fixes., The second part of keyboard smashing occurs at the end of the video when the Angry German Kid leaves. A major error should take place here. The major error is commonly a Blue Screen of Death. The Angry German Kid should then make some comments about Bill Gates before leaving., Export your video and upload it to a video hosting website such as YouTube., The warning that you added to the actual video is not enough. Viewers will still miss the point so the more you tell them about this the better.,