 By the end of the day, you should have met your goals for each class. Use a visual method to represent your progress.


Example: 1 hour calculus, 30 minutes Engineering 101, 15 minutes Spanish, 15 minutes Feminism.
If you meet your goal by the end of the day, give yourself a reward. Take a walk, watch some of your favorite TV show, or dedicate the rest of the night to your special interest. This gives you something to look forward to.
 Prepare a reasonably-sized snack beforehand, but don't start eating right away. Instead, only take another bite after you've finished a tiny goal. Since you can't reach back into the bowl until you complete another goal, your hunger will force you to keep working. For example:


For each paragraph you translate, eat another slice of your pear. Continue until you finish your homework or your pear.
Each time you complete another math problem, eat another pretzel.
 Whenever you complete a step, fill in part of the graph. Filling in each square of the bar graph will give you a feeling of satisfaction, and it will help you visualize an end to your task.
 Create two bowls, one labeled "study time" and the other labeled "free time." Whenever you complete X minutes of study time, move a token from the "study" bowl to the "free" bowl. Later, you can cash in that token for X minutes of free time. Studying buys you special interest time.


For example, spend 30 minutes on your calculus homework, and put a token into the free time bowl. That evening, use your token for 30 minutes of time to edit wikiHow articles.
Change the units of time depending on your attention span and homework level.
 This may seem strict at first, but once you fall into the routine, it should feel natural. It will help prevent procrastination and keep you on track. Talk about a schedule with your family, and enlist their help if you need to.


2:30 PM (1430) Get out of school
2:45 PM (1445) Arrive home. Start *obsession/hobby*
3:30 PM (1530) Study/do homework
4:30 PM (1630) Start hobby again
5:30 PM (1730) Eat.
 Hard work is a reward in itself, but a little extra incentive never hurts. Do something special for yourself if you succeed: a favorite dessert, a long warm bath or other sensory experience, a TV show, or a special project involving a favorite person or interest.

