 Register and confirm your email address in your inbox. Once you login and are in the "Main Menu" click on the "Name Search” link, next you will see the “Name Your Search” interface. Begin by typing the name you would like to give your search. Note: only letters and numbers are supported. The search in this tutorial is given the name "bubba" at web address: http://bas.buildasearch.com/bubba
Once you are finished typing in your search name, click on the "Add Your Websites" link. In the smaller screen add the websites you would like to crawl.Note: You may add up to 15 different websites.
It is important to add the entire web address including its protocol and host. correct: "http://www.abc123.com" incorrect: "abc123.com"
Once you have added your list of websites, click "close" then click on the "save changes" button. Lastly click on “Continue Editing” then “home” on the top menu.;
, In the “Main Menu” click on the “BuildaSearch Advanced Search (BAS)” link, once in the BAS interface, you will notice that BuildaSearch offers 500 free search pages.Note: You may upgrade to more pages but for this tutorial 500 pages is sufficient.
Click “next” and you will be prompted with the default 500 pages and with a character set drop-down.Note: Most sites use either “European latin1” or “Unicode utf8” character sets.Next click on “continue activation” once you are ready to begin crawling your websites, click “start crawler.”Note: Crawling and Indexing search content may take a few minutes. As the crawler does its magic you will see the list of links change.
Once all indexing processes are completed, you will be prompted with two buttons: “preview search” and “done”. You may test search results by clicking on the “preview search” and entering your own search query into the provided search box. Once you are satisfied with testing your custom search you may proceed to the next step by clicking on “done”.
 The BAS XML API works similar to other APIs, simply use any programming language of your choice to parse and manipulate the feed.
Your custom search API can be viewed at the following url: http://bas.buildasearch.com/xml/your_search_name?e=query_string&bastart=0&bascount=10
