 Make sure that you breathe continuously while exercising. If you hold your breath while exercising, you'll develop a cramp within a few minutes. As long as you provide enough oxygen for your body, then you'll prevent this type of cramp.


If you develop a cramp in your side, you are not breathing deeply enough to provide oxygen to your diaphragm. When you inhale, fill your lungs all the way to the bottom. Think of it as drawing air into your stomach rather than your chest. Your lungs are deep!
Take deep and complete breaths. Quick, shallow breaths do not fill your lungs all the way and can also cause you to become lightheaded. If you are having trouble taking deep breaths, slow down your pace for a few moments while your lungs catch up.
 Always provide your body with enough water, especially if you're sweating. When you sweat, you lose salt and water, which can throw off the balance of electrolytes and salt in your body. This causes your cells to swell, which causes calcium to stick to them, making the muscle contraction remain. You can prevent this by drinking enough water. Take regular water breaks, especially if you are doing a high-intensity workout.


It is crucial to continue hydrating after you exercise. Don't overdo it, but keep a water bottle handy for a few hours after your workout.
Take care not to drink too much water. Studies have shown that drinking water when you feel thirsty is a reliable way to hydrate your body sufficiently.
There are a number of sports drinks available that claim to provide extra hydration. These won't hurt you, but keep in mind that most brands do contain extra calories that you may not have accounted for in your eating plan. Most importantly, sports drinks do not improve your performance or provide any more hydration than regular water., A thorough "cool-down," sometimes called a "warm-down," includes 10-20 minutes of less intense exercise, some more dynamic stretching, followed by some static stretching. Basically, you want to do your whole workout routine backwards, but at a lower level of intensity. This will greatly reduce the buildup of lactic acid in your muscles, a major culprit of post-workout soreness.Here are some basic static stretches:


Posterior capsule stretch. Stand or sit up straight and stretch one arm across your torso, using your other arm to bring it close to your body. You should feel a stretch across the outside of your arm.
Quadriceps stretch. Stand on one foot, reaching out behind you to hold your raised foot in your hand. Engage your abdominal muscles to keep your back straight. You should feel a stretch down the front of your thigh.

