 If you want more information about the trainer and their training methods, ask for references from previous clients. Most successful trainers will not have a problem providing you with references from satisfied clients., Many dog organizations provide directories of certified dog trainers. You can use these directories to start your search for a good dog trainer. You can search by state or country and zip code to find a trainer in your area.For example, you can try searching through the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers or The Association of Professional Dog Trainers.
 Before you take your dog to the trainer, you should check out their website, Facebook, pamphlet, or other information. Does the website or pamphlet look professional? Browse through and see what the trainer offers on the website.


Look for a section where the trainer outlines their beliefs on training and dogs. Do their ideas match yours?
Read all the available information on the website. Ask yourself if what you see presented there makes you feel comfortable with the idea of letting your dog train with them. Does the information make you want to contact the trainer?

, While you are looking on their website, Facebook, at the pamphlet, or at any other material, see what details they give you about their experience. Where have they worked and trained? How long have they been doing this? Who have they worked with in the past? Do they specialize in breed or certain behaviors? These details are important when choosing a trainer.


After looking at their website, search for the trainer’s name or the business name online. Look for reviews, message boards, forums, or any other postings that mention the trainer or the business. Do people say positive or negative things about them?

, There are no licensing requirements for dog trainers. This means you may end up with a trainer who has no certifications, training, or education related to dog training. However, many dog trainers will have independent certifications. These are the trainers you want to look for.The Certification Council for Pet Dog Trainers have a certification program that requires a certain level of experience and an exam to be certified. For example, they have to have at least 300 hours of recent training experience and must pass a long exam covering a variety of topics.The International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants is another organization that certifies trainers. To receive this certification, you may have three years experience with 1500 hours of working in animal behavior consulting.

