 Many times pets, especially dogs, become a meaningful part of your life. Although you may feel that you should only take a little bit of time to mourn the death of an animal, you should also remember that it’s okay to take as much time as you need to grieve over your companion.Take a day off from school or work if you need some time work through your feelings. You might tell your supervisor or teacher, “My dog died. We were really close. I know you may not understand, but I need to take a day to grieve.” Hopefully, they’re a dog lover and will understand.


Don’t rush yourself through the grieving process. There is no time limit for mourning.
Don’t shame yourself if it take you longer than expected to grieve. Don’t let other people shame you either.;
, Grieving is a process with multiple stages that range from denial, anger, bargaining, and depression, to acceptance.When your dog dies, it’s normal for you to experience some or all of these stages.


For example, for a few day or weeks you may feel depressed when you think about the loss of your pet. This is a normal part of the grieving process.
Let go of your expectations about how you thought the grieving process would be. You might be tearful for a while, or you might not cry at all. Allow the process to happen in a way that is natural for you.
You may feel angry when you think about the loss. For example, it may make you angry that there was nothing you could do to save your dog.
Depending on the relationship you had with your dog, you may experience denial. You may find it hard to accept that they are gone and keep expecting them to show up.
 It’s never a good idea to make major decisions when you are upset, especially when you’re facing a loss. This includes decisions such as adopting a new dog or other pet. Although you may want to fill the void your dog has left, you should take some time to grieve and work through this loss first.


Try fostering a dog if you think that you're ready to adopt again. This will give you a sense of whether you're ready to bring a dog into your life again and help a shelter dog.



Write about what happened. Writing about it can help you stop denying that it happened.
Write about how you feel about the loss and how your feelings change over time. For example, you might write that at first you were angry, but now you accept the loss.
Write about your memories of your dog. For example, you might write about when they were a puppy, how you found them, or the first time they went ‘fetch’.
 During times of loss, whether of a person or a dog, it’s a good to ask the people close to you for support. Ask your family and friends to help you handle your grief and work through the grieving process and consider reaching out to others who have been through the same thing.Ask someone to come be with you. You don’t have to do or say anything when they’re there. For example, you might say, “Mom, could you come over for a little while? I miss Daisy and just need someone to be here.”
Keep in mind that people may make unsolicited comments. It is okay to let them know that you are not looking for advice, and that you just need someone to listen and distract you from your grief.
 Spending time with other people who have experienced the loss of a dog can help you cope with your dog’s death in several ways. It can help you feel connected, provide you with strategies for handling your feelings, and offer you encouragement. Consider joining a support group in your area or an online group or forum.


You can search for groups in your area on the Association for Pet Loss and Bereavement webpage at http://www.aplb.org/support/support_groups/.
Call the ASPCA Pet Loss Hotline at 1-877-474-3310 to find support resources near you.
Contact the Pet Loss Support Hotline offered by Tufts University Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine by calling 508-839-7966 or visiting http://vet.tufts.edu/petloss/.
 Sometimes feelings of grief can escalate and turn into depression, and you will need to seek help for yourself if this happens. When you are grieving, it is normal to have difficulty sleeping, loss of appetite, and general sadness. However, if you begin to feel suicidal, lose a noticeable amount of weight, or have trouble going about your day, then you should talk to a medical or psychiatric professional for help.