 This means identifying your core beliefs and values. Find out what truly matters to you, and your jealousy of another person may fade away.


Begin by writing down everything that you value in life such as: family, friends, relationships, housing, a job, pets, love, friendship, justice, freedom, and equality.
Focus in and be mindful of your thoughts and feelings as they come up. Question your own thoughts.
 Sometimes personal biases can influence your feelings and behaviors. For example, there is a stigma against age (also called ageism), where people may be prejudice of older individuals. If you have this particular bias, then you may be more likely to become jealous of younger people in general because of your implicit judgment of older people (yourself). This can lead to self-stigmatization and lower self-esteem.


You can measure your own thoughts and biases about age through an Implicit Association Test from Harvard University.This test often shows that people tend to have an automatic preference for younger versus older people.
 Sometimes jealousy is driven by fears, and understanding what your fears are can help you eliminate your envy and jealousy.


Create a fear journal. Identify the things you are afraid of such as that: you won't be loved, you will be abandoned, people will not find you attractive, or you might end up alone.
If your fears are not in line with your values, then toss them out. If it’s not truly important to you then being jealous actually goes against your values. This can create cognitive dissonance, which is a feeling you have when two things you are experiencing (i.e. jealousy for someone more attractive, and not thinking attractiveness is valuable) do not match.
 Define yourself and what gives you happiness more clearly. Your identity does not need to depend on youth, beauty, and wealth.


Questions you might ask yourself include: Are my looks all that I am? Am I just an age? Am I defined by whether I am 25 or 30 or 45? Is my identity defined by a man?Am I my own person? Am I living everyday? Am I growing as time passes?

