;
, These notes will be helpful when the time comes to make a presentation to a patent examiner. The notes should contain important details including dates, times, roles of witnesses or assistants, and locations.
 Patents are available for roses and robots as well as many other products. Look carefully at the patent categories for useful information.


Choose a utility patent for machines and manufactured goods. In addition, a new process or a useful improvement to existing goods will fall into this category.
Apply for a design patent for a creation that is an original design for manufactured goods.
Submit an application for a plant patent if you have engineered a new variety of plant.
 Any legal claim of infringement of the patent will be based on these documents.
, A provisional patent is not available for a design patent. A provisional patent establishes a filing date that provides a measure of protection until a patent is effective. Application for a provisional patent permits the applicant to use the term "patent pending" on the product. A provisional patent is usually effective for one year from the date the application is received by the patent office. The provisional patent does not automatically become a patent at the end of one year. A formal application for a patent must also be filed by the inventor of the product.
 The application should include a clear, concise description and illustration of the invention. The patent office provides specific details on the format for the application on the official website. Follow these specifications carefully.


An individual with no prior experience may file the application, but collaboration with a patent attorney is highly recommended for this important step. A claim of infringement will have more weight if the application is prepared by a patent attorney.
The filing date of the application is important. The first person to file an application for a patent on a product has the right to the patent on that product.
The patent office will grant or refuse the application depending on the documentation provided by the inventor.

