 Dog shelters are generally kept running by volunteers. And these volunteers all have one thing in common—they love dogs! Check with your local dog shelters for recommendations on volunteers or associates looking to pick up extra work as a pet sitter. These people will likely charge less than a professional pet sitter and, because of their love of dogs, you can assume they will take good care of your pup.


There may be a wall with lists of services on it at your local shelter as well. Check to see if there are any pet sitting or training services offered at a discounted rate.;
, Your vet’s office may be able to guide you to someone who is willing to housetrain your dog at a discounted rate as well. They often have technicians or interns who have flexible schedules and may be looking to make some money on the side by performing these kinds of jobs., Much like a referral program, some professionals may offer discounts if you bring in more than one dog to their business. Maybe you have a friend who is also trying to housebreak their dog, or is in need of another service, like dog walking or extended pet sitting while they are on vacation. Ask if you can receive a discounted rate for referring other people to their business., Do you have a neighbor who also has a dog (or another animal)? Ask them if they’d be interested in working out a trade. For example, if they help you housetrain your dog, you can watch their dog while they are out of town for a few days.Look for neighbors whose work schedule is opposite yours. If you are both gone during the same hours of the day this arrangement won’t be much help.
 You can also offer to trade other services. Do you own a house cleaning or landscaping business? Or teach yoga classes on the weekends? Ask pet sitters if they’d be willing to accept a trade instead of money. Some may be willing to help you housebreak your dog at no charge or at a deep discount if you offer them free or discounted rates on your services.Make sure you get your agreement in writing, just in case. This will help cover you if the other party does not stand by their original promises.
Check websites like Craigslist for local professionals that will accept a trade instead of money.
 It’s also possible that some professionals offer some of their work pro bono, or free. Although this is not very common, if you are unable to properly housetrain your dog and can’t afford to pay someone because of extenuating circumstances (a death in the family, or debilitating accident, for example) these professionals may consider offering their services pro bono in certain cases.


Be ready and willing to explain your situation and why you can’t train your dog yourself.
There may also be a waiting list for pro bono services, as they are most likely not offered very frequently.