 For the wreath, you’ll need approximately 40 to 50 regular size cotton balls. To make the balls appear more natural, pull on the edges to loosen them up. Next, roll the cotton back into balls in your hands.You can use natural cotton bolls instead of the balls if you prefer. However, they are usually harder to find and more expensive.;
, To help make the wreath look more natural, you’ll need the scales from approximately 3 medium pine cones. Use a pair of scissors or pliers to remove the scales from the pine cones and set aside in a pile.It’s usually easier to start removing the scales from the middle of the pine cone and work your way downward, leaving the smallest scales at the bottom on the cone. Next, finish removing the scales from the middle up.
 After you’ve removed all of the pine cone scales, use a hot glue gun to attach them to the bottom of the cotton balls. Arrange the scales so they form an “X” or “+” shape.While hot glue works best, you can use your favorite craft glue to attach the scales to the cotton balls.
 For the wreath, you’ll need two unadorned grapevine wreaths. Set one aside to serve as the wreath base, but use your hands or a pair of pliers to break off pieces of the second wreath. Gather enough to serve as stems for most of the cotton-balls.You can usually find plain grapevine wreaths at the craft store.
You can substitute twigs for the grapevine wreath pieces if you prefer.
 After you’ve broken off enough grapevine pieces for most of the cotton balls, apply a small amount of hot glue to the bottom of a cotton ball between the pine cone scales. Make sure to work with one cotton ball at a time so the glue doesn’t dry before you finish assembling the cotton stems., Immediately after you apply the glue to the bottom of the cotton ball, take one of the broken pieces of grapevine and stick it through the cotton ball right through the glue. Don’t allow the stem to go all the way through the cotton, though.Allow the cotton stem to cool for at least 5 minutes before arranging the wreath. That will give the glue time to dry so the cotton ball doesn’t fall off as you assemble the wreath.
 After you create the first cotton stem, continue the process with the rest of the cotton balls and grapevine pieces. Make sure that all of the stems have time to dry before you build the wreath., When all of your cotton stems are made and the glue has dried, begin placing them throughout the wreath. Push them through the grapevine so they appear to be woven in.Most grapevine wreaths are woven in a single direction. When you’re adding the stems, make sure that they’re going in the same direction as the wreath.
You can vary the length of the stems throughout the wreath by trimming the ends of the grapevine pieces.
 Once you know where you’re placing the cotton stems, take one out and apply hot glue to the area of the stem where it will be woven into the grapevine. Push it back into the wreath, and hold it for 30 to 60 seconds for the glue to set. Repeat the process with all of the stems., In some areas of the wreath, you may want to place the cotton balls directly on the grapevine without any stems. Add a dab of hot glue to the back of the balls and press them onto the wreath with the pine cone scales facing downward.If your wreath has any broken or damaged areas, use the standalone cotton balls to hide the flaws.
You can thin out pieces of the cotton balls that you’re applying directly to the wreath and wrap them over the grapevine for a more natural look.
 To finish off the wreath, wrap a piece of ribbon at the top so you can hang it. You can tie the ribbon in a bow or use a knot for a simple looking wreath.You can use any type of ribbon that you like, but burlap will give the wreath a charming rustic look.

