 On a train would be a good idea, but not necessarily a chip stand. This is an important step to acknowledge because being able to keep location in mind will help you to envision your complete setup.;
, If your developing apps for an iOS or android device, what gear you have and software you’ll be using will be affected by such a choice. If you're simply programming small business applications you may be able to get away with a smaller setup.
 This will help to decide whether you’ll be programming on the back of a napkin, or on a thousand dollar tablet. Also keep in mind, that depending on budget you might want to look at multiple gadget combos (i.e. buying a netbook and internet stick, or Smartphone).
 It’s a good idea to have a smartphone. Something running Android or iOS. This will allow you to install various suites that you can use to view and edit files (ie dropbox) between multiple machines and devices, using a WiFi tether (a method of creating an Internet link between your phone and device). Pick between a laptop/netbook/tablet. This should be the main device that you'll be programming on. Get a good feel for the keyboard and any input devices you'll be using with the device since anything that may be uncomfortable will discourage you from programming on the go.
, Eclipse).
, Online, portable hard drive, etc. You need to save your data both locally and somewhere else. This way, if you lose an item, or some sort of other unforeseen circumstance arises, you'll be able to retrieve your work with ease. Consider using an online storage service like Dropbox for managing files on the go. Using such a program allows you to update your file from one device, and immediately open it on another.
 If you’re using only a tablet, you may want to invest in a Bluetooth keyboard that’ll work with it. This helps work efficiency, and to reduce strain.
 This may not be necessary for app-designers, but can come in handy if you want to keep different programming environments separate. This can also come in handy if you need to develop software for a company running a specific OS. A good VM to look at would be VirtualBox by oracle.
 As you get used to your setup, you can add and integrate new pieces.
 Depending on what gear you have, and where you’ll be bringing it, it's important to choose a bag that’ll suit your needs. A massive back-pack can be cumbersome in a tight space like a train or plane, so there you’d want more of a messenger-type bag.

