 Use a golden brown bronzer for the base of the leopard face. You can also choose to use a light brown paint if you do not want to use makeup. Apply the color to your cheeks, chin, forehead, and the bridge of your nose. Don’t apply the bronzer to the center of your forehead, your eyes, and the area where the whiskers should be. For these areas, you will want to use a light foundation or white paint. Blend in the makeup, but don’t blend the colors together. Do not blend the areas together.








You are using these colors to achieve the leopard’s base coloring.
 Use a brush and brown eyeliner to set the base for the spots. Again, you can also choose to use light brown paint. Take the brush and make small, rounded streaks. They should look like natural leopard spots, rather than perfect circles. Make these streaks all around your face, except for the area where the whisker will go. Next, outline and lightly fill in those streaks with black eyeliner. 








Don’t fill the face with the “spots.” Make sure there is space in between them.
Make some of the spots smaller than others for variety.
 Use the eyeliner to create the look of whiskers. For this look, you won’t draw straight lines. Instead, make small points below your nose and above your mouth, spreading out towards your cheeks. You can also use the eyeliner to make small points on your chin and in a line below your eyes. 







, Use black eyeliner and dark eye shadow to create a cat eye look. First, go over the eyeliner with a dark brown eyeliner. Cover the lids and slightly extend the eye shadow outside of the lids to create a point that will line up with the eye liner. Next, use a black eyeliner to create a classic cat eye . You can use liquid, gel, or a basic pencil eyeliner. Draw a line just above the eyelash line and extend it to a point that ends a few centimeters outside of your eyelids. 








The upper lid and area below the eyes should remain white.
You may choose to opt out of the eyeliner if this look is being done on a small child.
 Use the black eyeliner to make the tip of your nose a nostrils black. Start with the bridge of the nose. Draw a line with the eyeliner. Gradually fill in the rest of the nose and nostrils until it is black. Then, draw a line from the bottom of the nose to the center of top of the center of the lips.








You can also go slightly outside of and below the nose to create a larger “leopard nose.”

, You can also use black eyeliner or paint, but black lipstick is best for the lips. First, outline the lips in black. Then, fill in the rest of the lips. You can go over the lips with a gloss or keep them matte. 







