 You’ll be using Rust-Oleum’s new Countertop Transformations coating system as your paint gloss along with needing paint brushes, plastic sheeting (to cover surrounding areas), paint rollers, rubber gloves, painter’s tape and sandpaper.;
, You will want to create a smooth, porous surface on your countertops so you will need to sand off any finish.
 You don’t want to create an uneven surface by getting too rough during the sanding process. Instead lightly smooth the sandpaper over the countertop until you see light scratches and a dull surface.
 Sanding will generate a plethora of dust and debris. You’ll want your countertops clean and debris-free before you apply the new gloss.
 Before you paint you’ll want to keep other areas of the kitchen free from paint splatters. Use heavy plastic sheeting and painter’s tape to cover surrounding areas before you paint. Don’t forget to cover the sink drain to protect it from any chemicals falling into the drain.
 This coat of paint provides a sticky surface for you to add your paint chips and decorative touches.


Apply the paint in a thick coat to ensure you have enough paint to accept the paint chips.
Work quickly as this paint dries very fast--typically within 20 minutes. For best results work with a buddy so one person can roll on the paint over the backsplash while the other person rolls it over the countertops.
 Use the enclosed dispenser to add chips while you cover the surface evenly. This kit comes with a lot of chips so apply them liberally, making sure you cover any stains or areas that contain scratches.


Allow area to dry for 12 to 24 hours before sealing the area.
 Use the enclosed chip scraper to knock down rough chipped edges.
 Apply pressure, but avoid sanding to heavily so you don’t remove all the paint chips. You want the chips to look as though they are part of the countertop.


Although the sanding process will lighten the area, the top coat will darken it back up again.
, Apply paint liberally to entire surface and re-apply after you make one pass to the area.


Allow area to dry for up to 48 hours (you can remove plastic sheeting after surface is dry to the touch--usually around four to six hours).

