 Press a capo between the first and second fret, or just press down on a string with your thumb. If your intonation improves, it may be worth adjusting your nut (the piece at the top of the neck where the strings rest). If the different is difficult to notice, other methods will probably give faster and more noticeable results.

The nut is the most difficult part of the guitar to get right. Seek experienced assistance if any of the steps below seem beyond your ability.
 Your intonation will be off if the distance from the nut to the twelfth fret is not equal to the distance from the twelfth fret to the saddle. If that first distance is longer (causing a sharp intonation), you can fix it by shoving a piece of bone or other nut material under the string, flush against the lower edge of the nut.If the distance from the twelfth fret to the saddle is longer (causing a flat sound), you may need to re-position or replace the tailpiece. This is a less common problem, and the repair may damage the guitar finish, so don't try this unless you're sure of the diagnosis.
 If you do suspect a problem, it's time to diagnose it. Begin by releasing the capo and placing it between the second and third frets. (Again, you may use your thumb if you don't have a capo.)
, There should be a tiny gap between the string and the first fret. If you can't tell if it's touching, tap the string just below the first fret. If there's a gap, you'll hear a click when the string hits the fret.You may need a magnifying glass or reading glasses.
 If the string touched the first fret in the last step, the nut is too low. You can raise your nut at that string by gluing a piece of similar material to the bottom of the nut.Some guitarists glue a mix of superglue and bone powder or other materials into the groove instead. This is a bit risky, as it could affect the tone.
 If the gap between the string and fret was too large, you can gradually saw the groove that holds the string deeper. Work in very small increments and check visually as you go.The higher your guitar's action, the easier this is. More minor adjustments can be difficult and risks going too far.
 The nut may snag the string if the groove comes to a V-shaped point, or if the top of the string is below the top of the nut. Ideally, the nut should have a semicircular indentation, so the bottom half of the string rests atop the nut and fills the diameter of this groove. If the nut is too badly worn to correct this by hand, have the nut replaced by a professional.
