


Complete solitude - living away from any other human beings, and relying only on his skills to survive in pure nature. (i.e. that person will have to get his food and water, find a place to settle, and guard his health all by himself, without the help of other humans, but may rely on animals)
Partial solitude - find a place to settle near, but not very close, to a certain village or any similar settlement, with a very small population. This way the person will have the option to get his food and water from others.;
, Fortunately, there are still several parts left in the world where you can live in solitude:


rain forests (South America, India, Australia)
northern areas (northern Scandinavia, northern Canada, Siberia)
mountain areas (Tibet, Africa)
on a sea or ocean

, You will need money, tents, and camping items. If it's possible, take a weapon with you, a "cold" one and a "hot" one. Remember that you are traveling one-way, so buy the right ticket and take EVERYTHING you need with you. Take important things that will help you survive in extreme weather and conditions, like first aid kits, ropes, knives, and a flashlight. What you don't need are stuff like toothpaste, shampoos, etc.
 Prepare yourself with the idea of not returning to your friends, family and home. This is a one-way journey. Whether you will return home after some time or not shouldn't be your concern before taking this trip, but only after you have experienced life in solitude - then you will find a way to return.
 Use the guide to ask for tips and recommendations. Be smart, this is a critical step in your journey. Are you ready to dive into the solitude?

, Travel with the local guide into the area which will best suit for life in solitude. Under absolutely no circumstances tell him about your plans. Remember that you are just another adventurer looking for new, undiscovered places on earth. Travel with the guide until you will feel that you don't need him. Then send him away with the vehicle or back to the vehicle.
 This is the hardest part of the journey. If needed, use the tent for the night, and keep your weapons close.
 For your place of settlement, you have several choices. The most important thing, regardless of the place you choose: silence, and the feeling of total solitude.


For a cave, the hardest part is to find a safe one which will suit you. Remember that you need fresh water and food near your settlement, and you don't want any dangerous animals around. Equipping the cave and preparing it for long settlement will be difficult, but not as hard as finding one.
A hut or an igloo or something similar is a good choice, but the tricky part is to construct it. It will be extremely hard to build a wooden hut all by yourself, but it has to be done. Have you brought an ax and a saw? Chop down a few trees and start working. Choose a location close to fresh water and food. A hut can be built almost anywhere.
A tree house is a realistic choice. You have to know how to climb high trees and build a wooden hut on the branches. The tricky part is to find a good stable tree(s) in a good location.
Boat: A larger boat will have better chances to survive a storm. The optimal choice is an abandoned army battleship - there is lots of place, it is as stable on water as a building on the ground, and usually the equipment is inactive. Sailing and being surrounded by water is proper solitude, and you can always sail to a quiet port town to trade fish for food and water.
 Meditate a lot, develop your own martial art or write a philosophy. Do the little things you couldn't do before. Without those watches, computers and other gadgets, time will walk at your pace and won't fly by unnoticeable, just like in early childhood. Isn't that great?

