 If you know you’ll be going into a situation where you’ll be talking to a lot of strangers, think of 2-3 topics for small talk before you get there.


Choose topics that are of interest to many people - hobbies, sports, and tech gadgets are a good place to start.;
, Since people like to talk about themselves, focusing on the other person can make it easier to change the subject.


Choose a topic that you know is important to your conversation partner. Examples include hobbies, an upcoming event, or a work project.
 This smooth way to change the subject can be used no matter who you’re speaking with. Find a specific aspect of the person’s jewelry, shoes, clothing, and say something nice about it! You can also expand on this new subject by asking for more information about the item or feature you are complimenting. For example, “Where did you get that great tan?”

, If there is a lull in the conversation, change the topic completely rather than returning to it or trying to transition to another topic more gradually.


Ask a “conversation starter” question, such as: “What’s the oddest job you’ve done?” or “If you can have dinner with any three people, who would they be?” , When deciding what topic you want to change the subject to, think about your relationship with the person to whom you are speaking. Are you trying to change the subject with a co-worker, someone you just met, or your mother-in-law? The stronger your relationship with the person, the more flexibility you have in topics to choose from. With strangers, stick to small talk. Since you don’t know the person, you can’t know what subjects might be touchy for them. The weather is almost always a safe topic.
If you’re trying to get to know someone, trade information. For example, ask the person why they are at the conference where you just met. With friends or co-workers, you can trade opinions. If you want to change the subject, give your opinion of a related topic. For example, your friend is complaining about the food at a restaurant that you chose, and you want to change the subject. Ask something like, “Isn’t this music unusual?”
With close friends and family, you can discuss feelings. This is the most intimate topic of conversation, but emotions are a valid topic if you are trying to change the subject with your spouse or your sister. Ask how the person is feeling about something you discussed in a previous conversation.

