 Sure, there’s homework, and the daily mini-traumas on interacting with other growing human beings. Still, you should be able to enjoy school most of the time. If you’re dreading school, or if it feels like torture all day, every day, there’s likely a reason you feel this way. The first step in addressing these sentiments is identifying where they’re coming from.Ask yourself whether there are certain people you don’t want to see – this may include other students who don’t treat you well, or a teacher that is impatient with you.
Consider whether you’re feeling stressed about school itself, including classes and schoolwork.
 If one subject is especially challenging for you, or it feels like you’re falling behind your classmates, you may start to become worried or stressed. In turn, it may become harder to concentrate. Further, your body may be negatively affected by stress, making it even more challenging to focus in school, let alone enjoy it.To begin to identify the specific things that are stressing you out, make a list of the things you don’t enjoy about school.
Include both social and academic things on this list of negatives.
 You’re capable of changing some of the situations that might make you dread school. Make a list of all the things you enjoy, to remind yourself that school isn't all bad. Then, revisit your list of negatives and plan how to improve your situation regarding each one.If a lot of the negatives have to do with a particular subject or class, make a plan to talk with the necessary teacher and share the fact that you’re struggling with the material.
If the negatives on your list tend to have more to do with people, recognize that you may need to get help addressing your ability to feel comfortable at school.
 When you’re busy growing up, school can be challenging. And when you’re busy with school, growing up can bring some challenges of its own too. Fortunately, there are people who care about you that will be happy to help.Talk to someone. Whether an older sibling, a parent, other relative, or a school counselor – they’ve all likely faced similar challenges in their own lives and lived through them.
 School counselors are specifically trained to help, and it’s their job to do so. Don’t ever hesitate to speak with a school counselor about anything at all – especially if you’re being treated poorly by other students of a particular teacher.If you’re unsure about meeting with a counselor because you don’t know how to convey what you’re feeling on a day-to-day basis, write your feelings out. This will help you organize your thoughts and identify what it is you might benefit from talking about.

