 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Grease a 9-inch cake pan, taking care to ensure that the bottom and sides are completely oiled, so the cake won't stick to the pan. Sprinkle a little flour in the center of the pan and tip it from side to side, so the flour coats the bottom and sides of the pan.






;
, Either use a sifter to sift the ingredients or place them in a small bowl and stir them together with a whisk.









If you'd like to make a chocolate ice cream cake, add 1/2 cup cocoa powder to the mixture.
For a spice cake, add 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1/4 teaspoon nutmeg and 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves.
 In a large mixing bowl, use a hand mixer to beat the egg yolks, vanilla, and 1/2 cup sugar. Continue beating until the mixture becomes thick and pale, which takes about 5 minutes.
 Place the egg whites and a pinch of salt in a medium mixing bowl. Using a whisk or clean beaters, beat the whites until they form soft peaks. Continue beating the mixture and add the remaining 1/4 cup sugar. Keep beating until the egg whites become stiff and glossy.
 Carefully fold the egg white mixture into the egg yolk mixture. Fold in the flour mixture with a spatula. Be careful not to overmix the ingredients; continue folding them until they are just combined.
 Spread it evenly into the pan with a spatula.
 Place the cake pan in the oven and bake it for 35 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the middle of the cake comes out clean. Remove the cake from the oven, invert it onto a wire rack or plate, and let it cool completely.









If the cake seems to be sticking to the sides of the pan, run a knife around the edge of the cake before attempting to invert it.
If the cake breaks when you invert it, place the pieces on a plate and allow them to cool. You can still use the cake.
 Using a large serrated knife, slice the cake crosswise so that you have two thin discs of cake. Wrap each in plastic wrap and place them in the freezer for several hours. You can assemble the cake when the halves are frozen solid.








