 Try to be extra self-aware as you go about your day and notice when you start biting. Take a moment to think about why you feel the need to chew your cuticles. Are you feeling nervous about talking to someone? Are you running late? Noticing when you start biting won’t necessarily make you stop doing it. You will, however, become more aware of what triggers the habit, making it easier to find ways to avoid it.Once you notice when and where you bite, you can sometimes remove yourself from the situation. If you bite your cuticles when you are alone at the computer, for example, try spending more time with friends or away from your desk.;
, It can be hard to notice a habit that has gone on for a long time. Get help from your friends or family. Tell them to point out whenever you start biting or picking at your cuticles.


They don’t have to reprimand you until you feel annoyed. The point is to make you more mindful of your actions. For example, your friend might just say, “Margot, you’re biting again.”

, A bad taste on your fingers can help keep them away from your teeth. You’ll probably feel the urge to bite a few times before the taste starts bothering you, so be sure you use something that isn’t toxic.


Anti-nail biting liquid is made especially to deter people from chewing at their finger nails (and is also used to stop thumb sucking). If you are biting your cuticles, you’ll probably taste enough of this bitter polish to help you kick the habit.
Rub natural flavors on your fingertips. Cut up a clove of fresh garlic, rub it on your fingers for a few minutes, and then wash it off. Also consider rubbing neem oil or fresh aloe vera (from the plant) on your fingertips. Any of these unpleasant flavors should keep your mouth away from your cuticles.
 Find something to cover your fingertips. If weather permits, wear gloves or mittens. Also consider putting tape or bandages around your nails.
 Nail and cuticle biting often stems from a need to use your hands. Find a replacement habit for yourself. By replacing one habit with another less damaging habit, you will be able to slowly overcome the biting. Fidgeting with something or tapping on a table are some ways to refocus the energy in you hands.Play with a stress ball. Stress balls are small, soft balls that can be squeezed, stretched, and fiddled with. They come in different sizes and materials.
Play with worry stones. Worry stones are small, smooth rocks about the size of a small thumb. They fit nicely between the fingers and can be quite discrete.
 It could be painting, drawing, video gaming, writing, gardening, crafts, sewing, and so forth. If you like watching TV, do something like knitting, crocheting, or crosswords to stop you from biting the cuticles during the ads or slow parts of shows.

