 Before you test your soil or add anything to it, you will need to determine what type of soil you have. Determine if your soil is clumpy, dry, loose or wet. This will give you some clues about what altering the soil may entail. Because of this, you should understand your soil type early.Well-drained and loose soil will be more easily altered. On the other hand, compacted soil that has a lot of clay in it will be difficult to change.
Determining your soil type will help you figure out the best method for applying any materials to it.;
, In order to adjust your soil’s pH, you will need to know what that is. A soil's pH represents how acidic or alkaline it is. Soil pH is determined on a scale from zero to 14, with seven being a neutral pH that is neither acidic nor alkaline. Anything over seven is alkaline and anything below seven is acidic. Most plants prefer a pH between six and seven and a half, as do earthworms and microorganisms, which help your plants., The type of plants you intend to grow will determine what your soil’s pH needs to be. Many plants prefer a more acidic soil, particularly flowers and some fruit plants like blueberries. Research what the recommended pH levels are for the plants you want to grow.Azaleas, rhododendrons, blueberries and conifers like acidic soils (pH 5.0 to 5.5)
Vegetables, grasses and most ornamentals prefer slightly acidic soils (pH 5.8 to 6.5)

, Once you have an understanding of soil pH and the type of soil you are dealing with, you will want to get it tested. You can buy a commercial test at a local home and garden store or send a sample to a company that will test it for you. The easiest way to test your soil is to dig a hole, fill it with water and then insert a test probe into muddy water. However, sending a soil sample to be tested will give you a more accurate indication of your soil’s pHThere are also some DIY methods that include making your own pH test strips.
 Test your water to determine how it affects your soil. Groundwater, the water used in most homes and gardens, tends to be more alkaline. However, rainwater tends to be more acidic. If you live somewhere with lots of rainfall, your soil may be slightly more acidic. If you mostly water your garden or yard with water from a faucet, your soil may be more alkaline.You can use commercial pH test strips or an electronic pH meter.

