 Patients who do not respond to over-the-counter treatments or who are unhappy with the results may need prescription medication. Doctors can prescribe stronger treatment regimens including creams, lotions, shampoos, and even oral medication if OTC shampoos are ineffective.UV light treatments may also be an option.Prescribed antifungal shampoos and topical corticosteroids are beneficial, but can be expensive and may have adverse side effects with long-term use. These and other prescribed shampoos are only used when over-the-counter treatments are not effective.
 The most common type of prescription shampoo used for scalp eczema is antifungal shampoo. Most antifungal shampoos have a concentration of 1% ciclopirox and 2% ketoconazole.The most common side effects of these shampoos include irritation, burning sensations, dry skin, and itching.
These shampoos are used daily or at least twice weekly during the prescribed period. Always follow the directions on the package or prescription.
 These shampoos help reduce inflammation and decrease itching and flaking of the scalp. The common corticosteroids shampoos include ingredients such as 1.0% hydrocortisone, 0.1% betamethasone, 0.1% clobetasol, and 0.01% fluocinolone.Side effects usually occur after long-term use and may include thinning of the skin, itching, a stinging sensation, and skin hypopigmentation (the loss of the color pigments of your skin, which results in lightening of the skin). Most people who use these shampoos for only a short period should not experience negative side effects.These prescription shampoos contain steroids, and a little of the medication can be absorbed into the bloodstream. If you have diabetes or sensitivity to steroids, you should be sure to discuss these complications with your doctor.
Be aware that corticosteroid shampoos tend to be more expensive than other treatments.
These shampoos can be used daily or twice daily during the prescribed period.
The use of antifungal and corticosteroid shampoos at the same time may be safe and yield better results. Talk to your doctor about combining the two., For scalp eczema, shampoos are the most commonly chosen form of treatment. You can also try creams, lotions, oils, or foams that contain one or more of the above medicinal ingredients.


Prescription antifungal agents called azoles are a highly effective treatment for scalp eczema. Ketoconazole is the most commonly prescribed agent and has been proven effective in many clinical trials.Another common prescription treatment uses Ciclopirox, a type of hydroxy pyridine antifungal. It is available as a cream, gel, or solution.Corticosteroids may also be prescribed as a cream or topical ointment., Light therapy, or phototherapy, can sometimes help cases of scalp eczema.It is commonly combined with medication such as a psoralen.Because Light therapy involves exposure to ultraviolet light, it carries an increased risk of skin cancer developing.This type of treatment is usually reserved for people whose scalp eczema is caused by atopic dermatitis, or whose seborrheic dermatitis is extensive.It cannot be used on infants or young children., There are a few other ways of treating scalp eczema, but they are reserved as last-resort treatments as they can cause serious side effects. However, if no other treatments have worked, you may want to consult with your doctor about other treatment options.Creams or lotions containing tacrolimus (Protopic) and pimecrolimus (Elidel) may be effective for treating scalp eczema. However, they carry an increased risk of cancer and are more expensive than corticosteroids.Terbinafine (Lamisil) and butenafine (Mentax) are oral antifungal treatments for scalp eczema.They can interfere with specific enzymes in the body or cause allergic reactions or liver problems.This limits their use for the treatment of scalp eczema.