 You and your fiancé may have a hobby that you share, or different hobbies that represent you. These can be great topper ideas, especially if you’re known for this hobby among your family and friends. Some specific ideas include:


Board game pieces for avid board gamers.
Model cars for gearheads and car lovers.
Figurines or miniature versions of sports items/players., You and your partner may share a favorite animal, or you both may have different favorite animal. In both cases, it shouldn’t be difficult to find a figurine of these animals to top your wedding cake.Use fancy doll clothes to dress these animals up like a bride and groom. However, this is only important if you want to emphasize the genders represented by the toppers.
 You and your fiancé may be known for being major fans of a book or movie. You might want to represent this in your wedding cake topper. Many models or figurine versions of your favorite characters can be found online or in toy stores.


Legos are a great place to look for book or movie themed figurines. Many characters from popular culture have been immortalized in Lego form., Have a high-resolution picture of you and your fiancé taken. Then have a 3D printed version made as a cake topper. Your local print shop may be able to provide this service, but there are also specialized companies that make 3D wedding toppers online.


When taking the picture for your 3D wedding topper, you might want to plan out a pose with your fiancé. This way, when you put the topper on the cake, it’ll look like your holding hands, hugging, and so on., Sparklers come in many shapes, sizes, and colors. Using these as the topper for your wedding cake can be a real showstopper. You can even find specialty sparklers in the shape of hearts, which would be fitting for the occasion.Try to light your sparklers immediately before the cake is brought out. Some cake icing may be sensitive to the heat from the sparklers, which can cause it to deform. To prevent this, remove the sparklers as soon as possible.

