 If someone files a valid complaint with the DOE, the Office of Civil Rights (OCR) will send you a notice that they are opening an investigation into the allegations set forth in the complaint.The notice provides information on the person who filed the complaint and the student or students that person alleges were discriminated against.
Keep in mind that anyone can file a complaint – it doesn't have to be a student, former student, or parent of a student.
The claim can be against anyone at the school, not necessarily someone with authority over the student. It also could involve disparate impact, which is an allegation that a facially neutral policy nonetheless discriminates against disabled students.
For example, the complaint may allege that the school failed to provide adequate accommodations for specific disabilities, or failed to respond completely to concerns or requests for accommodations.
Although you typically won't receive a copy of the actual complaint, the school's attorney may request it and the school has the right to a copy of it on request.;
, Take the notice to the school system's legal team as soon as possible, and avoid disclosing or discussing the matter to anyone else. The school's attorneys will inform those who need to know.The OCR notice includes a request of documents and other information, and provides a 20-day deadline for producing them. The school's attorney typically can have this deadline extended, but they need to know about it as quickly as possible.
The school's attorney will work on a written response to the notice letter, which typically will be sent to the OCR within a few days of receipt of the notice.
Keep in mind that while it isn't necessary for someone to file a complaint with the OCR before they sue, disability law attorneys frequently recommend going through the administrative complaint process first.
If the complaint is not taken seriously and the school system refuses to cooperate with the OCR, it may be a precursor to a lawsuit.
 The notice will include a request for school records and files related to the complaint. Gather these documents and give them to the school's attorneys for review and submission to the OCR investigators.The types of documentation and information requested will depend on the allegations set forth in the complaint, but generally you must gather records regarding the students listed in the complaint.
You also typically must provide written statements of the school's non-discrimination policies and disability accommodation policies.
If the complaint was motivated by a particular incident, you'll have to gather any notices or documents created that detail the actions of responses of the school to the incident or report of the incident.
 The OCR typically attempts to close investigations within six months. During that time you may be interviewed by investigators or called upon to answer questions or provide additional information related to the complaint.In addition to reviewing written documents and reports, investigators may interview the person who filed the complaint, the students involved, and any school personnel who were involved or had authority over the student.
Depending on the type of complaint, investigators also may visit the school. For example, if the complaint alleges the school failed to adequately accommodate a particular disability, investigators may come to the school to see what accommodations, if any, have been made.
 Once the investigation has concluded, the OCR will send a letter explaining its determination as to whether the school system is in compliance with federal law based on the evidence found.The OCR's letter states whether sufficient evidence was found that the school was not in compliance with federal law for each allegation listed in the complaint.
The findings letter relates specifically to this complaint, and shouldn't be treated as a policy statement by the OCR.
If the OCR investigation hasn't found any evidence to support the allegations, the complaint will be dismissed.
However, if sufficient evidence is found the OCR typically requests that all parties attempt to negotiate a voluntary resolution to the problem that will bring the school into compliance.
 If the OCR investigators have determined that the school system failed to comply with federal disability inclusion laws, you will be asked to meet with an OCR representative and the complainant to attempt to resolve the problems.While participation in this process is voluntary, keep in mind that if the school system refuses, the OCR may pass the matter on to the Department of Justice to file a lawsuit on behalf of the students who were discriminated against.
While resolution may include monetary payments, typically it requires the school system to amend or update policies to comply with federal law, which may include properly identifying students as having special needs or hiring additional teachers or teaching assistants to achieve the goal of including students with disabilities in regular classrooms.
Federal law requires students with disabilities be educated in the least restrictive environment. The education of properly identified students must be evaluated each year, with the school producing an individualized education program that adequately addresses the child's needs.
 If someone decides to sue the school system for violations of federal law prohibiting disability discrimination, you will be served with a complaint setting forth the allegations.The complaint gives you details about the lawsuit itself, while the summons lets you know where the plaintiff filed their lawsuit and how long you have to respond.
Inclusionary violation lawsuits relate to federal law, and therefore must be filed in federal court. The lawsuit the plaintiff chooses should be the federal district court that has jurisdiction over the county where the school is located.
For federal complaints, the defendant has 21 days to file a response from the date the complaint and summons are properly served.
 The complaint and summons should immediately be given to the school's attorneys so they can analyze the case and decide how to respond to the lawsuit.Keep in mind that these lawsuits typically have very sympathetic plaintiffs and are worth millions of dollars. The school's attorney will want to get on top of it as soon as possible.
If you were served with the complaint and summons and you don't believe you were the proper person to receive service for the school, let the school's attorney know this so they can include an improper service defense in their response.
Avoid discussing the lawsuit with anyone other than the school's attorneys. By doing so you may inadvertently destroy attorney-client confidentiality regarding the aspects of the lawsuit you discuss.
 The school's attorney will need documents related to the student or students mentioned in the complaint and their records at the school, including any individual education plans and any tests they were given.If the plaintiff previously filed an administrative complaint with the DOE, you'll need copies of all documents and notices related to that complaint and the OCR investigation.
When a voluntary resolution agreement is entered as the result of an OCR complaint and investigation, the plaintiff may file a lawsuit alleging that the school has not complied with the terms and conditions of that agreement.
In that situation, the school's attorney will need a copy of the voluntary resolution agreement as well as documentation of any efforts made by the school to comply with that agreement.
The school's attorney also typically will request the records of any student named or involved in the lawsuit.
 The school's attorney will prepare an answer to the complaint denying most, if not all, of the allegations. Depending on their analysis of the records available, they also may file a motion to dismiss.If the school's attorney files a motion to dismiss the complaint, the court will hold a hearing on that motion. You may be asked to testify at this hearing. The school's attorney will discuss this with you.
After the answer is filed, the court likely will have a conference to schedule the next phases of litigation and create deadlines by which they must be completed.
 Assuming the court does not dismiss the lawsuit, the next stage of litigation is written discovery, through which both parties send each other written questions and request documents and records related to the case.Written discovery consists of interrogatories, which are written questions that require a written response under oath, and requests for production, which ask you to provide the other party with copies of documents related to the lawsuit.
The plaintiff may have sent initial written discovery documents along with the complaint, and the school's attorney may have already begun answering them.
The school's attorney likely will request that all documents and records potentially related to the lawsuit be pulled and separated from the rest of the school's records, so the legal team can begin going through them.
 The complaint includes the specific dollar amount of damages to which the plaintiff is claiming they are entitled as a result of the school system's inclusionary violations.In addition to monetary damages, the plaintiff also may be seeking equitable relief in terms of a court order for the school to develop new policies or make changes to increase the inclusion of disabled students in regular classes.
Section 504 and the ADA also allow plaintiffs to recover their attorney's fees from the school if they prevail in their lawsuits.
The complaint likely lists damages of several million dollars. Keep in mind that in the event of a trial by jury, the plaintiffs are very likely to be awarded a large amount.
The highly sympathetic nature of these plaintiffs to juries can make inclusionary violation lawsuits difficult to settle because of the correspondingly high monetary value the plaintiff's attorney places on the case.
 At this stage, the school's attorney likely will be looking at options to settle the case before it goes to trial, which could damage the school's reputation and also encourage additional lawsuits.Even in a relatively "open and shut" case, you can't discount the plaintiff's ability to prevail – particularly if they've requested a jury trial.
Typically plaintiffs can be encouraged to settle to avoid the uncertainty of trial and the time and stress of prolonged litigation.
However, inclusionary violation lawsuits often take place after the student involved has already graduated. In that situation, the plaintiff is motivated by principle and may not be put off by a long and drawn-out litigation process.
As the discovery process continues, the plaintiff may be more interested in settling the case. For example, if a teacher's testimony emerges that is particularly damaging to the plaintiff's arguments, you may see a renewed interest in settling.
 Through mediation, the school and the plaintiff have the opportunity to attempt to negotiate a settlement using a neutral third party to facilitate the discussion in a non-adversarial environment.Some federal district courts require parties to at least attempt mediation before a trial will be scheduled. If mediation is mandatory, the court clerk will have a list of court-approved mediation services to use.
The school system can benefit from reaching a settlement through mediation because the discussions that take place during mediation, as well as the outcome itself, are confidential. This ensures minimal damage to the school's reputation.
Keep in mind that if you reach a settlement through mediation, it will be entered into a written agreement that becomes legally binding once signed by both parties.
 If you are unable to reach a settlement, either through mediation or through private negotiation, the attorney will work with teachers and school administrators to build a defense strategy for trial.Throughout litigation, the school's attorney likely will continue to attempt to settle the case.
As the trial date grows near, the range of acceptable settlement options typically increases. Unlike the plaintiff, who likely has little to lose, it is in the best interests of the school system to avoid a public trial at all costs.

