 Keep your daily routine as consistent as you can throughout the holiday season. Try to sleep, work, and exercise at the same times you usually do, and don’t skip self-care activities to get more holiday preparation done.Maintaining your regular schedule will help keep your mood on an even keel, which will make you more productive overall.;
, Getting too tired or overstimulated can lead to a manic or depressive episode. Keep track of the appointments you’ve already made, and don’t feel bad about turning down invitations if you’re already busy.It’s a good idea to give yourself a day or two to recharge between big events.
Consider scheduling some of your visits in January, so you can see everyone you want to without running yourself ragged in December.
 Getting enough rest is crucial for avoiding a relapse, especially during stressful times of the year. Even if you’re busy, make sleep one of your top priorities. Schedule it like any other appointment if you have to. Aim for 7 or more hours each night., Between running errands, traveling, and other distractions, it’s easy to miss a dose of medication during the holiday season. This can have negative consequences for your mood, though, so take precautions to avoid forgetting. Write a note to yourself on your fridge, or set a reminder on your phone.Make sure you have enough medication to last you until January. Getting refills may be difficult over the holidays.
 The holiday season coupled with brisk winter weather can tempt you to want to stay inside, but do continue to follow any prescribed psychotherapy or self-help treatments. If you have been attending individual and/or group therapy, keep going even during the holiday season. Talk to your therapist ahead of time about how you can schedule your appointments around key holidays.


In addition to therapy, you should also continue attending your bipolar disorder support groups. Not only will these groups help you feel less alone during the holidays, but the members may be able to share helpful strategies for coping during this season.
 Relaxation is an important part of keeping your mood stable. Set aside some time every day to read a book, meditate, work on a hobby, or do something else to de-stress.Scheduling alone time can help you deal with the irritability and impulse for reckless behavior that a manic episode can bring with it.