 Analyzing what you already know about the literature and the author could provide key clues towards better active reading. Knowing the basic concept of the literature or the author may shape your perception about what the author is actually intending to relate.Is the author from a specific region of the world?
Does the author hold a position or stance on a subject that may shape his or her views?
Is the book a likely response to a current event or related tension?
Be careful not to make brash connections between the author’s background and the work.A book titled "Uncertain Future" written in 1942 is probably about WWII.;
, If the piece of literature you are reading is a book, or has a cover with an illustrated title, take a minute to review it. What does the title mean to you? Before continuing, make an inference on what the book will be about. If the book's title is "Richard III," you're in the clear; it's about Richard III. What if, however, the title of the book was "Much Ado About Nothing?" That would not be too clear.Analyze the title and subtitle word choice. Could a synonym have been used? If so, why did the author choose that specific title?
If a character is fiercely displayed on the cover, try to determine the action being taken.
For a series or sequel, look at the progression from one cover or title to another, and ask yourself what has occurred from book one to two.
 When beginning your actual text reading, make sure to focus on the chapter title/name. Carefully analyze typeface choices like bold and italic words or passages. Ask yourself why these word and design choices would be made in this specific chapter. Asking different levels of questions will help you understand core concepts throughout the text.Create questions or guesses about the oncoming chapter’s purpose or perspective.

"Willy Loman battles the devil," may be about a character's battle versus evil or inner demons.
A chapter titled, "Cancelled business trip," could be literal, or about a tragic event while traveling.


Modify the titles into thoughts or questions related to what may follow.

"Willy Loman laments that his son discovered his infidelity"
"Willy Loman returns home, disappointed."



, Being able to use your visual literacy, or the ability to turn a visual representation, like a chart, graph, or illustration, into something meaningful, can be a massive benefit to active reading. It’s important to analyze and interpret any images, and being able to communicate why they are significant. Consider one of the following approaches to glean pertinent information.Look at maps, and attempt to determine where specific people may live, or with whom they may align or feud.
Is the technique used an indicator of the time period or target audience?
Aesthetically speaking, is the work pleasing or harsh to the eyes? Does that convey meaning?

