 Remember, a person will never truly quit using drugs until he is ready to do so. The decision has to be yours. A great way to help you get clear on all of the advantages of living a drug-free life is to make a list of the benefits of sobriety. Here are some things that you may want to consider:


Meth use often impacts your quality of life. Your finances take a hit and relationships may be destroyed because of the erratic behavior that addiction creates. Also, you always run the risk of being arrested when you use illegal drugs. These are all things that could change when you stop using meth.
Prolonged use of meth can cause negative health consequences such as extreme weight loss, severe dental problems including tooth loss, and skin sores that result from excessive scratching. Meth use can also increase the risk of contracting infectious diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis.Being healthy for you and your family is often a pretty good reason to quit.;
, Be intentional about removing the people who introduced you to the drugs from your life altogether.This includes old friends that you have gotten high with in the past as well as your drug supplier. You should remove any avenue that you could potentially use to contact them. This includes phone numbers that are stored in your cell phone, phone numbers that may be written down on pieces of paper in your wallet or in your home, and even social media contacts. This way you will no longer have access to people who have a negative influence on you.


If negative influences are still contacting you, then you may want to consider changing your phone number and deleting your social media accounts for a while.
It is just as important to avoid going into old environments that may trigger your desire to use meth. Many people even take alternate routes to work to avoid driving past old acquaintances.
 Staying busy can also help you avoid negative influences. Try getting a job and even a second one if possible. Experiment with working longer hours or get started with a new hobby. Try to keep yourself busy so that you’re less likely to be distracted by negative people and places.
 It is really important to have a strong support system as you move through the process of quitting meth. There should be at least one person who you can call at any time to help you get through a tough moment.


Keep your sobriety partner’s phone number in your wallet, in your cell phone, or in any place where you will have easy access to it at all times.
Identifying one person to be your sobriety partner is fantastic but having several people that you can call at a moment’s notice is ideal. Keep in mind that the larger your support network is, the more successful you’ll be with quitting.
 You may want to involve a family member or friend in this process so that you can make sure that you get all of the details that you need. Making an informed decision is important.


You may want to look at your plan’s brochure or schedule of benefits before actually contacting the insurance company. These written insurance materials should also have details about what is covered in your plan.
If you don’t have insurance then treatment may be a little more difficult to obtain. However it is important to figure out how you are going to pay for your treatment. There are many social service programs that may be helpful. In addition, family and friends may be willing to assist financially so that you can get help.
 In general, the difference between the two treatment options is the level of intensity.Although both types can offer effective treatment programs, inpatient services tend to be more intense. Inpatient programs allow you to live at the facility with other people who are recovering from addictions and participate in daily meetings and support groups. Outpatient programs generally include counseling and monitoring but are not as intense as inpatient facilities.


Consider how severe your addiction is when deciding what type of treatment to undergo. If the addiction is severe and you are concerned that remaining at home while in treatment will result in you dropping out of the program, then an inpatient program is probably your best option.
If the addiction is not extremely severe and you have other responsibilities like a job or children, you may want to consider an outpatient program.
When making this decision you may want to asking for feedback from family members and other people who care about you. They may be able to see the situation a little more objectively.
If you choose inpatient treatment, try to visit the facility in advance so that you are comfortable with where you will be living for the next few weeks or months.
 Be sure to tidy things up before you begin treatment. If you will be in inpatient treatment, talk to your supervisor about having time off from work so that your job can still be in place when you return. Even if you are in outpatient treatment, you may want to take a couple of days off, particularly at the beginning as you begin the process of sober living. This way, your work performance won’t be jeopardized. Also, if you are a mother (or father) of small children, you will need to arrange for childcare if you are unmarried and write lots of lists for your partner if you are married.


It may take up to 90 days to complete treatment.Sometimes it may even be longer, depending upon the severity of the addiction and your specific needs. However, you must be committed to the process and that includes preparing in advance for success. Remember, when you complete the program, you should have all of the tools that you need to stay substance free.
You may not want to take too much time off from work if you are in outpatient treatment. Work is a way to stay busy and distracted.
 When you finally make the decision to pursue treatment, irrational fears and old thinking habits will try to creep back in. A great way to move past the fear is to use visualization.Try visualizing a huge multi-room mansion. You don’t know what’s in the rooms up ahead but you visualize that you’re taking the first step in faith. As you use this strategy, remind yourself that what’s ahead of you in the mansion is good for you and know that you’ll find the courage that you need to make it through the whole mansion. When the fear presents itself, gently remind yourself that you are doing the best thing possible for yourself by entering treatment.
 Overcoming a meth addiction use can be a very hard process, so it is very important to have a solid support system in place. Do not try to go through this process alone. Here are a couple of ways that you can get the support that you need:Rely on close family members and friends. If you’re reluctant to ask for support again because you’ve let them down in the past, consider going to family counseling. It’s very important that you have the support of those closest to you during this time.
Make new friends. You can find healthy people engaged in constructive activities in places like church, civics groups, volunteer activities, school, classes, or events being held in your community.
If you live alone or in a place where you readily have access to Meth or other drugs, consider moving into a drug-free living environment during outpatient treatment. This is also a good option to consider after you leave inpatient treatment. You’ll have more support in a healthier living environment.
 This may sound simpler than it is in reality, especially if you are in an outpatient program. When withdrawal symptoms emerge at the beginning, you may want to avoid the discomfort. Similarly, when you start to feel better toward the end of treatment, you may feel like you no longer need treatment. During these times, you may tempted to stop going to your sessions or discontinue inpatient treatment. However, that would not be a wise decision and will likely be detrimental to your success.


Inpatient treatment is very structured and at times it may even seem like it is beneath you to attend the sessions. In addition, the other people in treatment may be extremely vocal or have personalities that don’t match well with yours. When these frustrations arise, continue to remind yourself that this is only temporary and the end results are worth it.
Rely on your support system during these times to keep you motivated. The moment that the thought “Don’t go today” creeps up into your mind, immediately call your accountability partner or other supportive person.
 It is imperative that you not only go to every meeting but that you also fully participate in the treatment that is offered. Get involved in the dialogue, do homework assignments, and make it a priority to get the most out of each session. There are various types of treatment options that may be provided:Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) helps you identify the factors that are contributing to your drug use and give you strategies to overcome them.
Multidimensional Family Therapy (MFT) is often used with adolescents to help youth and their families address the abuse patterns and improve overall functioning within the family unit.
Motivational incentives use behavioral reinforcement to encourage drug abstinence.
 Detoxification is the first step in treatment and the process will allow your body to rid itself of the drug.Be prepared to experience withdrawal symptoms during the first few days that you’re in treatment.These symptoms don’t feel good but they’re only temporary. Remind yourself that once you’ve made it through the first few days, that they will subside and you’ll feel better.


Long gone are the days when you have to go cold turkey and sit in treatment writhing in agony. Typically, medicine is used to help ease the withdrawal symptoms. So, although you will likely experience some of the physical symptoms of detoxing and withdrawal, they probably won’t be extreme.
Medication such as methadone, buprenorphine and, and naltrexone are often used to relieve meth cravings so that you can disengage from drug seeking and focus on treatment.
Some withdrawal symptoms that you may experience include difficulties breathing, diarrhea, shaking, paranoia, mood shifts, sweating, heart palpitations, vomiting, and nausea. Again, keep in mind that medications will help ease these symptoms.
Meth is a amphetamine that results in the increase in dopamine production. Dopamine signals the brain to “feel good” and when a person stops taking meth the dopamine levels drop drastically. As a result, you may experience anhedonia or an inability to experience pleasure.This temporary condition usually lasts for a few weeks while the body readjusts its dopamine levels. Unfortunately, people often relapse during this time because they want to feel good again. Therefore, it’s important to recognize when this condition is occurring so that you don't drop out of treatment.
In the beginning, the physical and emotional withdrawal symptoms may feel overwhelming and cause you to want to stop treatment. Discontinuing treatment is not a wise idea and could be detrimental to your success.
 Take time to really embrace your treatment. Remember to verbally congratulate yourself for having the courage to get better for yourself and your family.
 When leaving an inpatient program, you may want to first consider spending time in a recovery home. These homes are often referred to as sober-living homes or halfway houses. They can help bridge the gap between inpatient facilities and the outside world. You can learn more about relapse prevention in these homes before returning directly back to your old environment.These programs are often privately owned and can be expensive. Again, you may want to check to see if your insurance covers such programs. Other options are asking for financial assistance from social services, your church or local ministry, or arrange to pay out of pocket.
 This should be a priority and should be done as soon as your treatment is complete. In fact, it might be helpful to have one available before treatment even ends so that you can hop right in without delay. Joining a support group is extremely important in order to avoid relapse. Check to see if there is a local Crystal Meth Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous group that you can join. You can also get referrals from a physician, friend, or social service organization.


Spending time around other people who are in recovery in a supportive environment will help you when you reintegrate into your normal routine.
Attending a support group even if you are in a recovery home is very important. This way you’ll already be used to it when you return home.
Now that you feel better, other things will begin to compete for your attention again. During this transition, you may think that it’s okay to begin skipping meetings. Skipping support group meetings is not a wise idea and could be detrimental to your success.
 When you are in recovery, you still want to avoid friends and places that you used to spend time around when you were using meth. These people and environments will likely still be strong triggers for you. Therefore, avoiding them is especially important in the first few years of your recovery. Here are other ways to avoid triggers that could result in relapse:Avoid bars and clubs. Even if you don’t struggle with alcohol, alcohol can lower inhibitions and impair judgment. Also, you may be more likely to run into old buddies there or be in the presence of meth.
The use of opiates and other prescription medication can trigger relapse but so can inadequate pain relief.Therefore it's important for you to be candid with doctors when seeking medical treatment. Do not be ashamed of your history and instead focus on avoiding relapse. If you need a medical or dental procedure, find a medical professional who will provide alternative medicines or prescribe the minimal amount of medication to provide you comfort but not trigger a relapse.
 Stress may trigger cravings for you yet it is impossible to avoid all stress. Therefore, it’s important to know how to manage the stress so that it does not become overwhelming and cause you to relapse. Here are some things that you can do to relieve stress:Exercise: Walking, running, biking, gardening, swimming, even cleaning your house helps.
Write: Spend 10-15 minutes a day writing about stressful events that happened that day. It might help if after you write about the event that you rewrite the ending the way you would have liked for things to have gone. Write in the present tense, pretending as if it really happened that way. This way you end the writing exercise on a positive note.
Talk it out: Whether you want to laugh, cry, or just vent a little, find a friend, Counselor or Clergyman who is available to be present and talk it out with you.
Do something you enjoy: Find an activity that you really enjoy and spend some time doing that. It could be anything healthy that you enjoy, such as gardening, playing with your kids, going for a stroll, eating out, baking, or even just sitting outside in the fresh air for a while. If you enjoy it and it’s a healthy activity, then go for it.
Meditate: Sit in a quiet place and breather in deeply through your nose and allow the air to go to your abdomen. Then breathe out through your mouth allowing the air to come up from your abdomen and out of your mouth. As you do this, focus on the breaths that you take. This is a great meditation process for stress relief.
Yoga: Enroll into a yoga class or grab a few yoga DVDs to help with stress relief.
 Sometimes the cravings come hard and heavy, regardless of what you do. Therefore it is important to know exactly what to do when this occurs. Here are some great coping techniques that should be a part of your plan:Have productive thoughts while dealing with cravings. Tell yourself that it's a craving. Cravings are bound to happen, and dealing with the cravings will get easier all the time. Think, "I need to ride out my cravings, one at a time so I can remain sober".
Keep a list of activities that you enjoy that can help distract you when the urge to use emerges. Some examples of distracting activities might include reading, writing in your journal, going to the movies, watching a movie at home, or going out to eat.
Visualize that you’re a surfer who is determined to ride the wave until the craving passes. See yourself staying on top of the wave until it crests, peaks, and then returns to the less powerful, white and foamy surf. This technique is called “urge surfing.”
List all of the benefits and consequences of using meth on an index card that you keep on you at all times. When a craving hits, pull out the card to remind yourself that you really won’t feel better if you use.
Call your accountability partner or other supportive friend or family member so that you can talk through the urge.
 Goals are often a great drug prevention tool. When you are focused on achieving your goals, you are less likely to revert back to meth use. It doesn’t matter what the goals are – they can be focused on family, career, or even personal goals like completing a marathon or writing your first book. Just make sure that the goals that you choose are important to you.
 Call your sobriety partner, Therapist, Clergyman, go to a meeting, or schedule an appointment with your doctor as quickly as you can. The goal is to get back on track and out of danger as soon as possible.


Relapse is a common part of the recovery process. Don’t let it keep you down. Rather than look at it as failure, use it as a learning opportunity. When you are sober again, take a look at what triggered your relapse and figure out what you can do the next time a similar situation presents itself.
 After you have been in recovery for some time, you may decide that you want to educate the public or help others through their own recovery process. In fact, many people consider volunteering to be an essential part of their own recovery process.Becoming a role model or mentor is a great way to help others with their addictions. It can also help you maintain sobriety yourself as well as improve your own self-esteem. Volunteers also benefit from reduced rates of depression and an increased sense of life satisfaction and well being.


As you’re making your list, consider the types of people whom you would like to work with. Whatever your preferences are, make sure that you are clear about them in your mind before you agree to volunteer.
Some things to consider when choosing the place where you will volunteer include age and gender of participants. Some people might prefer to educate youth while others may prefer to provide support for a specific gender.
 After you have developed a list of potential places to volunteer, now it is time to review the requirements for each organization. Some programs have stricter guidelines than others, particularly if you desire to mentor youth. If you meet the volunteer requirements then keep the organization on your list. If not, then cross it off and move on to the next.


Be sure that the volunteer opportunity is a good fit for you. For example, if you just want to volunteer once per month then make sure that the guidelines don’t expect weekly contact.
 Sometimes the organizations already have a formal volunteer program and you’ll probably just need to fill out an application and wait to be contacted. Other times, particularly if you’d like to talk to students in a school setting, you will probably need to call the organizational head to see if you could volunteer there.


You can usually find contact information on the website. You can call the contact person or send them a quick email.
 After you have arranged to provide services as a mentor you may start to experience some anxiety or fear. Anxiety is a normal reaction to any stressful event.Therefore its not unusual to be a little nervous before doing something new. However, try to stay motivated by reminding yourself that following through will help other people learn the tools that they need to have a better life. Here are a few other things that may help decrease your nervousness:


Get adequate rest the night before you volunteer. Sleep deprivation can increase your level of anxiety so be sure to go to bed at a reasonable hour.
Try not to ruminate or think excessively about the upcoming volunteer assignment. Focus your thoughts on preparing for the event and then spend the rest of the time engaged in other healthy activities.
Confront your fears. Try starting with activities that cause you lower levels of anxiety. Continue to engage in the activities until the anxiety no longer occurs. Try activities that are slightly uncomfortable but simple, like spooning soup into bowls at a soup kitchen. When you're comfortable with that then you can move up to other volunteer activities.

