 While you can always adjust the dimensions to fit your rack, the following tutorial will hold six bottles and six wine glasses. You can use any solid, easily worked wood you like, depending on your style preferences. You will need:


You need one – 2×4 by 8-foot-long board
You need two 1×4 by 8-foot-long boards;
, If you have a woodworking shop, you likely have almost everything already. Still, check the following list before starting:









Saw – (miter saw, circular saw, or hand saw)
Drill
Orbital sander (220 grit paper)
Jigsaw
Air nailer or hammer and nails
Wood clamp
3/8-inch bit and 5/64-inch drill bit
Carpenters square
Tape measure

, You can use a circular saw, hand saw, or miter saw. You want to end up with seven total boards, cutting as follows:









Cut five (5) boards to 30" long a piece.
One (1) board to 27" long
Two (2) boards at just 2" long.
 You'll have three separate pieces of 2x4, giving you a total of eleven cut pieces of wood when you're done. After making all of your cuts, briefly use the orbital sander to remove any rough edges. The 2x4 should be cut to:









Two (2) boards at 11" long.
One (1) board at 10¼" long.
 You want a simple curve on one end of each board, on the long flat side. You'll be cutting a rounded triangle off of the top corner of each 2x4.
 Move slowly to cut the curve as purposely as possible. When done, sand down the edges.









Each 2x4 will have one rounded edge and one squared edge. It looks a little like the front car of a train.
 This is to hold your wine glasses. Just to be safe, center the glasses on the following marks to ensure that your specific glasses fit next to each other. You should make the following 12 marks.










Measuring from the left edge:

Mark the wood at 4 inch, 8 ¼ inch, and 12 ¾ inches.



Measuring from the right edge:

Mark the wood at 4 inch, 8 ¼ inch, and 12 ¾ inches



, Go to each 4" mark, then measure in from the edge 2". If it helps, use your straightedge to first draw a horizontal line at each measurement, then place the 2" mark on each measurement.
 Clamp the board to your workbench before drilling. These holes will be the tops of each notch for holding the wine glasses. Drill down as straight as possible.
 You'll basically be making six "H" shapes on the board, but the drilled hole will form the horizontal bridge in the middle. Line up your straight edge along each side of the hole and draw two lines across the width of the board. You'll make 12 lines in total.









The 2" measurement should be above the drill hole, with extra room below.
 Do not come from the 2" line, come up from the bottom. If you cut a little wider than your lines, that is fine -- it is better to err on the side of wider than narrower. Your wine glasses will slide into this upside-down, as the bottom will hold up the glass. The stems need to fit into these notches.









Just cut straight up to the hole you drilled -- the notches of wood should fall right out.
When done, use the orbital sander again to smooth out the new cuts.
 Stand the 2x4s up so that rounded edge points to the ceiling, then fit the 27" between them so that it lays flush between the boards. Then center the 10¼" on the plank in the middle.









The center is at 15" from either side of the long board.
 You can use a variety of methods, all of which require wood glue. Use your square to ensure each joint is 90-degrees. Place a generous amount of glue on each joint, clamp them together, and then adhere the wood using whatever method you prefer:









Nail gun, or hammer and nails. Use at least 2 nails per joint.
Screws and power drill. Be sure to pre-drill the holes to prevent the wood from splitting.
Pocket holes and a Kreg jig (1-1/2")

, The three curved sections should curve away from the back so that the highest section of the 2x4's is the top and back of the finished rack. Turn the rack over, then liberally apply wood glue to the back of each 2x4 and the bottom panel. Place your three boards evenly on the back, then use a nail gun or hammer and nails to tack all three boards in place.
 Turn the rack over, then lay the 1x4 over the front of the rack so that it is flush to the bottom. This board keeps the wine from falling out of the rack.









Again, use wood glue, line up the board, then tack it in place with the nail gun.
 These will for them "feet" of the wineglass. Turn the rack so that you can see the bottom of it. Glue up one side of the small square boards and then place them on the bottom two corners, so that the rack has two "feet" on the bottom right and bottom left. After gluing, use a nail in each corner to bind the feet to the rack.









The "bottom" corners are the two closest to the back of the rack, where you have the three 30" boards.
 It will be flush with bottom of the wine rack. Simply line up the wine glass holder with the bottom of the rack, then glue and nail it to the feet, There should be 1" of space between the bottom of the rack and the top of the notched glass holder.









Test a couple of glasses in the holder before attaching anything to make sure they fit.
 Give the rack 2-3 hours to dry, just to be safe. Then run your orbital sander over everything to smooth it out and get rid of any excess wood glue. When done, you can finish it any way you like -- painting, finishing, staining, etc.
 You'll need to drill some pilot holes into your rack, but you can't if you' don't know how far apart the studs are. Most are 16" apart -- but check your wall with a stud finder as well.
 To find the center, simply measure the middle of the middle board in the back -- it will be 1-¾" from either edge. For a normal wall, drill two holes 16" apart from each other along this middle board.
 Follow your pilot holes, and make sure you hit the studs. Your wine rack is done!








