 Sharing the names of your pets, your grandmother’s name, or your favorite movie could lead to problems later on. This unique identifying information often composes the security questions for banks, credit cards, and other financial information. Oversharing personal info, therefore, can lead to identity theft.Remember that anything you post on the internet is in the public domain, even if you use privacy settings. While social media is a great way to stay in touch with friends and family, other people may also be able to see what you post.
 If possible, only post information privately. On social media platforms that do not allow private posting, post as little as possible. Try to limit yourself to reposts of existing material – links to articles or songs you liked, for instance.Keeping your social media profile private means that you’ll only be sharing with a select few people (your friends or approved followers).
 Many apps have automatic check-in options to let people know where you are. This can be very dangerous for you and your family because it tells people where you are at the moment. Someone who has bad intentions can use that information to rob your home while you're away. By turning your location function off on your phone or tablet, you’ll be better able to control who knows where you are, what you’re doing, and when you’re doing it.If you need to use your GPS, just turn the location function back on.
Consult your user guide for your phone or tablet for more information about how you can turn off location sharing features.
 Most people neither need nor want to know where you went grocery shopping, or what dog groomer you took your pet too. You can easily avoid oversharing these superfluous details of your day by turning off automatic location functions.Additionally, think carefully about where you check-in. Limit check-ins to special events and trips. Don’t check-in when visiting your friends, the laundromat, or other places that do not hold special interest. Additionally, don’t check-in from places far from home, since this will alert potential criminals that you won’t be returning to your home any time soon.
 Like most people, you probably have many “friends” on social media who are in fact little more than acquaintances. Letting these people know that you will be away from home for a certain length of time might increase the likelihood that they will use this information to rob or vandalize your house.