 Ensure that you are using a machine that is appropriate to the tattoo and a needle size that will fit the work that you are doing. Address the speed on the tattoo machine as well. Many tattoo artists recommend a higher speed for shading than normal lining.
 Although it is possible to wait fifteen minutes or so for the tattoo to dry, most artists prefer to do the shading in a separate session than the lining. Not only will this make your job as the tattoo artist easier, but it will also give the customer a chance to think over how they want their shading done.
 Start with the darker areas of the tattoo and then move out in a circular motion to the lighter areas. Remember that the darker areas are going to require more pressure than the lighter areas. This takes a lot of feel, so you’ll have to practice. , Essentially, your brushwork should be heavy to light. You want to add more pressure to produce the darker areas and reduce pressure as you move to a lighter area. You don’t want the gradients to look obvious, so try to make this transition very smooth. , This is a slightly more time consuming method. However, it helps if you aren’t comfortable with your ability to produce a gradient simply by managing the pressure you apply with the needle. If that is the case then changing the ink capacity is another option.
 This is another strategy. Dip your needle in distilled water to dilute the black pigment into a gray pigment. This is helpful because you don’t have to change needles as you move through the tattoo. As you apply the ink, tilt the needle in a circular manner to blend the tones of the tattoo effectively. This will apply a different amount of ink and contribute to the shading., You want to make sure that the darker ink is completely gone from the needle before you move onto shading lighter areas. Neglecting to clean your needles could seriously mess up your shading.
 Shading is a great time to cover up any mistakes that you or a previous tattoo artist has made. You can even shade over previous shading mistakes. Follow the same techniques.
 If there is any unnecessary ink on the surface after you have finished the tattoo, take it off. You need to be able to examine your work. You may notice some inconsistencies in your work, in which case you need to go back in and fix it up. Alter the shading to address any inconsistencies in that specific tattoo.

