 There are many kinds of sales gimmicks and it's important that you choose one that is appropriate for your product or service. A good sales gimmick grabs a potential customer's attention, but shouldn't actually seem like a gimmick at all.You may want to offer free shipping or provide free shipping if a customer's order exceeds a certain dollar value.
Multiple purchase pricing is the act of offering products for a price if you buy a certain number of them. An example of this could selling ten pens for ten dollars.
A common sales gimmick for services is the bundle. Bundling services makes it seem like a better deal to purchase more than one service, even if the customer may not have been looking for the other services. An example of this would be cable companies offering television, internet and telephone service for a single price.
You can use psychological pricing, which often means that you price something as $0.99 instead of a dollar. This could be $9.99 instead of $10.00 for example.
Upselling is a technique where you offer an upgraded version of the product for a higher price. You can also sell add-ons that the customer may be interested in, such as chargers, cases, or warranties.
Other gimmicks could be using coupons, having sales events or giving your customers a rewards card that encourages them to return to do business with you again.;
, A good slogan can make or break your sales pitch, and an extremely effective slogan can do some of the work for you. Effective slogans are memorable and may even be shared among prospective customers before you begin trying to make a sale.A slogan should be a brief statement that speaks to the use or importance of your product or service.
Shorter slogans are generally better, unless you can catch the audience's attention with humor, gimmicks, or flashy advertising. For example, Geico’s “fifteen minutes can save you fifteen percent or more on car insurance” is rather long, but they are memorable because of their funny advertisements.
 Identify potential objections a customer may have to your pitch and prepare ways to address them. Customers may feel as though your claims can’t be backed up or that your competition may offer a better deal. Prepare statements or methods to address these complaints ahead of time.Addressing objections may be as simple as providing a demonstration or providing a price comparison between you and competitors.
If your prices are higher than the competition, you may be able to address budget concerns by discussing the higher quality of your product or service.
An example could be, "we offer prices that are ten percent lower than our competition!"

, The call to action is possibly the most important part of a sales gimmick: it’s the portion of your pitch that calls on a potential customer to make the transition into actual customer. A good call to action will engage customers with a sense of urgency.#* Avoid generic information like “act now” and instead couple it with the benefits of why you should “act now.”

A good example could be, “act now to secure this low price” or “act now to take advantage of this week’s incentives.”
Creating a sense of urgency can compel customers to act immediately and allow you to close the sale.
 Events that draw attention to your brand, product or service can serve as an excellent sales gimmick. Depending on the nature of your business, you may need to utilize different types of events.


High energy events with words and phrases like sale, clearance or blowout can attract customers that may not have otherwise stopped in.
Utilize your slogan heavily during events to increase retention in the minds of customers and potential customers alike.
Car dealerships often have sales events that give potential customers the impression that they need to purchase a new car immediately to get the best possible price.
 You may find that a sales gimmick that was working well may become less effective over time. This is because the sales environment is constantly changing and you must too in order to be successful. Gimmicks are inherently short lived so creating new ones or adjusting old ones should be a continuous process.Experiment with new gimmicks or alterations on existing ones to make sure you remain on the cutting edge of what works.
You may find an unsuccessful sales gimmick can be saved by testing it and making tweaks as you go.
Take advantage of popular trends and incorporate them into your gimmick to create more reach with people in your chosen demographic.
Try incorporating recent news or events to grab the public's attention, but do so in a tasteful way by not utilizing insensitive language toward those who may have been negatively affected by the event.
 In order to establish a strong sales gimmick, you will need to identify the group of people in which you hope to sell to. One effective way to do so is to utilize the funnel approach. The funnel approach is a method in which you look at all people as a single group, then begin to narrow it down by applying imaginary filters.Start by narrowing the group into the broadest segment possible. If your product or service is automotive in nature, people who want to buy a car may be your initial filter.
Then add additional filters to each group until you have the most specific group of people you can muster. For example, your automotive service may be narrowed down to certain locations, ages, or income levels.
 Once you have identified the group of people you want to sell your product or service to, begin conducting research on the group and what matters to them. If it is an age group, you may want to look into popular culture for that age, for instance. There are a number of websites and services you can use to gather information on the demographic of your choosing.The U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics offers demographic information on their website: http://www.bls.gov/cex/home.htm

The Economist Intelligence Union is a company that offers international demographic information at EIU.com.
Most organizations require you to pay for access to their demographic information.
 Your sales gimmick should work in multiple mediums of communication (in person, in television or radio advertising, etcetera) and in today’s day in age, having a sales gimmick that translates well into social media is imperative to being successful. Remember to tailor your content to your chosen demographic on social media by using language and graphics that are in keeping with the popular culture of that group.


Make sure your sales pitch is consistent across platforms so customers that dealt with your or your company online are not surprised by differences when dealing with you in person.
Most social media platforms allow you to target your chosen demographic. When creating an social media ad, look at your demographic options and determine the one that is closest to the group you are targeting.
Adjust the formality and tone of your written content to be approachable for the demographic you've chosen.
 In order to successfully engage a potential buyer, you need to establish common ground with them. Making a connection with a potential customer can make the difference between making a sale and not regardless of the product.A good sales gimmick will involve an established mutual point of agreement such as, “phone bills are too high,” or, “we all want to save money.”
If your gimmick does not involve establishing a common ground, your sales people will have to do so as a part of their pitch.
 Creating an effective sales pitch or gimmick requires identifying a problem that your product or service can address. You are asking customers to provide you with money and in return their life should be improved, simplified or otherwise changed for the positive. Examples of problems that are addressed by products or services are:A cleaning company addresses issues with cleaning and maintaining facilities.
Auto-repair shops help people repair broken vehicles.
Toy companies address the need for engaging forms of entertainment and education for kids.
 Once you identify a problem in your sales pitch, you must explain to the customers how you can solve it, or reduce its impact on their lives. This is usually the nature of your service or the reason for your product.Auto-repair shops should make it clear which services they provide. Are you willing to drive out to stranded customers? Can you get rare parts for luxury or specialty vehicles?
Cleaning companies can contrast the issue of dirty facilities by discussing the types of cleaning services offered. You might advertise how quickly you can clean an office or use special equipment to remove difficult stains.
Toy companies might offer toys that will teach children how to read or encourage mathematical skills. Hire a child development expert to talk about the benefits of your toy.
 Now that the customer knows what the problem is and how you can solve it, you need to make your offer seem as appealing as possible by discussing the value of choosing you over your competitors.You may choose to indicate how much of your product or what level of your service a customer can get for their dollar.
Comparing your prices to that of your competitors is an excellent way to demonstrate your value and show your audience why you're a better choice. Your product might be faster, cheaper, more durable, or more effective.
Use your knowledge of your target demographic to speak to their specific needs or interests and how you can address them.
Sales events, coupons or specials are great ways to convey a special benefit a customer may receive if they act now.

