 Use your dog’s favorite brush to comb out its coat. Make sure to clear out any plant matter or other trapped debris. If you come across a thick mat, use a finer-toothed mat pick to remove it.Try holding the matted fur from the base with your fingers as you comb it out at the edge. Holding the base of your dog’s hair as you comb mats out will help cut down on pulling, which might hurt your dog.
Make sure to brush your dog’s coat before giving it a bath. Water will worsen mats and tangles.;
, Home trimming is best for those with some experience maintaining a dog’s coat. Use good pair of dog clippers (not human clippers) if your dog is too shaggy, but avoid shaving it down completely. If you have grooming experience, you can also use a pair of scissors to trim the coat, as long as you’re confident you can trim evenly.If you’re not sure about your scissor skills, use clippers to trim the coat or just hire a professional.
If you’re trimming your dog’s coat at home and want more information about conforming to breed standards, try searching for a local breed club or directory online. Check your breed club for standards, best grooming techniques, and information about your dog’s coat type., Clippers shouldn’t be used on a dog’s face, feet, and other sensitive areas. Use blunt-edge scissors to clear away excess fur from your shaggy dog’s eyes. Look for fur protruding between its toes and, while the dog is standing upright, cut away the excess fur.Use scissors to trim down hair around its tail and where it goes to the bathroom to avoid fecal matter getting stuck in shaggy fur.
 Overgrown nails can interfere with a dog’s natural gait, affecting its joints and back. Use cupped dog nail clippers or a nail grinding tool to trim long nails. Avoid clipping too much off, or you’ll damage the quick, causing pain and bleeding.If your dog doesn’t like having its nails trimmed, try clipping just one or two nails per day so you don’t overwhelm it. Be sure to reward it after clipping a nail to develop positive associations., Easier home makeover techniques, like brushing, can be a great bonding experience for you and your dog. However, it might be best for a professional to handle things like a super shaggy coat or nail clipping, especially if you have limited grooming experience. A professional can also handle the less than glamorous tasks, like expressing anal glands or dealing with a skunked or muddy pooch.If your dog is purebred, ask its breeder or local breed club to recommend a good groomer who’s well-versed in breed standards. Otherwise, ask your dog’s vet or dog-owning family and friends for a referral.To find the best groomer, check its website or ask for testimonials or reviews from current customers. Ask them, “Would you mind if I see your facilities in person first?” Look for clean, well-maintained facilities.
Rates can vary based on your dog’s size, along with the groomer’s location and quality. Typically, expect to pay around 15 US dollars an hour, or about 40 US dollars for a mid-sized dog’s basic grooming needs.

