 Wipe dirt away with a rag or brush. If your horse’s hooves have dirt on them, spray or wash them with water, then dry them with a rag. Use a horse pick on hooves which have mud or dirt caked on them.


Call your vet immediately if you detect any nails or sharp objects stuck in your horse’s feet., A hoof oil brush is the tool used to apply hoof oil. Before applying hoof oil, visit your local pet store to find a hoof oil brush.Don’t agonize over choosing the “right” brush. They’re all basically the same.


Your hoof oil brush should remain clean. Wash the brush lightly in water and pat it dry.
Hoof oil brushes are often included in the hoof oil bottle. When you lift the cap off the hoof oil bottle, you’ll see a long stick-like tool with bristles on the end. This is the included hoof oil brush.
 There are many types of hoof oil. Each type has specific directions and ingredients which vary slightly. Carefully selecting the hoof oil you need requires reading the directions and ingredients on your hoof oil’s label. If your hoof oil is not used primarily to keep hooves moisturized, exchange it for another which is better suited to keeping hooves within their normal moisture range.


Be wary of hoof oils that claim to improve circulation or help hooves grow. These effects are secondary or minimal at best., Place some old rugs in the depression and soak them thoroughly with plain water. Place a hanging bag or feeder in front of the horse so that it must stand in the wet depression in order to eat.


Do not soak your horse’s feet too often. Excessive soaking can cause your horse’s hooves to become too soft. In wet climates, soak your horse’s hooves for about 10-15 minutes before applying hoof oil. In dry climates, soak for about one hour twice each week.Experiment with your horse to find the ideal frequency for soaking.
 Apply some hoof oil to the brush. After lifting the hoof oil brush directly out of the hoof oil, wait a few seconds before using it on your horse’s hooves. This way, excess oil will drip off your brush and you will not waste it or apply it too heavily. Then, cover the tops of your horse’s hooves with hoof oil.


Starting from either side of the hoof, run your brush across it in straight lines. Move from the top of the hoof toward the bottom, being careful not to get any oil on the horse’s hair near the ankle.
For instance, you might choose to start applying the oil from the left side of your horse’s hoof. Run the brush towards the right side of the hoof and stop when you reach the edge. Then, moving back to the left side of the hoof, brush a parallel row just below the first. Continue in this way, moving across and down the top of the hoof from one side to another.
Reapply hoof oil to the brush as needed. When you notice your brush no longer leaves hoof oil in its wake across the hoof, you will know it is time to apply more to the brush.
Your application should leave a thin, even layer of hoof oil on the surface of the hoof.Don’t use hoof oil just to give your horse’s hooves a shiny appearance. It should only be used when you have a problem keeping your horse’s hooves moisturized properly.
 Rotate your body at a forty-five degree angle toward your horse. Lean the hand closest to the horse against its flank. Reach down with your other hand and give the horse a gently squeeze on its ankle. Your horse will then lift its leg, allowing you to apply the hoof oil to the bottoms of the hooves. To apply the hoof oil, dip your brush in the hoof oil. Let the brush drip out a bit into the bottle of hoof oil. Then, cover the bottom of the hoof in its entirety.


If your horse is shod, apply as much hoof oil as possible to the exposed surface of the hoof sole.
You can start and end your application of hoof oil to the sole of the hoof from anywhere you want. For instance you could start from the center of the hoof and work your way out, or start from the outer edges of the sole and work your way in.
Keep the horse’s foot at roughly knee height.
Allow each hoof to dry by holding it up for a few minutes after using the hoof oil.
 If your horse has very dry or cracked hooves, soak them and apply some hoof oil two to three times each week. When your horse’s hooves improve, apply the hoof oil just once each week. Be careful not to over-moisturize your horse’s hooves. If you notice the hoof becoming spongy or soft, reduce the frequency with which you apply hoof oil.