 You don’t need to respond to someone’s bullying right away, especially if it occurs on the internet. Take a moment to cool off, especially if you feel angry or upset. While you might feel inspired to respond defensively, take a few moments to decide whether that’s actually a good idea.Take some deep breaths or go for a walk to cool down.
If you’re talking to someone else or in a group, say, “I’m a bit taken aback by your comment and would rather not discuss it right now.”;
, If another adult is behaving inappropriately, ignore the behavior. If the interactions happen in-person, walk away or ignore them. If it happens online, don’t respond to rude or condescending comments. Make it clear that you are not willing to get involved in a discussion with a person who is disrespectful or aggressive.If the person eggs you on, be clear in saying, “This isn’t a discussion I want to have.”

, You might think there’s something to learn from the situation or from the person who is doing the bullying. If you choose to engage, agree to some ground rules. Say that you’d like to discuss the item further, but only through a respectful conversation. Be courteous and kind in your responses and don’t let your own emotions get the better of you.


If you’re willing to engage but only if they behave appropriately, say, “I’m only interested in talking if we can both respect each other’s knowledge and opinions.”

, If someone has said something offensive, start by taking a soft approach. Gently point out what was offensive, then offer some feedback. Keep the interaction calm and productive. Your goal is not to start a fight, but to point out something that hurt you.For example, if someone calls you a name, say, “I’m not sure why you’re making an insult, as that has nothing to do with the topic at hand and is hurtful to me. I’d like to stay on topic, please.”

, Many intellectual bullies are knowledgeable and offer good information. However, they go about their interactions in a rude or aggressive manner. If the person has said something beneficial, point it out and thank them for their feedback or opinion. You can choose to ignore their outburst or gently point it out.For example, you can say, “I appreciate your feedback on how to go forward with the project and find that helpful.”
You can also say, “Your contributions are helpful, however, please keep comments respectful.”

, Notice the things you agree upon and highlight them. Even if the person is outright disrespectful, offer some cohesion by discovering connections and discussing them. Show that you are also informed and willing to engage in a respectful debate or conversation.For example, say, “While we disagree on how to change the government, we both agree that changes need to happen.”

, If the person is expressing a strong opinion in an unpleasant way, find out a bit more from them. Ask what has influenced them to feel this way. Show curiosity and avoid stirring their defenses. Keep the focus on the issue and not on the person’s intensity or offensive remarks.For example, if someone blasts you for your political views, say, “I know we differ, but I’m curious about your beliefs and would like to know more about your stance.”

, If someone says something to you that’s rude or offensive, you have the option not to respond. The person might have a reputation for strong opinions or abrasive interactions. You might know this person as a ‘troll’ and recognize their frequent unpleasant comments. If you’d rather not get involved, don’t. Don’t let someone else’s anger ruin your day.If the interaction happens over the internet, don’t respond to the comment, especially if it’s from someone you do not know. If you do know the person, think about how your potential response may help or hurt the discussion.
 The internet makes it easy to immediately fire back a cold or aggressive remark without feeling the consequences of hurting someone’s feelings. Because you know you will likely never meet this person, you might feel more emboldened to say mean or aggressive things right back to them. However, don’t make the situation worse. You don’t need to contribute to hateful or hurtful messages.


Deal with your emotions from the bullying on your own without taking it out on the other person. Remind yourself that their comments aren’t personal.
 If someone is saying something offensive, let them know how you feel. The person may not know that their comments are hurtful or offensive. Express why the comment was hurtful. Stay neutral in your words and try not to make accusations.For example, say, “I know I have different views, but it hurt my feelings when you called me stupid. This doesn’t add to the discussion and it upset me.”

, If someone is attacking you online, find a way to block contact with that person. For example, if the bullying is occurring over social media, use your privacy settings to block them from further contact. Especially if the person continually goes after you, this can stop them from contacted you.If you are a friend or contact with the person and do not want to remove that connection (say, if they’re a family member or they live in the same small town), stop following that person on social media. You will still remain connected, but you will not actively see their posts.
 If you know certain sites or forums are ripe with intellectual bullies, consider taking some time away from these sites. You might want to read news articles but not read the accompanying comments. If someone posts a controversial article, don’t immediately comment on it. Ask yourself if you want to get involved in a potentially heated discussion.For example, if you hold certain political beliefs yet your family holds different beliefs, don’t comment on articles they post as this will likely cause a stir.
 If the bullying is out of control and you feel hurt by the remarks, keep a record of the comments. If the bullying occurs over the internet, your comments or messages might be saved. If they’re not, take a screenshot with your phone to document what was said.Your documentation may be useful if you decide to take the comments to the police or proper authorities.
 If people have witnessed the bullying, ask them to support you in dealing with the actions you want to take. These might be people who have witnessed the bullying or experienced bullying from the same person. They can help you collect evidence and bring it to an authority, as well as affirm your experience. They can also help support you emotionally.Don’t feel like you have to experience this on your own. Reach out to your friends and family for support. If you want to talk about it, reach out to someone who is a good listener and talk about how you feel.
 You may wish to get someone in power or authority involved in the bullying situation. If you do this, make sure you have some evidence of the bullying. You might go to a forum moderator, or, more severely, the police. If you feel threatened by someone, don’t keep this to yourself. Make sure someone can help you.If the bullying is occurring at your workplace, alert your manager or human resource department. Even if the employee is knowledgeable and an asset at the company, it’s important that you feel safe while at work. Your manager may have solutions to help the person to communicate their expertise in a more collaborative way.

