 Make sure that the Wii is placed close enough for the cables to reach the TV and the power outlet.


If you are using the vertical stand, first make sure that the stand is assembled by taking the vertical stand and the round piece of plastic and sliding them together until they click.;
, The cable can only connect to one port on the back of the Wii, and has a red, a white, and a yellow plug at the other end. Look for a group of sockets on the back or side of your TV with matching colors. Firmly push each plug into its matching socket. The Wii requires Wii-specific cables in order to connect to your TV; standard A/V cables will not work.


The group of sockets that make up the connection will usually be separated from other sockets on the TV. The group will also be labeled INPUT, IN, or AV and may be numbered.
The yellow socket may be separate from the red and white sockets. It should be clearly labeled which Input the yellow socket belongs to.
You can purchase component (five-pronged) cables to connect the Wii to your TV for better picture quality. Your TV will need to support component connections.
 The power adapter only plugs into one port on the back of the Wii.
 There will be a specially-shaped port for it to connect to. The sensor bar is thin with a black front and gray back. It will sense the signals from your Wii Remotes (Wiimotes) and show your cursor on the screen. Center the bar at the top or bottom of the TV, and remove the covers over the sticky pads to secure it in place.


If the sensor bar won't stay in place on the top of your TV, you can secure it with small rolls of Scotch tape.
Make sure that the sensors are pointed towards the players.
 Remove the back panel from the Wiimote. Put two AA batteries in the remote; these are included with the console if you bought it new. Use the printed + and - guides to ensure that the batteries are inserted correctly.


If your Wii remotes have rubber jackets, you will need to remove it before you can access the battery cover.
 Wriststraps are very important when using the Wii, especially when playing games with lots of movement. The Wii remote is secured at the bottom of the Wiimote by looping the wriststrap through the hook. You can cinch the wriststrap around your wrist while you play.
 Switch to the Input that you plugged the Wii into., Use the Power button on the front of the Wii or the Power button on your synced controller.


If you don't see or hear anything, ensure that your TV is set to the correct input, and that your A/V cable is connected correctly.
 Click the "Wii" button in bottom-left corner of the Channels screen. Select "Wii Settings" and switch to the second page by pressing the Right arrow on the screen or pressing Right on the Wiimote direction pad. Select "Sensor Bar".


In the Sensor Bar menu, click the "Position" button. Choose the correct setting based on where the bar is located (above or below TV).
You can adjust the sensitivity of the sensor bar by choosing the Sensitivity option. Use the + and - buttons on the Wii to adjust the sensitivity.
 Open the flap on the front of the Wii to reveal the red SYNC button, and remove the battery cover from the controller. Press and release the SYNC button below the batteries on the Wiimote, and then press and release the SYNC button on the Wii while the Wiimote lights are flashing. Once the lights stop flashing, the Wiimote is synced.The Wiimote that comes packaged with your Wii is automatically synced with the console. Additional remote will need to be synced manually.
Synced Wiimotes will be able to turn the Wii on and off with the Power button on the Wiimote.
 If you want to connect your Wii to your router or modem via Ethernet, you will need a USB adapter that is compatible with the Wii. Nintendo makes one, or you can purchase one from a third-party manufacturer.


The Ethernet adapter plugs into either of the USB ports on the back of the Wii.
Connect the Ethernet adapter to your router or modem via Ethernet cable.
 Select "Wii Settings" to open the System Settings menu.


If you are using a Wii Mini, you will not be able to connect to a network.
, This will display a list of three connections. If the Wii has never been connected to the internet, all of the settings will say "None" next to the Connection number.
 You will be given a choice between a Wireless or Wired connection. Choose the method you want to use. If you are using Ethernet, click OK and then you're done. If you're using Wireless, see the next step.
 After picking Wireless, click the "Search for an Access Point" button. Your Wii will scan for available networks. Once the scan is finished, pick your wireless network from the list.


If your network does not appear, your Wii may not be close enough to your router.
When you select your network, you will be asked to enter the password if your network is secured.
 Once you connect to either your wired or wireless network, you will be prompted to update your system. These updates can improve system functionality, and are required if you are playing online.


Do not update your system if it is modded, or you will lose access to your Homebrew channel.
 After updating your system, you will be connected to the internet every time the Wii is turned on. You can then add games and channels from the Wii store. Games will cost money to purchase, but most channels can be downloaded for free (some require a separate subscription to use).


You can access the shop from the Wii Channels screen.
 If there's nothing in your disc tray, you can insert the game into the disc drive to load it. Inserting the disc will open the game's channel, allowing you to start it by pressing the button on your screen.


Make sure that you insert the disc the correct direction, with the label facing up.
You can also download games from the Wii store and they will show up as channels in your Channel menu. Select them to play the game as if you

, Depending on the game, you may be asked to swing your controller around to play the game. Make sure you have plenty of room to move, and that you won't bump into anyone or anything.
 If you want to play a GameCube game in an RVL-001 Wii, you will need to use a GameCube controller, and plug it into one of the ports on the top (vertical) or left side (horizontal) of the Wii. You will need to open a flap to access the ports.


Insert the GameCube game like you would a regular Wii game. Although the discs are smaller, they can be inserted into any part of the disc loader.

