 Bake, boil, or grill the corn to your liking. Peel back the husks, if you haven't already, then spread some of the seasoned butter or spread on top of each ear. Here are some tasty recipes for you to try:For a chili-lime seasoning, mix together the juice of 1 lime with 1 teaspoon of chili powder. Brush some of it onto an ear of corn with a basting brush.
For an herbal butter, mix ½ cup (115 grams) of softened butter with 1 to 2 tablespoons of chopped fresh herbs. Use 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of herbal butter for each ear of corn.
If you love horseradish, mix ½ cup (115 grams) of softened butter with 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of mustard, and 1 teaspoon of horseradish. Spread 1 tablespoon (15 grams) on top of each ear of corn.
For a spicy kick, mix ½ cup (125 grams) of light mayo with 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of hot sauce (ie: Frank’s Red Hot Sauce). Use 1 tablespoon (15 grams) for each ear of corn.
 Mix up ½ cup (115 grams) of softened butter with ½ teaspoon of salt and 4 tablespoons (5 grams) of chopped, fresh herbs; this is enough for 8 ears of corn. Spread 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of the mixture over each ear of corn before you cook it. Great herb combinations include:


Basil and parsleyChives, parsley, and thymeDill

, Melt ⅓ cup (75 grams) of butter in a small saucepan with ½ teaspoon of minced garlic, and ¼ teaspoon of salt. Reserve 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters), then pour the rest over 8 ears of corn. Grill or bake the corn. Pour the remaining mixture over each ear of corn, then sprinkle some Parmesan cheese on top.If you already cooked the corn, make a smaller amount and drizzle it on top.
You can make fewer garlic-Parmesan ears of corn. Save any leftover seasoning for another recipe.
 Brush the corn with some olive oil, then season it with a mixture of chili powder, smoked paprika, seasoned salt, and cayenne pepper. Wrap the corn back in its husks (or aluminum foil), then bake or grill it to your liking.For 6 ears of corn, you will need: 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) olive oil, 1 teaspoon chili powder, 1 teaspoon smoked paprika, ½ teaspoon seasoned salt, and ⅛ teaspoon cayenne pepper.
 Bake or grill the corn to your liking. Peel back the husks, then rub the corn with 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of butter. Season the corn with a mixture of chili powder, grated Cotija cheese, and chopped fresh cilantro. Finish it off with a squeeze of lime juice.