 One way to set the basis for a stylish outfit is to wear a basic, always in style outfit, such as jeans and a plain t-shirt. Other basic outfits include cutoff shorts, hoodies, and simple floral dresses. Then, add pieces to this to make it in line with current fashion trends.


Add a pair of heels, wedge sandals, boots, booties, or whatever shoe is stylish and hip right now. Basic pieces look great with everything.
Blazers and cardigans are great pieces to match with basic outfits.
Scarves are an easy way to look stylish. Add a patterned scarf to the basic outfit.
Finish it off with the perfect handbags. Some celebrities and fashionistas spend more money and time on the perfect handbag than they do clothes. Make that basic jeans and t-shirt super stylish by carrying a hobo bag.;
, Instead of starting with a basic outfit, go for a trendy garment. Try a wild print dress, a shirt in a bold color, or a style that is super chic but not necessarily your basic, everyday wear. Balance the garment out with basic accent pieces, like a solid cardigan or jacket, black pumps, or a small clutch.


The key to style is balance. Everything you wear should be tasteful and match. When you wear wilder pieces, that should be the focus of your outfit. Everything else should be basic and downplayed. You don't want to clash with the stylish piece or take the attention away from it.
 You've been told you have great legs, you have a nice butt, or a great chest. Emphasize those assets! Use certain cuts, embellishments, and colors to emphasize certain body parts.


If you have great legs or a great butt, wear skinny jeans. Make sure your shirt doesn't cover up your butt.
Try a dress or a skirt that lands above the knee if you have great legs.
Wear low, tasteful necklines if you want to accentuate your chest.
Wear sleeveless shirts and dresses if you want to show off your arms.
 When wearing trendy pieces, go for this breakdown: 50% trendy, 50% staple. Or go 30% trendy, 70% staple. The key is not to overdo it.


When wearing a bold trendy dress, pair it with basic staples. Go for a neutral handbag and simple jewelry. For shoes, try sandals, booties, or pumps in neutral colors like black or tan.When wearing something like a trendy faux fur vest, pair it with skinny jeans, booties, and a plain long-sleeved top. Finish it off with a hat.
 One great way to easily look stylish is to buy some jewelry that will go with everything. Buy pieces in solid colors so they'll match more outfits. Try stones and accents in colors that match most of the clothes in your wardrobe. Many of these staple pieces can be purchased at prices that won't break the bank.Try getting gold and silver necklaces, bracelets, rings, or earrings.
Buy pieces that have black stones to match your black-based outfits. Wear pieces with brown stones to match earth-tones.
 Nothing can add pizzazz to an outfit better than statement jewelry. No matter if you're wearing a simple neutral dress, a grey pant suit, or jeans and a t-shirt, bold necklaces and large cocktail rings can add style to any outfit.

