 Chips are used in gambling in the place of real money. When you go into a casino you'll be able to buy chips at the table using cash. If you want to get more chips than money you have in cash you'll have to visit the register. Ask an employee at the casino where to buy more chips and they will be happy to direct you.


The chips will be labeled by how much they are. Try to learn which chip is which before you start playing so you don't find yourself fumbling with your bets.;
, The Pass Line Bet is the most common bet in craps. It’s a very easy bet and you can easily get through a whole night of gambling only knowing this one bet. All you have to do is put your chips on the pass line on the table. You'll be able to tell were that is because it will say 'Pass Line' in big letters.


You can make the Pass Line bet on a come out roll, which is designated by a black marker on the table that says ‘off’. If you see a black marker on the table with the word 'off' on it then you'll know you are allowed to make your bet.
You win even money if the come out roll (when the black marker is on the table) is a 7 or an 11 and you lose if it is a 2, 3 or 12.If any other number is rolled that number becomes the ‘point’ and person rolling the dice continues rolling until they hit a 7 or that number that the rolled the first time again. The point is the term for the number you want to roll again. If a 7 comes first, you lose. If the other number comes first, you win.
Even money means that if you put one dollar down you win one dollar.
Do not make a Pass Line bet after the come out roll. Your odds of winning go down.
 Field bets are simple. You can place your chips on any of the word ‘field’ in the center of the table. You win if a 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, or 12 is rolled. You lose on all the other numbers. These bets can be made at any time before the subsequent roll.
On many tables 2 and 12 pay you double your money. On some tables 12 pays you triple the money you bet. , By making a Place bet you’re establishing your own ‘point’ in the middle of a roll. Basically this means that you’re choosing a number that you want to appear before a 7. The numbers you can choose are 4, 5, 6, 8 , 9, and 10. If one of these numbers is rolled before the person rolling rolls a 7, then you win.The best odds are on the 6 and the 8., You’ll know if you lost a Proposition bet after the very next throw, so if you’re in no mood to wait around this might be the bet for you. These bets are located in the center of the craps table. You choose one of these bets and hope they occur on the next roll. For example, if you choose Snake Eyes you're betting that two one's will be rolled on the very next roll.


There are a number of proposition bets that change depending on what casino you’re playing in and in what country. Some common bets include Snake Eyes (you win if the shooter rolls a 2), Any seven (you win if a 7 is rolled), and hi-lo (you win if the shooter rolls a 2 or a 12).Proposition bets have very low odds and are not considered a good bet for the player.
 Although many don’t think highly of these bets, it’s certainly another option. You can win if 4, 6, 8, or 10 are rolled in pairs, but you lose when the number rolls not in pairs or the shooter rolls a 7. Rolling in pairs means that the same number has to appear on each of the die. So to get a 6 you would have to roll two threes.

