 If you're not a fan of chunky salsa, your immersion blender can make a smooth version in a jiffy. Add tomatoes, onion, garlic, jalapeño, cilantro, and a little bit of salt and pepper to a tall, narrow stainless steel dish. Then move your immersion blender up and down until your ingredients are blended to your preference.


Depending on your tastes, you'll have to determine how much of each ingredient to use. For example, if you like spicier salsa, you might want to add more jalapeño to the mix.
You may want to add your tomatoes last to your mixing dish. This way, they'll be at the top and blend first. This will release liquid that will help blend the other ingredients.
Keep your blender level when operating. Even in your mixing dish, tilting your blender on too much of an angle can cause foot to spatter and fly., Keep the blades of your blender level, and with an up-and-down motion, blend together the ingredients to make your pesto.A simple pesto recipe you might use: 2 cups packed with fresh basil leaves, 2 full cloves of garlic, ¼ cup of pine nuts, 2/3 of a cup of extra-virgin olive oil., If your batter has a tendency to turn out lumpy, using your immersion blender to mix it should help prevent this., Making a smoothie in a full sized blender can result in more smoothie than one person can drink along with a considerable mess.Add frozen fruit, some yogurt, and enough juice to cover all the ingredients to a tall, narrow stainless steel mixing dish. Then, use your blender to mix all ingredients thoroughly., This normally time consuming activity can be ready in as few as five minutes when using an immersion blender. Add 2 egg yolks, 1 tsp lemon juice, ½ tsp salt, and ½ tsp dry mustard to a tall, narrow stainless steel mixing dish. Use your blender to combine these ingredients. Then add 1 cup of olive/canola oil a little bit at a time to the mixture while running your blender.


Wait until added oil disappears completely before adding more oil to the mixture. As oil is absorbed, it will add to the mixture more easily. Once you've added half a cup of oil, you can add the remaining half in a steady stream.
If the mayo turns out too thick for your liking, use your blender to mix in water 1 tsp at a time until you achieve your preferred consistency.