 You can grow most varieties of lettuce hydroponically. Tom Thumb is a good option if you’re trying to take up a little less room, Bibb lettuce is a little bit of an easier variety to grow, and Romaine works well but takes a bit more time.Pick whichever variety you prefer, and consider the slightly different requirements and tendencies that your particular type has.
 There are many different kinds of hydroponic systems that you can grow plants in, including drip systems, NFT systems, ebb-flow systems, aeroponic systems, and many more.Water culture systems, in which plants float directly on top of water while their roots grow down and absorb nutrients, are the most effective and simplistic., You have a lot of different media options to choose from, including: rockwool, coco fiber, vermiculite, pine shavings, river rock, sand, and many more. All of these options have positive and negative aspects, but picking any one of them will allow you to grow lettuce without a problem.


Rockwool is the most popular medium choice and is both sterile and porous. If you go with rockwool, be careful to keep it from becoming too saturated. This can lead to root suffocation, stem rot, and root rot.
Grow rock is another popular option that has a neutral pH and holds moisture well. This medium is reusable if cleaned thoroughly, which can be beneficial for growing hydroponically in your home, but might be tedious on a larger scale., Purchase a large storage container or fish tank to use as a nutrient reservoir for your lettuce. Choose a container with a large surface area, but also make sure it’s at least several inches deep so that the plant roots can grow downward without trouble., There are several different materials, such as styrofoam or the container lid, that you can use to set up a stable way for your plants to sit above the water with their roots submerged.Drill holes into polystyrene planks that are about twelve inches apart. Drill as many holes and get as many net pots as will accommodate each seedling that you have., You’ll need to have a system in place that creates air bubbles or recirculates the water in your reservoir so that the plant roots don’t suffocate. Keeping an aquarium pump in your reservoir will prevent this issue., You can buy nutrient combinations at gardening stores that are specifically for growing hydroponic plants. Lettuce typically requires high levels of potassium, calcium, and magnesium.Follow the nutrient kit directions for mixing the nutrients with water and put the mixture in your container.


Some lettuce types are more sensitive to nitrogen that others, so make sure that the nutrients that you purchase are for the right kind of lettuce.
 Before putting your hydroponic system to use, you’ll need to use an egg carton or plugs, which are small cells, to create a stable initial environment for your plants. Fill your plugs with your medium of choice and with your hydroponic seeds., In order to get your lettuce started, water your nursery every other day and keep it in a well-lit or naturally sunny area where it is between 65 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (18.3-26.6 degrees Celsius). Grow these until the seedlings are a couple inches tall and have about four leaves., Carefully, without tugging, take your individual seedlings from their cells to the net pots. Align each net pot with the holes you drilled into the floating platform or lid of the container, and then place them in your reservoir., Unlike other plants, lettuce neither requires a long duration nor intense amount of exposure to light in order to grow. You have other options, but fluorescent lighting is the best because it requires a low initial investment, consumes a small amount of power, and produces a low amount of heat., Lettuce is a crop that grows better in a cooler environment. For the best results, keep the temperature around 55 degrees Fahrenheit (12.7 degrees Celsius) at night and around 75 degrees Fahrenheit (23.8 degrees Celsius) during the day. If the lettuce gets too hot it will bolt, or flower, which isn’t good because this will create a bitter taste in the lettuce leaves., A plant’s pH level refers to how acidic or basic it is, and determines whether or not it can properly absorb the nutrients available to it. Frequently test the pH with an inexpensive paper strip test and make sure it’s slightly acidic and almost neutral for the best possible production.

Purchase both up and down pH adjusters that when added to your reservoir will be able to bring the pH back to the correct level., After 5-6 weeks, your lettuce should be fully grown and ready to pick and eat! To make sure that your lettuce plants continue to produce large amounts of healthy lettuce, pick the outer leaves and leave some of the inner ones attached to the plant. It won’t take much time for those inner leaves to replace the ones you picked., Avoid picking all of the leaves from each plant at once. Pick leaves from one plant one day and another plant a few days later. This will allow you to enjoy the right amount of lettuce at a time, instead of going through periods of not enough production or too much production., If the lettuce is fully grown and you don’t want to eat it right away, keep the plants rooted and store them in a humid, nearly freezing environment to ensure freshness for up to a month.