 The point of using distraction as a bipolar coping skill is that interrupts a cycle of negative thoughts and behaviors by shifting your attention somewhere else.If your alternative activity isn’t something you enjoy, you won’t fully engage in it, and will likely still be caught in your cycle. Choose distractions that you really enjoy or that will require your full attention.


For example, if you enjoy gardening, then use pruning your roses as a distraction when you’re feeling irritated.
Or, as another example, you might take a break from practicing your guitar for the recital when you notice you’re getting frustrated and do some of your homework as a distraction.;
, This is a great way to distract yourself for a lot of reasons. Being active can help you reduce stress and tension, manage your bipolar disorder, and boost your overall health. It’s also an activity that you can fully immerse yourself in.


Try taking a walk or doing some stretches for a quick distraction that can also energize you and release tension.
Participate in a team or partner sport like tennis, basketball, football, or lacrosse as a way to distract yourself, be fit, and socialize a bit.
 You can be productive while distracting yourself if you use the time to organize your schedule and your physical space. Getting organized is not only a way to focus your attention on something less stressful, it’s also a good way to manage your bipolar in general.


Make sure that you have your treatment information organized and easily accessible. For example, you might create a notebook containing emergency treatment information.
Organize your workspace so that you only have materials that you need there. Use trays, cups, baskets, etc. to help you find a home for everything.
 Keeping a journal can help you in several ways.It serves as a way to release your feelings and thoughts, keep track of important information like your triggers and signs, and document how well your treatment and coping strategies are working. Writing in your journal is also a really good way to distract yourself.


Writing about your day may help you identify personal triggers and signs that you may need to distract yourself.
Instead of focusing on what has you upset, focus on writing about how you are feeling, why you might feel this way, and what you can do about it.
 This is another positive and productive way to distract yourself. Meditation can help relieve physical tension, clear your mind, and calm and relax you. It’s something that you can do no matter where you are. And it’s also something that you can do for as long or as short a time as you need.


Make yourself as comfortable as possible. If you can, go somewhere quiet where you can sit or lie without being disturbed.
Focus on your breathing. Think about it as you slowly inhale through your nose, hold it in your belly, and then release it through your mouth.
Try not to think about anything but your breathing. If your mind wanders, gently bring your thoughts back to your breathing.
 Using alcohol and drugs to distract yourself from your present situation is unhealthy, but there are other things you can do instead. In some cases you will need to distract yourself but also remain focused on what you’re doing. For example, if you’re driving and find yourself getting stressed because of traffic, meditating isn’t the best distraction. When this happens you can still use distraction as a coping skill, you just need to do something that won’t make the situation dangerous for you.


Try deep-breathing exercises. You can do this anytime and anywhere. For instance, you can distract yourself from stand-still traffic by focusing on your breathing like you do during mediation.
Recite a mantra. Memorize some encouraging words or even a poem or prayer that you can silently recite to yourself as a form of distraction.
Focus on relaxing one part of your body at a time. For example, if you’re in a meeting and feel tense you can distract yourself by thinking, “I’m relaxing my toes” as you wiggle and flex your toes. Do this with each body part or until you are calmer.

