 This method involves the construction of a "fishing pole" for catching lizards. This is a surprisingly successful technique often used by biologists. However, as the catch involves removing a noose from a struggling, startled lizard, it is not wise to use on large, sharp-toothed lizards without experience and protective clothing., Find a stick or other long object at least three feet (0.9 meters) long. You may use an actual fishing pole if you have one, but you may want to use a softer material in place of fishing line, as described below.
 Cut off a piece of waxed dental floss at least as long as the stick.Tie one end of this onto one end of the stick. If you have no floss, you can use a different soft line, such as a strong, long grass blade to catch small lizards. Fishing line is not recommended for inexperienced lizard catchers as sharp lines can cut the lizard.
 Form a loop at the loose end of the floss. Grasp the rope on the side of the loop closest to the stick, and form a new loop by moving your fingers under and through the first loop. Keep pulling until the first loop has tightened. You should now have a makeshift "fishing pole" with a noose at the end.


The noose has to be large enough to go around the lizard's head.
 Lizards may be found where insects gather, such as a compost heap. If you do not see any running around or lying in the sun, they may be hiding under boards, in firewood piles, or in similar shady hiding places.


If you can find out what species of lizards live in your area, you can research their behavior online or in wildlife guides for better information about where to find them.
 If you can't find any lizards during the day, you may have better luck searching for species that are active during the night. Nocturnal lizards are often found hunting insects, which gather around porch lights, lighted windows, and other light sources.
 Oddly, this technique may work better if the lizard can see you, as the lizard may focus on your approach instead of on the noose. Move very slowly, and only come close enough to reach the lizard with your noose. Sudden movements may cause the lizard to run away and hide.
 Some species and individuals react quickly to the noose, while others will remain motionless even as the noose bumps into them several times. Once you've found the second type, or practiced your noose-slinging skills, fit the noose around its neck. Its own weight should tighten the slipknot as it moves, preventing it from escaping.
 Grasp the lizard gently but firmly by the back, not the tail, limbs, or head. Pull the noose off in short, gentle motions.
 Keeping a lizard permanently requires preparing a suitable home for the lizard, researching how to care for that specific species, and potentially acquiring permits (if keeping wild lizards is even legal in your region). In most cases, it is recommended that you keep the lizard for no more than a couple hours. Once you are done examining it or sketching it, release it as close to the spot you found it as possible.

