 Gently separate the rice noodles by hand. Trim them down to about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm), if necessary, and set them aside.


If you can find actual chow fun noodles, use those. If not, use any wide rice noodle.
 Slice the chicken breast into thin strips using a sharp knife. Whisk together the sesame oil, black vinegar, rice wine, Chinese black bean paste/sauce, and 1-1/2 Tbsp (22.5 ml) of soy sauce. Toss the chicken in the mixture and let sit for 15 minutes


Chill the marinating chicken as it sits.
You can mix the marinade in a large bowl and marinate the chicken in that, or you can combine everything in a large, heavy-duty resealable plastic bag.
For an added kick of flavor, try a hot chili bean sauce with garlic.
 Rinse the broccoli in running water and pat dry. Slice the vegetable into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces.


Note that any hard stem pieces should be cut in half lengthwise, as well.
 Place a large skillet or wok on the stove and heat it, dry, over medium-high. Let it warm up for 1 to 2 minutes.


When ready, a small fleck of water should immediately begin to sizzle and evaporate once dropped into the skillet.
 Add the chicken to the hot, dry skillet and cook, stirring continuously, until completely cooked through.


Remove the chicken once cooked and set it aside.
 Add both ingredients to the hot pan and cook, stirring constantly, for 3 minutes. The Chinese broccoli should be tender and bright green, and the pepper should be tender-crisp.


When cooked, remove the vegetables from the heat and transfer them to the same dish as the cooked chicken.
 Pour the canola oil into the pan and heat it until it starts to shimmer. Add the garlic and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute or until it starts to brown and smell more fragrant. Add the noodles, as well, and cook for another 2 to 3 minutes.


Stir the noodles by lifting them gently with tongs.
The noodles should be a little soft when ready. They should also begin sticking to the pan.
 Add the rest of the soy sauce to the pan with the noodles and cook for another 1 minute.


At this point, the noodles should be soft and tinted brown.
 Return the chicken and vegetables back to the pan and gently toss the ingredients together with your tongs. Keep on the heat until warmed through.
 Remove from the heat and transfer to individual serving dishes. Garnish with sliced scallions and a drizzle of chili oil, if desired.

