 Are you looking to make a professional site to sell photos or are you just looking to share your work with others? This will make a big difference on your overall blog, as there are many different blogging sites depending on your needs. In general:



Professional Photographers should strongly consider buying their own domain name (www.NicksPhotos.com, for example), so that they look like a reputable business. Most major blogging sites, like Weebly or Wordpress, allow you to buy your own domain name and customize your photos.

Recreational Photographers often find success on larger photo sharing sites, like tumblr, where it is easy to market your work to others with similar interests. These are free and easy to set up and get running.;
, This lets people see that you have content available right from the get go, which makes them more likely to follow your blog. It also gives you a chance to see your template (the style of your blog) in action and tweak it to fit your vision.


Once you've chosen your blogging site, search online for "Free photography templates for ________", where the blank is Wordpress, Tumblr, etc. They are easy to copy to your own blog and many are customizable.
 You want your reader's first impression to be your photography, not big blurbs of text, titles, or pleas to buy some work. Some ways to do this include:


Choose 4-5 of your favorite photos and feature them on the top of the screen in a slideshow or photo strip.
Make the center of your page your most recent photo or post.
Make your home page a tiled collection of all your posts (available in certain blogging templates)., Often this is in a little section labeled "About," but you can also delineate a "Contact Me" page on many blogging sites like Tumblr. This is important if anyone wants to use the rights to your photos or hire you for a gig.
 These free licenses tell people what you will allow them to do with your photos. You can choose from a variety of options on their website, from "Everyone can use freely" to "May only be used or reproduced with permission from me." This simple addition is a great step to take in case of copyright infringement.


You can ask people to request permission to reuse, let them know that they cannot, or can use only for non-profit reasons.
Creative Commons has a small but helpful legal team to help you deal with disputes as well.