 People who smoke or chew tobacco are four times more likely to develop gum disease.Continued tobacco use can also make treatment less effective.Make an effort to quit smoking or quit chewing tobacco.
 Clenching your jaw or grinding your teeth can cause receding gums.If you grind your teeth at night, a doctor can recommend a device to wear to stop this. Reducing stress or meditating may help, although this has not been thoroughly studied. Hypnosis therapy may be effective for some people.Constant headaches in the morning that continue throughout the day, earaches, and facial muscle soreness are all signs that you might grind your teeth in your sleep.
 Certain medications increase the chance of unhealthy gums. These include steroids, oral contraceptives, some anti-epilepsy drugs, some cancer therapies, drugs used after organ transplant, and some drugs used to treat migraines or blood pressure.Bring up your concerns with your doctor. Depending on your condition and the medications available, he may recommend a treatment that's less harmful on your gums.
 Diabetes can lead to higher glucose levels in your saliva, which encourages bacterial growth on gums slowing blood flow to the gums. If you are diabetic, keep your blood sugar levels under control to reduce this risk., Eating disorders can cause poor nutrition, which can lead to bleeding, vulnerable gums and erodes the tooth surface leading to substance loss. Vomiting can cause additional damage due to stomach acid.Seek help from medical professionals, mental health experts, and emotionally supportive friends.
 Any piercing in the mouth, including the lips, can cause infection. To avoid gum recession and more serious, life-threatening issues, take the following precautions:Have a professional perform the piercing, and ask about their sterilization practices first. Talk to a doctor first if you are pregnant, have allergies, diabetes, a skin disorder, or heart disease.
For several days after piercing: Keep swelling down with cold and sleep with your head slightly elevated. Avoid alcohol, tobacco, and spicy food. Rinse with (non-alcohol) antibacterial mouthwash after each meal.
All the time: Wash your hands before handling the piercing. Try to avoid touching the piercings to teeth and gums. Visit a doctor immediately if you have pain, swelling, or red streaks.
 If you throw up frequently for any reason, stomach acid can wear away at your teeth. After vomiting, rinse with a mixture of baking soda and water to neutralize the acid. Do not brush your teeth immediately after vomiting., If you wear dentures and feel them becoming too loose or too tight, visit a dentist. This could be causing your receding gums, or the change in your teeth could cause the change in fit. Either way, a dentist can alter them to fit more comfortably, and identify the cause.