 This seems classically obvious, but often it is not. If there is a peer issue, chances are it has developed gradually and without apparent cause. Friendships are the support network for many teens, and when friends change or leave, new ones fill their space, and behavior often reflects this situation. Teenagers often can be radically changed by peer pressure, and may adapt to new friends by imitating or trying to act like them.;
, There are lists upon lists of what to watch for, but difficulty concentrating, a drop in school performance, and personality shifts are associated with drug use. Dealing with this problem may mean seeking counseling.
 It is said the common conversation with a teen involves you asking a number of questions, and listening to "nothing", "I dunno", and "Yeah, right" from their end of the talk. This may be true some of the time with some teens, but when the communication channel is open with them, make the best of it by listening to what they have to say.
 Keeping this avenue open means accepting their friends, and being friendly with them. Keep your home open to them as much as possible, offer to let them come over for an evening meal, to watch a movie, or other activities they enjoy. Often, a friend of your teen's will come to the realization your son or daughter has a problem they need help with, and be willing to tell you what is going on, if you are on good terms with them.
 To become a responsible adult, a teen needs to have responsibilities as a teen. If you have set a "chore" list, see to it that your teen follows it. If they get an allowance, make them accountable for it, especially for their discretionary spending. Obviously, if your teen buys their clothes and meals with their allowance, you cannot deprive them of these, but money for entertainment and snacks is not a physical necessity. When they spend their money irresponsibly, let them do without these.
 The first step here is for them to respect you, and secondly, other adults including teachers, coaches, police, and your friends with whom they may have social contact. Disrespect is a growing problem in society today, and teaching and instilling respectful behavior is essential for dealing with people successfully.
 Have your teen sit down for an evening meal at least several nights each week, and engage them in discussions on family issues when possible. Tell them what is going on in your life, and other family members, like grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins. If they are interested, share about your work, hobbies, or other things you are involved with.
 Eating disorders are commonplace among teens, and the home is still the primary place for them to come for food, so watch what they eat, and have healthy snacks and beverages there for them. Make dental appointments and schedule checkups on a regular basis.
 Gangs are probably one of the more troublesome involvements they may get into, but there are also cults which can prey on teens and lead them into serious trouble. Steer them away from these if you have any doubt of their intentions., Many common problems among teens behave like an epidemic, and it may be that other teen's parents are dealing with the same issues you are, and by networking with them, the chances of finding solutions to problems increases.
 Telling a teenager you are behind them, and then failing to back up your words will only make it less likely they will come back to you when they have a problem later on. By the time your child is a teenager, they will have made decisions about how they will react to you, and how much help they can expect from you, but never stop assuring them of your caring and love.
 This is especially true concerning drug use, since one "bad trip" or experiment may leave them in serious legal problems or worse, but it also should have your attention regarding their mental health. Teen depression is a serious issue, and teen suicide is all too common. These are areas where the advice should be coming from someone specifically trained and qualified.
 A better technique might be to talk to people who might be potential summer employers and talk to neighbors and friends who might need odd jobs or lawn work done.
 There may be times when he or she has no one else to turn to, and if they know they can depend on you, you will be their refuge and strength when they need you.
 Many parents have been through the trials, thinking all along hope was lost, and then, almost miraculously, their child emerges from those trying years intact, competent, and ready to face life head on.

