 If you have an art gallery in your area, contact the owner or submissions director and ask for information about how to get one or two of your pieces displayed there. For many artists, this is the best way to bring their art to the attention of collectors and enthusiasts who are willing to pay good money for original productions.You might be required to submit a resume or portfolio, or there could even be an interview process to see if you’re the right fit for the gallery.
Focus your attention on galleries where you believe your work would be a good fit.;
, Most cities regularly hold craft fairs and similar events where area creators are given a chance to sell their unique handmade goods. Keep your eye on the paper to find out when and where various events are taking place. Participating in one of these fairs will give you the chance to display your work, make sales and talk to interested parties one-on-one.Operating your own booth will allow you to charge whatever price you think is fair for a given work.
 In some cases, it may be possible to have your work put on display at restaurants, law and real estate offices and curio shops within your community. These businesses are always looking for interesting items to decorate their offices with, and are usually happy to collaborate with artists seeking exposure.Put together a portfolio that includes some of your best work. That way, you’ll have something to show when making your case to the business’s owner.In this type of arrangement, the business hosting the art will usually take a percentage of the proceeds.
 Get in touch with your local newspaper or television station and see if they’d be willing to interview you. It’s not uncommon for news networks to showcase the works of local artists and tradesmen as part of a segment on regional culture. Getting featured on the news is one of the best ways to offer a glimpse of your art to a large and diverse audience.If the pieces you create are unusual or noteworthy in some way, you might even be able to convince them to do a whole story on you.
Another option is to take out a print ad that will help raise awareness of your personal brand.