 Without pushing them away, feel whatever emotions come to you. Avoid any judgments about yourself, simply recognize how you feel and the fact that it's okay to feel this way. Think of your emotions like children. You don't want them driving the car, but you don't want to stuff them in the trunk either.


Give yourself a few moments to sit in your feelings. Then, gain control of your emotions by thinking about what actions you'd like to take moving forward. What are these feelings trying to tell you? What can you do to come to peace with the situation?

, If shortly after the insult, you find yourself inwardly criticizing yourself for being not ___ enough, you need to take measures to resist shame. Shame is an emotion that you do not want running the show because it inhibits you from being vulnerable and connecting with your true self. When you feel shame, it means you are beating yourself up for not meeting your own or someone else's approval.Resist shame by living out your values. When you are acting and making decisions that support your personal values, you connect with your true self. That way even if someone else has an issue with your choices, you can feel confident that they reflected your innermost desires and beliefs.
If you are not sure what qualities are important to you, learn how to define your personal values here.
 Another step towards healthy vulnerability is practicing self-awareness. When you engage in conscious self-awareness you are able to examine your personality traits, beliefs, and reactions to stress to see whether these factors are working for or against you.Do you have strong principles that may be contributing to your feeling insulted? Is your reaction a repeated behavior that causes you excessive grief? Are your relationships often compromised by values such as pride or a strong belief in right or wrong? Are these beliefs serving your emotional well-being?

, Whether good or bad, the people in our lives often represent mirrors. They see our habits, behaviors, and beliefs sometimes much more clearer than we ourselves do. Is there some slight nugget of truth within this insult?For example, your friend made a comment about you not being open-minded. You got angry and refused to see it her way. Was there some hint of honesty in her words? Do you guys often bump heads because you have very rigid ways of viewing life?
Noticing some truth within an insult may contribute to the sting, but this is also a perfect time to seriously consider making a change.

