 For adults, fevers aren’t dangerous until they get to be 103°F (39.4°C) or higher.Fevers between 103°F (39.4°C) and 106°F (41.1°C) can cause serious symptoms like confusion, irritability, hallucinations, convulsions or seizures, and severe dehydration.If you or someone you know is experiencing these symptoms, seek medical care right away.


If you have a fever that stays over 105°F (40.5°C) even after taking medicine, call for emergency help. This is a dangerously high temperature that requires treatment in a hospital if it cannot quickly be controlled at home., Call your doctor or go to the hospital if your fever is high or lasts longer than 3 days.Your doctor will try to diagnose your fever – if you seem to have a bacterial infection, they will prescribe an antibiotic.Monitor yourself for any unexplained symptoms, and seek emergency care if you experience any of the following:Severe headache, stiff neck, or pain when you bend forward.
Swelling in your throat.
A new skin rash, especially if it’s getting worse quickly.
Sensitivity to light.
Confusion, irritability, hallucinations, or severe weakness or listlessness.
Vomiting that won’t stop.
Chest pain or trouble breathing.
Abdominal pain or pain when you pee.
Muscle weakness, stumbling, slurred speech, or changes in your vision, touch, or hearing (this could indicate problems with your nerves, brain, or spinal cord).
Seizure.
 Mild fevers in children might indicate a more serious problem.If your child is feverish but is playing normally, is eating and drinking well, and has a normal skin color there’s little cause for concern.However, call or visit your child’s doctor if your child:Is listless, irritable, or won’t make eye contact with you.
Vomits repeatedly or has other symptoms causing discomfort, like severe headache or stomachache.
Has a fever after being left in a hot enclosed space like a car – seek emergency care right away.
Has a fever lasting over 3 days (for kids 2 years and older)
Has a seizure. It’s not abnormal for some children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years to have seizures if they have a higher temperature (these are called febrile seizures). These look scary for parents, but are usually harmless and do not indicate the child has a seizure disorder.Take the child to the doctor to determine the cause.

Call emergency services if the seizure lasts over 10 minutes., Infants who get a fever should be treated very cautiously. Take your baby to the doctor right away if they:Are 3 months or younger with a temperature of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher.
Are ages 3-6 months with a fever over 102°F (38.9°C), or lower but are irritable or lethargic.
Are 6 months to 2 years old and have a fever over 102°F (38.9°C) for longer than a day, or have other symptoms like a cold, cough, or diarrhea.
A newborn with any fever or a low body temperature – infants don’t regulate their body temperature well and might get colder rather than warmer when they’re sick (under 97°F/36.1°C).

