 The first thing you must do is decide how much you are willing to spend on a wedding. People have had beautiful weddings for as low as $2500 while others have spent over $30,000. Decide what you are financially able and willing to spend on your wedding.


Discuss with your fiancé where the money is coming from. Are you going to save? Use loans? Ask your parents for help? This is a huge financial decision that must be agreed upon by both you and your significant other.;
, Before you can create a budget, you must find out how much wedding related expenses cost in your area. By doing your research, you make sure you budget appropriately. Otherwise, you might end up under budgeting (or even over budgeting) for certain items.Widen your net a bit when you are researching. If you live in a city, check some smaller towns close by. Many times, things will cost less outside of the city.
Make a table to keep track of your research. List the prices, the name of the business, and which part of the wedding it is.
 After doing your research, make a list of what you want for your wedding. What do you and your partner want? Is food and the venue more important than invitations and flowers? Decide what you want to spend 75% of your budget on. Then, decide what you want to spend very little on. Most importantly, decide what you can live without. If you don't care about chair decorations, wedding favors, and flowers on every table at the reception, cut those out. You'd be surprised how much money you'd save.Receptions can be extremely expensive, sometimes over 50% of your overall budget. When planning your budget, carefully plan for the reception so you don't spend all of your budget there.
For less expensive weddings, you will probably be looking for free venues and reception spaces. Most of the decorations will probably be DIY by either you or family members.
For example, for a $3000 wedding, the reception may cost $1100 (for food and utensils), alcohol and beverages another $600, a discounted photographer (who is a friend) $400, homemade invitations $175, flowers $50, decorations $300, and hired staff $375.Everything else is either free or DIY by the couple, families, and friends.
 When creating a budget for your wedding, decide what is important. One technique many brides and grooms on a budget follow is to choose the most important thing to splurge on. This is up to your personal preference - is there a caterer you really want? A dress that's calling your name? A photographer you just have to have? Choose this thing and start your budget there.Deciding to spend more money on one item can help you prioritize. Your wedding will still feel lavish because you're spending the money on what matters to you.
 If you are having a wedding on budget, you will not have a luxury wedding that should actually cost $20,000. That doesn't mean you can't have a beautiful, perfect wedding. Adjust your expectations for your budget. Trying to replicate an expensive wedding can end up in disaster for you.


This is why prioritizing is so important. By deciding what is important for you and your soon-to-be-spouse, you ensure that you make things count where it matters. In 20 years, you may not remember that you didn't serve alcohol, but you may always be disappointed you didn't spend money on a quality photographer.
 Planning a wedding yourself will save you loads of cash. The earlier you start planning, the less last minute decisions you will make, which can lead to bad decisions or unnecessary money being spent.


The earlier you start planning your wedding, the better deals you can find. Giving yourself plenty of time allows you to look for sales, discounts, and comparison shop., This is your and your soon-to-be-spouse's wedding - no one else's. Just because a blog, a magazine, or your great aunt said you need to do something at a wedding for it to be proper doesn't mean you have to do it. Just because someone said not hiring a DJ or the groom not wearing a tux is tacky doesn't mean it actually is. This is your special day. Skip unnecessary traditions. Decide what you and your soon-to-be-spouse want, and make that happen., Before you start budgeting for your wedding, decide what things are musts for your special day. Do you want a specific wedding dress or flowers from a florist? Do you want a 5-course meal? Do you want a fancy wedding photographer? Knowing what things are important to you and your soon-to-be-spouse will help you know where to put your money, and where to cut corners.
 This can be hard. How do you decide who you invite and who you don't? This can be especially difficult with regards to family and friends. Many people invite extended family and acquaintances to avoid drama. Remember the golden rule: This is your wedding. Invite those people who are most important to you and who you want to share the special day with.


A small 25 person wedding can easily morph into 100+ people once you start guilt adding people. Make a list of people you both care about and stick to it. Each person adds a significant amount of money when you factor in space and chair rental, invitations, thank you cards, and food.
If you have acquaintances and extended family you'd like to celebrate with, consider having a low-cost party after you return from your honeymoon. This party can be at your home, and you can keep the costs low.
 Wedding gowns can easily reach over $1000. When you add this cost to bridesmaid dresses, you can really rack up significant costs. Instead of dropping that much on dresses, consider buying cheaper ones off the rack. Many bridal shops have sales throughout the year, so if you plan ahead, you can buy your dress for a fraction of the price. You might encourage your bridesmaids to buy cheaper dresses from department stores as long as they buy it in a certain color.


Think about buying your wedding dress at a consignment or thrift shop. Some consignment shops specialize in formal wear, including wedding dresses. Thrift stores like the Good Will also carry wedding dresses that have been donated.
Look at used wedding dresses online. Sites like eBay and Craigslist have many listings for brides selling their nearly brand new wedding dresses. Other sites, like Pre-Owned Wedding Dresses.com, offer designer pre-owned wedding dresses for a fraction of the cost.Sew your own wedding dress, or borrow one from a friend.
 Try to save money by getting a bulk package when you rent the tuxes. If you don't have your heart set on the groom wearing a tux, let him and the groomsmen wear nice suits they already own, or that they can buy at a much cheaper cost.
 As you plan your wedding, don't feel you have to do everything on your own. Ask family members and friends to add their input; they might have ideas for cutting corners you haven't thought about.


Getting ideas from family and friends might also help you find a surprise florist, photographer, or wedding cake baker. If you have talented family members and friends, consider asking them to do the wedding photography at a cheaper rate for a gift, or baking the cake for you.
 Signing up with a website that scours the internet looking for deals on wedding essentials, from flowers to venues, could save you hundreds. Sites like Bride Rush are specifically geared towards finding you the perfect elements at the best bargains. Enter your location and date - month or day - and they send you updates.
 Instead of getting married on a Saturday in June, go for a less popular wedding month. Having your wedding in April and October can save you money, or try February for an even cheaper date.During peak season, venues will charge much more to rent a venue.
 Saturday weddings cost sometimes twice as much as weddings on other days of the week. Some places will charge less for Sunday weddings, while other venues may charge more for weekend days but lower the price during the week. If you don't mind getting married in the middle of the week, you might save yourself a pretty penny., City parks, backyards, and other green spaces make lovely backdrops for wedding ceremonies for a fraction of the price. Contact your favorite spots, or a park that is special to you and your significant other, and see if they allow weddings. Ask around and see if a friend has property with a field or a grove of trees. Or if someone you know has a beautiful backyard, see if they'll let you use it for the special day., Did you go on your first date to the zoo or aquarium? Did you get engaged at the coffee shop you both frequent? Many places will rent out their business for weddings. Zoos, art galleries, and aquariums are beautiful, unique places to have a wedding. Ask your favorite coffee shop or restaurant how much it would cost to hold the reception on their patio or in a back room.Think outside the box for places to hold the wedding and reception to save yourself some money.


Don't ignore apartment or neighborhood clubhouses, churches, hotels, or bed and breakfasts. Some of those places might offer great deals.
 Venture outside of the metropolitan area when searching for venues. Many times, venues in smaller cities cost a fraction of what venues in larger cities do. Towns outside of the large cities also might have some gorgeous garden spaces or halls that would make perfect wedding and reception venues., By having a wedding earlier in the day, you eliminate the need for large dinners. Instead, you can serve brunch, a light lunch, or warm hors d'oeuvres instead of a large expensive dinner.
 Instead of providing a large dinner with a meat and sides, or a large buffet with different choices, serve a light dinner, brunch, or lunch. Go for warm h'ordeuvres even if you have a night wedding, along with a beverage and cake. Choose to do a dessert-only reception.Some people may not be happy, but you will save a lot and still have a nice reception.
 If you want to serve a full meal, get creative so you can save some cash. Instead of going for a catering company, be unique in what you serve. Ask your favorite restaurant to cater the affair. Many restaurants offer buffet-style catering packages at reasonable prices. You will be happier with food you love, your guests will get quality food, and you will save yourself some money., If you are having an outdoor wedding, why not have an outdoor reception to match? Bring blankets and a few chairs, and serve a picnic-style buffet.Or have a backyard BBQ reception with homemade food.
 Wedding cakes are extremely expensive. Think about getting sheet cakes for your guests. The ceremonial cake can be smaller, and therefore, less expensive.Or buy a cake at the supermarket - or make one yourself - and then decorate it. If your mother, grandmother, or other relative is a fantastic cook, have them make the cake as your wedding gift.


Instead of a cake, why not have cupcakes or even pies?
Don't feel you have to have cakes - any dessert can be served at your wedding. Think even farther outside the box and have a cheese wheel with relishes, nuts, and fruit., Instead of having an open bar, serve only wine or beer. If your wedding has a theme, think about serving a signature cocktail.Or skip the alcohol all together. If you're not planning on drinking, don't spend that excess cost on something just for the guests.
 With quality home printers, you can make invitations yourself that look as good as professional ones. Since most people will just throw them away, there's no reason to spend a ton on invitations.Buy some cardstock from an office supply store, use a pretty font, and add a few creative touches. If you are crafty, you can add accents, ribbon, and lace.
 Unless your dream wedding is one where you're surrounded by tons of flowers, think about limiting the flowers you use. Florists and flower arrangements can rack up the costs, so instead of spending hundreds or thousands on flowers, have your bridesmaids carry a single rose while you carry a small bouquet.If you're having a wedding during flower season, grow your own flowers to use in the ceremony, or get them from a garden of a friend or relative.
Skip extravagant flower centerpieces on the tables. Instead, opt for cheaper centerpieces.
 Instead of spending a pretty penny on a band or a wedding DJ, get some speakers, an iPod, and a playlist of your favorite songs. This way you can dance to your favorite tracks while not wasting a ton of money.If you have your heart set on a live band or orchestra, contact local college music departments. Ask if they have string quartets, or know of any music students or local bands that would be interested in playing the wedding. They will probably agree to play for a much lower fee.
 Everyone has a cellphone with a camera these days, so get your guests to snap photos throughout the ceremony and reception. Websites like Eversnap allow you to make an album for your guests where they can upload their photos and videos. You can hire a photographer to help finish the photos and save a lot.


If you do hire a photographer, then do the dance, cake cutting, and bouquet throw early in the evening so you don't have to pay the photographer for longer than necessary., While this can be labor and time intensive, you can really save a lot of money. Many wedding decorations, like candles and candle holders, can be found at dollar stores. Pintrest and craft blogs provide endless ideas for wedding crafts.Give homemade favors instead of store bought ones. Most people throw favors away, so save money by making them yourself. Or forego the favors all together.
 Save money on professional hair and makeup by doing it all yourself. Many hair blogs explain how to get beautiful, yet simple, wedding hair styles. The bride and bridesmaids will look as beautiful with simple braids or at-home beach curls, and your wallet won't be suffering.
 Instead of making a traditional wedding registry at a store, register for other things. Try registering for wedding items, like your photographer or money towards the venue.When your family and friends start chipping in, you can have a lovely wedding with a much lower cost - your family and friends might even appreciate not having to go shopping for you!


You can also register through online sites, like honeymoon wishes, to have friends and family give money towards your dream honeymoon instead of buying you unneeded kitchen appliances.
 Many vendors will provide discount services in exchange for letting them advertise at your wedding. Lay a business card with contact information at each place setting at the reception, or put their name and contact information in the wedding program.