 First of all, this method is much easier than it sounds. Fill a plastic bucket with enough water to submerge your rusted object and mix one tablespoon of baking soda or washing soda per gallon of water. Use hot water, the warmer the water, the better. Mix well until it dissolves.
 The electrolysis process will take the rust from the object you want to clean and eventually attach itself to this metal. You want the sacrificial anode to be big enough so that half of it is submerged and the other half — the half onto which you attach your positive terminal — is above water. This is very important.


A steel can works fine as your sacrificial anode, provided it is big enough to be partly sticking out of the water. Rebar is good too.

Make sure the can anode is magnetic to avoid confusing it with aluminum. You do not want to use aluminum or stainless steel as your sacrificial anodes for electrolysis.
 You may have to manually scrape away some rust to achieve this. Fully submerge the rusty object, taking care to keep as much as possible of the wire out of the water.



Caution: Make sure this rusted object does not touch the anode to prevent an electrical short-circuit (a short).
 Remember not to submerge the sacrificial metal completely, or you'll risk eating away at the positive terminal, which you don't want to be eaten away.


If the sacrificial metal is completely submerged, consider using another wire as a mediator/connection between it and the car battery charger lead to keep the charger terminal and connection dry.
 The electrolysis process will gradually start working away at the rust. Let it sit for 12-20 hours.



Caution: If you ever want to check the status of your rusted object, be sure to turn off and unplug the battery charger first. You will see bubbles rise to the surface and muck gather at the surface. Both of these things are normal.
 When taken out, your rusted object should be rust-free, but still in need of some cleaning. Use a Scotch Brite pad to remove any sludge on the object and a bristle brush to clean those harder to reach spots.

