 Unlike a removable retainer, a permanent/fixed retainer cannot be taken out; however, you should carefully follow any instructions your orthodontist gives you for cleaning and caring for your fixed retainer. You will most likely receive special cleaning instructions, as well as details on what foods you can and can't eat.Most fixed retainers are worn full time for approximately five years;however, some may be kept on for life, depending on your teeth and your orthodontist's recommendations.Follow any instructions your orthodontist gives you, and let him know about any issues you may be having.
 Because fixed retainers are bonded to your teeth, there are certain food restrictions you'll need to follow in order to avoid damaging your retainer. These restrictions are generally the same as those applied to braces.Avoid hard/crunchy foods, as these may cause your retainer to break.Do not eat caramel, hard candy, or gum. These foods can get stuck to your wires and cause damage.
Cut down on sweets and soda in general, as sugary foods/drinks can increase the chances of tooth decay.
Try to avoid or reduce your consumption of high-acidity foods/drinks, including citrus and soda.
 You will need to floss your teeth with floss threaders to properly get between the teeth and above/below the retainer wire.A floss threader is essentially a stiff thread made of nylon with a small loop at the end. You'll use this threader to feed regular dental floss between your teeth and around your wires.Start with approximately 18 inches of regular waxed dental floss.
Slip one end of the dental floss through the floss threader and pull it until the threader is roughly in the middle of the floss.
Hold the threader up close against your teeth in the spot you're about to floss. Aim the threader slightly downward for your bottom teeth and slightly upward for your top teeth.
Reach into your mouth and carefully pull the threader through, then use the floss strand to floss like normal around your gums and under your retainer wire.
Take good care when cleaning in between teeth and try not to use hard toothpicks, as you may damage the fixed retainer.
 Brushing your teeth with a fixed retainer can be a bit tricky, since you can't just take the retainer out to brush like you can with a removable retainer; however, it's very similar to brushing your teeth with braces, which you may already have experience with.Use a soft-bristle toothbrush so you don't damage the hardware. Make sure you brush for a full two minutes, using up and down motions, just like you normally would.
Brush the backs and chewing surfaces of teeth as normal. While brushing the fronts of teeth, carefully brush along the gums, then above/below the retainer wire.
Rinse your mouth out thoroughly. Check your teeth in the mirror to make sure you didn't miss any food debris or plaque, and if you see anything remaining, start the process over again.
You can also use a proxabrush, which is shaped like a Christmas tree. These brushes are made for brushing between and around braces and retainer wires, which may make it easier to keep your teeth clean.Don't be too aggressive with these brushes, as you may cause the fixed retainer to bend or come off.

