 The only way to convince another person to change their views is by first getting a good understanding of what their views are. You may have heard your parents make homophobic comments before, but maybe you don't really understand why they feel the way they do. Start a dialogue with them about their feelings about homosexuality and use active listening skills to truly hear their side of things.Avoid interrupting them or defending your own views, even if it what they say is upsetting. You will get your chance to talk later.;
, Try to gain a better understanding by digging for what's beneath the surface. Your parents may try to shrug it off when you ask "Why are you against homosexuality?" by responding "Because it's just wrong!" Press them for more information by asking clarifying questions.


You might ask, "How do you think it's wrong?"
In some cases, this might pertain to their religious beliefs, but you might also uncover a deeper, or more personal reason that they are against homosexuality.
 If your parents are homophobic because of their religion, understand that you may not sway them or gain their approval if you are homosexual. They believe they are acting in your best interest by taking a stand against this sexual orientation. Don’t attack their faith or try to change their minds.Your parents may challenge your own faith. Think about how you will respond if they do.
 If you are homosexual and your parents have questions about your orientation or life as a LGBTQ person, answer them to the best of your ability. Be patient and remember that what’s obvious to you might not be to them. You can also help them find articles, pamphlets, and other educational materials to read.


If you aren't homosexual, but are simply trying to broaden their views, you might share an experience of a friend or watch a video with them that portrays an inside perspective.
If your parents aren’t willing to open their minds and learn more, there’s not much you can do to convince them. Don’t push too hard, since that might make them even less inclined to listen to you.
 If you love your parents and want them in your life, you’ll have to accept them as they are. Keep reaching out to them, and they will probably respond eventually. They may even have a change of heart and stop being so homophobic.Even if your parents remain homophobic to some degree, they may soften up over time to maintain a relationship with you.

