 When the debtor files a bankruptcy petition, he or she gives the court clerk a list of all creditors. If you are on the list, you will receive notification that a bankruptcy petition has been filed. Your notification will include the date, time and place of the 341 meeting of creditors. , As a creditor you are not required to attend the meeting. Most creditors don’t. However, you might want to attend if you have questions for the debtor. Accordingly, review all of your paperwork relating to the debtor.


Review the debtor’s bankruptcy petition. Check to see whether information in the petition matches information the debtor gave you when applying for the loan. For example, the annual income listed in the petition may be substantially less than what you were told originally.
Make copies of all relevant loan documents. Take them with you to the hearing.
 You can generally ask any question that helps you understand the extent of the debtor's assets or details about the debtor’s debt. You won’t run the meeting—a trustee will—and you can’t grill the debtor. However, consider the following questions:


If the debt was secured with property, ask the debtor where that property is. For example, if you extended a car loan, ask the debtor whether they intend to turn over the car or reaffirm the loan. If the loan was recent, ask how the debtor used it. If the debtor spent the proceeds of the loan in expectation of quickly declaring bankruptcy, you might be able to prevent that debt from being discharged.
You can ask about discrepancies between information in the bankruptcy petition and information the debtor provided you when applying for the loan.
 Often about ten 341 meetings will be scheduled at a time. Each typically lasts only five to ten minutes. You want to be on time so that you don’t miss your chance to question the debtor. Plan enough time to find parking and to go through security.
 The trustee decides the order in which cases are called. Sit quietly and review your paperwork while waiting. When the case is called go to the table at the front of the conference room. The debtor and their attorney will sit there, too.
 The trustee will ask most of the questions, and you should listen closely so you don’t ask the same questions. The debtor will be under oath. Take notes on what s/he says. You will then be given the opportunity to ask your questions. Once you've obtained the information you need, don't forget to thank the debtor.
 Contact the trustee, who will provide you with a form to use in requesting an audio recording. You may have to provide a recordable CD so that the audio can be transferred to it.

