 As with any major lifestyle change, it is important to consult your doctor before beginning an exercise regimen. Your doctor can provide guidance as to which exercises to try, how often to workout, and what signs of overexertion to watch out for., Walking is excellent place to begin your fitness journey. It can be done almost anywhere with little equipment (just shoes), and it can vary widely in length and intensity. Begin by walking just 15 to 20 minutes a day. After a week or two, increase this length to 30 minutes.You can continue adding length to your walks as you get comfortable.
You can increase the intensity by hiking on trails or taking routes with more hills.
Consider purchasing a good pair of walking shoes.
You may want to use a pedometer, fitness tracker, or smartphone app to track distances.
 There are a wide variety of group exercise classes, spanning both cardio classes (such as zumba or step aerobics) or more strength-focused classes (sometimes called “butts and guts” or “core.”) These classes, usually found at local gyms and fitness centers, can be fun and motivating.Look for classes that are considered beginner level.
Consider going to speak to the instructor ahead of time to explain that you are just starting out. They can offer you modifications and/or extra assistance.
 Another gentle way to start moving is to try your hand at yoga. Yoga can help to gently stretch and strengthen your muscles, while improving your posture as well. Look for a yoga studio in your area, and seek out beginner-level classes. Also, yoga classes titled “therapeutic,” “yin yoga,” or “restorative” will focus more on releasing tight muscles, while classes called “vinyasa” or “hatha” tend to be more vigorous.Once again, consider speaking to the instructor ahead of time. They will usually be happy to help accommodate you.
 Bike riding is a fun, low-impact way to burn calories and improve your cardiovascular ability. Plus, just like walking, it is easy to start small and build up. Seek out bike trails in your area or hit the streets!, Water aerobics is another great place to start because it provides an excellent workout while minimizing impact on the joints. Water aerobics is just what it sounds like: dancing and doing other calisthenic movements while partially submerged in water (or wearing a floatation belt). Look for water aerobics classes in your area., Anytime you workout, you must take care not to overdo it. Your heart rate should rise and you should sweat, but chest pains or dizziness could be a sign that you're in danger. If you experience the following symptoms, stop exercising and possibly seek medical attention:


Vomiting.
Severe dizziness.
Severe pain.
Chest pain or heart pounding that doesn’t cease.

