 If you believe that your dog has mastitis, you should take it to your veterinarian immediately. Failure to treat mastitis properly can result in septic shock and the death of your dog. To avoid any serious complications, have a veterinarian check your dog right away.A serious infection can also lead to the development of gangrene and, eventually, a mastectomy.;
, Antibiotics are the most common course of treatment for dogs suffering from mastitis. In treating your dog, your veterinarian will likely give it an antibiotic injection at the clinic. Your vet will also prescribe a course of oral antibiotics that your dog will need to take daily for an extended period of time.Your veterinarian will prescribe antibiotics based on the results of bacterial cultures taken from your dog.
It is important that you give your dog the full course of antibiotics. Failure to give the full course can result in the return and intensification of the infection.
Some small breed dogs may develop diarrhea as a result of taking certain antibiotics., Because of the swelling and inflammation caused by the infection, you should ask your veterinarian about pain medications that you can give your dog. Your veterinarian may recommend an oral or a topical pain reliever. This will help your dog deal with the discomfort of the infection.A topical medication may also have some antiseptic properties to help clear out the infection.
 To ease the pain and discomfort of mastitis, your veterinarian may also recommend applying warm compresses. Your veterinarian may give your some warm packs from the clinic. You can also make your own using a warm, wet towel or a warm plastic bag of water.Apply a warm compress to the teat four times a day.
Make sure that the compress is not so hot that it burns the dog. Test it on your own skin before applying it to the dog.
 Your veterinarian may instruct you to drain the infected teat regularly of blood, pus, and milk. Holding it between your forefinger and thumb, gently squeeze on the infected teat and drain any infected discharge. This will help clear up the infection and alleviate some of the pain your dog is experiencing. However, this is only an option if your dog is not experiencing intense pain that leads to aggression.Do not try draining your dog’s teat unless instructed to do so by your veterinarian.
If your dog growls, whimpers, or snaps at you when you touch its teat, you should avoid draining.
 Depending on the severity of the infection and the type of bacteria present, your veterinarian may decide that your dog should stop nursing the puppies. In that case, the vet will likely recommend a nutritional supplement to give to the puppies. You should also prepare to wean the puppies.If your dog can still nurse, your veterinarian will recommend antibiotics and pain medications that will not limit the puppies’ ability to nurse.
In certain instances, letting the puppies nurse on the infected teat will help clear up the mastitis.
Some infections could be transferred to the puppies from the infected teat.

