 Return Of The Phantoms (Hard Mode) is an adventure that gives lots of rares. When you have completed the adventure, pick the top right reward chest. You can get mech wings, pirate swords, worns, and even rare bow and arrows! To get rares more effectively, play with at least one other person. Rares can later be traded for betas.;
, Wear all your rarest items and be proud of them! Don't be afraid to wear your rares and put them on trade. Put only the items you don't want on trade. Do not accept trades just because you feel sorry for that person. This will give you a "kind" reputation, but it will be harder to get beta. When you get all the stuff you need to trade, trade it for stuff you want! Trade fairly, so people will accept. Also, don't flash trade! (flash trading is not a thing anymore because of the new trade thing) This is where you trade really fast and accept without looking. This is a trick, which can get you scammed easily. Also, if someone says, "Trade me. I will never accept. Try me!", do not do it! They will accept if it is a really rare trade. Do not be one of these people, either. Scamming is not the way to get rares and betas.
 Most store-bought items make members think lowly of you. You need to get members' attention, since they have almost all the betas. Instead of store-bought items, wear rares, betas, or old items that aren't beta or current store-bought items.
 Find friends which you can trust. If you are nice to them, and you help them, they might be a little nice and trade you some betas. You will need many of these friends. To get "trading" buddies, there are different ways. Help everyone without giving your items or gems away. Be polite, kind, and nice. Avoid getting suspended, or ultimately banned. You will want at least 30 of these friends. Eventually, you will know them so well that you can trade your rares for their betas!

, Make YouTube videos to get famous. In order to be actually famous, you need to be nice. Help any "struggling" non-members, and they might help you! Send random people gifts or compliments through jam-a-grams. Lastly, make good videos of you doing these things. Then, share these videos. Once you have a good reputation, you will have a higher likelihood of getting betas for trades.

