 Get cholesterol and other readings (possibly at public health clinics or health fairs) and see your medical professional regularly to assess any cardiovascular and other health issues discovered. The more proactive you are, the better grip you'll have on the issue.


If you are taking your blood pressure at home, make sure you're doing it correctly! If you have any questions at all, ask your doctor. You should be getting higher readings when you wake up and while at work. It will lower at home and when you're relaxing., As your weight increases, chances are your blood pressure and related heart-stresses are increasing too. Just a loss of ten pounds can show you a decrease in your blood pressure levels. Consult your doctor on a healthy target weight.


In addition to the number on the scale, your waistline measurement matters, too. Men with a waistline of 40 inches (101.6 cm) or more and women with a waist of 35 inches (88.9 cm) or more at an increased risk of hypertension. Asian men and women run on a scale of about 3 inches (7.6 cm) smaller (for both sexes)., Apart from losing that excess weight, regular cardio exercise can significantly lower your blood pressure within weeks. Weeks! That's about as close to instant gratification as you're gonna get.Even making small efforts helps. Squeezing in a 15 minute walk before work is definitely better than nothing. You don't have to get your workout in all in one go! Having an active lifestyle is all about finding small ways to get moving. It doesn't necessarily mean going to the gym!

, In small amounts, alcohol can lower your blood pressure slightly. However, drinking in moderate amounts can exacerbate your hypertension. Men younger than 65 can get away with 2 drinks a day, but everyone else should stick to 1. And that doesn't mean you get 7 in one day if you've skipped a week!


Know what "one drink" really means. That's five ounces of wine, 12 ounces of beer, or 1.5 ounces of 80-proof hard liquor.And if you don't drink, definitely don't start to reap the one-drink benefits!

, Smoking throughout the day can raise your blood pressure virtually permanently. Apart from all the other absolutely terrible side effects of smoking, it can raise your blood pressure by 10 mm Hg for up to an hour after you puff away. Though it's only a temporary effect, if you do it constantly, your blood pressure doesn't know the difference.


Secondhand smoke isn't much better. If you can avoid it, do. There are negative consequences in just being around it, too., Drinking beverages containing caffeine will boost your heart rate and can spike your blood pressure temporarily, in addition to being potentially quite harmful to the health of persons developing hypertension and promoting sleep disorders. It's best to keep it down as much as possible.


Do a test yourself, if you can. Certain people are more caffeine-sensitive. Drink a cup of coffee or a can of soda and check your blood pressure within 30 minutes. If your levels raise near 5 or 10 points, you may be extra caffeine-sensitive.
 Controlling (and lowering) your blood pressure isn't incredibly difficult -- it just takes diligence and and attention to detail. Monitoring your diet will be a bit tedious, sure, but it's doable. It'll sure be a lot easier with a food journal!


Not only will you see what you should (and shouldn't) eat, you'll notice eating patterns that you may not have noticed before. In addition to tracking what you're eating, also write down when and why. It's probably not always due to hunger!

, It's absolutely imperative that you know what's going into your system. While you should cut out processed goods as much as possible, there will inevitably be a few that slip through. When you go to the store and are contemplating your purchases, read the label first.


If it's high in sodium, preservatives, or words that end in -ose, put it back on the shelf. And if you have to take a second to think about how to pronounce the majority of the ingredients, that's a red flag, too.

