 If you intend to use a paddle holster for a concealed carry weapon, consider choosing a firearm with a short barrel.Most paddle holsters will hold the pistol low and angle it away from your body. As a result, the bottom of the holster and/or firearm has a tendency to peek out from beneath the average shirt or jacket when the holster is used for a long-barreled pistol.
If you do not want to use a short-barreled pistol, you might be able to avoid this problem by wearing the holster higher on the waist. Note that you will need to wear the waistband of your pants higher on your waist, as well, for this option to work.;
, Before going any further, make sure that the pistol is safe by verifying that the safety is on.


If you intend to carry a loaded pistol, the pistol should be loaded before you insert it into the holster.
If you do not wish to carry a loaded pistol, make sure that it is not loaded before you proceed.
 Grab the handle of the pistol, then slide the barrel of the pistol into the holster. Continue until the entire gun is securely seated in the body of the holster.


Keep your finger off the trigger and along the side of the gun as you handle it.
If your holster has a button latch, fold the latch down and snap it in place to further secure the weapon.
 While not always necessary, wearing a belt can help keep the paddle holster more secure.


Wear a belt if your pants feel loose or saggy. Keeping your pants secure around your waist will make the holster more comfortable and safer to use.
Even if your pants fit well without a belt, the use of a belt is still recommended. Paddle holsters are held in place with tension. By putting another layer (the belt) in between the side of the holster and the holster clip, you create more tension and keep the holster more secure.
Note that most paddle holsters work best with belts that are 2 inches (5 cm) wide or smaller.
 Grab the holster by gripping the handle of the gun. Make sure that the firearm is securely seated in the holster before continuing.


As before, you should keep your fingers off the trigger and outside of the trigger guard.
The pistol and holster should move as one. If they don't, the firearm may not be seated in the holster securely enough, and this could pose a safety threat if not corrected.
When you grab the pistol and holster, make sure that the rigid paddle portion of the holster faces the dominant side of your body. The firearm should face away from your dominant side.
 Position the holster at the 3-o'clock position and guide the rigid paddle portion of the holster so that it clips in between your pants and underwear.The paddle must be in between your pants and underwear. It should not be hooked loosely around the belt.
Use the 3-o'clock position if you are right-handed or the 9-o'clock position if you are left-handed.
If this position feels uncomfortable or unnatural to you, you can easily adjust it later. Many paddle holsters are designed to work with the angle of your body based on this position, however, making it the best one to start with.
 Push the positioned paddle completely beneath the waistband of your pant.Continue pushing the paddle downward as far as it will go.
If your paddle holster has a security clip or hook along the underside of the paddle, it may hear or feel it click into place once the paddle slides past the seam of your waistband. This security clip will help prevent the holster from sliding out when you go to retrieve your gun., Since the paddle is not locked into any specific position, you can slide the holster around your waist until it settles into a comfortable, natural point along the curve of your body.Generally, you will need to position the holster somewhere between your side and mid-back.
Regardless of where you keep the holster, keep in mind that you must be able to grab the gun and remove it from the holster in a single, fluid motion. Otherwise, the holster is not serving its designated purpose.
 When you need to draw your pistol, grab the handle of the gun with your dominant hand and lift it straight up. Once the barrel has cleared the holster, grip the firearm with both hands and aim as needed.


If the holster has a button latch, you will need to unsnap the latch before removing the gun.
The tension and lip on the clip of the paddle should hold the holster in place as you remove the gun, especially if you lift the gun straight up.
Keep your fingers away from the trigger until you are ready to shoot. Make sure that the gun is properly and safely aimed before placing your finger on the trigger and firing the gun.
 As an out-of-the-waistband holster, you will need to wear a long, loose top capable of covering the pistol and holster to conceal it. The top can be a shirt or jacket, but either way, it must be long enough to hide the entire holster from sight.Paddle holsters are notoriously bulky due to the way they angle out from the body, so you will probably notice a bulge if your top is too tight. For that reason, it is strongly recommended that you wear loose clothes over the paddle holster, instead.
 To remove the holster, grab the handle of the gun and use it to tilt the paddle toward your body and away from the side of your pants. With the paddle tilted, lift the weapon up and out.


If you do not tilt the paddle in this manner, it might get stuck on the waistband of your belt when you try to remove it. The pistol could accidentally come out if you carelessly allow the holster to get stuck.

