 Be aware that it is impossible to appeal to 100% of the market. You cannot satisfy everyone. With this in mind, focus on your target market. Identify what their needs are and do your best to meet those needs. Some examples of target markets are:


Teens, students and young adults. This is a large and ethnically diverse market. Fast-food or quick-service restaurants are popular with this market.
Families with children. Good value and a child friendly atmosphere are important here. Menus should cater to both adults and children.
Empty Nesters. Empty nesters consist of people aged between 50 and 65 with grown children who no longer live at home. This group tends to have a higher income and typically visits upscale restaurants. They are less concerned with price and are more focused on excellent service and outstanding food. Appeal to this group with elegant surroundings and a sophisticated ambiance.Vegetarians. Restaurants catering specifically for vegetarian and vegan customers are becoming more and more popular.
 A grand opening is the best time to get press for your restaurant. Although it can be costly, the money you spend on your grand opening will be worth it if your restaurant gets publicity. A successful grand opening takes time and planning, so choose the date well in advance and consider hiring a local publicist to help with the advertising. Here are some ideas to help make your grand opening a success:



Hire photographers. Make sure there is someone there to photograph your grand opening. That way, there will be pictures ready for any journalists looking to cover it. Keep in mind that the press that comes after your grand opening is just as important as the press that informs the public of your opening. Do not let up on your public relations efforts just because your grand opening is over.

Invite a reviewer. If you know that your food is top notch, you will want to invite a food critic or restaurant reviewer to your grand opening. This is sure to get you some press, although there is a risk that the press might be negative.

Invite a local celebrity. If you get a local politician, television host or any other local celebrity to come to your grand opening, you will be more likely to get some media coverage.

Provide entertainment. By providing your customers with an enticing form of entertainment – such as a live band, DJ, dancing or contests – you will create a night that they will remember.
 Contact local newspapers, magazines and broadcasting stations to see if they would be willing to cover a story about your restaurant and its upcoming grand opening. You could also write an editorial or an opinion article about why the community needs a restaurant like yours.
 Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare, Yelp and other social media sites are this generation’s means of word of mouth marketing. Promote social media activity that promotes your restaurant by offering various incentives such as:


Free drinks for checking in to Foursquare while at the restaurant.
Receive 10% off your next bill with a Yelp Review.
Dessert thrown in with any entrée order with a location update in Facebook.
 The right restaurant logo can get customers' mouths watering before they even see the menu. Create a unique and eye-catching logo which your customers will come to associate with great food and top-notch service.

