 Growing your hair long is a popular hairstyle among hippies. For men, having long hair is sometimes not acceptable in the corporate world, and as a hippie you should embrace the counter culture.Dreadlocks are also another hair option for hippies.
Hippies originally grew their hair long in protest against the Vietnam War and as a symbol of rebellion against the cultural norms of the 40’s and the 50’s;
, Certain hair products, like aerosol cans, are bad for the environment, which doesn’t align with the hippie lifestyle.Being natural is essential to being a hippie, and certain cosmetics or personal care items like moisturizers or shampoos contain harmful chemicals, so make sure to read the labels before purchasing your products.Some hair products are animal tested which also goes against hippie ideals.Popular brand such as Clinique, Lancôme Paris, L’Oréal, Clarins, and Revlon contain harmful toxins that destroy essential bacteria in soil., Being a hippie also means going against the capitalist machine, and this includes not caring about brands or tags on clothes. Find a local thrift store in your area instead of going to a chain outlet or a mall. Look for earth tones or tie dye, so you can achieve a hippie look.


You can buy more clothes than you normally would, since clothes at second hand stores are usually significantly discounted.
Hemp based clothing is a common favorite for many hippies.
Baja hoodies, sometimes referred to as “drug rugs,” are common garb for hippies., As a person who is always one with nature, it’s likely you’ll be spending most of your time outside. Make sure to get a pair of fashionable sunglasses to really exude your hippie aura. Round and aviator sunglasses are usually the type that hippies like to wear.Don’t get your sunglasses taken away at school if it’s against the policy.
John Lennon, Janis Joplin, and Jimi Hendrix made round, tinted glasses, popular in the early 70’s., As a man, it may be standard practice to keep your body hair intact, but cultural norms set for women often have them shaving their armpits, and legs.As a hippie, you need rebel against the archaic and misogynistic ideals that are placed on people.

