 Apply an oil mask of coconut, almond, or other oil to your hair, making sure to massage it well into the roots. The goal is to find natural oils to use.


Leave it on overnight, and wash it off the next morning without using shampoo and conditioner. It's that simple. Coconut oil, in particular, is great for softening the hair (and skin) and is available in many grocery stores.Be aware that it can make the hair look greasy, so apply it overnight not to wear during the day.
Other natural products - like eggs and beer- can also be good for the hair.;
, Take a little bit of olive oil and one egg, and beat it well. Leave it in your hair for about 5 minutes.


After rinsing it, you could use coconut oil with conditioner. Or try other oil mixtures. You could also mix together a tablespoon of olive oil, a teaspoon of vitamin E oil and 1 1/2 tablespoons of your favorite conditioner (make sure you have the matching shampoo, but don't add the shampoo to the mixture). The mixture does not make your hair oily if you shampoo well.
Put either mixture through your hair (your hair should not be wet) and leave it on anywhere between 5-20 minutes, depending on how much time you have (obviously 20 minutes will work better, although 5 minutes will still work.)
Get in the shower after your preferred time, and wet your hair. Be sure to get all of the mixture out. Comb your hair.
 Separate the yolk from an egg. There can't be any whites in the yolk. You can do this using a plastic bottle. The mouth of the bottle must be placed on the egg yolk, and the bottle should be squeezed slowly.


The yolk will get inside the bottle. Then put your egg yolk separately in a bowl.Use a whisk to break the yolk in the bowl. Then, take a spoon of mayonnaise, and put it in the bowl. Whisk these together. You can add olive oil if your hair is extremely dry.
Spread the mixture in your hair evenly. Leave the mixture in for 20-30 minutes. Wash your hair with warm water. Make sure every thing is washed out.
 Try to minimize your use of heat on your hair. If you must apply heat, spray your hair with a heat protectant spray first.Blow-dryers, hair straighteners, crimpers, and curling irons will all damage your hair and essentially strip away its outer covering, leaving not only the rougher, inner section, but also thinning out hair drastically.
Try air drying and towel drying your hair instead of applying heat to it. Use products like sea salt spray or braid your hair and sleep that way overnight to bring out natural wave without applying heat to the hair.
 That means not washing your hair daily. If you have really oily hair, you could wash it more frequently than someone with dry hair.


Shampoo cuts down on your hair's natural oils that keep it soft and shiny. So frequent shampoo is a quick way to dry out the hair.
Try to wash your hair about three times a week and maybe every other day if it's oily. This will prevent damage, and it should increase your hair's shine.
 A great way to get softer hair is to cut down on coloring, blow drying, and straightening or curling.


The chemicals from coloring hair, especially when bleaching, are a huge contributor to dry, damaged hair. They will make hair feel more coarse.
If you don't want to stop coloring, try switching to a coloring product with less harsh chemicals. Stay out of the sun too. Being in the sun too much can dry out the hair.
 When you look for a shampoo or conditioner, choose products that won't fry or burn out your hair. They might cost a bit more, and come at a salon instead of a grocery store, but they are probably better for your hair.You may also consider keratin treatments or deep conditioning treatments at a spa. Let a professional help you get more softness.
Try to find hair products that promote softer hair. Deep conditioners are a great way to get softer hair. You can find some as cheap as $2 at drugstores. When looking for a deep conditioner, look for descriptive words like "smoothing, soft, deep conditioning," and "healing."
Leave the condition on the hair for 5 minutes, rinse, then comb your hair one last time. After your hair dries, use a leave in conditioner and a shine spray (not a hair spray; a shine spray that just, well, adds shine.) If you want to get soft hair, make sure that you're using shampoo at the scalp and conditioner at the ends of your hair.
 Some people are not well aware of the hair type they have, and they end up splurging on the wrong products. Determine whether your hair is considered fine or thick, curly or straight.


Use a nourishing shampoo, and condition your hair every alternate wash. Buy a conditioner suited to your hair (e.g., oily, dry, fine, thick).Try a new product to give your hair a break, and see how your hair adapts to it. Everyone's hair is going to react to products differently.
Get your hair trimmed frequently. Getting a frequent trim - say every six weeks - will remove the split ends that makes hair look dry. Brush your hair thoroughly daily, but not when it is wet. Use a wide-toothed comb instead.
 Omega-3 found in fish, cod liver oil and other nutrients will give you softer hair. Remember: For hair to be soft, it has to be healthy.


Eat natural fats. Eating more fish, butter, avocado gives you softer hair. Eating eggs also will make your hair look shinier, softer, and healthier.Work out and reduce stress. In general, lead a more healthy lifestyle. Overall body health is going to improve the hair - as well as your quality of life.

