 The Internet provides a very good way for you to do so. Take advantage of budget airlines, which normally have the same destinations as commercial lines, but for a fraction of the price.



For train travel. Amtrak is the national rail company in the United States. In Europe, consider buying Eurail (for non-EU citizens) or Interrail (for EU citizens) international Rail passes.
For bus/coach. In the United States, Greyhound provide bus travel. In Europe, Eurolines provide a pass to cover travel between more than 45 European cities. Megabus provide intercity bus travel in North America and Europe.
For air travel. Air travel is generally the most expensive way to travel. Use flight comparison websites such as travelsupermarket, skyscanner and kayak. Use flight brokers such as Travelocity, Expedia, Goibibo and Opodo.
For ship/ferry travel. Cruises can be cheap if you consider accommodation and meals are included. Cunard operate transatlantic cruises. TheCruisePeople compare cruise prices.;
, Do an online search and get lists of all the Youth Hostels and Backpacker Hostels in the place that you have selected to visit. Remember that your accommodations do not necessarily have to be first class, as you are just looking for a place to sleep.


Consider sleeper and couchette trains to combine your travel and accommodation costs.
 However, make sure you follow the rule, "Fish and Guests stink after 3 days". So, you don't want to overstay your welcome and lose a friendship. If you are lucky enough to find friends who are willing to accommodate you, make sure to play the part of a good guest during your stay by keeping your area clean, making your bed in the morning, and helping out with the chores.
 Walk around a lot, and visit free or cheap attractions. Use shuttle buses or other cheap public transport. You can learn a lot about a place without spending a lot of money. Talk to people who seem friendly and ask for suggestions. Enjoy scenic walks as part of your travel experience. Visit the tourist information centers in the area, where you can also obtain informational packets or ask the guides for advice on how you can maximize your stay and experience without spending too much. Many visitors bureaus will have discount transit passes. Check online before you go for free museum days.
 This way, you can travel for as long as 6 weeks with only $1,000 cash. Since you are there for the adventure, and not for the shopping, you won't need to buy souvenirs, either. Take lots of pictures instead, and let those be your souvenirs.
 That way, you already have a place to stay when you arrive, but can look around for better deals on the next day. You can usually leave your pack or luggage at the first hostel so you don't need to lug it around while looking for a cheaper place.

