 Wash your face at least twice a day — once when you wake up to clear away oils that accumulate on the skin during sleep, and once before sleep to wash away the day's accumulation.You should also wash your face after periods of heavy sweating, whether you've gone to the gym or just been outside on a warm day. Take a bath at least once a day, and consider taking an extra shower after heavy sweating., Look for a cleanser labeled as “non-comedogenic.”This means that the product doesn’t promote the formation of comedones (blackheads or whiteheads) or pimples.


Many brands — such Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay — produce non-comedogenic products. There are also many off-brand or store-brand non-comedogenic products.
You can also look for non-comedogenic oils to dissolve skin oils and clean the skin. Always read the packaging to be certain. Popular non-comedogenic oils include hemp seed oil, shea butter, sunflower oil, and castor oil.
Avoid products that have alcohol in them, as it dries out and damages the skin. The dried, dead skin cells clog the pores, actually making acne worse., If you use a washcloth or sponge to work cleansers into your skin, reconsider that practice. These products are rough against your skin, can irritate it, causing more problems than they solve. Instead, use your fingertips to massage cleansers into your skin., The cause of your acne lies under the skin, and you cannot treat it through scrubbing, which only irritates the skin and worsens surface inflammation. Using your fingertips, gently massage the cleanser into your skin for 10 seconds or less, taking care not to irritate existing acne.
 It can cause both micro-scarring that can't be seen without magnification, and more obvious scarring.It can also pull away skin that's not yet ready to fall off, like pulling off a scab before it's ready. This can lead to scarring and discoloration.


Chemical exfoliants detach the dead and dying skin cells, but can be drying and irritating as well.
These over-the-counter treatments are different than the dermabrasion performed by dermatologists. A dermatologist uses techniques like laser resurfacing and microdermabrasion under magnification. They direct the treatment towards specific, very small areas, not the entire face. Professional treatments may not cause discoloration.
 When you pop a zit, the white pus that comes out and touches your skin spreads the very bacteria that causes acne.


If you absolutely must get rid of a pimple, see a dermatologist to lance it in a sterile, professional environment. At home, though, it’s best to simply let your zit run its course. Popping it might cause acne to flare up, lengthen the healing time, and increase scarring and discoloration.
In serious cases, picking or popping a pimple can cause a severe staph infection.

