 Miniature Schnauzers have a moderate amount of energy, so they will need to get some exercise every day. Make sure that you take time to play with your Miniature Schnauzer for a little while each day, even when it is elderly.For example, you could take him out for a game of fetch in the back yard or play tug-o-war with him.
Provide your Mini Schnauzer with some fun toys to make sure that he is always entertained. For example, you can give him some toys that squeak, rope toys, and puzzle toys.
Taking your Miniature Schnauzer for a walk around your neighborhood every day can also be a good way to have fun with him.
 Miniature Schnauzers are good with kids and they like to be around people, but not socializing your dog when she is young may cause her to be fearful of different people and situations later on. You can try to expose her to these things yourself while she is a puppy or enroll your Miniature Schnauzer in a puppy socialization class after she has had her first round of vaccinations.Make sure that you expose your Miniature Schnauzer to:


kids and babies
Prams, strollers and pushchairs
people of different ages, genders, races, and sizes
other dogs and cats
people wearing hats, coats, boots, etc.
loud noises and crowded places
vehicles such as cars, bikes, skateboards, etc.
 Potty or toilet training a Miniature-Schnauzers dog takes lots of time, persistence, and patience. To teach your Miniature Schnauzer to go to the bathroom outside. Stick to a regular toileting schedule, praise him for going to the bathroom outside, and react appropriately if an accident occurs. Some other things to keep in mind while potty training your Miniature Schnauzer include:Make sure that you take your Miniature Schnauzer out to the same potty spot every time as far as is practically possible.
Remember to praise your Miniature Schnauzer when she goes potty where she is supposed to go. Give her a treat or pet her and tell her she is a “Good puppy!”
Never use physical punishment or yelling to correct your Miniature Schnauzer if she goes potty in the house. If your dog has an accident in the house, just clean it up right away. If you do not clean it up right away, then she may try to use the same spot in the future.
If you notice your Miniature Schnauzer is getting ready to go to the bathroom in the house, then clap your hands once to get her attention. Then, gently pick her up and take her out to the yard.
 Crate training is helpful for house training. It also helps to keep your dog off of the furniture when you have to leave the house. Crate training can even give your Miniature Schnauzer a calm place to retreat to when she is feeling stressed.Never use a crate to punish your Miniature Schnauzer. It should be a place that she wants to go to.
Make sure that the crate that is large enough for your Miniature Schnauzer to lay down, stand up, and turn around. It does not need to be any larger than this.
 Miniature Schnauzers are intelligent and easy to train. Training should be a fun activity for both of you. You can try teaching your Miniature Schnauzer some basic commands on your own or take an obedience class with your dog to get help from a professional dog trainer.


Basic commands include stay, sit, heel, lay down, and shake. Once your mini Schnauzer has mastered these commands, you can move on to more advanced commands. Remember a dog may need training to keep its behaviour desirable. Puppies need to be trained what to do and what not to do from scratch. Your dog ought to only need reminding, or, can be trained to do tricks, rather than receive behavioural training.
Motivate your Miniature Schnauzer with praise and rewards. Never punish your Miniature Schnauzer for not obeying a command.

