 It's natural to want to blow your nose when you're feeling stuffed up, but just be careful not to overdo it. While blowing your nose can indeed help to clear the nasal passages of excess mucus, blowing too hard or too frequently can actually have adverse effects.In fact, some experts suggest that blowing your nose can lead to a build up of pressure due to trapped mucus, which causes further damage to your nasal passage.You can avoid this by blowing only when absolutely necessary, and by using the correct blowing method.
The correct blowing method involves closing one nostril with your finger, then blowing very gently to clear the other one. The same process is then repeated on the other side. Make sure to wash your hands with antibacterial soap after you blow, to avoid spreading the cold virus.Prevent your nose from becoming irritated due excessive nose blowing by using soft cotton handkerchiefs and by using a little petroleum jelly to moisturize and lubricate the nostrils., Any kind of bottle or container with a thin spout can be used with a saline solution to thin and flush mucus from the nasal passages.


Make your own saline solution by mixing half a teaspoon of kosher salt into a cup of water.
Fill the container with the saline solution, tilt your head to one side (over a sink), and insert the spout into one nostril and pour. The solution should flow in one nostril before coming out the other. When the water stops dripping, blow your nose gently, then repeat the process on the opposite side, Steam can be really useful when it comes to clearing your head. The heat of the steam loosens mucus while the moisture from the water helps to relieve dry nasal passages.Use steam in one of the following ways:Give yourself a steam facial by boiling a pot of water. Pour that water into a separate bowl and then place your face over the steaming water. Hold a towel over your head to keep the steam in. Add a couple of drops of a sinus-clearing essential oil (such as tea tree or peppermint) to maximize the sinus-clearing benefits.
 Yes, even if you're feeling under the weather, you shouldn't skip your daily shower as it can actually help to clear a cold faster. Heat the water to a high, yet comfortable temperature and let the bathroom steam up as much as possible. If the heat leaves you feeling a little weak or dizzy, consider bringing a plastic chair or stool into the shower with you.


A hot, steamy bath can work wonders for you when you have a cold - not just in terms of decongestion, but also in terms of relaxation and heat. Again, try to make the water as hot as possible. If you decide to wash your hair (either in the bath or shower) remember to dry your hair thoroughly afterwards, as damp hair can cause you to lose body heat, which is not good for a cold.
 There's nothing more comforting than a hot drink when you're suffering from a nasty cold. But beyond the comfort factor, a hot drink can actually help to clear your nasal passages and soothe a sore throat, making it the perfect cold-busting remedy.


Herbal teas, such as chamomile and peppermint, are a good option, as they are soothing and hydrating. Regular tea and coffee can help to perk you up if you're feeling groggy, but are not as good for hydration.
One traditional cold remedy which still packs a punch is a simple drink made from warm water, lemon, and honey. The warm water clears congestion. The lemon boosts the immune system and the honey soothes a sore throat. Simply add a slice of fresh lemon to a cup of warm water and add honey to taste.Chicken soup has long been the chosen sustenance of cold patients and not just because it's comforting and easy to eat. There is actually scientific evidence to back up the idea that chicken soup limits the production of certain white blood cells which contribute to cold symptoms.