 The AmeriCorps Network is a collection of programs that operate under the umbrella of AmeriCorps. These programs are located in every state and territory. While many of the positions are full-time, the individuals interested in part-time options will likely find success in the AmeriCorps Network.


Requirements for the AmeriCorps Network depend on the program you apply to. Some may just require your motivation to help, while others might require experience or an education.
Services you might perform include teaching accelerated reading or STEM programs, leading after school camps, counseling students, building homes, helping veterans, conservation, providing job training, helping the homeless, helping prepare for disasters, or providing healthcare information and outreach., NCCC stands for National Civilian Community Corps. This path is open to individuals who are between the ages of 18-24. It’s a full-time position that requires you to work in teams of 10-12. These teams work on projects that last for 2-3 months at a time.Activities include responding to national disasters, community improvement projects, and working with children.
 VISTA stands for Volunteers in Service to America. As a VISTA member, you would work full-time for a year in a nonprofit agency or governmental agency that is working to eliminate poverty. Activities include empowering individuals, combatting poverty, increasing affordable housing, and helping to create lasting change toward eliminating poverty.You must be 18-years-old.
Some positions have additional requirements, such as a degree or work experience., Senior Corps members can volunteer for one of three programs: Foster Grandparents, RSVP, and Senior Companions. Through this program, you can help children, veterans, the elderly, and the community at large.

Foster grandparents spend one-on-one time with special needs children.
RSVP volunteers can recruit and manage other volunteers. They also work on environmental projects, work with children, help after natural disasters, and work on other community projects.
Senior companions spend time with elderly individuals who are frail or who need help remaining independent.