 One of the first and most important things that you can do for your dog? Keep the pet up to date on shots. Before you turn a dog loose in the grass, or take the dog to the dog park, you need to make sure that its had rabies, distemper, heart worm, and a variety of other shots necessary to keep your pet healthy.


Depending on the age of your puppy and where you got your pet, this may or may not be a concern. Still, it's always preferable to take your new animal to the vet as soon as possible to learn what you need to do to keep the puppy healthy.;
, Foam beds for puppies are commonly sold for puppies. They have sides wrapped around that give the pup's back something to curl up against. Cover the bed with an old blanket or towel, something that can easily be put in the washing machine but feels cosy. Place it near your own bed, so your dog will feel some kinship with you.


Some dogs don't want to sleep in dog beds, and that's fine. Don't force your pet to sleep somewhere they're uncomfortable. Provide a sleeping blanket if the dog wants it, but don't stress if the pup just wants to crash on the floor.
Avoid wicker baskets, they creak noisily at night and are not as comfortable as foam.
 Play is important for puppies, so it's good to provide a variety of different kinds of toys to play with. Balls, squeaky toys, and rubber rings are all good teething toys, so your pet can chew while teething. You can pull gently on these too, and have a tug of war.


Puppies chew a lot, in the wolf pack its natural, but in the home the pup needs to learn he can only chew his toys, not your house.
 The proper food is essential to your puppy's happiness and overall well being. All puppies are different so choosing the right food for your particular canine will most likely take some trial and error. Talk to your vet for a recommendation.


When you find a food that agrees with your pup, stick with it. Changing your puppy's food too regularly can make dogs sick. If a problem arises and their food must be changed for some reason, always mix the food they are currently eating with the new food for a few days before just quitting the old food cold turkey.
 Depending on the breed, puppies should be fed 2-3 times a day. They eat a lot, because they're growing, so it's important to make sure your new pet is getting enough calories to stay happy and healthy.


Puppies should eat food specifically made to feed to puppies, which is fortified with extra vitamins and nutrients necessary to aid in a puppy's development and growth.
Make sure you have a bowl of water that your dog can reach at all times, and keep it full of fresh clean water. If you have a small breed, you may need to place it in a low dish so he can drink it easily.
 It's important for puppies to get lots of run-around time when they're developing. Play is important to keep your dog happy and healthy. Take your dog for long walks after meals, 2-3 times a day if possible. Even if you don't go for long neighborhood walks, just spending time walking around outside is important.


While you're out, reward the dog with a treat each time "business" is done. This helps to train the dog to go outside when nature calls.
If the weather is reasonable, your dog could be put outside in an enclosure for a few minutes after every meal.
 Make sure there are no live wires for your pup to chew through, and make sure to put the dog in a kennel when you go out for any length of time. Try not to be longer than an hour, if at all possible.


You can make it cosy inside the dog's kennel, and make it a fun place to be. Let the dog play in it and leave the cage door open so the dog can find a toy or treat in it. Hopefully, your puppy will soon think of it as somewhere pleasant to go for a short amount of time.
 Remember it will be strange and scary for the puppy to be away from his mother and other puppies in his pack. Know that dogs are pack animals and feel comfortable to be with his pack. To suddenly be without them will leave him feeling lonely and homesick. Understand you are now the alpha in the dog's pack, so make the introduction to your house as good as you can, to make your pet as happy as possible.
 Dogs love to wrestle, nip, and love on their humans. If you want to make your puppy happy, its important to encourage safe and reasonable play. Get down on the floor and play with your pet. Pet them, rough house, and generally just have fun with your dog. Make play an important priority in your life, to keep your dog happy.


To get your puppy accustomed to be handled and have good manners, imprint training is important. Imprinting means that you physically handle the puppy and introduce him to certain objects, places and situations.
 Puppies love to run and explore so the more space the better. Dog parks are great because they not only have the space needed for the puppy, but it also helps to socialize the dog. This is also very important when it comes to the happiness of your animal.
 Puppies will go to the bathroom everywhere when you're first training them. If you want to keep the puppy healthy, start house training them as soon as possible to keep both of you clean and sane.


It's important to remember that Puppies are going to have accidents, just like a toddler being potty trained. Your job as the "pack leader" is to lead and guide.
Quick house breaking is essential to the happiness of your puppy because it keeps their confidence up and your stress level down. The more you get frustrated about pup's accidents, the more they tuck their tails in shame and that's no good for either of you.
 It's partially your responsibility to learn to read your dog, and learn when a trip outside is necessary. Dogs don't want to go to the bathroom inside. Pay close attention to your puppy's habits. When pup starts sniffing and moving around in an anxious manner, that is usually a tell tail sign that there's some business that needs doing.


If you see the animal starting to go inside, say, "No" firmly and physically take the dog outside. Each time the dog does business outside, it's important to reward the dog with praise and treats.
If you notice that the puppy has gone inside, it's too late to punish that behavior. Dogs aren't able to understand punishment for behaviors they did half an hour ago, or even two minutes ago. Never rub a dog's face in its own mess, or you'll just make the dog afraid of you.
 Training can be a difficult task, because you always have to remain calm and consistent. If your dog chews something that doesn't belong to him, say "No," in a firm voice, and take the item away, then replace it with a toy. Avoid giving mixed messages. If your dog looks really cute and funny picking up a shoe and racing round with it, always be consistent and say "No," remove the shoe, and give the dog a different toy.


Always praise good behavior instead of punishing bad behavior. This is a much more effective way of training dogs.
There's no need to strike or smack dogs to train them properly. Instead, use positive reinforcement when the dog does something right, instead of punishing the dog for doing something wrong.
 Your time as the pack leader is crucial to your puppy's happiness because he needs you to show him the ropes so-to-speak. Your puppy needs stimulation and attention that only you can provide as the human. Talk to your puppy so he can learn your voice, your demands, your tone. This is a great way to bond with your dog, and help the puppy learn your moods and your own personality. All this can make a huge difference in the happiness of the animal.
 Puppies can be frustrating. They'll make a mess. They'll poop in your shoe. They'll chew up that same shoe. Try to remember that the puppy doesn't know how to behave in your house. This is the first time your new pet will have a chance to learn how to behave. Try to be calm and consistent with your animal, to make sure that you train away those bad habits and introduce happy and healthy ones.


It may take a while to learn to go outside. Don't get a dog if you're not ready to clean up business five times a day, every day, for a couple of weeks.
Puppy pads are also a good choice for nighttime and hours that you are out of the house. Try not to make a habit of using newspaper and puppy pads as a long-term solution, however. It's important to train the dog as quickly as possible.

