 Putting a big steel brush guard on your Jeep? Rigging up your truck to pull a trailer? Go for heavy duty shocks. No reason to get crazy just yet, but if you habitually haul a trunk of luggage or a bed full of boulders, or if you intend to haul a camper or boat or something, beefier shocks are your best first step.


When buying your upgrades be careful to check for compatibility, and unless you are also doing a lift job, steer clear of those models which call for a 2" (or more) lift.
These might add to your clearance a little by themselves, but are actually intended to compensate for a lift job, not to provide one. You'll end up with less travel on your shocks, and likely ruin them pretty quickly.
 These shocks can go a long way towards keeping you from sagging and bottoming out while hauling things.


When doing such an upgrade, it's best to replace shocks at all four wheels with a more or less equivalent quality, though the 'ride adjusting' and air shocks are generally only for your rear wheels.
Air shocks are particularly interesting, as they can be stiffened up for heavier loads, or softened for smooth but stable ride.
 You might also consider reinforcing your springs when getting ready for heavy hauling. If your machine has leaf springs (common on trucks and many cars for rear suspension) you can simply have a leaf added, or 'spring helpers' that bolt on to your existing springs to add tension and strength, giving you as much as a ton (or more) of extra load-bearing capability.


Coil springs are more common on the front wheels, and can likewise be reinforced by fairly cheap, easily applied supports - generally a polyurethane brace that can be slipped into the spring coil, reducing the amount of play in the spring without adding any additional ride height.
Both of these spring helpers can actually increase your ride height by a small amount, though this does not count as a lift. Leaf spring and coil spring reinforcement simply reduces the amount your vehicle chassis weight compresses the springs, which may render a slightly lifted appearance.
Wheel travel is not generally affected, and if you did it just right, your additional weight will bring things back to about normal. By all means put in heavy duty shocks, but stick to the OEM fit.
 To really solidify your ride, airbag or air spring inserts can be added to coil spring suspensions, which are reputed to significantly reduce sag and bounce.


Some kits can be self-installed with basic tools, but they are generally not an inexpensive option anyway, and might be best left for professionals to install for you, as they generally require dropping axles and removing the springs.
While this is not the end of the world, it is potentially problematic and dangerous if you don't know what you are doing.
 The above improvements might be plenty if you need a little extra clearance for your oversized tires or larger diameter wheels with the low profile tires that have become fashionable.


If going for these options, keep in mind that low profile tires, while reputed to provide better handling in adverse road conditions, can really make for a much less comfortable ride.
Conversely, oversized tires can add a little extra cushion and even improve mileage somewhat, but require more torque to move, and can affect performance as a result.
Usually there is a little slack as far as tire/wheel sizes, especially on trucks, but if you intend to make that change for whatever reason, try them on first and make sure they clear your front wheel wells and cowling when turning, and don't scrape when you hit bumps. If you have these problems, but insist on the wheel/tire change, you're going to need a minor lift.

