 Take the slotted end of your handle and put it in boiling water to soften the wood. This will make it easier to attach the head of your tomahawk.Test the softness of your wooden handle with your pliers. If the wood bends with relative ease, you should be able to mold it around your ax-head.
 Take your length of sinew and cut a length about 10" to 12" using your scissors. Using your pliers, carefully bend the slotted end of your handle outward to make room for your ax-head. Be sure your wood does not crack when doing this.

You should keep boiling water at the ready. Heat will go out of your wooden handle at a fairly quick rate. To maintain the flexibility of your wood, you will need to keep it hot.
 If the notch in your stone isn't deep enough or the slot in your handle is insufficient, you simply won't be able to fit your stone on your handle. Once the wood is soft, check to see if the head fits and make adjustments if you find it necessary.

Your stone ax-head should fit firmly into its slot and should require some amount of pressure before it pushes into place.
 This will help to hold your ax-head in place and make your tomahawk sturdier. Place some epoxy in the slot of your handle.You'll want to keep a rag close by soaked in a solvent, like alcohol, so that any excess or errant epoxy can be cleaned before it discolors your tomahawk., Now you should be able to slide the notch of your stone into the slot of your handle. This might take some effort on your part.Be firm, but don't exert so much pressure that you crack the handle.

Once the stone is in place, bend the ends of your slotted wood back inward to snugly hold your stone ax-head in place.
Wipe any epoxy on the visible parts of your stone or handle with your solvent soaked rag.
 Your sinew should cross in an X shape on the flat sides of your stone., After you have wound the ax-head and handle sufficiently in a figure-eight patter, wind the remaining sinew around the base of the ax-head, and tie it off with a sturdy knot of your choice., While waiting, you can begin cleaning up, but you should also take a moment to look over your tomahawk. If you notice any dripped epoxy, wipe it clean with your solvent soaked rag., Now that your tomahawk has finished drying, feel free to add any personal touches. You may want to add feathers or beads, or maybe even draw designs on the head of your tomahawk.