 You will want at least one pair of wool dress pants in a darker color, such as charcoal, black, or navy blue. Also, purchase two pairs of cotton pants, like chinos, in khaki or a lighter color. Chinos are less formal than dress pants, but are wonderful for business-casual dress and for warm weather.The “break” in a pant leg is the fold or crease where the front of the pant leg meets the shoe. Choose the amount of break—in other words, the length of the pant—based on the following:Go with no break if you want a contemporary, stylish look. No break means the bottom of the pant leg barely touches the top of your shoe. This style is great for those with slim bodies and for those who are short.
Choose a slight or medium break to be more conservative, while still being stylish. The shorter the break, the more trendy the look.
Go for a full break if your pant legs are a bit wider, or if you are a bit heavier. This is the most traditional look, and it shows a conservative style.;
, You will want to choose two or three blazers, also known as sports coats, in versatile colors, such as black, grey, and navy. These can be worn with your dress pants, or with jeans for more casual events. Try to purchase lighter fabrics, such as cotton, so that you can wear these year round.


If you are taller than 5’9” (180cm), choose a blazer that ends at your lower crotch area. If you are 5’9" (180cm) or under, buy a blazer that ends at your mid-crotch area. Remember that if it is too long, you can always have it tailored; however, if it is too short, it may be difficult or impossible to adjust.
You want to be sure that the shoulder seams lay right where your shoulder ends. The shoulders of the blazer should lay perfectly flat on your shoulder, with no pulls or wrinkles., You will want to have one dress shirt for every day of the working week. The colors are really up to you, but it’s a good idea to have two or more white ones and a pale blue one. A black dress shirt will also go nicely with a grey suit or grey dress pants., If you have to choose just one pair to start, black leather shoes will be the most versatile. Then, when you’re ready to invest in another pair, try a nice dark brown or tan leather. It will be worth it to invest in a pair of good quality, comfortable leather shoes with a hard sole. If you take good care of them, a nice pair of shoes can last you many years.To take care of your dress shoes, polish them regularly and get the soles replaced by a cobbler when they have worn down.
You can also purchase a nice pair of leather or suede loafers as an alternative to your dress shoes.
 You don’t need to buy these all at once, but having a rotation of ties can add a little bit of pop and variety to your outfits. You will want some silk ties that are a solid color, and if you choose patterns, choose ones that are timeless—this way, you can keep the ties for many years without worrying about them going out of style.

Some timeless necktie patterns that you may want to try are polka dots, foulard (which just means a repeating, symmetrical pattern), or stripes.For some extra business-appropriate fun, you can consider buying a knit tie in a deep blue, burgundy, or grey.
 A suit can be an expensive investment, but if you purchase one that is good quality and a classic style, you will be able to wear it for years. Choose a suit that fits your body wonderfully, is dark in color, and is timeless. A great option for a classic suit is a charcoal grey one that is single breasted, with two to three buttons and three pockets (two on the sides and one on the left breast)., While socks may not be the most exciting investment, black dress socks are a crucial piece of your business wardrobe. Buy at least five pairs of black dress socks, so that you have one pair for every day of the week. If your office is more casual, you can spring for some fun patterned socks that match your style., Now that you have all the components of a classy business wardrobe, you can mix and match them to create many different outfits. Try wearing an outfit with a blazer one day and without the blazer, but with a tie, a few days later. Since you purchased items that are mostly neutral in color, there are many combinations of your pieces that will look great.

