 If talking to your neighbor doesn't work, or if you want to avoiding having a face-to-face conversation altogether, you may need to be prepared to involve the authorities, whether that be the local police, your landlord, or building management. Before you contact them, you'll need to know that your neighbors really are being excessively loud.


Most cities and counties have noise ordinances that outline what acceptable noise levels are, and many also indicate “quiet hours”. These vary from place to place, so you'll want to research the specific rules that apply to your location.
You can do this by going to your county or city's website or your local courthouse. Many libraries also have references available on this topic.If you live in a neighbor with a Homeowner's Association or in a rental complex, then the contract, lease, or agreement you signed upon moving in most likely contains a noise clause. Consult this document to verify that your neighbors are in violation of it before proceeding to report them.Some towns/counties have special ordinances about dogs. If your noise issue involves a barking dog, you should research your town's ordinances to see if special rules apply., Before you contact the police or management, it's ideal if you can try to sort things out with your neighbors (of course, we understand that this is not always possible). If possible, provide your neighbors with a copy of the noise ordinances or the appropriate contract or housing agreement that they also signed upon moving in.


You can do this in person or send it to them by mail. This will remind them of the rules and will serve as a warning to them.
Indicate to them that if their noise is not reduced, your next step will be to report them to the authorities.
 If your neighbors do not respond and the on-going problem continues, or even if this is only the first time noise has been a problem but it is out-of-control, you should contact either the local police or your housing management.


You should reserve calling the police for more extreme or on-going instances of noise. Choose this option if the problem has been ongoing and your neighbors have not been receptive to your polite requests and when you are not able to first go to a landlord or Homeowner's Association.
Call the police anytime that the situation looks dangerous or if you suspect that the noise is due to domestic violence or illegal activities. It's very important that you not put yourself in danger, and it's also important that you do what you can to help others that you think may be at risk.
If you do call the police, try to call when the noise issue is ongoing. There will be a better chance that your neighbor will be caught “in the act” and will be warned, given a citation, etc.Contact your landlord, building management, or the Homeowner's Association for noise problems that are less severe yet still a nuisance.
If your problem involves your neighbor's barking dog, you may want to call Animal Control as opposed to the police (assuming that you haven't been able to work it out with your neighbor already).
 As a very last resort, you can consider filing a lawsuit against your neighbor. Think carefully about this, for you don't want to get into a war with your neighbor, but sometimes this can be the best motivator to get your neighbor to respect your rights.


You may choose to sue either in small claims court, where you can receive money damages.If you are hoping to have a judge issue a cease-and-desist order to your neighbor, you'll have to file in civil court, and will need to hire a lawyer.