 One drip per second adds up to over 3,100 gallons of water over the course of a year. Not only is this wasteful, it will likely cost you around $1 per month for each leaky fixture. See if you can fix a fixture yourself before calling a plumber. Turn off water to the fixture and take it apart. Often, replacing a rubber o-ring or other internal part is sufficient to stop a leak.Bring broken or worn-out pieces to the hardware store with you, to ensure you get the correct replacement.
Be sure to periodically check outdoor water fixtures for leaks as.
 Many modern faucets are equipped with a screw-on metal attachment that determines the faucet’s maximum flow rate. Make sure the faucet in your kitchen is equipped with an aerator that restricts water flow to about 1.0 gallon per minute (gpm) (3.8 liters). Likewise, make sure your bathroom faucet’s aerator restricts flow rate to 0.5-1.0 gpm (3.8-1.9 liters).Standard flow rate for kitchen faucets is 2.2 gpm (8.3 liters). The lower the flow rate, the more you’ll save.
Aerators themselves are inexpensive. Altogether, using an aerator is the most cost-effective way to conserve water.
Bring an old or leaky aerator to the home improvement store with you, to ensure the one you purchase will fit your faucet.
If you have a faucet without internal threading for an aerator, considering updating to a newer faucet with a built in aerator. Prices vary, but there are many options below $100.
 Low-flow shower heads can save as much as 60% of the water you’re using in the shower. Further, they can cost as little as $10 to $20. Simply by using low-flow faucets and shower heads, your household will likely save thousands of gallons of water each year.Use a shower head with a flow rate under 2.5 gpm (9.5 liters).
Either aerating or laminar-flow shower heads can be good low-flow options. However, laminar-flow shower heads create less steam, and may be preferable in humid climates.
If your shower heads were installed before 1992, they likely have excessive flow-rates. Replace them at your earliest convenience.
 There’s an easy way to determine whether your shower head is using too much water. Place a bucket with marked measurements beneath your shower head, where it will catch the water. Turn the shower on. If your shower head allows you to adjust the pressure, set it to normal pressure. Time how long it take for the bucket to fill to the 1 gallon (3.8 liter) mark.If the bucket fills with this amount of water within 20 seconds, you will save money and conserve significant water by replacing the shower head with a low-flow option.

