 Open the Library Palette, go to the Figures section, then go to the People sub-section.
 The model should appear in the main window with its arms outstretched and ready for posing., Because of this, you should turn inverse kinematics off.

Inverse Kinematics (IK) - Poser's Inverse Kinematics (IK) features help you achieve realistic poses and natural motion in animations. The effects of IK are most apparent when using the Editing Tools. Translate the hip- the legs bend to accommodate the new hip position without changing the foot position. Translate a foot- the hips and other leg stay fixed in position. The behavior of the arms under IK is similar. If you place a figure's hands against an imaginary wall, moving the hip toward the wall causes the arms to bend.
The arms bend while the hands remain fixed in position. If you enable IK on a pose created with IK turned off, the rules of IK can force the pose to change. IK determines how the objects joined to it (closer to the root) must respond to support the new placement. For example, if someone was to grab your hand and push, your arm would automatically bend at the elbow, while your shoulder would stay fixed in position.
, This means confirming that all settings are at their default positions and that all parameter dials are set to zero (0)., You cannot perform the next function if you do not have something selected., The Joint Parameters dialog box appears. Click Zero Figure.,, This sounds reasonable enough, but it is hard to get Poser and your reference photo (which you may have open in another program) on the screen at the same time. We found the best solution was to import the reference photo and use it as a background., Then, find your photo and select it. As you can see in our example, it was smaller than the figure. Because of the nature of what we are creating, we can work with that, though.

Note: Poser may give you a message saying that the background window height/ width ratio is different than the current window. You can click either yes or no: the size of the document window doesn't matter for this project.
 We suggest you use them to look at your figure from multiple angles. You can find them under the Camera Controls pull-down list., Earlier, we said we were going to start on the hips and work our way outward. Click on the figure's Hip. Looking at the Parameter Dials, find Side to Side. The default value is 0 degrees. This refers to straight up and down. A negative number tilts the figure to the left and a positive number tilts it to the right. Click on the number and enter "-24" to tilt the figure like the character, Beast, in the background.

All camera directional references will be assumed to be "Left" or "Right". In other words, you are looking at it from the front.






All body part references are the opposite. This is how Poser labels the figure parts.
 Notice that the character, Beast, is hunched over... we need to match this by using the Bend dial. A positive number bends the model forward. Enter "23"., Set its Bend dial to "50"., Since it is hard to select the neck in this position, I suggest you change to the Left Camera using the Camera Controls. The figure rotates, but the background does not.

Note: Remember that you are working in 3d space: a body part may look like it's bending the correct way when you view the figure from one angle, but the body part may be completely twisted when seen from another angle. Always make sure to check your work with multiple camera angles as you go along.
 Since you are bending it back, you need to use a negative number. I suggest setting the Bend dial to "-25"., This is an extremely awkward looking pose and a normal person may not physically do this, but remember - superheroes are at the extremes of their motion.,, Start by clicking on the left shoulder. Remember, if you are looking at the figure from the front, it is opposite. You are trying to match the arm that is pulled back. To do this, use the Front-Back dial. A negative number pulls the arm back. Enter "-22". To bend it backwards, use the Bend dial and enter "-49"., Set the Bend dial to "-26". Pivot the arm slightly by setting the Side to Side dial to "1"., Now for the right arm. Just like the left arm, start by selecting the right shoulder. Roll the arm (thumb towards us) using a negative number for the Twist dial. Enter "-30". Set the Front to Back dial to "19" and the Bend dial to "-2"., Set the Twist dial to "-2", the Side to Side dial to "-7", and the Bend dial to "29".,, You need to bring it forward. To do this, use the Bend dial and set it to "-97". A negative number swings the leg forward, rather than backwards, like the arms. Your model should look very strange at this point, with his foot straight out at you., Use a Bend setting of "153" to bring the foot back down.,, Select the left thigh. Use the Bend dial and set it to "19" to pull it back a little., This will move the leg out of view, as it is in the reference photo., Select the left foot. Set the Bend dial to "30" to add a touch of realism., Select the Face Camera using the Camera Controls. This zooms in very close to the face so you can see what you are doing. The head has a decent selection of dials, which allows for a variety of expressions., Use the Worry Left and Worry Right to make his eyebrows look evil. A negative setting will do this. I used "-1.61" and "-1.41" for an extreme look. Try not make the left and right symmetrical. Perfectly symmetrical features are not found in real life and can be a dead-giveaway that your pose (or final image) is computer-generated., Set Mouth O to "0.616", set Open Lips to "0.692", and Smile to "1.689" to complete the evil grin., You now have a posed figure!
,

There is a lot of information regarding the hands, so we are leaving that for another tutorial.
Something else you can work with are the reality limits. When you create a superhero-type pose, you may not want limits on, but for a real person, this will lock the body parts into a normal range of motion. To turn these limits on, select Figure > Use Limits.

