 The stop is a small piece of trim in the window frame that holds the movable sash in place. Examine the stop to determine how it is attached to the window frame.Use a utility knife to remove any paint that is sealing the stop to the window frame.
Remove any screws that are holding the sash in place.
Gently pry the stop out using a flathead screwdriver or paint scraper.
Be careful when removing the stops as they can snap easily. You may need to purchase a replacement stop to reinstall the window.
 Remove the locks or latches used to close the window. Check for any additional hardware from curtains or other additions that may be attached to the window sash or frame.
 Remove the bottom sash first by leaning it in to the inside of the house. As you lean it inward, pay attention to the ropes connecting the window to the pulley inside the frame.Remove the rope from one side of the window by pulling the knot down and out from the side of the window sash.
Remove the other rope from the other side in the same manner.
 Once the sash is removed, sand the edges to remove any paint or swollen wood causing the window to stick. Make sure to sand evenly to avoid creating additional bumps or uneven surfaces which may cause additional sticking issues.
 In double hung windows the upper sash can be removed as well. Remove any paint that is sealing the window shut to be able to move the sash.Use a razor knife to cut around the edges of the window.
Slide the upper sash down to reveal the pulleys in the side of the window jamb.
Pull the right side of the window in to free it from the jamb.
Remove the rope connecting the sash to the pulley inside the window frame and jamb.
Pull the left side of the window out and remove the rope.
 Check the edges of the sash for any paint or warped wood. Sand the sash smooth to allow for better operation.
 Remove any dried paint that has built up along the window sash with a scraper and sand the track smooth.
 Reverse the steps used to remove the window sashes to put them back in place.


Attach the ropes to the upper sash and slip it in place one side at a time.
Attach the ropes to the lower sash and place the bottom half in first. Push the upper half in place.
Slide the window stop back in place and attach it with screws or finish nails.

