 Before firing your first round, make sure you set up a good firing position that allows you to remove as many variables as possible as you fire. In order to zero the weapon, you need to try your best to make everything exactly the same each time you fire, except the adjustments you make the to the sights. If possible, try to set up your firing position on a table, using a shooting rest or something like sandbags or a bipod to stabilize the weapon.If using sandbags, try marking the bag where you rest the weapon. That way you can rest the weapon in the same place on the sandbag each time you fire, even if you move your rifle between rounds.
Try to find a location with limited wind resistance, as wind can dramatically affect the flight path of your rifle.
 Aim for the center of the target and fire one round. Before repositioning or making any adjustments, slowly fire two or even three more. Firing a few rounds will establish a shot group, which can help you determine if you are firing consistently and get a better sense of where the rounds are impacting based on how your sights are currently set up.If all of the rounds impact the target in tight group, that means that you are firing consistently and can adjust the sights to affect where you hit the target.
If the rounds are impacting the target in different areas, it means you are not firing each round in a consistent manner. If the first round hits the top left corner of the target and the second hits the bottom right, it means you are moving the weapon as you fire. Practice good firing fundamentals and keep trying until you can establish a tight group.
 Everything you do before and during firing each round should be exactly the same while zeroing your rifle. Eliminate all variables that you can and interact with the weapon only as much as you have to during the zeroing process. While it’s important to practice firing the weapon the way you intend to use it, zeroing is less about your practice than it is about setting up the weapon effectively.Use the same breathing, sight picture and trigger control each time you fire a round to ensure it isn’t you that affects where the round impacts the target, but the sights.
Doing something differently could result in impacting your target differently. Then the adjustments you make to your sights will be based on your actions instead of the actual zero of the rifle.
 Once you are able to fire a tight shot group at your target, you can begin to adjust your sights to bring that group closer to the center of the target. Different sights use different adjustment methods, and it’s best to familiarize yourself with the instructions that came with your weapon or aftermarket sights to be sure you can adjust each properly. If your rounds impact on the right side of the target, adjust your sights to the left. If they impact high, adjust your sights to lower your aiming point.Scopes or magnified sights usually have two knobs. One adjusts your reticle from right to left (windage) and one adjusts it up and down (elevation). Turn the windage knob to adjust your reticle to move your rounds along the horizontal axis, and the elevation to move them along the vertical axis.
Red dot sights often adjust in a similar manner to scopes, using small knobs to adjust the reticle on the lens from left to right and from up to down.
Iron sights are made up of two components. Adjust the windage by turning the knob on the rear aperture. Elevation is usually adjusted by turning the front sight tip to raise or lower it a small amount on the weapon.
 After you make an adjustment to your sights, fire another slow and controlled group at the target. Ensure you fired another tight shot group, then assess how your changes have affected where the rounds are impacting the target.You may have to repeat this process a number of times as you slowly move your shot groups into the center of the target.
Remember to practice the fundamentals every time you fire to ensure you don’t affect the accuracy of the weapon by changing your methods.

