 Although some may just be shooting something like a commercial with a small scene, it is best to give your actors and equipment enough breathing room to move around. Remember that you may need space to re-arrange the setup.;
, You can either use a cloth, or paint a wall. For a cloth green screen, place your green screen on an even surface, like a wall, and secure it so that it does not fall in the middle of a scene. Make sure that the cloth's surface is as flat as possible by stretching out the corners and sides until there are no wrinkles in the fabric. If using paint, first sand the wall to make it smooth, and then apply a primer coat of paint. After the primer dries, paint an even final coat. Any harsh shadows will show up during post-production and may interfere with the editing process. See "Tips" below for paint formula.
 In order to light a green screening studio, you will need a number of strong lights. The best kind of lights to use are powerful work lights, as the light they give off takes up a large area. Place lights on both sides of your screen and behind your actor so that they are facing the green screen. Position them so that the entire green screen is one unanimous shade of green, and that no part is darker than the rest.
 Set these lights up just like in any other movie studio. You will need a strong key light on either the left or right side and a fill light to get rid of any harsh shadows on the other side. Stand your actor in front of the green screen to test the lights and make sure that the subject lights are not casting any harsh shadows. If they are, redirect them by turning the key and fill lights around and using white cards to bounce the light at your actor.
 Place a work light above the green screen and shine it at where your actor will stand. This is used as an aid to help green screening programs separate the actor from the green screen by making a bolder outline on your actor.
 Play with the lights a while to make sure they are perfect. Turn on and off the lights installed in your ceiling to see if it helps or not.
 Place your actor in front of the screen to test out your lighting scheme. Make sure that he is not too close to the green screen, or his shadow will appear on your green screen. Keep him there for the next steps.
 Place your camera(s) where you wish to put it/them. If you are only filming one angle for a commercial or anything of the like, you only need one camera. If you are filming with multiple angles, you will have to play around with the lighting to make sure your other cameras don't interfere with your lighting scheme. Look through the view finder to place your camera(s) in the right place. It is advisable to use a tripod. Run through a few actions like jumping up and down and to the side and stepping back and forth while looking through the view finder to ensure that your actor has enough space to act comfortably. This is where space comes in. If you chose a small room for a studio, you might only have a foot or two of space that your actor can work in, while if you chose a large area, you'll be much better off.
 Film a test run of your green screen studio to make sure that everything is good. If you see something wrong, fix it!

