 If you have computer or A4 paper, you can make it into a square easily.









Lay your rectangular paper flat in a horizontal position. Take one corner of the paper and fold it over until it meets the opposite edge, forming a triangle. You should have a triangle shape and and a rectangular portion left over. Remove the rectangular portion of the paper by tearing or cutting it.

Origami paper also works well, and is easier to fold.
If you are using the same color paper to make your ninja star, you don’t need two pieces of paper. You can simply cut two rectangles from one square piece of paper.;
, Press down on the fold to make a crease. Then unfold the paper.









If you are using paper that has one colored side, start with the color side facing down.
If you are using the same color paper, you may want to draw a different design on each piece of paper, or make some markings to help you differentiate.
 You should now have four rectangular pieces of paper. You will only need two rectangular pieces to make your star. This article shows two differently colored rectangles to make things easier, but you can use the same color rectangles if you wish.









If you are using different colored paper and currently have four rectangles, put two of them aside. You can save them for making a second ninja star.
 This is called a book fold.If you’re using computer paper and want to make a smaller ninja star, you can shorten your folded rectangles by cutting or tearing part of the paper off.









Keep in mind that the more paper you have, the easier the ninja star will be to make.
Make sure that both folded pieces of paper are the same length.
 Then, unfold. This fold will create a crease to use as a guideline, making the next folds easier.









You should now have two folded rectangles with a valley fold running horizontally in the center of each., Make sure to fold the two pieces of paper opposite one another.









Take the bottom right corner of your (blue) paper, folding it up and to the left to meet the crease. Take the upper left corner, folding it down and to the right to meet the center crease. You should have a backward “Z” shape.
Take the lower left corner of your other (orange) piece of paper, folding it up and to the right, meeting the center crease. Now grab the upper right corner, folding it down and to the left to meet the middle crease. Your paper should now look more like a “Z”.
If done correctly, you will have two mirroring “Z” shaped pieces of paper

, The folds you just created will now be facing down.
 On each piece of paper, take the top, outermost corner and fold on a diagonal to make a triangle.









Think of it like folding a paper airplane


, Take the bottom, outermost corner of each piece of paper, and fold upwards on a diagonal.
 Fold the triangles along the center crease so that the fold lays over the parallelogram (the slanted rectangle) portion of your paper.
 You should now have two parallelograms with two triangles overlaid on top.









You will now have two pieces of paper that look like diamonds.
 One piece of paper will now have the triangular flaps facing upwards while the other will have the flaps facing downwards.
 Rotate the (blue) paper so that it resembles a “Z” shape with the flaps pointing up. Place the (orange) paper with the flaps pointing down on top. The two pieces of paper should be perpendicular to one another.









Your two pieces of paper should be making a cross.
 Take the tip of each (blue) triangle portion that’s pointing up and tuck it into the top pocket of the (orange) paper.








You should see two pockets on the top piece of (orange) paper that you can slide the triangles of the (blue) paper into.
Once you fit the tips of the triangles into the pockets, press down on the edges to create a crease to hold everything in place.
 Repeat the process fitting the remaining two (orange) triangles into the (blue) pockets.









The order in which you fit the tips in doesn’t matter, but you may have to shift your paper around slightly to get everything in place.
If you're finding it difficult to slide the paper in, try pinching the sides of the pockets to open up space.
 If you used white paper, or even colored paper, you can add a bit of flair to further customize it.









To throw your ninja star, hold it by one of the points vertically. With the back of your hand facing the direction you wish to throw, flick your wrist and release the star.

