 Keeping your Shih Tzu’s coat looking good is important, but it’s not the only grooming task. For example, you’ll also need to keep your Shih Tzu’s face nice and clean. After each meal, wipe your Shih Tzu’s face with a damp towel to remove food that’s gotten stuck in the hair.Be gentle when wiping the face.
 The hair above your Shih Tzu’s eyes can grow long and cover the eyes. Creating a topknot will keep the hair out of the eyes. To do this, use the face comb to the part the hair from the top of the nose to between the eyes. Gather the hair into an inverted ‘V’ and secure this hair with an elastic band.As the hair grows longer, you will need to adjust the topknot to hold more hair.Do not make the topknot too tight.If your Shih Tzu is trying to get the topknot out, or the hair looks tightly pulled back from the face, you’ll know the topknot is too tight.
 Shih Tzu are prone to tear stains, since the long facial hairs can irritate the eyes and cause excessive tearing. If you notice tear stains, talk to your vet about using a product to remove the stains.You could also use a clean, damp cloth to wipe to remove the tear stains, as well as any crusty goo around the eyes.The topknot will help keep hair out of your Shih Tzu’s eyes.
Trimming the hair around the eyes can also prevent excessive tearing.If you’re not comfortable with doing this, a professional groomer can do the hair trimming.
 Shih Tzu can have a lot of hair in their ears. These hairs can trap moisture and debris, increasing the risk of ear infection.If you notice a lot of hair in your Shih Tzu’s ears, remove the hair by gently pulling them out with your fingers. Do not yank the hair out.


In addition to removing excess ear hair, you’ll also need to clean your Shih Tzu’s ears with an ear cleaner and a few cotton balls.
Do not use a cotton swab to clean the ears. Swabs can reach far into the ear canal and possibly cause damage.
If your Shih Tzu’s ears don’t seem normal (red, swollen, really bad smell), take your Shih Tzu to your vet.

