 Take the measuring tape and drape it around the wearer’s neck. Get a comfortable measurement, not too loose or too tight. Keep in mind the ruff is going to fit right over the wearer’s shirt collar.


Cut the 1” satin ribbon based on the wearer’s neck length, plus two inches.
It’s important to buy ribbon based on how high you want the ruff to be. This example will create a 2-3 inch ruff.
You can also use an online calculator to determine just how much ribbon you are going to need for the ruff.;
, Crease the ribbon so you have a neat edge.
 Do this on a gridded mat to ensure the pleats are spaced evenly. Or, use a ruler to mark out 1 inch sections on the ribbon with a pencil.


As you work, try not to crease the wire too much. You want to bend it, but not break it.
Make the pleats 1.5 inches if you are working with 1.5 inch ribbon instead of 1 inch ribbon.
Do not cut the wired ribbon off the spool. Always work from the length on the spool. This way, you won’t accidentally make the wired ribbon too short.
 The wired edge of the ribbon will hold the pleats in place.


Go back with a pencil if they get a little out of shape while you are working on them.
Be sure the fold the cut end of the wired ribbon under so the wire doesn’t poke out. You want a nice folded under edge. It should appear neat and clean.
 Thread the needle and start at one end of the wired ribbon. Hold the pleats in place if the wire is springy. Be patient and work carefully so you don’t crush any of the pleats as you sew the ribbon.


Sew down one side of the ribbon and then go back and sew down the other side.
Make sure your stitches go around the wire on the edge of the ribbon.
You can also try working in stages. Pleat the wired ribbon and then sew on a few inches of ribbon. Then, pleat more of the wired ribbon, and sew on a few inches more of ribbon.
 Just sew the wire and ribbon pleat as best you can. The wired edge will be hidden in the ruff and won’t be visible.


But if the wire pops out on the outer edge of the ruff, it is going to look unpolished and sloppy. This is why it is important to get the sewn-in kind of wired ribbon.
 At the end of the measured ribbon, fold the wired ribbon under so you have a nice, neat end.
 This will help the wearer tie on the ruff and secure it.


Elizabethans wore their ruffs tied in the back. Women sometimes wore their ruffs open in the front, particularly if they were wearing an open partlet with a low cut bodice., The wearer will likely sweat when wearing the ruff band. So keep it looking clean and nice by washing it after use.


Hand wash it in the sink with a little warm water and mild soap. Let it air dry on a towel.
Store the ruff in a sturdy flat box, also known as “band boxes”. This will keep the ruff clean and shaped.
If the ruff gets crushed, it can easily be reformed into an accordion shape with a dowel or pencil.

