 Then begin the fight. Draw your sword and any potions you might have.;
, Don't hit it or he'll take your sword and throw it at you. Z-Target Ghirahim and slowly lower your sword. Then, quickly whip it up and hit him.
 This phase of the battle can be tricky, so step your game up.
 Do a slash in that pattern and some of the knives will rebound at him. (Or you can block with your shield, but some of the knives may still hit you.)

, Ghirahim sometimes charges at you at top speed. Keep him Z-targeted and jump to the side to avoid him at the last second and hit him. He'll eventually be defeated.
 He'll talk more, and then split open black armour. But fortunately, with our new powered up sword, this'll be easier.
 This time they protect him, and if you get too close, he'll shoot them at you. The best strategy is to wait for the knives to form a straight horizontal line, and then do a powered spin attack to hit Ghirahim and the knives. You can also hit the opposite way the knives form a line in (e.g., If Ghirahim has the knives starting at the right corner and going down to the left diagonally, hit vice versa.).
 Ghirahim will be angered, and conjure not one, but two swords! Ghirahim will charge at you in the last battle, and use the same strategy to avoid and harm him.
 Ghirahim jumps into the air and disappears for a second, and then jumps back down. Stand still and wait. As soon as you see him coming down, Z-Target, backflip, and then jump forward and slash. After doing this a few times, you'll finally beat him.
 As soon as you beat the Horde and get to the bottom of the Sealed Grounds, Ghirahim will confront you. This time, as cowardly as he is, he will send a crowd of Bokoblins to hurt you. Beat them using your sword only (they each die in one hit), and get ready to face Ghirahim for the third and final time. 

, This battle is the easiest but longest. Ghirahim will turn completely black, and raise orange platforms into the sky. This time, Ghirahim will slowly pace around the platforms, and sometimes attack you. He'll grunt before he hits, so use your shield (the Hylian Shield will stun him for the longest) to stun him, and then hit him. The goal is to knock him to the edge of the platform and then hit him off.
 Knock him off a few more platforms, and you'll be in the center of the Sealed Grounds.
 He will now have a huge sword. After a few perilous moments, Ghirahim will curse you, and start fighting with even more skill. He'll do the charge, and a reddish Skyward Strike.
 When Ghirahim blocks with his sword, hit the chinks to destroy it and hit him. Finally, at long last, Ghirahim will be defeated! After a few cutscenes, he will die at the hands of Demise.

