 Start teaching this trick by having your dog target something with its back legs. To do this, place a book or another flat, but elevated object on the ground. Then, place your dog in front of the book.If your dog is having trouble with a book, use a larger object, like a towel or a ramp. If you have a smaller dog, try using an object that is not as elevated, like a magazine.;
, Once your dog is standing in front of the book, have your dog place its back feet on it. To get your dog to do this, try walking into your dog. As soon as your dog places its back feet on the book, use a cue word like “up” and reward your dog with a treat to reinforce the behavior.If your dog will not move its feet onto the book, then place your dog’s back feet on the book yourself. Give your dog a treat once its back feet are on the book.
Repeat this step until your dog places its back feet on the book by itself.
 Once your dog is comfortable with placing both its back feet on the book, move the book against the wall. The pressure of the wall might make some dogs feel apprehensive at first. If this is your dog, reassure your dog by petting and talking to it in a soothing voice.For example, while petting it you can say, “That’s a good girl (or boy). I want you to place your feet on the book like we practiced. Up.”
Make sure to reward your dog once it places its feet on the book against the wall.
 Once your dog is comfortable with placing its back feet on one book against the wall, slowly begin to increase the height of the books. To do this, place a second book that is equal in thickness on top of the first book. Then, cue your dog to place its back feet on the stacked books by saying “up.”Keep adding a new book every week until the stack is high enough to where your dog is using the front part of its body to lift its hind legs onto the top of the stack.
Because your dog is using new muscles, you will need to take this step slowly. It is recommended that you only add one book per week to allow your dog’s muscles time to adjust.
 Once you have added enough books so that your dog is almost vertical when placing its back feet on the stack of books, it is time to remove the books. Have your dog stand in front of the wall as usual. Cue the desired behavior the same way as if the books were there by saying your cue word, i.e., up.If your dog makes any effort to lift its hind legs onto the wall, reward your dog with a treat.
Repeat this step until your dog is comfortable placing its hind legs on the wall without the books.
 Once your dog is comfortable lifting its hind feet onto the wall, hold a treat in front of its nose to encourage it to move away from the wall. Encourage your dog to move away from the wall while holding the “handstand” position by placing a hand on your dog’s belly. This will help your dog balance as it moves away from the wall.Repeat this step until your dog can balance on its front legs by itself.

