 Find a baking dish that’s large enough to hold a white silk scarf. Fill the container with cool water and 1 cup (237 ml) of white vinegar. Allow the scarf to soak for 8 hours or overnight.As the silk soaks, you’ll notice that it becomes more translucent so it can take the color more easily.
 When you’re ready to dye the scarf, you need the oven to be hot enough to help the silk absorb the color. Set the temperature to 175°F (79°C), and allow the oven to fully preheat., After the scarf has soaked overnight, pour out the water from the baking dish. Leave just enough water so the silk is barely covered and pour 2 cups (474 ml) of white vinegar into the dish.If you accidentally spill out too much water, just add it back in so the scarf is mostly covered.
 When you’ve spilled out the excess water and added the vinegar, squeeze several drops of liquid food coloring into the dish in your desired color(s). Start with about 8 to 10 drops of food coloring, and add more until you achieve as bright or deep a color as you’d like.Be creative with the food coloring. You can add food coloring in one color to one half of the scarf and coloring another shade to the other half instead of settling for a solid color.
 Place rubber gloves on your hands to protect them from the coloring, and swirl the coloring around with the silk. Continue to mix the dye and vinegar mixture together with the silk to help it begin to soak into the scarf.The color won’t begin to set until you heat the scarf so play around with the scarf and dye until you are happy with the pattern.
 When the scarf and dye are mixed, place the baking dish in the preheated oven. Allow the scarf to heat in the bath for 40 minutes to 2 hours, or until the water mixture turns clear.Check on the scarf every 20 minutes while it’s heating to see how clear the dye bath is.
 When the dye bath turns clear, remove the baking dish from the oven. Allow the scarf to cool in the dish until it comes to room temperature, which can take up to an hour., Once the scarf is cool enough to handle, rinse it in the sink with lukewarm water. Add a mild soap and wash the silk until the water runs clear. Hang the scarf to air dry.The scarf will be fairly wrinkled when it’s finished drying. You can use an iron to smooth it so it’s ready to wear.

