 You might need a little more or less time, that depends on the question, the context and the children involved.
 The first time you perform a SOLE investigation, you'll need to talk about the process and what it means. Explain how it differs from a typical lesson and what sort of learning will be occurring. Focus strongly on how this is an exercise is self organization, making it clear that you'll be standing back and simply awaiting the outcomes.
 When forming groups, bear in mind that about 4 person per computer is optimal for the best learning results.


For each group, delegate a "peer helper". The peer helper is responsible for delegating within the group, such as resolving issues, problem-solving, etc. This, in itself, is an important learning process in helping peers to get along and learning to lead.
,


Ask the class groups to keep records of their investigation. This can be notes, photos, quotes, audio recordings, drawings, diagrams, print-outs, etc.––basically, whatever they feel documents the investigation in the way that explains their findings. These notes will help them to give their presentation at the next stage.






When the children are exploring the questions, leave them to it. The peer helper should help to steer the group and resolve issues. Only step in if it's really necessary during the investigation phase.
 After the 40 minutes are up, ask the class groups to come back together as a whole class. Sit down together. Ask them to present their findings and talk about how the investigation went. As a teacher, facilitate their discussion by asking about the investigation, listening and encouraging other groups to make observations. Your role is as a moderator––do not add value to their presentation. For example, if you feel that the children are not answering on point, simply ask them to think carefully about whether they're answering the question when giving their presentation.


Ask what conclusions/answers/ideas the children have reached, on a group-by-group basis. When doing this, encourage each participant to talk, not just the one most willing to summarize the issues. Even within the group, there will be differences of perspective.
 After the children have had a good chance to give their presentations and explore their responses, then you can summarize what the groups have said. This is the time when you can add value.


Ask the participants what they felt about the experience. Ask for comparisons with the children's own lives/experiences and knowledge, etc.






Ask the participants what they felt they did well during the investigation, including noting what others did well. And ask them what they'd do differently the next time––it's as important to learn about what doesn't work as much as what does.
Ask the groups what they feel about the answers and ideas of other groups.

