 Your miniature schnauzer has a double coat: a soft undercoat and a wiry top coat. He will need to be brushed often with a soft-bristled brush to prevent matting., You have a few options for giving your miniature schnauzer puppy a haircut. You, or a professional, can either shave him with an electric clipper, or your puppy can be plucked (which involves hand stripping the outer coat).Typically, hand stripping is done only for show dogs, as it is expensive and time consuming.
If you choose to clip your dog, the wiry topcoat will eventually soften. So, if you prefer the harder texture, you will need to hand strip the fur.
 To prevent bad breath and to protect your puppy’s teeth and gums, you will need to brush his teeth at least several times a week. You can also offer dental chews to your puppy. These help remove tartar and plague through the chewing motion. You also will need to schedule regular dental cleanings with your veterinarian., Miniature schnauzer puppies’ nails grow quickly, and you need to avoid overgrowth and cracking by attending to them regularly with a nail clipper or grinder. By starting nail grooming early with your puppy, you will acclimate him to the process and make it easier for both of you.You can use nail clippers shaped like a scissors or ones that work like a guillotine to snip off the sharp nail tips. Regardless of which style you choose, choose one designed for small dogs, particularly when working on your puppy.Avoid cutting the quick, which contains blood vessels and can cause pain and bleeding if injured. A black circle in the center of your puppy’s nail indicates the quick is nearby.
 Miniature schnauzers grow inner ear hair, and wax and debris can build up leading to possible infection. Look for signs such as constant tilting of the head to one side, pawing at the ears, or redness or bleeding. Visit your veterinarian promptly if you notice any of these symptoms.Other signs of problems with your miniature schnauzer’s ears include a bad smell or discharge of earwax, rubbing the ears across carpet or grass, or constant scratching at the ears.
 Your puppy can be bathed weekly or monthly, as often as you deem necessary. Be sure to use dog shampoo and lukewarm water, followed by a thorough rinse. After a bath, a towel dry and brush will leave your puppy refreshed.


Between baths, it is a good idea to rinse your miniature schnauzer puppy’s beard after eating.

