 Assemble your ingredients for easy access before you start to prepare your meatballs. First place ground beef and breadcrumbs in a large mixing bowl. Then add 1/4 cup of brown mustard, 1/4 cup of ketchup, and 1 tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce.You’ll be mixing the ingredients later, so there’s no need at this stage to stir anything up.;
, Add 1/2 teaspoon each of salt and black pepper to the bowl. If you’d like, you can crumble up a cube of beef bouillon and add it, too. Or, if you have powdered beef base on hand, use a teaspoon of that instead of the bouillon cube.


Adding the bouillon or powdered beef base will add a touch more savoriness., Wash and dry your hands before mixing the ingredients. Use kneading, mashing, and squeezing motions to combine the ingredients. Make sure the ingredients are evenly and consistently dispersed throughout the mixture., Do your best to make balls that are uniform in size and shape so they will cook more evenly. Try using a medium-sized ice cream scoop to separate out about 2 tablespoons of the mixture, then roll it in your hands to make a ball.Place the balls in another large bowl or plate after you form them. Set them aside while you prepare your pan to cook them.
Wash your hands well after forming the meatballs and before touching other items in your kitchen to avoid cross contamination. Wash your hands after each time that you handle the raw meatballs or use tongs to move them.
 Heat a large saucepan, skillet, or dutch oven over medium heat. Place the butter in the hot pan and wait for it to melt, taking care not to let it burn. When the butter is melted, add half of the meatballs to the pan.You can tell butter is burned when it turns dark brown and the bits of milk solids in it become black. Don’t cook the meatballs in burned butter.
 It will only take a few minutes to brown the meatballs. You’re only giving them some color on the outside for now, as they’ll finish cooking through later in the process. Depending on the size of your pan, you’ll probably have to divide the meatballs into two batches to brown them.Once the first batch is browned, remove them from the pan and reserve on a plate. Add another 2 tablespoons of butter, wait for it to melt, then brown the second batch of meatballs.
You’re much better off dividing the meatballs into two or more batches instead of crowding them.
 After you’ve browned and removed all the meatballs, throw your sliced onion into the hot pan. Sweat them 3 or 4 minutes, until they release some moisture and become soft, golden, and translucent. Stir occasionally as they cook., While the onions cook, put 2 tablespoons of cornstarch in a separate bowl. Add a 1/2 cup of beef broth and mix well, but be sure to keep one eye on the onions and stir them a couple times per minute. Mix the cornstarch and broth until you form a paste-like consistency, then set aside., When the onions are golden and soft, add the remainder of your beef broth. Stir to scrape and mix in the fond, or the bits off the bottom of the pan. Add the rest of the ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, then bring to a gentle boil., When it begins to boil, stir in your cornstarch paste first. Then add the meatballs and reduce heat to low. Simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, until sauce is thickened., When the sauce has thickened, you’re all done! Serve the meatballs over pasta, egg noodles, a sandwich, or simply enjoy them on their own. Ladle sauce over them and, if you’d like, garnish with chopped fresh parsley., The saute and simmer method is quick and easy, but you can try using a slow cooker if you have some extra time. Turn your slow cooker on low, and follow all the instructions for forming and browning the meatballs. Saute the onions and heat the broth, then add the meatballs, onions, and broth to the slow cooker.Cook for 6 to 8 hours. Slow cooking will develop richer, more nuanced flavors.
You can also add mushrooms for extra flavor and texture. If you don’t like mushrooms, get creative: try chopped bell peppers or slice up another favorite veggie.
 If you want to reduce the calories of your Salisbury steak meatballs, brown your meatballs and saute your onions using olive oil instead of butter. You can also use a reduced sodium beef broth. Consider swapping the cornstarch for 1 tablespoon of all-purpose flour., For a lower fat option, swap out half of the ground beef for ground turkey. Get a package marked at least 93% lean. Try making your meatballs out of only ground turkey for the lowest fat option.,