 The most popular layout plans are:

Straight Runs: Straight Runs are the most basic form of track lighting. Link together track sections with a straight connector and piece together a simple track lighting system.
"L" Layout: Construct an "L" Layout with an "L" Connector to piece together your track sections. There are two types of "L" Connectors: Inside Polarity and Outside Polarity. The Inside Polarity is generally the most popular choice. To identify polarity, orient the connector to "L" shape and the polarity grooves will intersect where indicated.
Flex Connector: Create a unique track lighting system by joining track sections with a flex connector. A Flex Connector permits a variety of track # layouts at almost any angle and variation of planes, including wall-to-ceiling or even cathedral ceilings. These connectors can flex up to 90 degrees.
Cross Layout: Cross Layouts are a great option for a room's complete coverage. Use the cross connector to piece sections together.
Grid Layout: Create a grid for the ultimate in track lighting. Use "T" Connectors and Cross Connectors to link track sections.
"T" Layout: Construct a simple "T" Layout with the "T" Connector.
"H" Layout: Create an "H" Layout by using "T" Connectors. There are two types of polarity for these connectors: Inside-Right and Inside-Left Polarity. The Inside-Right Polarity type connector is most often used. To identify polarity, orient the connector to "T" shape and the polarity grooves will intersect where indicated.
Dog Leg Layout: Piece together a Dog Leg Layout by using both Inside Polarity and Outside Polarity "L" Connectors.
Modified Grid Layout: Use both Inside Polarity and Outside Polarity "L" Connectors to create a modified grid layout.;
, A track is a surface mounted channel that holds the Track Heads. Mount the tracks directly to the ceiling, on the wall, or with pendants or cables for higher and sloped ceilings. (If you have higher ceilings, remember to place the tracks further away from the walls.) Keep in mind that track systems are normally only compatible with a given product line. Track sections range from 2' to 12' sections. Combine any amount of sections together for your ideal arrangement. Use the suggested layouts listed above, or put together your own unique system. Power supply is available anywhere along the track, so position Track Heads wherever you need them! Use End Feeds, Canopies, "Anywhere" Power Feeds, or a Cord and Plug as your energy source.
 Track Heads come in all different types and styles. Whether you're looking for a more decorative track system, a powerful light source to showcase artwork, or an unobtrusive lighting option, we have a wide selection of Track Heads to choose from. When browsing through our selection, consider the following:

Low Voltage: These track heads are usually 12 or 24 volts, consume less energy and are less expensive to maintain. (Transformer required)
Line Voltage: These track heads operate at 120 volts. (Transformer not required)
PAR Lamps: PAR lamps are line voltage halogen, energy efficient, have good optics, and excellent color quality.
MR-16: MR-16 bulbs are low voltage halogen lamps. Their precise beam control makes them a great choice for accent lighting. MR-16 lamps may cause shadows, so they may not be the best choice for task or general lighting.
Fluorescent: Fluorescent lights are also a great alternative. They're quite cost-effective for commercial settings because of their long hours of operations.

