 For many, the thought of exercising while menstruating is laughable. However, being a little active helps to easy belly pain. It releases beta-endorphins that act as our body's natural painkiller.These painkillers burn the chemicals that cause uterine contractions much faster. Try anything that gets your heart pumping, like:


Brisk walking.
Jogging.
Swimming.
Biking.
Skating.
Regularly exercising before, during, and after your period will benefit your entire body, especially if you're prone to painful menstrual cramps.;
, Yoga helps to stretch out cramping muscles, as well as activates your body's natural painkilling endorphins. It is especially helpful in relieving back pain, sore legs, and abdominal pain due to your period. Yoga is also a great breathing exercise that helps to lessen stress levels which affects menstrual cramps, making you more relaxed. Try these poses:Head-To-Knee Forward Bend: Sit with your legs extended in front of you, with your toes facing upwards. Bend the right knee so that the sole of your foot presses against your inner thigh. If that is too far for your to bend, rest your foot on your inner calf instead. Exhale as you slowly bend forward while reaching from your groin to your extended left foot. Keep your gaze locked at your extended foot. Plant your bottom or "sit bones" firmly into the ground. Take deep breaths, in and out, and stay in this pose for 1 to 3 minutes. Do the same for your other leg.

Camel Pose: Kneel on the floor with your knees hip-width apart. Turn your thighs inward only slightly, while keeping your shins and the top of your feet planted on the ground. Let your hands hang behind your hips with your fingers to the ground. Inhale as you lift up your chest while pressing your shoulders down to your hips. Exhale as you push your hips forward and arch your back. Your fingers should graze the top of your calves or the heels of your feet. Use your hands to steady yourself and drop your head back. Taking deep breaths, in and out, do this post for 30 to 60 seconds.

Forward Bend: Stand with your feet together and arms at your side. Plant your feet into the ground and inhale while slowly reaching your arms towards the ceiling. Exhale while you bring your arms out and down as your start to bend forward until your hands touch the floor. Flatten your hand on the floor. If you can't reach the floor, bend your knees. Keep this pose for 1 minute while you breathe steadily in and out.
 In the same way that exercising works, having an orgasm releases endorphins to help with pain. The extra heat and increased blood flow also aids in relieving cramps. Orgasms also induce sleep, which is also a vital part of pain reduction.You don't have to have sex to achieve orgasm. Women who masturbate often report that it helps them relieve menstrual pains and symptoms.It is completely possible to have sex while on your period. Be sure your partner consents to having sex while you're menstruating. It can often get messy, but if you do it in a safe and healthy way, you can enjoy the benefits of sex even on your period.

