  There's nothing more rewarding to a woman than for a man to be comfortable in his own skin.  This will also allow you to see if the person that you are dating accepts and loves you for who you are and not a possible "representative" or persona.;
,  Is she passive? Assertive or shy?  Regardless whether if your person of interest is the life of the party and/or extremely timid, how well you all compliment one another in personality will determine how personal she is willing to get.
  Regardless if she is a stunning ebony bombshell that every woman secretly wished she looked like; don't lose sight of getting to know her.  Find out what things she care about the most.
  It could be anything and it doesn't have to be tangible.  Women love guys that put thought into something to show that they care or took the time to tell the corniest joke ever.  But just like any other woman, all women like different things.
  Are you looking for a life partner, wife, or someone to have a great time with for dinner or travel?  Putting things out on the table allows you or the person involved not to waste their time.
  How serious you guys are will determine when you meet the people that she cares about the most.  Not to worry.  Even if you haven't had the honor to meet her loved ones yet you can still get to know them by asking questions.  Some women may be a bit more open and some more private.  No matter what, be respectful and don't be intrusive.
  How comfortable are both of you in each other's circles?  Can the both of you with confidence blend in family, personal, and professional circles easily?  As optimistic and hopeful as you all may be, there may always be individuals that are close to your hearts that may have a different perspective, so know that these things can happen.
  Giving compliments encourages positive romantic exchanges with her.
  Treat her to an exotic dinner uptown or a date that allows you all to be interactive and fun.
  It's perfectly fine to have conversations about race because it will in fact come up at times.  Just keep in mind, the topic within itself can be a little touchy so make certain you always are respectful when you discuss viewpoints.
