 You must meet the necessary requirements in terms of age, behavior, citizenship, and health.You can join if you will be at least 17 years old by the time you enlist, and anyone under the age of 18 must have parental consent. The maximum age is three to six years before the compulsory retiring age for the position you are aiming for.
You must be a legal Australian citizen. You might, however, be able to join on a temporary waiver if the position you are applying for cannot be filled by an actual citizen, but even then, you must be a permanent Australian resident.
You must have a Body Mass Index of 32.9 or lower.
You must not have any medical conditions or diseases that would prevent you from doing your job.
Drug use and alcohol abuse are prohibited, and any piercings or tattoos you have must be non-offensive and able to be hidden.
 Search for an Army job you would like to apply for on the http://www.defencejobs.gov.au/ website. When you find one that matches your abilities and interests, click on the "Apply Now" button to get started.


You will need to enter personal details, contact details, education information, and service history.
You will also need to complete a job preference list and select a YOU Session to attend at your nearest Defence Force Recruiting Centre.
 This session involves an aptitude evaluation, medical interview, and career interview.


You will receive a packet of forms before the session begins. These forms should be completed by the time you go for your YOU session.
Bring your Photo ID and Consent to Test Form to the YOU session. You should also have your birth certificate, education results, employment history, trade qualifications, proof of citizenship, and any supporting documents that relate to medical conditions you have.
The aptitude evaluation will consist of a reasoning test and mathematical ability test.
The medical interview will be with a nurse, and it will include a colour perception eye test and a measurement of your height and weight.
The career interview will be with a careers counsellor (CC) and you will need to discuss your education, fitness level, sporting history, and leadership experience. By the end of the session, the CC will give you a list of jobs you might be eligible to apply for.
 Your formal assessment will include a medical assessment, psychological interview, and defence interview.


The medical assessment tests your ability to perform certain military duties. You will receive a head-to-toe examination and you will need to complete flexibility tests and other basic exercises.
The psychological interview will evaluate your ability to live within a military environment. You will be asked questions about your education, employment, family, social activities, sporting activities, and interest in joining.
The defence interview allows you to defend why you want to join. You will also discuss which jobs you would like and how suitable you are for them.
 This step only applies if you are applying for entry as an Officer.


Expect to complete written exercises, oral presentations, group exercises, practical exercises, and a panel interview.
 If you have made it through the process so far, the next thing you will need to schedule is a Fitness Test or Pre-Entry Physical Fitness Assessment (PFA). You will be assigned a date, and this date will land out four weeks before your target enlistment or appointment.


For the Army, you will need to complete 15 push-ups for males and 8 push-ups for females. You will also need to complete 45 sit-ups and a Beep Test to Level 7.5.
A Beep Test, also called a shuttle run, consists of a certain number of 20 meter (65.6 ft) sprints or shuttles.
 If you pass all the exams and evaluations, you will receive an official ADF job offer along with joining instructions for the Army.


On the day of the enlistment or appointment, you will complete a final medical check and final administrative procedures.
From there, you will take part in an enlistment or appointment ceremony.
Head to initial military training as soon as the ceremony ends.

