 You want to balance girly with tomboy in an effortless way, so search through the clothes you have and pull out the best frocks. A girl next door is low maintenance, so don't bother buying a whole new wardrobe and just work with what you have. Be sure to wear whatever you feel most comfortable in, as long as you feel happy and confident in the way you look. If you want, wear skirts, blouses, and ballet flats all of the time, but don't be afraid to be seen in leggings and a T-shirt.
 Take a multivitamin, drink 6-8 glasses of water, eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, and exercise each and every day. Maintain proper hygiene by washing and moisturizing your face and hands every day, washing and moisturizing your body at least every other day, and washing and conditioning your hair as necessary. Keep your body odor under control with deodorant or a natural alternative. Also, brush and floss your teeth twice a day., You can wear as much or as little as you like, but the typical look is natural with a glowing complexion. To achieve this look, apply concealer on any blemishes or dark circles, place highlighter on your cheekbones and the bridge of your nose, apply a generous coat of lip balm or a natural pink lip gloss, and wear 1-2 coats of a really good mascara that lengthens, curls, and volumizes your lashes. This is an everyday look that is natural, dewy, and very easy to pull off, as it looks like you but more put together. Do not feel the need to wear makeup, as people are just as beautiful in their natural form., Wash your hair with a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner when necessary. Use a comb rather than a brush if possible. Cut your hair to a length that suits your personality, whether it be a pixie cut, bob, shoulder length, or long. Put in layers or long bangs if you want to change things up. If possible, avoid extra hair products, like gels and sprays, and heat styling. Additionally, if you can, tousle it to add volume and mess it up just enough to look effortlessly chic. You can also do easy hairstyles like messy buns, ponytails, half ups, pigtails, or wearing a headband. If your hair is curly or kinky and requires extra maintenance, do what you must to keep it healthy and protected, whether it be bantu knots, cornrows, dreadlocks, box braids, or anything else you'd like. Never feel that you must wear weaves, extensions, or wigs, no matter what your natural hair looks like, as it will be beautiful as long as you care for it and show it love., After all, you will look and feel better if you can relax, knowing where everything is and that you've gotten everything done., Everybody likes the girl next door because she is not afraid to let loose and have fun. Go to parties, the beach, the movies, people's houses, the mall, the bowling alley, the arcade, the bookstore, or wherever you believe you can have the most fun. Nevertheless, stay safe and smart with whatever decisions you make., A girl who is truly hilarious is not hard to find, but many suppress their own senses of humor to pursue other interests. Even if no one else finds your jokes funny, make them, so at least people know you have a sense of humor and aren't afraid of embarrassment. In time, your jokes will likely get funnier as you become more in tune with your comedic side and find the people who share similar interests., Strangers are just friends you haven't made yet. The world may seem to be a scary place, but it is filled with people who desire real, human connection. Allow these interactions to come by seeming easygoing, open-minded, and willing to converse with anybody. The nerds, the jocks, the goths, and everyone in between have their strong points if you're willing to see them. Even if your connections aren't permanent, every conversation can be impactful if you let it be., The girl next door type can be seen watching (or playing) sports, playing video games, reading comic books, and just embracing her inner tomboy. She can also be seen shopping, gossiping, dancing, and just hanging out with the girls. There are no gender limits on her interests, as she'll do whatever interests her. So make some memes, watch some funny YouTubers, write blog posts, listen to metal music, climb some trees, and do as you please. If you typically participate in activities generally associated with masculinity or femininity, explore the other side. Don't feel restricted to any particular set of hobbies. Some other fun things to do include

Making creative and funny videos by yourself or with friends. Write your own skits and have some fun with various characters.
Playing an instrument, singing, and writing your own songs. Try to explore all genres of music and pick out the artists you like, no matter what kind of music they make, and allow it to influence your personal taste and creations. There is little more satisfying than creating a song you love and allowing others to hear it.
Doodle, sketch, paint, sew, or sculpt. Create some sort of visual art in a cool and unique style, even if you're not that talented or artistically inclined.
Write stories about your friends, real or imaginary, and read them out loud. This will always make a fun group event.
 Friendship shouldn't be restrained. If you find people with the same sense of humor, hobbies, and outlook on life as you, welcome them into your life as you can truly have great experiences together. Don't completely abandon your old friends if you find that they are not like the new, real you, but introduce them to your true self and see if you still match., If you want to be weird, speak loudly, talk while eating, be a little gross, be a little wild, just do it. Choose dare and go to the greatest extent. What other people think is of none of your concern, as long as you love yourself and those around you, you will be just fine. However, take this advice with a grain of salt - you still want your boss to think highly of you, for example, so keep it professional when necessary. But, don't be afraid to let your personality shine.