 Avoid taking the potentially backhanded compliment too seriously. In many cases, you can give the individual the benefit of the doubt and respond with a joke (whether genuine or sarcastic). It may even be possible to diffuse the situation with a humorous response to the compliment, whether or not it was intended to be backhanded.For example, if someone tells you, “I love how much energy your children have,” joke with them by saying, “I bet we all wish we were that energetic too!”, In most cases, it won’t be worth your time to respond to a backhanded compliment. It may be given intentionally to get under your skin or irritate you, and you’ll be better off not letting this happen. Rather than resorting to an insult or becoming offended, simply say a polite “thank you” to diffuse the situation, and then move on with your day.Moving on from the backhanded compliment will also deny the individual the opportunity to explain or defend their rudeness, which could lead to further frustration or anger on both sides., In order to diffuse the situation and show the individual that their backhanded or passive-aggressive method of communication is ineffective, you can respond to the (ostensibly) polite portion of the compliment while disregarding the insulting aspect. For example, if someone tells you “You look terrific! I’m sure you’ll lose the baby weight soon,” respond by saying, “I think I look good today too; thanks for noticing.”, If you have received more than one backhanded compliment from this individual, or if you suspect that they may be joking, ask them to clarify the meaning behind the compliment. Do this politely, without indicating that you’re angry or frustrated. Be careful to not let this question develop into a full-blown argument, especially if you’re in public or your children are currently with you.

For example, if someone says, “I love how much you let your kids speak their own mind,” respond by asking, “I’m not clear what you mean; are you implying that I should encourage my kids from expressing themselves?”, You can do this by taking on the hurtful meaning of the backhanded compliment directly. This will communicate to the individual giving the compliment that you have understood its intended meaning and will not let their rude behavior continue. Especially if the personal “complimenting” you is a friend or relative, you may wish to address the issue head-on to prevent the relationship from deteriorating.For example, if a visitor to your home says, “It’s a good thing that you don’t care how tidy the house is,”respond by saying something like, “It’s more important that I spend my time raising my children than vacuuming.”

