, Click “Next.” The phone will try to verify your email settings. If you have a common email type such as Yahoo or Hotmail account, then your settings should verify relatively quickly.


If the phone cannot find you account settings, then you are offered some advanced options. You would first pick an account type from IMAP, POP3, OR Exchange. Exchange is typically used for business accounts while IMAP and POP3 are more commonly used for general accounts. IMAP is more often recommended by email providers, but you should consult your email provider to find out their specific preferences.
After picking your account type, enter the “Incoming server settings” and then “Outgoing server settings.” Again, consult your specific email provider to find your specific server settings.
 A list of options will appear for you to check or uncheck to implement at your discretion. Click “Next” when you have chosen your settings.


Check “Send email from this account by default” will make this email account the default email address. Any email that is sent will use this address.
Check “Notify me when email arrives” if you want a notification for every email. This could be taxing on your battery life and use a fair amount of data since the phone will periodically check if you have any new email. You can also click on the top bar above these options to change the frequency that the phone checks for new email.
Check “Sync email from this account” to automatically sync your email. This allows you to backup data.
Check “Automatically download attachments when connected to WiFi” to download attachments automatically when you open an email with an attachment. This is typically useful unless you are on an extremely slow WiFi connection or open sensitive material over public, and less secure, networks.
 This could be anything you like such as “Yahoo Email.” Entering different names comes in handy when you have several email accounts.
 This will appear on every email you send out, so you may want to keep the name professional if it is a business email. Click “Next” and your email account will be added to your phone.
 Then tap the email you want to read. The email will open for you to read. To return to your list of emails, click on the back arrow on the bottom.

