 Many say that your skin is a reflection of what's going on inside your body, so it makes perfect sense that you should take care of it.


Wash your face twice a day, daily. Use a gentle face wash for sensitive skin to rid your face of excess oil, dirt, and other unwanted debris that might otherwise clog your pores and make your skin dull.
Use a product for skin that contains salicylic acid, if you do not have sensitive skin, to clear up acne and blackheads. There are excellent products that you may even find in drug stores that are affordable and effective.
Protect your skin from dryness, especially if you live in a cold, dry, or otherwise harsh environment.; or if you use a salicylic acid treatment. You will want to find a moisturizer that does not irritate your skin
Use sunscreen daily, even in the winter. Tanning and sunburn may look different on the outside, but below the skin, it means the same thing: intense sun damage. By not protecting your skin from harmful sunlight UV rays, you have a higher risk of skin cancer. Some sunburns can even cause scarring and hyperpigmentation.;
,


Tweeze your eyebrows and cut them so they are not too long. Be careful, though; you do not want to make your brows too thin. If you do have thin brows, try filling them in with a pencil or powder that matches your natural brow color. You can even try a brow gel, which is meant to keep the hairs in place.
Shave unwanted hair if this is your preference. Use a new razor to prevent cuts and razor bumps. Shave your underarms, legs or anywhere else with unwanted hair (Don't be embarrassed, we all have it!)
Cut your hair as often as you feel necessary. While the idea that cutting your hair makes it grow longer, thicker, or faster is definitely still a myth, cutting the tips of your hair can get rid of split ends.
Shower every day, morning or night, and wash your hair at least every other day. While washing your hair daily may strip it of its oils, going more than two days without washing it is enabling it to collect dirt, dander, oil, and other unwanted grime. Use a cotton swab to clean your ears and prevent wax build-up, blow your nose, and use another cotton swab to clean your belly button.
Trim your fingernails and toenails. Make sure you clean underneath them with a brush, and use clippers to keep them from over-growing or chipping.



Polish your fingernails, even with a simple, clear polish. If you paint your nails with an obvious color, make sure you re-paint them or remove the polish when it chips and cracks.
Use conditioner on your hair and rinse with cold water, to close the follicle and prevent frizz once it dries.
Wear deodorant to prevent body odor, and use a spritz of perfume in the crease of your elbow, the crease of your knee, in your hair, and in the crook of your neck in order to not over-do it. Be careful not to over-power people; it is not fun to choke on someone's perfume or cologne.
Wash your clothes and avoid wearing clothes with holes and stains.
Brush your hair daily, and style it if you choose. If you use a flatiron or a curling iron on your hair, use heat protectant. If you have frizzy hair, try a smoothing serum to keep it smooth and silky.

