 In order to have any chance at all of surviving to "tell the tale," you must understand that your attitude is the single most important ally that you are likely to have. Above all, your will to live and to "beat the odds" will sustain you even when your situation seems utterly hopeless. This basic principle holds true for every situation in which a person is forced to live in a dangerous or outright hostile environment. It doesn't matter if you're in a combat zone, lost in the jungle, or if you've crashed your plane into the side of a mountain or find yourself in an abusive relationship, sheer determination is what separates the survivors from the "statistics".;
, A warm, dry place not only keeps you out of the elements and gives you a somewhat secure place in which to plan your next move, but also provides many psychological benefits.
 It is imperative that you remain calm and think! If you let panic overrule common sense and critical thinking, then you set yourself up for a series of mistakes in a situation that leaves little room for error.
 Take stock of yourself and your surroundings. Surviving for a long period of time in adverse conditions means conserving your resources and knowing where and how to gather more. Resources can also include allies (anyone available to you who is trustworthy and willing to help). Don't isolate yourself, accept assistance from allies if it is available. This applies especially if the "enemy" is a human or large animal.
 In most survival scenarios the elements (i.e. heat, cold, predators, terrain, etc.), along with hunger and thirst are the antagonists. In other cases, such as combat or an abusive relationship, the "enemy" is an actual person or group. In all cases you must learn as much as you can about what or whom you are dealing with.
 This is the tricky part because of the danger inherent in both of these courses of action. If you are relatively sure that someone at least has some idea of where you are then you might want to stay put so you will be easier to find. If you are unsure, then your best course of action might be to strike out on your own and move toward a location that will offer you the best chance of being rescued. You can literally "what if" yourself to death about this so trust your instincts and make a decision. Right or wrong, at least you will be doing something to save your own life.
 There are many ways to do this. One way is to come up with three workable plans incorporating the information and resources gathered in steps three through six and then work through a list of pros and cons for each plan. Pick the most feasible of the three and file the other two away as back-up plans. However, it is vitally important that you remember to remain flexible! No matter how good your plan is, it is likely that you will have to adjust to unforeseen circumstances.

