 In a medium saucepan, combine 2 cups (500 ml) of milk with the full amount of sugar and salt. Set the pan on the stove over medium-low heat.Nearly any variety of milk should work for this recipe, including whole, low-fat, and non-fat dairy milk. To make a vegan version, consider using soy milk or almond milk.
As the milk mixture heats up, you should occasionally stir it together with a whisk. Keep an eye on this saucepan; the milk should eventually bubble, but it should not be brought to a full boil.;
, Pour the remaining 1/2 cup (125 ml) of milk into a separate small bowl. Sprinkle the cornstarch over it, then whisk well to combine.


Continue whisking the mixture until the cornstarch fully dissolves and leaves behind no lumps. If there are lumps in the cornstarch slurry, there will be lumps in your pudding.
 Gradually pour the cornstarch slurry into the saucepan of steaming milk, whisking well to fully incorporate it.


Note that the sugar and salt should already be fully dissolved before you add the cornstarch slurry. If you can't tell whether or not the grains have dissolved, wait until milk in the saucepan begins to steam and bubble around the edges of the saucepan.
 Reduce the heat to low and cooking the pudding, stirring occasionally, for about 2 minutes or until it thickens.


Cornstarch requires and adequate amount of heat before it releases its thickening qualities. You need to continue stirring the pudding as it cooks, however, to prevent the cornstarch from forming lumps.
When ready, the pudding should be thick enough to coat the back of metal spoon without immediately running off., Remove the saucepan of pudding from the heat. Pour in the vanilla extract, then stir well to mix it in.
 If you suspect that any lumps may have formed while making the pudding, pour it through a strainer and into a medium or large bowl.


This step won't always be necessary since it's quite possible to prepare vanilla pudding without cooking any lumps into it. If you feel confident about creating a smooth pudding, or if you don't mind a few lumps, you can pass this step and continue directly to the next.
 Pour the pudding into four individual serving dishes. Chill the dishes in a refrigerator for 1 or 2 hours, or until cool. Enjoy.


If you prefer room temperature pudding, you can place the saucepan or full bowl of pudding into a larger bowl filled halfway with water and ice, working carefully to avoid introducing excess water into the pudding. Chill it for 30 minutes or so in this ice bath, then serve in individual dishes once the pudding becomes lukewarm.Skin may form over the surface of the pudding as it cools down. To prevent this, consider pressing a sheet of plastic wrap over the surface of the pudding before chilling it in the refrigerator or ice bath.

