 Your health is your first responsibility. It's okay to end a conversation or demand space if being around your loved one suffering with hypochondria is making you anxious. Try gently changing the subject. Otherwise, tell your loved one that you need some quiet time, or that you're going to take a break.


It may be hard at first to step away and follow through with the boundaries you set, but sticking to them will reinforce them over time.
 You don't need to be your loved one’s only helper. Encourage your loved one to reach out to others, so that he or she is getting support from various sources. Support can come from family members, friends, coworkers, religious groups, counselors, and members of a support group.


Not only will this benefit both of you, but the more people that know about the disorder and can offer true support, the better. Hiding the diagnosis can result in someone with hypocondriasis seeking out people to talk to that do not know about the disorder with who they can draw into the imagined crisis., You can't help a drowning person if you're barely afloat yourself. Spend time each day doing something you enjoy, so that you can be at your best mental health.


Self-care can be anything you feel good doing or that helps you relax. The beauty of self-care is it is up to you to choose if you relax better by getting a massage, spending quiet time reading or even doing intense exercise.
Find a confidante whom you can talk to about your struggles. This should be someone who is removed from the situation who can listen without judgment.
 It’s difficult to pour into someone else’s cup when your own is empty. Find a source of support for yourself in the form of a counselor or therapist. This person can offer you helpful suggestions as to how to cope with living with someone who has hypocondriasis and how to help your loved one better.

Talking to a therapist yourself can be a positive example for the person you are helping as well as a support for you. A person who has hypocondriasis may feel ashamed about getting therapy and you seeking services can actually normalize the process for him., Reinforcing the positive will show your loved one that he or she can enjoy life and get positive attention for things beyond always being “sick”.


Fun things can be virtually anything that allows the two of you to bond and change the dialogue from an illness. Examples may include engaging in a sport, watching a movie, or planning an exciting vacation.

