 Based on the area of the mosaic (length x width), the thickness of the tiles, and the gaps between the tiles, calculate how much grout you need.Set your mosaic on a piece of plastic or an old shower curtain to catch any wet grout that may fall as you’re spreading it, a trick that will be useful if you would like to reuse any dropped grout as you apply it to the project.Well-spaced tiles, with gaps under a quarter of an inch, then the entire mosaic (estimated to be 18”x 18”) can be covered with 2 pounds of grout.
For gaps between mosaic tiles that are greater than an eighth of an inch, you might have to consider grouting it with a grout that contains sand. Sand helps to reinforce the grout and assist it in being resistant to cracking.;
, The area you choose to work in should ideally be outdoors to minimize the cleanup of wet grout and dust contamination. The mosaic project needs to be dried completely before you begin grouting. Gather a bucket of water, a mixing tray, a mixing stick, rubber gloves, a sponge, paper towel or old rags, and a dust mask.Use latex gloves for mosaic made up of smooth tiles.
For tiles with sharper edges, wear rubber gloves which are less prone to tearing than latex gloves as you spread your grout around.
 After estimating how much grout you need for the project, pour the grout into the mixing tray. Mix 2 pounds to begin with, and if the project needs more, you can always mix more later on as you continue to grout. The grout container should tell you how much water you need.If you are colouring your grout by dyeing it, there are mineral concrete dyes sold in building material stores in a limited range of colors, such as black, brown, gray, terracotta, etc.
Alternatives to adding dye to your grout as you mix it include utilizing food coloring and acrylic paint. Add the dyes to your grout as you mix it.
 Squeeze a small amount of acrylic paint into your bucket of grout. Mix the grout some more, until you’ve noticed the paint is absorbed evenly within the grout.Continue to add paint in equal amounts until the grout appears slightly darker than the shade you desire your grout to be. As the mixture dries, your grout colour will appear lighter.
An alternate method of colouring grout would is using store-bought colour mix (dried grout colouring). Use two containers of colour mix (of the same colour) and add it to your grout.Mix the grout for two minutes, allow it to set for 10 minutes, and then mix it again for an additional minute.
 While wearing your protective gloves, take a large handful from the grout mixture and smear it onto the mosaic project. Cover the piece in different sections until all of the areas have been covered by the grout.Inspect the mosaic and make sure that the cracks between the mosaic tiles are completely filled by grout.
Run your fingers along the cracks to push grout down and secure it in the spaces even further. As you inspect, there shouldn’t be any bubbles between the grout and wood.
 After smearing grout onto the mosaic piece, there will be a sheet of grout covering the entire surface of the mosaic. Wipe away excess grout with rags or a paper towel for smaller projects and a grout sponge for projects 1 square foot in area or larger.A thin grout of haze will be left over even after the excess grout has been cleaned off. Allow it to dry for a few minutes to make the thin layer easier to see and to clean.
Give the mosaic project one last wipe using a clean paper towel or a dry rag. The last layer of excess grout should be lifted at this point.
Wrap a rag or a paper towel around your finger and remove any grout that appears built up on any tiles on the surface area of the mosaic piece. Finished grout needs to be flush against the tiles themselves or slightly lower than the height of the tiles around it.

