 Food items or crafts, such as handmade jewelry, are two great options.


Snacks, such as baked goods or beverages can be fun to make and often only require ingredients that are already in your pantry.
If you are an aspiring artist or enjoy making crafts, you can earn money by selling your handmade items. These custom made crafts also make great gifts which add to their appeal. Materials for crafts and jewelry making are often cheap and easy to buy at hobby shops.;
, If you don't have money to spend on your first batch of food ingredients or crafting materials, then ask your parents or someone else to lend you money (but be sure to pay them back).
 Let your friends and others know about your plans. Generating excitement beforehand is a great way to gather potential customers.


If you’re allowed to, you may even want to make signs to hang up at school to let as many people as possible know about your new business. Just be sure to ask a teacher for permission first.
 You could sell your items at a physical location, for example, at a local farmer’s market or even online.


If you would like to sell your goods at a farmer’s market, search online or ask in person at the market to find more information about how to become an official vendor.
Look for websites, such as Etsy, that will allow you to set up an online shop. Etsyand other websites often require parents or legal guardians to manage the account, so enlist the help of your parents if you choose this route.
 Be sure to clearly label the prices of what you’re selling and have a friendly, approachable manner to attract customers.
 One simple way to this is by writing down your income and expenses in a notebook.


Keeping track of your budget and income is essential to make sure that you are actually making money. For example, if you are making and selling jewelry, figure out how much you are spending on materials and keep that in mind when deciding how much to charge for each piece. You don’t want to end up actually losing money by charging too little!

