 Keep a pair of headphones at your desk and put them on for breaks. As you listen to music, try to remove all work-related thoughts from your mind, take a few deep breaths, and listen to the music. Then, once your break is finished, dive back into work. Listening closely to music (of any genre) will help sharpen your focusing skills, and will also allow you to return to your work with greater concentration.If your office is loud, you can also use headphones to cancel out all of the noise. Simply put them on and then resume your work.
No matter what genre, it is important that you like the music that you are listening to. Your fondness for the music can directly impact how it helps or hinders your productivity. So, choose what you like!Some people also find that listening to music without lyrics helps them to concentrate while they work. Try listening to some classical, electronica, new age, or even some white noise while you work.;
, If you’re losing focus in a meeting or conversation, jot down a few of the speaker’s talking points to sharpen your focus. You can also record meetings and then play back the recordings for reference.If you are in a meeting, take a pad of paper for notes. This way, you’ll be prepared for jotting down thoughts or talking points when you need a boost of energy.
Even doodling can improve cognition and concentration. It keeps you more awake and prevents you from completely disengaging due to boredom.You might even consider working with an accountability partner to help you take notes and stay on task if you think that would help you more. However, if you think you might get distracted more by working with a partner, then stick to keeping notes on your own.
 When you arrive at work, place your phone within a closed drawer. Or, turn it off and place it screen down on your desk. Make a point to only check your phone on breaks. Frequently checking your phone will provide a constant distraction, and will result in lower productivity and concentration.If your office phone is a distraction, see if you can place it on silent as well. Check your voicemail at particular times and respond to messages then.
If you rely on your phone as a way for family to notify you in case of an emergency, then you might want to designate a coworker as the person your family can contact in case of emergencies.
 Watch the clock and take breaks of five minutes for every twenty-five minutes of concentrated work. You can make a bathroom run, walk around the office, grab a quick snack, or even just stand and stretch. Having these set break times will keep your off-time under control and allow you to focus better while working. Timed breaks will also give you something to look forward to.Some people find it useful to keep a kitchen timer or even an hour glass at their desk to keep track of time. If you miss your break, make sure to extend the next one., If you feel your concentration slipping at work, pop a piece of gum in your mouth. If you don’t have any gum, eat a piece or two of peppermint candy. Both gum and peppermint have been shown to effectively boost individuals’ concentration and energy levels while working on challenging tasks. If you chew peppermint gum, you’ll be able to capitalize on the benefits of both gum and peppermint.Keep in mind that the benefits of gum are short lived: performance and concentration only increase for about a 20-minute period.