 Depending on the activity, children can learn a lot more by doing it themselves--making a sandwich, feeding the dog, or setting the table for dinner. Though it may be messy and take more time, it can also be greatly rewarding for your child's confidence.Patience is key to helping your child grow in confidence.
Give children the time and space to try something new and learn from their mistakes. Provide help when they ask rather than doing the project or activity for them.
For example, your child is interested in pouring their own glass of juice into a cup. While they may be able to do so, but with some difficulty, you may at first want to do it for them. Take a step back and help them learn to pour their own glass. Even if they make a spill, you can teach them what to do when a spill happens. Use this as a teaching moment.
 One way to foster confidence is to see and do different things with your child. By sharing in these new experiences with them early on, you can teach them that life is not so scary or overwhelming as it may seem. Spend quality time with your child after school or on weekends in places that are different than your usual routine.


The experiences don't have to be expensive. It about building your child's interest in your community, in nature, and in learning. The more that they see and do, the less small or isolated they may feel.
Go a different park or library than usually do. Take them to a natural history museum. Go to a state or national park.
Take them to a restaurant with food they've never had before. Show them a community garden. Take them to a farmer's market.
Take them to a sporting event that you both don't usually watch or attend.
Teach them about giving back. Take them to a local food-pantry to sort cans or donate goods. Bring them to a retirement community to spend time doing activities with older adults. Join in a charity walk that helps a local non-profit.
 It is important that your child learn about how certain risks can help build confidence. In tough situations, we take chances, make choices, and learn to take responsibility for those decisions. This is the same with children.Foster your child's resilience and curiosity by encouraging them to try new things. When your child makes age-appropriate choices, they will feel more confident.
Be mindful of risks that may harm versus healthy risks that can be teaching moments.
For example, if your child feels shy in front of large groups, encourage them to enroll in a theater class. Help them use creativity to overcome their fears. Even if it's a small part with a few lines, they can feel more confident about being in front of people.
 For young children, they may want to be helpful and show that they can do things. Consider giving them chores around the house that may match their strengths.For example, if your seven year old child likes to organize things, ask them to help with sorting clothes and putting them in piles.
Or if your ten-year-old like cars, have them help you wash the car or clean the interior.
 Avoid blaming them if they aren't living up to your expectations. Remember that their confidence may be based on trying to please you. Set realistic goals and expectations depending on the child's age and stage of development. If they see that you are anxious and upset, they may lose their confidence and become withdrawn.Avoid comparing your child to others by fostering unconditional love and acceptance. If you child gets a C on a test instead of an A, don't start comparing them to their straight-A sister or brother. Provide encouragement and ask them what they need for support.
Instead of focusing only on their performance, allow them to play too. Balance your child's activities with fun and relaxing things that you both can share. If your family has some difficulty with setting time for schoolwork and for having fun, create a schedule for times to play and times to do work. This structure may help to teach your children better time management as well as the importance of breaks.

