 Even if it’s a bit cold to leave your windows open, it’s worth opening them up for fifteen or twenty minutes as soon as you get home. You’ll carry the crisp, aromatically comforting scent of fall into your home with you, and circulate the air in your home in the process., Another way to bring the scent of fall indoors with you is by bringing some natural items in from outside and arranging them in a potpourri. Homemade options are usually preferable to store bought blends, as you can customize not only a specific scent, but a particular level of potency. Go with larger portions of larger items, and smaller amounts of the more potent (and usually more colorful) ingredients.Large items that are great to make up the majority of a potpourri include pine cones, dried apples and oranges, cinnamon sticks, and nuts.
Good small, aromatic ingredients include cloves, rose hips, juniper berries, and bay leaves.
After selecting your ingredients, place them all in a large jar or bowl and gently toss them. This will blend them together in a visually appealing way, and encourage items to give off scent.
For added potency, add a few drops of an essential oil before tossing your potpourri. Good options include cedar wood, clove, cinnamon, orange, or pine oils.
 As a more visually compelling alternative to potpourri, you can arrange many of the same ingredients into a wreath. The hard part is making the inner form. You can buy a foam ring from a craft supplies store, or make a core yourself. To make your own, get branches of juniper and rosemary and arrange them in a long, thin bundle. Tie the arrangement into a tube with twine or fishing line and fasten it into a circle.Once you have a base, you can glue or tie on anything you want. Rose hips, bay leaves, and cloves are great options, as well as pine cones and large colorful leaves.
 You don’t have to bake to get aromas of pumpkin, cinnamon, and apple in your home. In fact, one of the easiest and quickest ways to get these scents in your home is by purchasing the corresponding soaps. Place a bottle of the scent you favor at your kitchen sink, and in your bathroom.For a natural air-freshener, place a sachet of homemade fall potpourri in the bathroom as well.

