 How will it look? Sound? Smell? How will it make you feel? How will it make other people feel? When does it need to be finished? How will you know it's finished? Write down your ultimate goals in the greatest detail you possibly can, then sort them and list them in order of their importance to you.;
, How will you and the (other) artists interact? Will there be a single leader? Chosen how? Will you skip the leader idea, and make decisions by consensus, or by majority rule, or another way? How do you expect everyone to feel towards one another and you at the end of the project--affectionate? Friendly? Willing to work together again? As with the ultimate goals in the first step, write down these process goals in order of importance.
 Let them figure out how to apply them. For example, you can tell them "I want us all to respect every idea anyone suggests"--but leave it to them to figure out how to show respect.
 Be prepared to be more specific than you may have been on paper--artists often know when you are missing pieces of a project. If this happens, you have three options: make a snap decision, ask the artist to decide what's best, or tell the artist you'll give her an answer in 24 hours--and then do it.
 Explain that you expect everyone to make his artistic needs known, verbally, so that they can be taken care of. The responsibility for speaking up lies with the person who has a need until he speaks up. Then it becomes YOUR responsibility to address that need.
 Look at the lists daily while the project is ongoing. Most of us favor one set or the other--when working with artists, both are crucial, so don't neglect either set of goals; if you do, you'll be unhappy with the results.
 If your top process goal was "to finish this project as great friends," you'd be silly to lose that over an ultimate goal like "I wanted this to be a mauve-y color, and it's too lilac."

, Even if you hate 99% of it, find the 1% you liked and say so. The artists will recognize what it is you like about what they do, and try to give you more of it.
 Ask the artist(s) for their assessment too.

