 If you already know people playing the game, the first thing you’re going to want to do is ask them what realm they’re playing on.


It is wise to choose the realm that your buddies are playing on because you will be limited in the interactions you can have with your friends if you’re not, such as being in the same guild and using the same auction house.
Blizzard (World of Warcraft’s creator) has done a lot recently to link realms together. This means that you can do a lot with your friends even if you’re not on the same realm. You can now link up with players who are of the same faction, but are on another realm through “cross-realm.” This will allow you to “instance” (go into the group leader’s server) so that you can level together by questing, doing Battlegrounds and Dungeons.;
, To be able to do anything cooperative with someone you know, you’re going to have to be on the same faction as them. World of Warcraft has two factions: the Alliance and the Horde. Things you won’t be able to do together if you’re not on the same faction will include:


Leveling
Questing
Battlegrounds (except for as opponents)
Dungeons
Raids

, If you’re starting the game by yourself or if you and your friends are starting characters on a new realm it is important to know the population of that realm. It is also important to understand how many players on that realm are Alliance characters and how many are Horde players. If you join a realm that has very few Alliance guilds, your game experience may be less fun than if you were on a more populated realm. This information can be viewed at warcraftrealms.com/realmstats.php.
 The first major step in character creation is going to be what faction you want to play. Depending on which faction you pick you will be limited in what race your character can be and your quest storylines will be different. Race limitations are as follows:


The Alliance: Humans, Dwarves, Gnomes, Draenei, Worgen, Night Elves and Pandaren.
The Horde: Orcs, Trolls, Goblins, Blood Elves, Tauren, Forsaken (Undead), and Pandaren.
You play a Pandaren to level 10 and then you choose which faction you want to join through a special quest.
 The second major step to character creation is deciding what race you want to play. Which race you play as offers little in the way of attribute differences, but they do offer some ability differences and much in the way of cosmetic differences. Each race can only be a specific set of classes.


A Pandaren can be a Monk, Mage, Rogue, Warrior, Hunter, Priest or Shaman. Pandarens will gain extra rest bonus when offline (allowing you to level faster).
A Worgen can be a Death Knight, Hunter, Priest, Warlock, Druid, Mage, Rogue or Warrior. Worgens can use “Dark Flight,” which is a racial sprint ability allowing you to run fast for a short period of time.
A Goblin can be a Death Knight, Mage, Rogue, Warlock, Hunter, Priest, Shaman or Warrior. Goblins loves gadgets and have a rocket belt which allows you to blast up into the air launching them a short distance.
A Draenei can be a Monk, Hunter, Paladin, Shaman, Death Knight, Mage, Priest or Warrior. The Draenei are natural healers and can give the “Gift of the Naaru” to themselves and their allies healing them a small amount.
A Blood Elf can be a Demon Hunter, Death Knight, Mage, Priest, Warlock, Monk, Hunter, Paladin, Rogue or Warrior. A Blood Elf is able to tap into arcane forces around them and use this energy to stop the spellcasting of an enemy for a short period of time.
A Dwarf can be a Monk, Hunter, Paladin, Rogue, Warlock, Death Knight, Mage, Priest, Shaman, or Warrior. Dwarves are one with the mountain and can take on a form of stone instantly nullifying bleeds, diseases or poisons and adding natural armor making them more difficult to hurt with physical attacks.
An Orc can be a Monk, Hunter, Rogue, Warlock, Death Knight, Mage, Shaman, or Warrior. Orcs can enter into a “Blood Fury” which increases their attack power for a short period of time.
A Gnome can be a Monk, Mage, Rogue, Warrior, Death Knight, Priest or Warlock. Gnomes are small and sneaky and can use their escape artist skill to remove any effect that would bind them in place.
A Tauren can be a Monk, Druid, Paladin, Shaman, Death Knight, Hunter, Priest or Warrior. Taurens can use their size and strength to smash the ground stunning all opponents for a short time.
A Human can be a Monk, Hunter, Paladin, Rogue, Warrior, Death Knight, Mage, Priest or Warlock. Humans are great diplomats, able to increase their reputation gained from different factions within the game much faster than other races.
A Troll can be a Monk, Druid, Mage, Rogue, Warlock, Death Knight, Hunter, Priest, Shaman, or Warrior. Trolls can go berzerk, increasing their attack speed and casting speed for a short period of time.
A Night Elf can be a Demon Hunter, Death Knight, Hunter, Priest, Warrior, Monk, Druid, Mage, or Rogue. Night Elves can camouflage into their surroundings disappearing from sight as long as they don’t move.
An Undead can be a Monk, Hunter, Priest, Warlock, Death Knight, Mage, Rogue, or Warrior. The Undead are able to eat the corpses of the fallen to gain health., How your game will play out relies heavily on which class you select to play as.


Warriors are Tanks (used to absorb damage and protect allies) as well as melee damage dealers. They are proficient in the use of Daggers, Fist Weapons, One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, One-Handed Swords, Polearms, Staves, Two-Handed Axes, Two-Handed Maces, and Two-Handed Swords. Warriors also use Plate Armour and Shields.
Paladins are Tanks, Healers or Melee Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, One-Handed Swords, Polearms, Two-Handed Axes, Two-Handed Maces, and Two-Handed Swords. Paladins also use Plate Armour and Shields.
Hunters are Ranged Physical Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Bows, Crossbows, and Guns. Hunters also use Chainmail Armour.
Rogues are Melee Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Daggers, Fist Weapons, One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, and One-Handed Swords. Rogues also use Leather Armour.
Priests are Healers or Ranged Magic Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Daggers, One-Handed Maces, Staves, and Wands. Priests also use Cloth robes as armour.
Death Knights are Tanks or Melee Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, One-Handed Swords, Polearms, Two-Handed Axes, Two-Handed Maces, and Two-Handed Swords. Death Knights also use Plate Armour.
Shaman are Healers, Ranged Damage Dealers, or Melee Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Daggers, Fist Weapons, One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, Staves, Two-Handed Axes, and Two-Handed Maces. Shaman also use Chainmail Armour and Shields.
Mages are Ranged Magic Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Wands, Daggers, One-Handed Swords, and Staves. Mages also use Cloth robes as armour.
Warlocks are Ranged Magic Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Daggers, One-Handed Swords, Staves, and Wands. Warlocks also use Cloth robes as armour.
Monks are Healers, Melee Damage Dealers or Tanks. They are proficient in the use of Fist Weapons, One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, One-Handed Swords, Polearms, and Staves. Monks also use Leather Armour.
Druids are Tanks, Healers, Ranged Magic Damage Dealers, or Melee Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Daggers, Fist Weapons, One-Handed Maces, Polearms, Staves, and Two-Handed Maces. Druids also use Leather Armour.
Demon Hunters (NEW) are Tanks and Melee Damage Dealers. They are proficient in the use of Warglaives, Daggers, Fist Weapons, One-Handed Axes, One-Handed Maces, and One-Handed Swords. Demon Hunters also use Leather Armour., This choice is purely cosmetic as there are no statistical differences between male and female characters in World of Warcraft.
 You’re able to customize your character’s features and this is arguably the most fun part.


You can choose the skin color that you want. The shades you can choose from depend on what race you are. If you’re an Orc for example you can be blue or green. If you’re a Human you can choose pale white through dark brown. If you’re a Tauren you can customize your fur colour.
You can pick a hairstyle for your character, but this isn’t permanent as you can go to a barber shop in a major city to change it anytime you want. For a fee of course!
Each race will also have some special feature you can change. Draenei and Tauren have horns. Humans can have piercings and the Undead have different styles of rotting… just to name a few!
While Humans and Elves are the most popular racial choices due to both their PVP (Player versus Player) applications and their cosmetics, it is quite possible to make a cosmetically pleasing character for all races., What’s in a name? After you choose your character’s name you will be able to finish your character creation and begin your epic journey through the World of Warcraft. Choosing a name is important because when you get to the end of the game and start doing raids with 24 other people. You want to have a name that is easy enough to pronounce or one which an abbreviation or nickname can be derived. Take your time, and something will come to you.


Character names are limited to 12 characters.
You are able to pay for a name change if you want to change your name in the future. This will cost you $15.
Try out a Warcraft name generator if you can't come up with a name. You can find a bunch of different name generators by searching "WoW name generator" in your favorite search engine.

