 The best bunkers are usually underground. Many are underground but in the sides of mountains or hills. The goals is to be able to get in and out but for no one else to be able to find you.


Keep your bunker secretby never carrying your phone or GPS enabled device with you when you visit. Even when you turn your GPS off, you may still be tracked with cell phone tower signals. Don't discuss your plans with anyone outside your family and resist the temptation to "show off" on social media.
 This will include food, water, and medicine. You can consult a survival guide or book to determine the best setup. Think about everything you and your family uses frequently over the course of a year and make sure you have everything you absolutely need.


Some items such as medicines may be difficult to acquire by legitimate means. Proper storage may also be difficult. Favor solid form pills over liquids as their shelf life tends to be longer even after the expiration date.Store medicine in a cool dry place to extend potency, and remember that taking drugs after their expiration date is rarely harmful.
 If you are going to stay ahead of the military you will need to move fast. As soon as martial law is declared you may not have time to discuss what to do next. You may think the military isn't there yet but local law enforcement may start implementing martial law beforehand. Have everything you want or need in your survival bunker and move there as soon as humanly possible.
 Most likely you will not be able to stay in your bunker forever. You will need to keep contact with the outside world.You need to know when it will be safe to emerge. Since batteries degrade, you may want to use a survival radio that incorporates a hand-crank for power.Be cautious of pro-military propaganda. Know what frequencies local militias are broadcasting on and any code words. Don't listen to just anything but wait until the militias give you the OK that civil authority has been restored.
 The hardest part of hiding is the isolation. However, each time you step out of the bunker may risk the fate of your whole family. Someone may see you entering or exiting your bunker. You may accidentally leave tracks or human scent near the entrance. Search dogs may then be able to find you. Stay in your bunker as long as you possibly can before emerging.


If you are in your bunker for a long time, prioritize your food based on expiration date. Eat whatever might expire soon first.

