 You will need eight picture frames with glass or glass equivalent. The sizes and numbers you will need will be: four 5" x 7"s, two 8" x 10"s, and two 11" x 14"s. Sand the frames to remove any unwanted texture and paint. Frames like these can be purchased at a local drug or grocery store, at an art store, at a camera shop, or online from a variety of sources. You can also sometimes find used ones cheaply at thrift stores like Goodwill.
 Form the main body of the greenhouse by aligning a 11”x14” frame with the 8”x10” frame so that the 11” and 10” sides touch, the back side of the 10” frame pressed against the outer edge of the 11” frame.


Attach the frames together by drilling a small hole through the inside edge of the larger frame and half-way into the smaller frame. Then use a screw of a size corresponding to the hole you drilled to join the frames securely.
Continue joining the frames until you have a rectangle formed by the four largest frames (both 11”x14” frames and bother 8”x10” frames).
 Form the roof of the greenhouse by joining together the four smaller, 5”x7” frames. They will be attached together in twos and then joined to form a triangle roof. A hinge will be attached to allow you to open the greenhouse to water the plants inside.


Place two of the 5”x7” frames side-by-side, so that the short ends are touching. Then join them together by screwing 2” mending plates at each end of the joined edge. Drilling pilot holes first will make this easier. Repeat process with the other two 5”x7” frames.
Join the smaller frame structures to each other, by placing them at a 90° angle along the long edge and screwing in a 90° angle brace to make them secure.
 You will want to attach the roof to the rest of the greenhouse structure in such a way that you can get inside easily. You may be able to simply place it on top but joining it to the rest of the frame will be more secure. Be sure to eliminate large gaps by finding a filler for the ends of the roof.


Join the roof to the structure by attaching two 1” utility hinges, evenly spaced, along the edges to be joined.
Fill the triangular gap with material cut from the backing of the larger frame, plywood, foam, or another other material you think appropriate. Plywood or foam would need to be accordingly thick, to make them easier to attach to the frame. Whatever material you choose, simply trace the inside of the triangular end (if using plywood or foam) or the outside edge (if using the backing of the frame) and glue into place. The plywood can be nailed if desired.
 Finish the frame with whatever paint and decoration you desire and then reattach the glass to the frames. After this, feel free to fill your greenhouse with the appropriate plants.


Use wood paint and be sure to do all of your painting before replacing the glass.
Replace the glass from the inside of the greenhouse and attach it by hot gluing the corners. Once the glass is in, seal all the edges with more hot glue. You can even use plastic instead of glass frame.

