 You're going to be lying to your parents constantly about something that is a big deal. Yes, it is a big deal. It matters enough to them to consider that you're not yet ready to date, so you must really think through the consequences of lying constantly and the potential of being caught out. Think about the following before going ahead with dating without telling them:


You cannot share the joy of your feelings with your parents.
You are lying all of the time. Not just once, twice or thrice, but constantly. That will wear you down eventually.
Things are bound to slip up somewhere. A mistaken word, a chance meeting, another parent making a comment...
Your parents have a good reason for forbidding the dating. Perhaps it's best to talk about that reason thoroughly before making your decision.;
, You have decades ahead of you to find that special person. This isn't a do or die decision, even if it feels like it at the time.
 Tell your parents that a guy or girl would like to date you and that you would like to do so. Explain that you understand they don't wish to permit it but give them plenty of reasons why you can be trusted, and give them plenty of leeway to make conditions that control the dating, such as being in a group only and getting home early after each date. This may be much better than creeping about and lying all of the time.


Read How to tell your parents you have a boyfriend for more information to help you.
 This way, your parents won't get suspicious as your date will be just one of the group.
 If your boyfriend or girlfriend asks you on a date, tell your parents that you're going out with your best friend, who has to be the same gender as you. Your best friend must be willing to cover for you, if needed. Another alternative is to say that you're going on a girls/guys night out.
 Think twice, and even three times, before using Facebook or Myspace to talk to your boyfriend/girlfriend.
,, Once you start dating a guy/girl, it's probable that you'll be feeling really excited and happy. Most people will notice this change or "glow" that has come over you, and will surmise what's up. It's going to be even more evident if you're normally morose or glum. If your parent asks you what's up, just say something like "I just don't think that it's right to be gloomy all the time, I'm trying to change and be more appreciative of everything".
 Realize that this charade may have to go on for ages, and that's something you've got to carry within you and keep acting as if things are normal on the outside. Try to hide your relationship as much as possible until the pair of you break up or your parents decide you can start dating. When they tell you that you can start dating come home from school the next day, and tell them the news.
 If your parents pop the dreaded question, "Do you have a boyfriend/girlfriend?", tell them that you don't, nor have you thought about getting one. It's an outright lie, and if they have evidence to the contrary, realize that you'll have walked right into a trap and things will probably not proceed that well from here.
 If you can't hide it from your friends, only explain it to a few mutual friends and make them swear not to tell anyone. If they do tell someone, tell them that you are upset and not to tell anyone else. If the person that your friend told starts telling people, tell them to stop. If they don't stop tell them that it was a joke that you and your friend are playing on each other.
 Explain why you can't do this at the time.

