 A bruise is a mark on your skin caused by injury to small blood vessels under the skin. When the skin is not broken and the small vessels leaks blood, it creates a bruise. Bruises are usually painful, tender, and swollen. In addition, there are different types of bruises, those that occur on the skin, to muscles, and on bones. Skin bruises are very common while bone bruises are the most serious.Bruises can last weeks to months and change color as they heal starting as red, purple/blue then yellow.
If there is family history of bruising then, then your doctor may look for a hereditary clotting factor deficiency.
 There are some medications that can cause you to bruise easier. These medications cause the blood to thin, which makes any little bump to the skin produce a bruise. In addition, blood thinners can cause easy bruising. Unexplained bruising while on a blood thinner may be a serious sign that your dosage is too high. Your doctor may be able to adjust your medication or offer some advice on how to reduce the bruising.


Blood thinners such as Coumadin, Xarelto, aspirin, Warfarin, Heparin, or Pradaxa may cause you to bruise easier than typical for you. While on these medications, bruises may also look worse than before. This is because bruising need blood to clot as it leaks from the broken vessels. Blood thinners prevents clotting and makes it take longer for the blood to start leaking.
Other medication such as NSAIDS, corticosteroids, and antineoplastics can lead to platelet dysfunction and easy bruising.
Nutritional supplements such as Vitamin E, Fish Oil, Garlic, and Gingko have been connected to easy bruising.
Use any of the methods suggested even while on these medications, but talk to your doctor if any bruise spreads or if there is significant swelling or pain., Although most bruises will heal by themselves and will disappear within a couple of weeks, in some cases bruising can be a symptom of a more serious injury or condition. These can range from blood clotting issues to a number of diseases. Therefore, you should consult your doctor if:


The bruise is extremely painful and surrounded by swollen skin.
Bruises appear suddenly or unexpectedly, for no apparent reason.
You are currently taking blood-thinning medication.
You are unable to move a joint near the location of the bruise. This may be an indication of a broken bone.
You have continued, significant bruising, such as five or more spots without significant trauma.
Personal or family history of abnormal bleeding.
The bruise is located on the skull or face.
You have abnormal bleeding other places, such as nose, gums, or in excrement. Vomit that resembles coffee grounds or black, tarry stools can also indicate GI bleeding.