 You may find that you don't feel the need for medication due to any number of circumstances, or you may need to stop taking your medication due to changes in physical conditions. If the side effects from taking your medication don't abate, or are just too much to handle, you may need to change medication rather than stop completely.
You may have a change in circumstances; if your depression was the result of some life experience or situation which you no longer have, you may be ready to stop treatment.
You may have developed healthy coping skills or established habits that can help you avoid another depressive episode.
Some antidepressants are not recommended during pregnancy. Talk with your doctor about alternatives for treating your depression if your medication could be harmful to you or your baby.
 Your doctor can give you the best advice about if and when you can discontinue your medication, and will know the best method for discontinuing your particular medication. Your medical history as well as your treatment history are very important factors when deciding to go off an antidepressant medication. Don’t try to quit cold turkey. Just as it took time for your medication to take full effect, you will need time to discontinue its use.
Don’t decrease your dosage on your own. Your doctor needs to be aware of how much medication you are taking so that he or she can monitor how you are doing.
Find out about any issues with discontinuing your particular medication. Some antidepressants are more difficult to stop taking and can cause withdrawal symptoms. Be aware of any potential problems and know how what you can do to address them., You can experience side effects from withdrawal and these may cause problems for your daily routines. Your sleep patterns, appetite, and mood can be effected, so try to schedule quitting for a time when you can make adjustments in your routine., You should maintain the routines and resources you have put in place to treat your depression, such as seeing a therapist and getting regular exercise.