 Now, go onto Metlink's Website and use the Trip Planner to plan your trip. Or if you know the specific bus company or bus route number, go to the companies website. You can get bus timetables usually from the bus companies depot in hard copy, or online at Metlink or the companies website. You can also get Local Government Area maps from Metlink, the Metshop, your local railway station or online. If you have an iPod Touch or an iPhone, you can download the Metlink application, which has offline timetables for almost every single public transport service within Victoria.;
, Ensure you are at your bus stop about 5 minutes earlier than the scheduled time, as buses are only contracted to pull up on time at major time points.
 If it's night, try to find a bus shelter with lights. If its raining, try to find a bus shelter.
 Hail the bus until the bus driver acknowledges you by turning the buses turn indicator light on. If the bus is not the bus you're looking for (different route), signal the driver either by standing back or signalling 'No' with your hand or head.
 If there are other passengers getting off the bus, give way to them. If you are a disabled passenger in a wheelchair, or a different passenger with ramp accessibility needs, the driver should pull the ramp out for you.
 The ticket will go into the machine and it will validate. It should return with either 1 beep for standard full fare tickets or 2 beeps for concession tickets. If you hear multiple beeps, the machine will have printed EXPIRED on your ticket, and this obviously means your ticket has expired. If you have a myki please hold the myki card on the green myki reader until you hear a beep and see a green light to touch on. If you see a red light please try to touch on again. If you still get a red light, your myki has no money and will need to be topped up OR it is expired or has a problem. Call myki on 13 6954 (13 myki).
 Tell the driver what ticket you need and give the driver cash - the driver in most circumstances will not take large notes. Correct fare is appreciated. The driver will then key in the ticket type into the machine. The driver should give you a metcard, which is blank and you must insert this into the validator. If the driver does not issue you with a ticket, you should call Metlink on 131638.
 If you are sitting in the front seats (middle seats on some older Volvo buses) which has a sticker on the top, by law, you are required to free the seat for elderly, pregnant or disabled passengers, on request.
, It is courteous to signal the driver in thanks or thank the driver verbally.
 If you don't you will receive an expensive 'default' fare!!!

