 The number row and the keypad on the keyboard are used for controlling the different moves. Traditionally in the older versions of the game, the shift and control keys were used with the letters z,x,c,v and more, however, the new era of players now mostly use number keys.;
, (Ensure number lock is enabled) When all the fingers are placed in the spots described, this is the neutral position.
 Pressing 1 will cause your avatar to execute a normal attack. This attack does low to medium damage and has 3 different animations. It is used commonly throughout the fight. It requires no Stamina to execute. Be careful not to keep mindlessly attacking. When you attack, your health stops recharging.
 Pressing 2 will cause your avatar to execute a normal block which if you hold the key down, will go up and down. When the guard is down, you ‘’’can’’’ be attacked, so don’t just keep holding it down. Tapping is far more effective. Blocking is the most important skill. Don’t underestimate it. In Sherwood Dungeon, your health ‘’’only’’’ regenerates while you are either standing still or blocking. Hence blocking is very important.


As you can see, it is only at the point in the blocking animation shown on the avatar labelled 2 where you are actually protected from attack.
As soon as the animation moves to parts 1 and 3 the block is no longer covering your attack. This is the position you want to aim for in attacking your enemy when he/she is blocking and the point you want to avoid when blocking.
 Pressing 3 will cause your avatar to execute a magical talisman attack. Make sure to equip a talisman on your avatar by dragging the talisman from your inventory onto your talisman slot. Performing a talisman attack allows you to cause damage even if your opponent is blocking. This attack hits no matter what. However, you must wait for the Talisman Bar to recharge after each use. Each recharge lasts around 8-10 seconds. This attack does medium to large damage.
 This is a duplicate of your left hand placement which enables you to normal attack with either your left or your right hand.
 Pressing 6 will enable your avatar to perform a ‘reverse hammer strike’ which is a power move. This attack does normal to low damage. It is the fastest when compared to all the attacks and thus is very useful in combos and for surprising your enemy.


You must wait for the Green Stamina Bar to recharge after each use. Each recharge lasts around 5-6 seconds.
 Pressing 7 will enable your avatar to perform a ‘spinning hook kick’ which is a power move. This attack does medium to high damage. It is difficult to block and is arguably the best attack to use in fighting.


You must wait for the Green Stamina Bar to recharge after each use. Each recharge lasts around 5-6 seconds.
 All these attacks also use stamina However, maintain the basic hand positions by returning the fingers to the neutral position when you are done.

