 Like all cats, Maine Coons are an investment of both time and money. They can cost anywhere from $400 to $1,000, and they also require ongoing costs like cat food, cat litter, and vet visits. Plus, since Maine Coons are relatively outgoing, they require some attention and affection every day. If you are a busy person, consider a pet that requires less energy.If you want a less energetic Maine Coon, think about getting a full-grown cat instead of a kitten.
 Reputable breeders will not have Maine Coons (or any other breed) available year-round. They will also not accept purchases online or have multiple litters on their premises. Instead, they’ll insist on a strict contract that describes what happens in case you can no longer take care of the cat, and provide as much information as possible about the cat’s pedigree and health.Contact the Maine Coon Breeders and Fanciers Association for a list of reputable breeders in your area.
 Buying your Maine Coon from a breeder is the most common way to get one. But you could also get your Maine Coon from a rescue organization like Maine Coon Adoptions or Maine Coon Rescue. Contact one of these organizations or a similar group about getting a Maine Coon., Reputable breeders or cat sellers will welcome you to visit the cat in the location where the cat was raised. The cat should be raised indoors. Be wary of breeders who try to meet you in a location that is not the place where the Maine Coon was raised (typically the breeder’s home).If you see that the Maine Coon was raised in a small, dirty, or crowded pen, choose another breeder. These conditions suggest that the cat might have fleas or illnesses.
Likewise, do not obtain a cat that was raised in isolation, as it may have difficulty socializing with other pets or people when introduced to your home.
 Maine Coons will probably not be available right away. Cats raised properly need to be about 12 to 16 weeks old before they can be separated from their mothers. Additionally, many breeders have wait lists that prevent quick and easy purchase of a Maine Coon.