 The single best way to save money on your cat’s healthcare is through prevention. If you get your cat looked over by a veterinarian once per year, they should be able to catch any illnesses early. It is cheaper to treat your cat’s health issues early, as opposed to waiting and having to pay more for expensive treatments.Depending on your cat’s age and current health conditions, you may need to get more frequent check ups, such as twice a year or even quarterly. Your veterinarian should be consulted on this matter.
 You should get your cat vaccinated at your veterinary office, which will reduce the likelihood of paying for expense diseases down the road.It is best to avoid home vaccinations because some pets have allergic reactions, which you will be unable to treat if you try to do the vaccination at home.
You can save money on vaccinations by going to a pet rescue or mobile vaccination clinic, which is typically volunteer-run and much cheaper.
 You can save a lot of money by getting your cat spayed and neutered at a not-for-profit clinic. Charity run organizations focus on feline health and reducing the number of stray cats in a region.You will save on long term health costs by spaying and neutering your cat, regardless of whether you go to your regular veterinarian or a not-for-profit clinic.You might also consider volunteering for one of these clinics, since they are not-for-profit.
 There are many competing sources for cat medications, so consider shopping around. Look at the cost of the required medication at a local pharmacy, at an online pharmacy and at your veterinarian. Buy from the cheapest source but make sure it meets your veterinarian’s specifications.When deciding where to purchase, remember that some companies only guarantee the effectiveness of their products if it is purchased directly from a veterinarian.
Consider asking your veterinarian if they can match the online prices, which could get you a significant discount.
Never give your cat human medications without asking your veterinarian first.
 A lot of very expensive medical conditions are related to obesity, such as heart disease, diabetes, joint disease and arthritis. To save money on such conditions, feed your cat an appropriate amount of food and watch their weight. Your veterinarian should be able to give you advice no your cat’s diet.It is best to avoid free-feeding, which could put your cat at risk of obesity.
 Since veterinarians typically offer a spectrum of healthcare services ranging from high to lower priced options, you should be upfront about your financial situation. They may tell you about an expensive treatment option. However, if you tell them you simply cannot afford it, they may be able to offer a cheaper option that is within your financial means.Try saying, “I’m sorry, that sounds like a great treatment plan. However, I simply cannot afford it at this time. Can you find a different treatment plan that is cheaper?”

, Look into the cost of pet insurance and consider whether it is worthwhile. Pet insurance can help you save money down the road on treatment of expensive diseases. It can also help you save money on emergency veterinary visits. See what is covered by various pet insurance plans in order to see whether it is worthwhile.If you have a healthy, indoor cat, you may be better off just paying for the veterinary visits upfront., Keep your cat indoors and away from stray cats, who may carry all kinds of diseases. If you let your cat wander the neighborhood, they may end up getting fleas or picking up expensive to treat diseases.