 It's important you are using dried red chilli peppers and dried coriander as opposed to fresh versions. If you dry roasted the fresh versions of these ingredients, the sambar powder would not be as spicy and make it more difficult to grind them into a fine powder.You will be using each bowl to cool each ingredient after dry roasting. Alternatively, you can mix all your ingredients in a large bowl after roasting. However, it may take longer to cool if you mix all the ingredients together after dry roasting.;
, In general, you should dry roast each ingredient separately until fragrant or until it becomes slightly browned. Use a wooden spoon or spatula to keep the ingredients moving and prevent it from burning. Dry roasting times will vary depending on each ingredient.


If you are using dried hing, or asafoetida, powder, dry roast it for 2 minutes with the coriander seeds. If you are using whole asafoetida, save that ingredient for later and just dry roast the coriander seeds alone for 2 minutes.
For dried red chilli peppers, cumin seeds, peppercorn, dry roast them each and separately for 2 minutes.
Dry roast the fenugreek seeds for 5 minutes.
For the channa dhal, dry roast it for 10 minutes.
If you are dry roasting large quantities of each ingredient, dry roast them in batches.
After dry roasting each ingredients, set them aside to cool.
 Add a dash of cooking oil in your pan. Then fry the asafoetida for 2 to 3 minutes until it changes to a light yellowy colour. Remove the asafoetida. Then in the same oil, fry your curry leaves until they are dry and change into a dark, crisp colour.


It's important you are using a whole piece of asafoetida when frying in oil and not the powder. The powder can be dry roasted with the coriander seeds.
 Cooling down the ingredients prevents wet lumps from forming during grinding. A good wait time would be about 15 to 20 minutes for everything to completely cool down.
 Grind everything in a food processor. If you are making a large batch, you may need to grind everything in batches.


Alternatively, you can bring your ingredients to a grinder mill or grinding store where they will have large machines to grind the ingredients for you.

