 Always take clear, crisp photos and use good lighting. Natural lighting is generally the most flattering, but experiment with other sources.Strive to get the most professional looking shots that you can.Most site models use their cell phones to take the majority of pictures they post online, so take advantage of the countless effects that apps can offer.Make sure to take diverse looking photos. Get shots of different angles and looks to maximize your chances of being noticed by a wider variety of agencies, editors and bloggers.
Never post blurry or amateurish photos on your social media profiles. These will get you noticed for all of the wrong reasons.
 Photoshop is the industry standard for photo editing, but it’s certainly not your only option. GIMP, Adobe Lightroom and Acorn are also great options. Also use photo editor mobile apps so that you have a range of tools at your disposal. Pixl is one of the most popular apps available right now and you can download it for free.Experiment with a variety of filters and effects to get a feel for what these programs and apps can do. Less is often more, so use a light touch when editing your pictures.
Work on getting balanced contrast and brightness in every shot. You don’t want your images to look surreal or unnatural.Use black and white images occasionally, but stick mainly to color images.
 If you’re able to afford a session with a professional photographer, definitely set one up. Aim to get 6 to 12 high quality shots and consider those to be the foundation of your modeling portfolio.Site models don’t necessarily need a portfolio in the same way that traditional models do, but it does help to have a few professional shots on hand to send to interested parties.


Post these professional photos sporadically on your social media profiles.
The majority of your photos will be done by you (or a friend), but dropping a professional image into the mix every now and then is a great way to get a little extra attention.
 Keep your site modeling images separate from everything else on your PC and other devices. Have a dedicated folder for images, and within that folder create additional folders so that you can organize your photos by date or by photo session.


Rename your finalized photo files so that you can search for them easily.
Consistently back up your photos by saving them on thumb drives. This is to avoid losing everything if your computer or phone is stolen or crashes.

