 Your silky terrier is named for its lovely fur. The most important aspect of maintaining this healthy coat is to brush your dog daily. You are going to need both a slicker brush and a bristle brush. Both items can be found at your local pet store.


Slicker brushes contain fine wire bristles. These brushes are especially useful for removing tangles and mats.
Bristle brushes come in sizes, according to the spaces between bristles and the bristle length. For a longer coat (such as a silky), you want wide-spaced, long bristles.;
, First, use the slicker brush to gently remove tangles and dead hair. Brush from the top of the head, working your way down the neck. Then, move along the sides, belly, and legs. Always keep the straight parting in the coat along the spine of the dog, and always brush towards the ground., After you have gone over your dog with a slicker brush and removed any major knots, repeat this method with a bristle brush. Once again, be sure to maintain the parting in the coat, and always brush toward the ground.This will leave your silky terrier with a shiny, beautiful coat.
 It is important to keep your dog’s ears clean. To avoid getting soap or water in your dog’s ears, it is best to clean the ears outside of the bath.Moisten the corner of a washcloth with warm water and wipe around the ear opening.
Do this 1-2 times per month.
 Dental hygiene is also important. You can buy a dog toothbrush and dog toothpaste from your local pet store. Make sure that your dog is comfortable with your hand in their mouth before you begin, and allow your dog to sample the toothpaste.


Place your dog in your lap facing away from you.
Using your non-dominant hand, carefully fold their lips back.
Holding the toothbrush in your dominant hand, brush the front teeth.
Using your non-dominant hand, try to pry open your dog’s mouth.
Finally, holding the toothbrush in your dominant hand, brush the back teeth and molars.
Offer your dog a treat and a drink of water.
 About once a month, you will also need to clip your dog’s nails. You can purchase a set of dog nail clippers at your local pet store.First, you must identify the “quick” (a dark area inside the nail with blood vessels ).
Place your dog in your lap facing away from you.
Hold your dog’s paw firmly with one hand.
Slide each claw through the small hole in the nail clippers.
Depress the nail clipper above the quick.

