 If you want to expose the mattress to sunlight as well as fresh air, you’ll need to wait for a sunny, warm day. Spring through fall is the best time to find a day free of rain or excessive cold. If the weather is unpleasant, you do have the option of airing the mattress indoors, but the ideal, of course, is to air it out-of-doors.
 You should try to let your mattress breathe for at least one hour before replacing the bedding.Airing the mattress in the morning is often the preferred time because the average morning routine before going to work takes about an hour. This way, you can shower and breakfast at the same time your mattress is being aired, and replace it just before heading out the door.


If you work late, you might be too tired to strip the bedding and pillows from the mattress just to let it air. Late in the evening, the only thing you’ll want to do with a bed is sleep on it!

, In order to minimize or eliminate this odor, the first thing you should do after stripping off its protective plastic wrapping is to let it air. While normally mattresses should air for just an hour or two, new mattresses should air for a full 24 hours because off-gassing will occur during that entire first day., When you air your mattress, you have to remove – at the very least -- the sheets, blankets, and pillows from the bed. If airing the mattress outside, you could remove the bed skirt easily, too. You might consider laundering these things since you’ll be removing them from the bed anyhow, and if you don’t, they’ll just be strewn haphazardly about your bedroom, crowding your bedroom walking space.
 If you live in a relatively rural environment with lots of critters like mice and raccoons, you don’t want them making your new mattress into their home.Worse, they could mark it as their territory with urine or feces. In such an environment, air your mattress in doors. In an urban area, you might lack space and be obligated to air your mattress indoors as well. If you live in the suburbs, though, you’ll be able to air your mattress outside. Your backyard is the best place to air the mattress out. You could also lean it against a wall on a clean porch.


Urbanists whose homes have an upper-story balcony which can accommodate the mattress could consider setting it up there if they want to air it outside.
 You can air the mattress outside or inside. If airing inside, all you have to do after stripping the bed of linens is to open the window(s). For added purification, introduce plants into the bedroom. Plants purify the air naturally and will ensure the air your mattress is exposed to is as fresh as can be.If airing outside, ensure the spot you’re setting the mattress on is free of puddles or wetness, and will not be exposed to dripping water or precipitation. Find a place which is clean and dry for the mattress to stand. You should try to lean the mattress against a wall or vertical beam, either on its end or on its side. In this way, the maximum amount of area possible will be exposed to the air.
If airing outside, find a place where the sun can touch the mattress as well. If necessary, place a tarp between the mattress and the ground. A wet mattress will encourage mold.

