;
,, Once that is set up, whip the butter with a hand mixer for about 15 minutes or until the butter is soften. While the butter is being whipped you can grab the 4 cups of flour and begin sifting the combination of the flour and the baking powder to make sure you get rid of any impurities of both the flour and the baking powder.


Note: This step is a precaution to make sure that none of these impurities prevent the cake from rising.
Once the mixer is on do not put your hands or fingers close to the scraper of the mixer.
 Grab a bowl that can hold all 4 cups of the all-purpose flour set on a table. Grab a colander with thing holes hold it with one hand and slowly start pouring the combination of flour and baking powder in.


Note: Put a cup at a time when you do this hold the colander in one hand and once the flour is in make a back and forth motion between both of your hands; this way the colander hits your other hand softly and cleans the flour from any impurities or clumps of flour.
 Allow for these two ingredients to combine so that the granulated sugar diminishes; or until the mixture is not crunchy.


Beat these two ingredients for about 5 minutes; this extra five minutes will also help the cake rise.
Lower the speed so that you do not make a mess when adding ingredients.
 Incorporate 8 eggs.


Cracking the eggs into a different bowl is recommended because if you drop an eggshell, it will ruin the whole batter.
 Slowly incorporate 2 cups of the dry mixture; flour and baking powder. Add about ½ a cup (120 ml) of milk.


Warning: Be careful with the amount of milk that you add to the cake batter at one time, because if you add all the milk to the batter the cake will become too watery making it difficult for the cake to rise.
Note: it does not have to be exact this is only to prevent the cake from becoming bulky and creamy.
 Do this slowly and until both of these ingredients are gone. Make sure you allow the ingredients to mix with one another.
,, Incorporate 2 tablespoons of vanilla extract; or 2 tablespoons of the flavor of your choice.


Note: This is when you can decide what flavor you would prefer for the cake to have.
 Split the batter into two separate bowls. In the bowl with the smallest amount of batter add 3/4th of a cup of unsweetened cocoa powder. Beat this batter until you get a dark brown color. Pour the vanilla batter into the cookware. Towards the center of the cookware pour the cocoa batter. With a long fork stir the batter to kindly mix them both. Ready to bake! 

, Grab a thick napkin and use it to spread regular butter around the whole pan. Now start pouring the cake batter in the baking pan. Move the batter around so that it is even in the baking pan.


Note: If you use a silicone cookware make sure to put a bake pan underneath the cake to prevent from any spills.
 Set the time to 45 minutes. Once the oven beeps insert a butter knife or a toothpick in the cake, if it comes out clean the cake is completely baked. If the cake is fully baked take the cake out using an oven mitt.


Note: If the cake is not fully baked; in other words the toothpick has batter on it, set the timer for 15 more minutes, and do the same procedure to check the cake’s consistency

, Make sure you use an oven mitt to take out the cake from the oven.

