 You founded this club to help the environment, so now it’s time to look for ways to do that. You may have had a few ideas before starting the club, which is great. This is the chance for your whole club to talk about their goals and brainstorm project ideas. There are all sorts of projects you can do, so focus on ones that play to your strengths and fit within your larger goals. Some things you might consider include:Start a composting or recycling program for your school or business
Create a community garden
Have a local clean-up, maybe of a dirty lot or polluted waterway
Adopt a highway
Write up environmental tips and other information for your school, office, or other places
Show an environmental film, or have a film series
Start a letter-writing campaign to local officials for better environmental policies

, Once you have a project in mind, now you need to prepare. Make sure you have an idea of the scope of your project, including how long it will take, how many people you will need, and what kinds of supplies and equipment are necessary. You want to have all of this arranged before you start working, otherwise you won’t be able to get your project done.


If you are doing something large scale and outdoors, talk to your local government too. Many towns and cities want to encourage environmental projects. Not only can they help in getting the word out for your effort, but some will be willing to provide supplies, including brooms, rakes, shovels, gloves, and trash bags, as well as paint and paint supplies for dealing with graffiti, and even an industrial-sized dumpster for depositing trash., Chances are you and your friends, and maybe even your club members, won’t be enough to carry out all the projects you have in mind. Once you have some ideas for things to do, look for additional volunteers for your projects. Make sure you tell people what you need from them, and how much time and effort you are expecting.There are many great ways to recruit, including face-to-face, with posters and fliers, and through media like newspapers and websites. Talk to other local organizations, like social clubs, community and religious organizations, even your own businesses, for potential help.
Once you get people to show up to help, remember to get their contact information. You’ll need to keep in touch with them about the project, plus you never know who will be interested in joining once they see how much fun it is.
 Once you’ve got the plan and the people, get to work. This is the fun part. The great thing about your club is that you have a bunch of people to work with. This will make it even more likely you can make a big difference for the world, whatever it is you are trying to do.
 While working on projects, and after you finish, find ways to let other people know what you are doing. Take before and after pictures of a clean-up area, or get photos of you and your club mates in action. Let people see how many volunteers you have, and how much fun you all are having while making a difference in the world.Having a social media page is a great place to post these pictures so that your social network can see all that you are doing. Maybe you’ll be able to inspire some new people to join.

