 However, don't scrub too hard, or you'll increase irritation.
 Have your back submerged within the salt water of the beach for about 10 minutes. Sit in the sun for 10-15 minutes. The sun will dry out the pimples. Do not do this for longer though because if you get burnt, it will make your acne a lot worse. Repeat this process a few times more and you will notice results within the first two days.
 Not a common household cure for acne, but certainly effective in some cases, zinc is a known enemy of acne.Zinc is a metal that humans need in small doses to perform essential functions. In addition to treating acne, it is used to boost the human immune system. Zinc can be used to treat bacne in two different ways:


Apply zinc directly to skin. Try finding a lotion with 1.2% zinc acetate and erythromycin 4% and rub it into the skin twice daily. If you can't find this, puncture a zinc gel tablet, squeeze some of the gel onto your clean finger or a Q-tip, and apply directly to your back.
Ingest zinc as a part of your daily vitamin regimen. Try taking zinc picolinate daily, about 25 to 45 mg. Do not take more than 50 mg daily, as this could put you at risk of copper deficiency, as larger doses of zinc interfere with copper absorption., This will help remove dead skin cells that can clog pores and cause breakouts. Squeeze one grapefruit into a bowl with 1 1/2 cups of white sugar and 1/2 cup of coarse sea salt. Massage into the affected areas, then pat dry.
 pH is another word for the alkalinity of your skin. Scientists have determined that a skin pH of below 5 — the ideal being 4.7 — is beneficial to overall skin health and bacterial flora that help the skin.Showering and using soap, in particular, can cause the skin's pH to go above 5, leading to dryness, scaliness, and breakouts.


Consider changing your shower head. Invest in a shower head that filters out the chlorine in your water. Your skin will thank you for it. Very decent shower head pre-equipped with filters only cost $25 to $50 and can have a profound impact on your skin.
Prepare a mix of one part apple cider vinegar and one part filtered drinking water in a spray bottle. After showering and before bed, spray the vinegar solution on your skin and let dry. This process will naturally lower your skin's pH.Instead of apple cider vinegar, use equal parts witch hazel and filtered water for the same effect.

