;
,,,,, When you start the game, you are provided with a little under $2,000, a door, some chairs & tables, four stoves, and three food counters. Click & drag items to move them around the area. You may have more than one door, but this will bring in more customers - which you don't need when you first start. You will need at least one square open in order for people to move around.
 Because your character is the cook, you need at least one other person to assist you. There should be a screen that pops up automatically asking you to choose a person from your friend's list as the waiter.
 At the start, this is the most tedious thing to handle. The style of the cookbook is similar to FarmVille, but with a twist.


Watch out for the times. For example, 13 bacon cheeseburgers takes 5 minutes to make. However, 550 servings of cheesecake takes 12 hours to make.
Make note that your character needs to cut, dice, baste, etc. ingredients before the timer starts. Keep clicking on the specific pot until the timer comes up.
If the finished food is not transferred from the stove to the counter within twice the amount of creation/cooking time, the food will be spoiled. Any food on the counter will be edible and can be served until it is all gone. Using the time example, cheeseburgers (which are ready in 5 minutes) will be spoiled if not transferred 10 minutes after being made.
 Coins can be earned by the tips of your customers. You also can earn tips from daily visits from your neighbors. Experience points are earned by the food preparation, successful serving of the completed meal, and stove cleaning.
 If your restaurant has a door, customers will always be coming in and out. Depending on how much food is prepared on your counters will determine your restaurant rating. Even if you omit the door, any food on stoves will continue cooking and your rating will "freeze" until customers are invited in.
, As you level up, you will get tasks assigned to you. Complete them to get even more points!

