 The skin on your face and body is easily affected by things like stress, weather, and age, so it’s not uncommon to have a variety of products to address these changing needs. When you shop for lotions, consider what your skin goals are and find a lotion that helps you achieve that goal. In addition to products that treat the standard skin types, you can also find products geared towards:Firming or toning
Self-tanning
Acne treatment
Age defying or preventative treatments
Wrinkle reducing
Eczema treatment

, Many face moisturizers are too rich for the eye area, which is some of the most delicate skin on the body. Treating this skin roughly or with the wrong products can cause wrinkling and sagging of the skin prematurely. Using a lotion specifically designed for the eye area, dot the cream under your eye from the inner to outer corner with your ring finger. The ring finger has the lightest touch, and this dotting motion will reduce the amount of pressure and pull on the skin. Still with the ring finger, finish distributing these dots of lotion by gently patting the lotion into the skin., Because you are constantly using your hands throughout the day, the skin on your hands is exposed to a lot of moisture-wicking abuse. Washing your hands and antibacterial hand sanitizers especially deplete the skin on your hands of natural oils, which can cause dryness, redness, and cracking. To help combat dryness and keep your hands soft and supple, apply lotion to your hands several times throughout the day, especially after washing or sanitizing them. A lotion specifically designed for hands is best because these lotions are often thicker than other options, which helps them stay on to moisturize your hands as much as possible., Even though you’re on your feet all day, many people forget to put lotion on their feet as well. Like the hands, your feet take a lot throughout the day and also have delicate cuticles that need to be cared for. Extremely dry feet can crack at the heel and be extremely painful or unsightly. To help combat heel cracks and dry, scaly feet, apply a thick lotion to your feet when you get into bed. This way your feet have all night to absorb the moisturizing nutrients. For best results, you can put on a pair of thick socks after applying lotion to reduce the lotion wiping off on your sheets., The skin on your lips is also extremely delicate and prone to dryness. Smiling, talking, and exposure to the wind and sun can really dry out your skin, especially your lips. Many people only notice that their lips are dry once they are already peeling, so try to be proactive in your treatment of this delicate area and apply lip balm before your lips are dried out. Try to find a lip balm that includes natural oils like coconut oil or argan oil for maximum suppleness.