 The jeans should be 100% cotton, as other fabrics won't work the same. They should be baggy, straight, or boot-cut in order to make a true 90's look, but they can be any color.


Prepare your tools at the same time. These can be found below, under the Things You'll Need.;
, The most common shapes used to make slits are diamonds, circles, or rectangles. If you're not sure, start with a diamond shape, which tends to turn out well.
 Then use a ruler, and mark out two slits in the middle of the leg, going crossways across the knee area.


To look like true-90's style ripped knees, the slits should go across the knee, stopping 2 centimeter (0.79 in) from the seam on both sides; if you want the rip to be smaller, then mark it 4 centimeter (1.6 in) from the seam.
 These slits should be about 2 centimeter (0.8 in) shorter than the first.


Then again, make two more slits each a ruler-width each from the top and bottom, again making them about 2 centimeter (0.8 in) shorter than the previous ones. Repeat until your last slits are only 1 centimeter (0.39 in) or so long.
 Poke into the center of the markings of the slit, so the scissors will get into it with greater ease.
 Do the same on all the other slits.
 This will prevent any damage to the backs of the knees as you distress the jeans.
 Using your hands is possible too but takes much longer.


If the tweezers cannot pull white threads out after more than five to seven white threads on each side (2cm away from the slits), turn the jeans right side out and use a razor to distress the edges until you see white threads.






If you get two to four threads left after pulling without using a razor, if the slits are small as 1 centimeter (0.39 in), you can pull the blue threads using your hands.
 If you cannot get them out, pull the white threads to get the blue threads out, since the blue threads may be stuck inside the white threads. Then you can pull the blue threads out very easily on the top of those edges.
,,, Cut very gently, to make it appear more worn.
 Use tweezers, and distress the blue ends from the white threads where it looks square, to lessen the square effect.
 If you have done everything correctly, then congratulations, you can wear your new ripped jeans outside! Wash then dry the jeans before wearing, to make those white threads to look fluffier.

