 Toddlers and preschoolers need to feel comfortable and secure, and they do not deal well with unpredictability. Keep things predictable by setting regular bedtimes and mealtimes. Hunger and sleepiness are probably the most common triggers of tantrums, and these can largely be avoided by keeping a regular schedule. Try to wean toddlers off unscheduled naps, and minimize the occurrence of extended absences from familiar surroundings.;
, Obviously, you can’t keep the same routine forever. Make sure you give your child plenty of warning and explanation well in advance of significant changes, e.g., his first day of preschool, and prepare him for smaller changes, as well. For example, if you’ve spent the afternoon at the swimming pool, let your child know you will be leaving in 15 minutes. Soften the uncomfortable blow of abrupt changes in environment or activities by giving the child time to adjust. Also, prepare your child for difficulties before he or she tries some new activity. A child may expect be able to take on the world, but when it comes down to it, they have trouble doing most new tasks. Explain a given activity is difficult and may require many attempts, and be patient if the child becomes frustrated.
 If a child senses he can sway your decisions or coerce you with tantrums, it is reasonable for the child to use tantrums to get his way. Make sure your child knows you make the decisions, and don’t change your mind in response to bad behavior.
 Before you deny a child’s request, ask yourself whether the request may indeed be reasonable. Does your son want a pre-dinner snack if dinner’s running a little late? Why not give it to him? You may avoid a tantrum, and besides, he just may be really hungry. Don’t try to enforce rules just for the sake of rules, but analyze the situation before you make a decision. Once you make the decision don’t back down.
 Beginning in the toddler years, children seek increasing autonomy, and if they feel as though they have no control over their lives tantrums may ensue. While you can’t reasonably give young children much independence, you can offer them simple choices so they can feel more in control. For example, at breakfast, give your child a choice between oatmeal and cereal. Make sure either choice you give is acceptable to you, and avoid asking open-ended questions such as, “What would you like for breakfast?” You may get an unreasonable answer, and then be forced to deny the child his choice.
 Children need a lot of attention, and if they don’t get enough they will seek more. You’ve probably heard “even bad attention is better than no attention,” and for children this is true. Make sure to spend plenty of time with your child and to be responsive to his or her basic needs for food, shelter, and comfort. If a child tends to react to a particular item, preventing related tantrums is as easy as keeping the item out of his or her mind.
