 Black lipstick starts to look streaky and flaky more quickly than other colors. To prevent this from happening, it's important to prep your lips before you apply it. Make sure you remove all skin flakes and moisturize your lips so they're soft and supple. If your lips are chapped, you might want to save the black lipstick for another time.


Exfoliate by brushing your lips with a soft toothbrush, or use a lip scrub.
Moisturize with a rich lip balm or coconut oil.;
, Apply black lip liner around the outline of your lips, taking care to draw the exact shape you want. This will keep your lipstick looking defined and intentional. Without liner, black lipstick tends to run outside the lines of your lips, which can make you look smudged and messy.


If you don't have black lip liner, you can use a black eye pencil instead.
Always use a shade of liner that's a little darker than your lipstick.
 The best way to apply black lipstick is with a lipstick brush. If you don't have a lipstick brush, spread out your lips. This will help ensure that the lipstick gets into all of your lips' tiny creases. Run a lipstick brush (or another small makeup brush) over the lipstick, then use it to carefully apply black lipstick to completely fill in your lips.After you're finished, smile in the mirror. Fill in any creases that didn't get coated.
Keep a cotton swab handy in case you accidentally go outside the lines.
 This will keep your lipstick from fading and streaking as you go about your day. You can apply the second layer using your lipstick directly on your lips. Take a look in the mirror to make sure the lipstick is nice and neat.
 Black lipstick can look a little flat, so try adding a layer of clear gloss to finish your look. The extra shine will give your lip color extra depth. It also serves to help keep your lipstick from fading or streaking.
 Black lipstick will probably need to be reapplied each time you take a drink or eat something. If you're wearing it to a cocktail party or another event at which you'll be eating and drinking, don't forget to bring along your lipstick. Faded black lipstick tends to look gray and drab, so you'll probably need to do a touch-up at least once before the evening is over.

