 You'll need Two-Factor Authentication enabled for your account in order to be able to unlock with your Apple Watch. You can enable it in the System Preferences menu.


To set up Two-Factor on your iPhone instead, open the Settings app and select "iCloud." Tap your Apple ID and enter your password. Tap "Password & Security" and then tap "Set Up Two-Factor Authentication.";
, You'll be prompted to enter your Apple ID password.
 This will display the security settings for your Apple ID account.
 This will start the Two-Factor setup process.


If you have devices that aren't running iOS 9+ or OS X 10.11+, you'll be warned that those devices will require a special password in order to use them.
 You'll need to answer both questions before you can proceed.
 This phone number will be able to receive SMS codes in case you don't have access to your trusted devices when trying to log in.


A valid credit card attached to your account can help you recover access if you get locked out when Two-Factor is activated. You can add one by logging into appleid.apple.com and adding your card in the "Payment Method" section., You'll need to have a passcode enabled for your Apple Watch in order to turn on Auto Unlock. You won't be prompted for this passcode every time you use your watch to unlock your computer.


See the "Setting Up the Watch section of Use Your Apple Watch for details on enabling a passcode for your watch.
 You'll find the Apple menu in the upper-left corner.
 This option is in the top row of menu.
 If this box isn't available, you may not be running Sierra on a compatible Mac computer

, This may be different than your Apple ID password. This is the password you use to log in as a user on your Mac computer.
 This may take a few moments. You'll see a spinning wheel to the right of the checkbox while it's processing.
 Once Auto Unlock is enabled, you can try it out. Lock your computer by closing the lid and then opening it again, then move your watch close. You'll be logged in automatically after just a moment.A notification will appear on your watch letting you know that you've unlocked your computer.
You must be wearing the Apple Watch in order for the Auto Unlock process to work.

