 Indie fashion and living is very centered around music. Go to your local record store and browse categories such as 'Alternative', 'Acoustic', 'Pop', and 'Rock'. You don't have to listen to a certain band in order to classify yourself; just do a little research on the bands that you find interesting. You want to be able to converse with others about good music.;
, An indie film is often low-budget and artsy, but you can also find the indie vibe in movies like Juno, The Darjeeling Limited, and even Napoleon Dynamite. The colors are clean, vibrant, and the film gives off a faint antiquity. Often times, cult-classics such as Pulp Fiction, The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly; and Donnie Darko also make their way into indie culture. Once again, you don't have to rant and rave about your favorite movies in order to 'transform' yourself; simply educate yourself on good films by watching them.
 Thrifting means going down to your local second-hand store and choosing pieces of clothing that are interesting and eye-catching. Take a look at the indie fashion gallery 'LookBook', online at Lookbook.nu for inspiration. You can also pick up a copy of Nylon magazine, which features indie fashion, music, and movies. Some prominent street-fashion/indie culture stores are American Apparel, Urban Outfitters, and Forever21.
 Chat with local music junkies, chat online at Myspace or Facebook, find out who knows what about different shows and go to them. Showing up at a local venue for a concert really puts you right in the center of the indie trend and you can make friends that enjoy listening to the same music. House parties are another great way to meet new people with similar music and fashion interests.
 Party and dance! You don't have to muscle your way into a popular shindig in order to get noticed. Take it easy. With time, you will find yourself at parties here and there, and maybe eventually you will have your own!

, Indie people are often identified by their eclectic taste range. Educate yourself on all different kinds of movies, music, literature, and more.

