 An .ico file is a Windows icon file. Your Windows PC comes with Windows Paint, which will do the job. More advanced software like Photoshop and Gimp will also allow you to convert images to icons.


If Photoshop is what you use for image editing, you’ll need a safe, free plugin called ICO (Windows Icon Format) by Telegraphics. The plugin is available directly from the developer at http://www.telegraphics.com.au/sw/. Scroll down to ICO (Windows Icon Format), select your operating system, and choose a location to save the installer. For help installing Photoshop plugins, see How to Install Plugins in Adobe Photoshop.
You may have different software than any of the above. Search the web to see if it can save .ico files. If so, you can still follow the steps, as most image editing programs are somewhat similar when it comes to these basic functions.
You can use a Mac to create Windows icons, but you’ll need to use Photoshop, Gimp, or another piece of software that works on MacOS (not Paint).
 To open Paint, open the Start menu and select the search box. Type the word “Paint” and once the program appears in the search results, click the link. This method will work with Gimp and Photoshop as well.
 Decide on an image (any image type, as long as its supported by the program you use) to convert into an icon. Remember, icons are actually small squares, so try to pick something that will look good in a small square box. Click “File” then “Open” in any image editing software and select the image you want to work with.
 In order to display correctly, you’ll want your image to be a perfect square. We’ll also need to shrink it to a size that will work as an icon file (we’ll do 32 x 32).


Crop: If you opened a large image that’s rectangular, try using your editing software’s cropping tool to identify a square area for your icon. Crop is on the Home tab of Pant, and in the Image menu on Photoshop and Gimp.
Resize the image: In Paint, go to the Home tag and select “Resize,” uncheck “Maintain aspect ratio” and type 32 into both the “Horizontal” and “Vertical” boxes. In Photoshop and Gimp, open the Image menu and select “Image Size” in Photoshop, “Image Scaling” in Gimp. Take the check out of “Constrain proportions” and set both “Width” and “Height” to 32. Note: this may warp the image. If so, try cropping it to a more square shape first. The end result will need to be a 32 x 32 pixel image, so you may need to switch back and forth between cropping and adjusting image size a few different times.
 Now that you’ve editing, you’re ready to save. Make sure to save to a location you’ll remember.


Paint: Open the File menu and click “Save As.” Before typing a file name, click the dropdown menu next to “Save as Type” and choose “256-color bitmap.” Next, select a folder where you’d like to save your new icon. Now, type in the name of your icon next to “file name,” giving it the file extension .ico. For example, mozillaalternate.ico.
Photoshop: Open the File menu and choose “Save as.” Select “Windows Icon File (.ico)” from the list of save options. If you don’t see it listed, make sure you installed the Telegraphics plugin.
Gimp: Open the File menu and select “Save As.” Select the “Microsoft Windows Icon (.ico)” file type. Now navigate to the location where you’d like to save your icon, and then type a name for it in the “file name” box. For example, you could call it mozillaalternate.ico.

