 Your bed is an allergen hotspot. This is because bedding uses material like feathers and because the bed itself is a haven for dust mites, microscopic creatures that feed on dead skin cells and whose feces and dead bodies cause allergic reactions like coughing and a runny nose. Be sure to secure your bed from these allergy sources.Encase your pillows, bed, and box-springs in allergy-proof plastic or knit covers. These will keep out dust and prevent mites from colonizing your bed.
Replace any feather pillows and/or comforters with hypoallergenic alternatives like cotton. Feather and wool bedding is also harder to clean, and therefore a center for dust mites.
Buy bedding that doesn’t trap dust and is easy to clean — choose washable fabrics, as well.;
, Most people only strip the bed about once every two weeks. For the allergy-prone, this isn’t quite often enough. Besides hypoallergenic covers, secure your bed by washing blankets and other bedding often, preferably every week.Wash the sheets, pillowcases, and blankets in hot water. The water needs to be at least 130°F or 54.4°C to kill dust mites and remove allergens.
Dry on a high setting (over 130°F or 54.5°C) for at least 15 minutes.
Wash your mattress cover, too. Check the label to make sure, but it should be safe to machine wash. You can vacuum your mattress while washing the cover.
While you can also kill dust mites by freezing non-washable items for 24 hours, this will not remove allergens like the dust mite feces.
 Another way that to ensure your bed is allergy-proof is to shower before you tuck in. Make a warm and thorough shower a part of your evening routine — it will be relaxing as well as better for your allergies.Showering will remove pollen and other possible allergens that you’ve picked up during the day.
Change into freshly laundered pajamas, too, and deposit your clothes in a hamper. For best results, make sure your PJs are washed with hypoallergenic detergent.
 Your bedroom harbors allergens beyond the bed, especially in the carpeting and other places where dust can accumulate. This makes regular cleaning a must. Dusting and vacuuming will remove potential allergens like pollen, dead skin cells, and pet dander.When you dust, use a dampened or oiled cloth rather than a dry one to prevent particulate matter from getting into the air.
Use a vacuum with a double micro-filter bag or a HEPA filter (High-efficiency particulate air filter) to get rid of allergens best. Stay out of the vacuumed room for about two hours, until the air resettles.
While vacuuming will remove particles like dust and pollen, it’s not as good as getting rid of dust mites. Replacing rugs and carpeting with hardwood or linoleum flooring is preferable, if you can.
 Purge clutter and objects in your room that collect dust — because if it traps dust, it will draw dust mites. Try to get rid of easily moveable objects and replace things like furniture with easier-to-clean pieces.Trash old magazines, papers, and newspapers and put away other knick-knacks. Books collect lots of dust, too, so move them to a different room if you’d like to keep them. Stuffed animals and many decorative pillows attract dust and are hard to clean, so avoid them if possible.
Replace upholstered furniture with pieces made from plastic, metal, wood, or leather. These will harbor less dust and are easier to clean.
Be aware that venetian blinds and many kinds of curtains collect lots of dust. Use washable, cotton curtains instead or washable, roller-style blinds.
 Mold and mildew is yet another source of allergens and can trigger respiratory reactions like asthma. Watch out for them especially on or around your windows, where condensation tends to appear. Make sure to keep the windows dry and uncovered.Wipe condensation from the windows and window frames regularly with a cloth.
Opt for lightweight curtains or blinds over heavy fabrics, as the latter are better at trapping in moisture and prevent air from circulating over the windows.
Keep the blinds open during the day, too, to let natural light in and promote air circulation over the windows.
 You probably aren’t allergic to your cat or dog, but they can still make your other allergies worse. Pets can transport pollen and leave dander in dead skin cells and hair, which is great food for dust mites. As much as you love them, the bedroom is not always the best place for pets.Keep your bedroom door closed at all times and teach your pet to know that the room is off-limits. Alternately, install a pet gate to block access.
Keep your cat or dog off the bed, if you do let it inside.
 Mold, mildew, and dust mites all thrive in moist and humid air. The key to reducing their levels is to keep your bedroom dry and the humidity levels as low as you can. Do this by using heating, cooling, and other systems to your benefit. In general, keep your windows closed to prevent pollens and spores from entering from outside.
Open the windows one or two times per day if your home lacks internal ventilation, however. Outside of North America some buildings are ventilated ONLY through the windows, hence keeping them shut will cause humidity to build and lead to mold and mildew growth, especially in winter.
Use an air conditioning unit when it’s warm out to keep the humidity low. You can also turn down the thermometer. Dust mites have trouble breeding in temperatures below 77°F (25°C).
Run a dehumidifier if you live in a warm and moist area. Try to maintain humidity levels at about 30% to 50%. You can track the levels with a battery-powered humidity gauge.
 The right air filter or circulation system can greatly reduce the amount of allergens in your home, and also in your bedroom. You can either add these directly to your furnace or set up a room unit. It can be costly, but it’s well worth the investment. Install a HEPA filter to your furnace if you have a forced-air heating system. Electrostatic air filters work, too, though they are less efficient than HEPA filters. Make sure to clean all filters and air ducts at least once per year.
You can also buy a room air purifier, which are available in HEPA, Electrostatic, and other varieties. These will help to scrub dust, pollen, and mold spores from the air; however, some units may also emit trace amounts of ozone — a respiratory irritant.Cover your AC vents with cheesecloth to avoid the intake of pollen from outdoors, as well.

