 A playlist is a list of songs from your library that all appeal to you in a specific way. For example, you might create a House Party playlist or a Driving playlist. Playlists can have as many songs as you’d like.


Click File and select New > Playlist.
Give your playlist a memorable name.
Add music to the playlist by dragging songs from your library onto your playlist name in the left menu, or by right-clicking on songs and selecting Add to Playlist. You will be able to designate which playlist you’d like to add them to.
Hosting a party? These tips should help you create the perfect party mix.
When you're planning your wedding playlist, make sure you have good songs to dance to! This guide will show you how to create a good wedding mix.;
, A Smart Playlist uses user-set modifiers to create automatic playlists. For example, you may create a Smart Playlist that contains only highly-rated Jazz songs from before 1955, or a playlist that contains only songs that are faster than 100 BPM that you added to your library last year.Mix and match these rules to create specific custom playlists.
You can create rules to exclude songs from playlists as well. For example, you could create a rule that any song added cannot be from a certain genre.
Smart Playlists can be limited to a set number of songs, or can be unlimited in length.
Smart Playlists can update every time you add more files to iTunes and the files match your playlist rules. Check the “Live updating” box to enable this.

This guide will show you how to create Smart Playlist that mixes your favorite tracks with ones that you haven't listened to yet.
You can use the BPM filter to create the perfect workout mix.
 A Genius playlist uses song information to automatically create a playlist of similar songs based of the song that you choose. Hover over a song in your library and click the arrow button. Select Create Genius Playlist. The new playlist will appear in the left menu with the Genius icon next to it.


You can get new songs for the same Genius playlist by clicking the Refresh button.
You can adjust the number of songs in the playlist by clicking the down arrow button next to the number of songs and select a new value.

