 Earned run average is the number of times a man from the opposing scores a run due to the fault of the pitcher. This could be because of three things:


The batter made a hit. Although it does mean the pitcher threw a strike, it counts against his earned run average.
The pitcher walked the batter. This could be the result of the pitcher throwing four balls or hitting the batter with the pitch.;
, To calculate an accurate ERA, you must have accurate numbers. You need to know the earned runs, but to do this you have to look at when the pitcher was pulled from a game. For example, if a pitcher played three innings and in the fourth inning allowed a man on every base and then was pulled, all three of those men would count against his ERA. They do not transfer to the next pitcher simply because he was the one pitching when they made it across home plate.
 Whereas earned runs are caused by hits and are the fault of the pitcher, unearned runs are usually caused by errors or passed balls and are not strictly the fault of the pitcher. Unearned runs do not count towards a pitcher's ERA.


For example, there are runners on 2nd and 3rd base, with 2 outs. The pitcher throws a pitch to the batter, which ends up being a routine ground ball to the first baseman, but the first baseman bobbles it and can't make a play to get an out. One runner scores, and two are still left on base. The run is unearned, and if the two remaining runners on base happen to score, their runs also count as unearned.
 To calculate ERA, you need three parts: the earned runs, the innings pitched, and the total number of innings.


Earned runs, as explained above, are the number of times a pitcher lets a batter get on base. This is the total number for the whole game.
The innings pitched is just like it sounds, the total number of innings this pitcher pitched. This number will always end in thirds. That is because for every inning three strikes can be made by the fielding team. That leaves three possible outcomes: a whole inning (three outs), an inning with two outs (ends in .66), or an inning with one out (ends in .33).
The total number of innings refers to the number of innings in a complete game (9).