 Your computer most likely has rectangular holes, called USB ports, on the sides of its casing (for laptops) or behind the monitor, on the side of the keyboard, or on the CPU for a desktop. You'll insert your flash drive into a USB port.


USB ports have a piece of plastic in the top of their slots; you'll also notice that the USB end of your flash drive has a plastic segment. You'll need to insert the drive into your computer's USB port with the plastic segment side of the flash drive on the bottom.
If your flash drive won't fit into your computer's USB port, turn it over.
Unfortunately, some Macs don't have USB ports.;
, This app is a blue face icon in your Mac's dock, which is usually at the bottom of the screen.


Your flash drive may actually open as soon as you plug it into your computer, in which case you won't have to open the Finder.
 It will be toward the bottom of the left-side panel of the Finder window, below the "Devices" heading. Doing so will open your flash drive's window, into which you may drag your pictures.If your flash drive opened when you plugged it into your Mac, skip this step.
 This app, which has a multicolored pinwheel on a white background as its icon, is also in your dock.
 Once you let go of the mouse, your photo will "drop" into the flash drive window, which means it will copy from your computer into the drive.


Photos aren't moved from your computer to your flash drive by default; they're copied instead. If you want to move the photos off of your computer, you'll need to delete them from your computer after moving them to the flash drive window.
You can hold down ⇧ Shift while clicking photos to select multiple photos, or you can click and drag your cursor across as many photos as you wish to copy.
 You can put as many photos on your flash drive as the flash drive will allow.


For example, a flash drive with 64 gigabytes' worth of space can store roughly 64 gigabytes' worth of photos.
 It's the upward-facing arrow next to the flash drive's name in the Finder window. Doing so will ensure that, when you remove your USB flash drive, your files will remain uncorrupted.
 Your pictures are now on your flash drive. If you'd like to move the photos from your flash drive to another computer, you only need to plug your flash drive into a new computer and then drag the photos from your drive to the computer's Pictures folder.

