 If you still have one of your eyebrows, this might be a little easier--just match the pencil to the shade of your eyebrow hair. Otherwise, use your hair color as a guide. If you are a brunette or a redhead, look for a color that is one shade lighter than your hair. If you are a blonde, try one shade darker.You can't substitute eyeliner for an eyebrow pencil in this case. You are literally drawing on your eyebrow, and eyeliner is too likely to smudge and ruin the illusion.
Use the same method to choose powder, but don't get too matchy--if the colors are a little different, it will add more dimension to your drawn-on brow.Feel free to mix brow powders or eyeshadows to get the right color or simply add more depth to the look.Avoid anything with sparkles or shimmer, as this will look unnatural.;
, Make sure your skin is clean and free of any excess moisturizer. As your skin releases natural oils throughout the day, your makeup can begin to slide or will smudge easily. The powder will help absorb the oil and also give the makeup something to cling to so it stays put on your face.








Use a soft, fluffy brush to disperse the powder.
 The application should be very light, just a vague suggestion of an eyebrow. You can use your other eyebrow as a guide for where your missing brow should begin and end. Otherwise, there are a few tricks you can use to figure it out.









Hold a pencil against your nose. The edge of the pencil that is closer to your eye marks where your brow should start. Don't go any further inward than this line.Keep the pencil held against your nose but pivot the tip so that it points to the outer corner of your eye. This should be about a 45-degree angle. That is where your brow should end.The arch should be right above the outer edge of your iris (the colored part of your eye) if you are looking straight ahead.If you make any mistakes, just use a cotton swab to wipe off the makeup.
 You want to follow the shape you created with the brow powder or eyeshadow and use short, feathering strokes that look like actual little hairs. It is important to keep the pencil very sharp, so make sure you stop to sharpen it and keep that fine tip.Don't press too hard or draw your strokes too dark. It will look more natural if you draw your eyebrows in several layers of light strokes.Again, use a cotton swab to fix any mistakes.
 You simply paint this clear product over your brows and allow it to dry. It may look a bit shiny, so go over it with another layer of powder.







