 You can't reasonably advertise to every person who needs a website designed, taxes filed, or whichever service you plan to provide. What you can do is figure out what specific benefits you're best at providing, and consider who specifically would be interested in them. If you stay away from generic statements and describe yourself as a specialist instead, you can focus your marketing efforts where they will be most successful.


If your clients are individuals, search blog databases or the internet in general for popular blogs related to your company's service, product, or mission statement. These should tell you what your clients are interested in, and specific problems they have that you could offer to fix.
If your clients are organizations, use the advanced search settings on a database such as CrunchBase to narrow down clients by location, type, and other attributes. Once you've narrowed it down to a list of a few dozen to a few hundred organizations, you can contact these with proposals targeted to their needs., Before you start advertising or launch a social media promotion, you should sit down and do the hard work of planning your marketing campaign. Consider how much money you are willing to spend on marketing, then research how you can spend it for maximum effect.



This article on online marketing strategies may contain additional advice.
The easiest way to evaluate whether a marketing plan is a good idea is to ask other experts.Don't contact your direct competitors for advice, but do send questions to people running business that provide services to the same group of people. If you're a wedding photographer, run your ideas past a florist; if you are a consultant in a specific industry, talk to other consultants who provide the same companies with different services.
 If you've determined that online marketing is a good idea, decide whether to use social media, a company website, or both. Every social media account, blog, or company news feed should be regularly updated with promotions or news about your company, although you should avoid spamming followers with daily advertisements.
 As long as it is functional and not too amateur in appearance, even a bare bones website is useful for showcasing your previous work and making yourself easily available to potential clients. In addition, if you have the resources, create free articles or videos that provide useful information that people will read and share.This can be a great way to spread word about your services by doing what you or your employees do best, rather than relying on difficult and unpredictable viral marketing or paying for advertisements.


Use search engine optimization techniques to improve your website's visibility
Assign yourself or an employee the task of regularly updating your online presence according to the goals and budget of your marketing plan. You may need to set aside additional time and money to create the free content that draws potential clients in.
 If you do pay to run an ad on other websites, be sure to target it to websites that your clients will visit in large numbers. In addition, contact relevant blog owners, online forum communities, or other people who have an audience of potential clients for your service. They may be willing to direct people to your content or promotions.


Ask clients where they heard about you, or request that they fill out surveys if you have a large number of clients. Discontinue advertisements that do not turn out to be worth the cost.
 If you are a consultant or other service provider specializing in a specific industry, attend the regional and national conferences related to your clients' work. Besides staying up to date on the field, you will be able to make connections with many potential new clients you wouldn't normally meet.Contact the conference organizers well in advance to ask if you could deliver a speech or presentation, or sit on a panel related to your work. This increases your visibility further.

