 If you feel like you’re getting mad at someone, give yourself a little break for some time to cool down and regroup. If you regain control of your feelings before you talk to the person you’re on the verge of being mad at, you’re more likely to avoid conflict. , Deep breaths can help you calm down and avoid getting mad at someone. To benefit from the potential relaxation of deep breathing, you need to take deep breaths into your abdomen. Place your hand on your diaphragm (between your belly and chest) and breathe so deeply that you hand moves as your belly begins to expand. Then slowly breathe out.Keep your focus on your breath, breathing in and out 8-10 times or until you feel like you have regained control of your emotions.
 While displacing your anger towards another person can be bad, redirecting it towards an activity such as cleaning, exercising, or tackling long-overdue items on your “to-do” list can be helpful. You can get out some angry energy while you do something productive!

, If you give yourself time to do something nice for yourself,you get plenty of sleepand exercise, .and you maintain a healthy diet, you will feel better. Feeling better often means having better control over your emotions, which leads to more effective (and kinder) communication with others. Additionally, if you are not getting any time for self-care, you may begin to feel resentful to people whom you perceive as preventing you from getting that time.


You should try to sleep 7-8 hours every night to thrive physically and emotionally.Aim for 20-30 minutes of exercise each day. If you cannot exercise daily, try to do it at least 3-4 times per week.
Include whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and protein in your diet.Getting healthy fats can also make you feel full longer. Also avoid fat-free and overly processed foods. These often lack adequate nutrition and may leave you feeling dissatisfied. , Unwinding to some of your favorite singers might calm you down and get you in the mood. Music is proven to make you feel a certain way when you hear it and bring back memories. It can calm people who are angry or agitated, even if they’re not aware of the source of that agitation.Classical music and jazz are particularly helpful for calming people down, but you have to find what works for you.
 You can help reduce your anger by trying to focus more clearly on your positive thoughts. Close your eyes, banish every negative thought that comes your way, and think of at least three positive things.The positive thoughts can be positive aspects of the situation you're worrying about, or just thoughts about something else you have to look forward to or something that makes you happy.
Some examples of positive thoughts include:

This will pass.
I am strong enough to handle this.
Challenging situations are opportunities to grow.
I will not feel angry forever; this is a temporary feeling.



