 Facebook posts with 80 characters or fewer receive up to 66 percent more engagement than longer posts. While you shouldn't feel confined to this length, keeping your posts short will generally ensure that people will take the time to read your words.Try to keep your posts below 477 characters. After 477 characters, the Read More option appears; many users won't read past the Read More point.;
, While there will be circumstances in which comedy is inappropriate, attempting to inject a lighthearted or humorous tone into the majority of your posts will create a culture of positivity. Facebook users tend to shy away from negative or boring Facebook posts, so having a reputation for positive posting will ensure that people want to visit (and re-visit) your page.


Try placing a humorous spin on an otherwise mundane post (e.g., "It's so rainy I half expect to see an arc float by my house").
 If you know that a majority of your Facebook friends lean a certain way on a political issue, writing a post about that issue will attract a lot of attention. As long as you keep your own bias as minimal as possible in the post, you'll likely receive large amounts of likes and comments.


For example: I've seen a lot of media claiming ; I, however, look at it this way: . Does anyone care to discuss?

This same methodology goes for any controversial topic.
 Especially for users scrolling through their News Feeds on mobile platforms, visual media (e.g., photos and videos) are more desirable than text-only posts.These photos should be original, and you should include commentary on them if at all possible.
For example, you might post a photo from a hike with the caption "Had a great time at last Saturday!"

, You shouldn't do this too often since it can start to feel like you're spamming your friends if you do, but tagging a few friends every once in a while will ensure that their friends see your status on their walls as well. This increases the number of people who can see and interact with your status.For example: Went camping with and last weekend. Stay tuned for pictures!

If your status security settings are set to Private, other people may not be able to see your posts if they aren't your friend on Facebook.
 Liking and commenting on other users' posts will often prompt those users to visit your page and view your content. If you're positive and you leave a polite comment on their status, they'll likely do the same for you out of courtesy.
 When you share on Facebook, your friends and fans want to see your input in addition to the shared link. On top of that, users are less likely to click a link that has no additional text than they are to click one with your commentary. The more people you can get to engage your post, the more likes and conversation that post will attract!, Public posts reach people outside of your Friends list, and you can use tags (e.g., "#globalwarming ") to designate the topic of your post so that other users who are interested in your tagged topic can view your post simply by typing the tag into the Facebook search bar.


You can change who can see your post by clicking the Friends bar beneath your post's text field (desktop site) or by tapping the Friends bar beneath your name in the "Update Status" box (mobile app) and then selecting Public.
 While strictly up to you, doing this will increase the base number of people who can see your posts. If you only have 100 friends or so, the number of likes you can receive on personal or business posts has a fairly low upper limit.


Adding friends is a good way to increase your outreach without posting publicly.
If you have a business page on which you're trying to get likes, invite as many people as you can to like your page.
 This is a great way to ensure that people will comment on your post, at the very least, and posts with large numbers of comments receive higher visibility in other friends' News Feeds.Don't ask personal questions, since you're liable to receive less engagement for an embarrassing topic.
 Responding to your friends will give them a reason to keep coming back to your post. It will also foster a conversation, meaning your post will stay active in your friends' New Feeds for longer. In turn, people will have more time throughout the day to view and interact with your Facebook post.A good way to do this is by saying something like "Hey , thanks for reaching out!" and then addressing the question or comment.
Liking or commenting on old posts (especially photos) will bring them back to the top of your friends' News Feeds. This is a good way to increase engagement on posts from your past that failed to reach your target number of users.
 While liking comments on your own posts is similar to responding to user comments, it also contributes to other users wanting to like your comments. This is another way to increase your posts' visibility by keeping them active for longer.