 Working on a suicide hotline can be a high-pressure and emotional experience. You may be dealing with multiple stressful situations per shift that require immediate assessment. You may also need to be comfortable with not having any follow-up to your work. That said, there are many benefits to working on a suicide hotline, too, including:Helping people in times of extreme crisis
Developing crisis counseling and listening skills
Making a difference in your community
Providing individuals with community resources for continuing care in their time of need;
, Determine what agencies are near you, and/or which particular hotline would be the best fit for your values, schedule, and experience. Some national hotlines partner with local organizations to take their calls. You may need to apply directly with the local agency for a position. There are different types of organizations and ways to connect with those in need:


National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is a national hotline that works with local crisis centers: http://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/.
The Trevor Project provides crisis intervention for LGBTQ youth: http://www.thetrevorproject.org/pages/volunteer.
IMAlive is an online, chat-based suicide prevention agency: https://www.imalive.org/index.php.
The Veterans Crisis Line allows Veterans to connect with someone via live chat, text, or phone call: https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/.
 Look for job opportunities through the organizations you are interested in, or look on a job board that caters to your area or skill set. Submit your application per the agency’s requirements, and go on an interview if requested.


The qualifications to work as a crisis hotline employee will vary depending on the state and organization you work for, as well as, the level of crisis intervention you are providing.
Many organizations will put their new employees through certified training as there are key things or phrases one needs to listen for, or ask questions about to ensure the caller is connected to the most appropriate level of care.
If you want to be employed by a crisis hotline, you will likely need, at minimum, a bachelor’s degree in psychology or human services. A master’s degree in a counseling or social work program could further help you take on direct counseling or supervisory roles.
Keep in mind that for certain roles within the organization, you may require licensure by your state’s human services regulatory agency. These requirements vary by degree, license, and state., If you have a long-term goal of being employed by a suicide hotline, you can gain experience and skills by working as a volunteer for a suicide or crisis hotline. Having volunteer experience will look great on future employment applications.


Check out your local shelters. Domestic violence shelters in particular are always willing to accept volunteers. These places are generally short-staffed and have very little to no funding to pay for another employee. The more free help they can find, the better. In addition, you will get experience providing crisis intervention face-to-face with clients to really hone on your skills.
It is always good to start off volunteering for an organization of preference and connect with others with experience. Through this connection, you get a feel of this line of work and decide if it works for you. Also, connecting with an experienced crisis hotline worker, and/or crisis counselor will help you identify what level or type of crisis work you wish to do. There are many different levels, each offering their own set of responsibilities, pay, and different levels of required education and experience.
Remember, you can still help at a suicide hotline even if you are not taking calls! Help is always needed for fundraising, events, marketing, and administrative support.