 Before you make any drastic changes, try changing your clothes or hair. Don't jump into anything you think you will regret.;
, List some pros and cons of your current appearance. Compare it to what you want to look like after the makeover. Would you be better off leaving it as is?

, You don't want to cut too much or too little. If you aren't going to a professional hair stylist, make sure you know exactly what you want before taking out the scissors.


Choose how short you want to cut it. If you have long hair and want short hair, consider donating it. Also, remember that if you cut it, you'll have to wait a while for it to grow back. Think everything through first!
If you want to try out extensions or dye your hair, think about the cost and how hard it will be to do at home. If you don't know what you are doing, ask someone with experience.
If you are cutting your hair, choose the style you want beforehand. If you are trimming it or losing 4 inches (10.2 cm) or under, cut the sides first. Then carefully measure out the back and trim. If you are cutting 4 inches (10.2 cm) or more, use a rubber band to divide your hair into 3-4 sections. Make sure they are all even. After that, carefully cut each one at the rubber band. Shake your hair out, and use a comb to trim the ends.
For a fringe, make a tiny ponytail in front of your face. Cut it off at your nose (be careful not to cut yourself). Comb the hair across your face, and shape it with scissors. Don't cut a fringe when your hair is wet--it will dry and appear shorter!
Don't freak out if the style is a lot different than what you are used to. Normally, the point of a makeover is to change your self image. Be proud to show your true colors!

, If you decide to dye your hair, choose a color that looks good with your skin color and/or eye color. If you have a dark skin color, don't choose beach blonde if you want it to look somewhat natural. (But if you want to stand out and look flashy, go for it!) Hair dye aisles of stores often have mirrors, so hold your preferred color up to your skin to see if they look nice together. Also, compare it to your current hair color. If it is the complete opposite, the color may not look good on you. However, don't be afraid of trying new things, just be cautious.


Once you have picked out a color, follow the directions on the box. Remember that the dye will fade eventually and your hair will start to return to your natural color, so make sure you have some extra dye handy to cover up roots that are standing out after a few weeks.
 If you choose to wear makeup, choose a good color scheme. Don't jump around from oranges and reds to blues and greens. Choose colors that go together.


Apply in moderation. You don't want to look like you rolled around in makeup. If this is your first time using makeup, start small. You don't want to have too drastic of a change until you're used to it.
Ask a friend for their opinion on your makeup. Something that looks great to you may not look great to others.
 While doing so, think about what image you want to show. Put aside clothes that remind you of your previous look for now. This is a chance to go through your clothes and decide what is really you and what isn't.


If you are going for a bright, flashy look, choose clothes that match your lively personality. Avoid dark colors and aim for the colors of the rainbow!
If you are a shy person who tries to stay away from big crowds, choose clothes that are lighter in color and somewhat blend in. Don't wear glittery clothes or clothes that show off a lot of your body.
Remember, be who you want to be! Don't feel like you have to fit into one particular theme. You can bounce back and forth everyday if you want to!

, When you finish your makeover, stand tall. You are showing off the new you! Don't appear bashful of your new look, otherwise people will think that you don't like it. Congratulations on finishing your self makeover!

