 One of the most effective ways to manage cellulite is by reducing your body fat. Experts agree that a low-calorie diet is an effective way to lower body fat levels and effectively reduce the appearance of cellulite.In addition to promoting weight loss, a consistently healthy diet has also been shown to reduce fluid retention in the skin, which may improve the appearance of cellulite.Choose foods that are low in calories but high in volume, as these are more filling. For example, 1/4 cup (two ounces) of raisins have the same number of calories as a whole cup (eight ounces) of grapes, and the grapes will leave you feeling fuller.Opt for fresh fruits and vegetables over processed foods. Avoid foods that are high in fat and sugar content as much as possible.Talk to your doctor about putting together a low-calorie diet that's right for you.
 In addition to a low-calorie diet, vigorous exercise can help reduce body fat. Resistance training can also help build muscle, which has been shown to help even out the surface of the skin by pushing subcutaneous fat cells back down.Focus on building muscle in your legs, thighs, buttocks, abdomen, or anywhere else you're prone to cellulite.Resistance exercises like side leg lifts, low cable pulley work, squats, lunges, and stair stepping can all help tone your muscles and improve your skin's appearance.Start out at a relatively low number of repetitions and sets, then build up your sessions as your strength increases.
Try to combine aerobic exercise and resistance exercise. Aim to engage in aerobic exercise for 30 to 40 minutes three to five times each week and work in sets of resistance training two to three times each week.
 You may not think of smoking as being a factor in skin fat, but studies have shown that cigarette smoke can make cellulite worse. That's because smoking weakens your body's ability to form collagen, making it easier for fat cells to protrude into the overlying skin tissue.Talk to your doctor about putting together an effective plan to quit nicotine.
You can try using a quitting system like nicotine gum or patches, which are designed to gradually decrease your oral or subdermal dose of nicotine.
Ask a friend or relative to keep an eye on you and make sure you don't slip up and start smoking again.
Consider joining a support group if you're worried about staying committed. You can find information about support groups by searching online.
 While lifestyle changes have been proven to help improve the appearance of cellulite, there are no miracle cures for this condition. There's no way to "spot target" cellulite, though general muscle toning should help. Be patient and don't expect diet, exercise, or other lifestyle changes to remove all of your cellulite; instead, go into it knowing that these lifestyle shifts will improve your condition while making you healthier and increasing your self-esteem.