 One of the best ways to make money in Aura Kingdom is through the virtual auction house. If you get familiar with the market, you can buy low-priced items and then sell them at a higher price.


You can find these Auction Houses in the Navea City and Guild House. To locate them, check your mini map for the $ sign. If you are in a guild, simply open your guild window and then press "Guild Hall" to teleport into your guild house (this is only available for players with that have guild level 4).
Buying and selling requires patience, timing, and the ability to know the Aura Kingdom item prices.
The Auction House is best for items that are not rare, as you will not lose out on profits due to the 10% commission.;
, Click the NPC to open the auction window where you can see the list of categories, including the item quality, option for prices, keywords, and level range. The Auction House, AH for short, is used by many players in-game.


If you're planning to have an item listed for auctioning, keep in mind that you will be charged 10% of your listing price upfront. You will not get this money back even if your item doesn't sell, so make sure you're listing at a fair price.
Items in the auction will remain in the list up to 24 hours. If the items are not sold during the time frame, they will return to the owner.
 As mentioned, buying and selling is a good way to earn gold quickly in the game, but you must have the knowledge of the market price to avoid hurting your profit.


To purchase an item, click the Purchase tab, found at the upper-left of the auction window. Choose what item you're going to purchase by clicking the type under the category, then type in the name of the item under the keywords (make sure that the first letter is Capital), and then hit Enter.
You can browse the list by pressing the next button that can be found at the bottom part of the window until you find your desired item. Click on the item and then hit Purchase. The item will go straight to your mail.
Remember to buy low, sell high.
 Open the auction window by clicking the NPC and then pressing “Your Auctions” at the upper-left side of the window. This is where you’ll see the list of items you're selling, the item name, time left, and the price. To sell the item, drag it to the empty box at the upper left of the window or right-click it from your inventory. You have to set the price and make sure you will get a good profit out of it to avoid losing money.


10% of the listed price is paid upfront, and you don't get this money back even if your item doesn't sell.
Confirm all the listing settings by selecting the "List Item" button. Your item will be listed for sale and the displayed fee deducted from your current gold; now you have to wait until someone purchases your item.
You cannot sell items that are already character bound. You can check whether the item is bound or not by hovering the cursor over the item.
When an item listed for sale is sold, you will receive a mail with the profits. Click on the letter icon on the bottom left-hand corner of your minimap to open your mail window. Once in the mailbox, click on the letter to open it and the press “Take” to get your gold. The same thing applies for items that aren't sold. Opening the mail will place the unsold item back in your inventory.

