 Before you go fishing, you should buy a container of worms or dig some up from your garden. Keep them in a small container full of cool dirt - Tupperware works well. Only bring your worms out when you're ready to use them. Make sure your hook is well-secured to your fishing line.


For tips and tricks on finding your own worms, see our How to Gather Earthworms guide. For help tying your hook to a fishing line, see How to Tie a Fishing Knot.
;
, Pick a spot about half a centimeter from one end of the worm. Too close to the worm's head, and he might be able to wiggle away from the hook. Take care not to hook your hand as the hook passes through the worm's body - don't press directly down onto the hook's point through the worm.


No need to be squeamish! Though the worm may squirm and thrash when you hook it, scientists believe that worms can't feel pain., Slide the worm up the hook in the same way you would slide a bracelet up your arm. Position the speared worm so that it's just below the hook's knot.


To further secure the worm, some fishermen tie the short end of the speared worm to the fishing line with a simple knot called a half hitch . To perform a half hitch knot, loop the fishing line around your worm, passing the line through the loop. Tighten to secure the worm to the line.
 Choose a spot a little further down the length of the worm - your best bet is to leave a little slack so that the "loop" of the worm's body between the two speared spots is slack enough to move a little. Repeat this step going down the length of the worm. When baited, the worm should have an accordion-like appearance.


The precise number of times you'll need to spear the worm varies based on its length. Generally 3-5 times is plenty.
Don't spear the very end of the worm. By leaving a little of the worm's length a little "limp," you allow it to wiggle, which catches fish' attention better than a tightly speared worm.
 If your worm is bunched up near the hook's knot, move it down to the "curve" of the hook. You want the fish to bite the hook's barb - if the worm isn't anywhere near the barb, a fish might be able to get a free meal!

, Repeat this process as needed when you lose a worm or catch a fish. Practice makes perfect - it can be tough to spear squirmy, slimy worms at first, but within no time you'll be baiting worms like a pro angler. Happy fishing!

