 Typhoid fever is a serious and potentially life-threatening infection if treatment is not received promptly. Therefore, if you suspect you may have it, it is important to be evaluated by a medical professional as soon as possible.Start by seeing your family doctor who can refer you on to an infectious disease specialist. However, if you are unable to get a same-day appointment with your family doctor, you may proceed directly to the emergency room for the fastest evaluation and treatment.Your doctor will ask you for a travel history, as places to which you have travelled is a key factor in diagnosing typhoid fever.;
, Typhoid fever is most commonly caused by the bacteria "Salmonella typhi."Humans are carriers of the disease, and it is passed on via fecal-oral transmission. What this means is that fecal remnants get on someone's hands, and then they touch food or water, which is subsequently ingested by another who then becomes infected with the disease.


People can also become carriers of the disease, without necessarily knowing it, and this can contribute to disease outbreaks.Typhoid fever is most prominent in under-developed countries, where hand hygiene is less enforced.
 The illness usually takes about 1-2 weeks to present with symptoms after it has entered your system (so there is a delay post exposure).Once symptoms begin to appear, they typically last 3-4 weeks and then remit if appropriate medical treatment is administered. Common signs and symptoms include:


A fever which gradually worsens (up to 104 degrees Fahrenheit)
Poor appetite
Fatigue
Bowel disturbances (diarrhea or constipation)
Headaches
Often abdominal pain and discomfort
Sometimes chest congestion
Note that, even after treatment, 10% of people have a relapse of symptoms.Therefore, always be on the watch for these symptoms if you suspect you may have typhoid fever, or may be developing a relapse.
 If you have typhoid fever, the following tests can be used to aid in diagnosis:


A stool test can look for the presence of "Salmonella typhi" bacteria in your stool. Since the bacteria initially enter your body via the gastrointestinal tract, it can often first be detected in the stool.If a stool test is inconclusive, your doctor will likely proceed to blood tests.The infection quickly spreads from the GI tract to various other parts of the body, so can be most often be detected in the blood as well.
 If a stool test and/or a blood test is insufficient to confirm a diagnosis of typhoid fever, your doctor may proceed with a urine analysis or bone marrow test.Both of these methods can also be successful at diagnosing typhoid fever, since it tends to be widespread throughout the body.


A bone marrow test is more complicated to conduct, but it is also the most precise method to confirm the presence of the "Salmonella typhi" bacteria in your body., If typhoid fever is confirmed, it is generally treated with antibiotics.Cipro and Rocephin are the two most commonly prescribed antibiotics for typhoid fever. Take the antibiotics as directed by your physician.


Prior to the use of antibiotics, about 20% of people died of typhoid fever. It can be a very serious illness, and this is why prompt medical evaluation and following through with treatment are key.
 You may start to feel better once you are taking a prescribed antibiotic that is effective against the strain of typhoid you are carrying. Even if you feel better, continue to take the full course of antibiotics prescribed.This type of bacteria lingers. It likes to live in the gastrointestinal tract of people that are infected.
Take steps to be sure you are rid of the bacteria before you prepare food for others or care for small children.
Some states will not allow you to work in areas of food preparation or child care until your doctor clears you. This involves repeated testing of stool samples or blood cultures to be sure you are no longer carrying Salmonella typhi.
 Since the bacteria lives in the gastrointestinal tract, it is easy to pass the infection on to someone else if it gets on your hands.Use warm soap and water and wash your hands carefully after using the bathroom.
Continue doing this until you have been cleared by your doctor that you no longer have any signs of "Salmonella typhi" in your body.
 Even though you have been treated, you may still be carrying the bacteria and are at risk for getting sick again.Contact your doctor immediately if you experience any symptoms that may indicate a relapse.
 If you plan to travel to underdeveloped countries, talk to your doctor about receiving a vaccination to prevent contracting typhoid fever. In the United States, vaccinations are available as both oral doses and injections.Oral doses are given in the form of capsules. This is a series of four doses given every other day. You should complete the series at least one week before your travel. This type of vaccination requires boosters every five years.
Injectable vaccines require only one dose and should be completed at least two weeks before your travel. Vaccines by injection require boosters every two years.
If you have ever had an episode or infection of typhoid fever, let your doctor know this before you get vaccinated.
If you are a carrier, then you should not receive the vaccine.

