 Get with a troop or girl guide in your area. Most can be found by looking in schools as they have lots of active troops.;
, Remember that when your troop decides to go camping, sign up first. This usually requires a permission slip so have your parents sign it. Some troops require some money to be paid for camper admission.
 Most camps give out a personal supply list for your reference. If you need medications, check with your troop leader on how to bring them. If you need any items that are not on the supply list, such as period pads or snuggly toys, bring them! Do not bring items such as ipods or cell phones, as they can get lost or broken and most camps/troops do not allow them. Remember to pack light, as this results in less bags to carry. The most basic items that are needed are:


Sleeping bags
Toiletries (toothbrush, hair brush, etc.)
Changes of clothes one (1) for every day (take climate into consideration)
At least one extra change of clothes
Extra blankets (for colder areas)
Pillow
No more than 1 stuffed animal, for younger girls
Hats (for sunny areas)
Sunscreen (for sunny areas)
Rain coats/ponchos (you never know when you will need them!)
Extra bags (for muddy, dirty, or wet items - plastic store bags work well)
Two (2) pairs of shoes (no open toed shoes for normal camp wear, one pair will be extra in case something happens)
Flip flops (shower only)
Flashlight
First aid kit
Compass
Sandals (choice)
Books
A smile
Scary stories

, If you are carpooling, call the driving family for pickup times. If you are driving make sure you know the address of the camp and driving directions. If your troop has the leaders drive the campers in their cars make sure you are ready for that.
 You may want to take some boredom busters if the camp is far away. Make sure you arrive on time. For example: if you need to be there at 8:30, and it takes an hour to get there don't leave home at 8:15! You may need to take traffic in consideration.
 When you get to the camp, get your bags together and try to find your troop. They should be able you take you to your tent or cabin.
 Put out your sleeping bag. Do it when you get to camp. You don't want to hassle unrolling it five minutes before bedtime! Put your other bags in a good spot where you can reach them easily. Get out any items you need for the day.
 Start the day's activities, you may do a craft or go on a nature hike. Relax and enjoy your time at camp. Don't get into arguments with other girls, it will ruin your camp experience.
 Eat in a mess hall or dining area. Be flexible with your food choices, they won't always have what you want. Always make sure you have lots of healthy colorful foods on your plate.
 Get your pj's on. Go brush your teeth in the bathhouse. You may be permitted to take a shower. Put on anything you need for bed. Now is also the time for before bedtime medications.
 Some girls like to stay up late and some don't. If all the other girls in the cabin want to sleep, respect their wishes. If you feel cold put on a sweater. If you need to go to the bathroom for any reason at night, take a flashlight and be quiet. If someone else wants to go too, take them with you. If you are scared or miss your parents go to a leader.
 Get dressed and wake up when called. Brush your teeth and get ready. You will have breakfast and daily activities.
 Some times you may do campfires, sing songs and tell stories. When it is the last hour of camp get packed. Put your sleeping bag in its bag and put all your stuff away. Double check the bathhouses, mess hall, and other activity centers where you may have left stuff.
 Make sure your parents take all your stuff when they come to pick you up. Remember camp and you will always have memories to cherish and share.

