 Dairy and meat products tend to go bad fast. You should keep such items on the bottom shelf of your fridge near the back. This area is generally the coldest, keeping these products freshest for the longest. This also helps juices from meat from contaminating the entire fridge in the event they drip.You should also wrap meat products carefully, especially raw meat, in plastic wrap to prevent contamination.
Placed wrapped raw meat in a bowl, dish, tray, etc., to catch any leaking juices.;
, Your side drawer is the warmest part of your fridge. As condiments do not need super cold temperatures to stay fresh, you should store them here.You can also store cooking oils, juice, water, and butter in the side drawers if you don't have space for them elsewhere in the fridge., The crisper drawer is designed to keep produce. Many crisper drawers have a humidity level you can set. Even if your fridge does not have an adjustable humidity level for the crisper drawer, you should still store produce here.Items that thrive at lower humidity include many fruits, such as apples, avocados, peaches, plums, and pears.
Vegetables, like green onions, broccoli, and cauliflower, do well at higher humidity levels.
 Your upper shelf is warmer than other parts of the fridge. You should store items that are not as prone to spoilage in this area.Snack foods and spreads, like hummus, jam, and jelly, can be stored in the upper level of the fridge.
While yogurt is a dairy product, it is fermented so it can safely be stored in the upper shelf.
Leftover foods can be stored in the upper shelf.
 Many people put items in the fridge that do not belong there. This can make items spoil faster and take up space unnecessarily. They should be stored in the pantry instead. Keep the following items out of your fridge:Coffee
Garlic
Bananas
Bread
Potatoes
Onions
Tomatoes

, If you're short on space, and have food you're not going to eat quickly, transfer it to the freezer. This will free up space in your fridge and save it for later. Items like meat, cheese, milk, and herbs can keep for months in the freezer.