 Although most whitening strips are applied and used in a similar manner, some brands may have different instructions. Always read the instructions fully and be aware of any side effects before using any whitening strip or whitening product.Misuse can cause damage to your teeth, gums, and health.
Instructions can vary between brands, always fully read the instructions before use.;
, Before you apply your whitening strips, you will need to brush your teeth. If you apply them without brushing your teeth, you may inadvertently trap food or bacteria under the strip and the surface of your teeth will not be in contact with the whitening substance, which can lead to an unappealing looking result. Brushing your teeth can also help remove any plaque that may block the whitening effects of the strip on the enamel.Never brush your teeth right before you apply the whitening strips.
Brush your teeth at least a half hour before you apply the strips to let saliva clean away any excess fluoride and get the enamel ready for whitening.
 Before you apply the strips to your teeth, take a moment to make sure you are applying the right strip to the correct location. Some whitening strips will have special strips for top and bottom teeth and all will have a certain side of the strip that must contact the teeth. Take a moment and learn which strip goes where.Apply the side with any gel to your teeth. This gel is the whitening agent and must contact the entire surface of your teeth except the gums to work properly.
The smooth side of the strip will have no whitening gel and is there only to help you apply the strip.
 Having determined which way your strips need to be applied, place them over your teeth, with the gel coated side making contact with the surface of your teeth. Make sure the strip covers your teeth entirely, working out any bumps or uneven areas.Try drying the surface of your teeth with a napkin or towel before applying the strips. This will help increase the whitening effect. You can also use a cheek retractor to spread your lips and control the flow of saliva during the whitening treatment. Less moisture in your mouth will give you a better result.
A tooth brush can be used to smooth the strip out if needed.
Completely covering your teeth without any irregular areas will help evenly whiten your teeth.
Avoid allowing the strips to reach up and cover your gums, as this can cause irritation or even slight burns that will make your gums look white.
 Once you have applied the strips you will need to patiently wait as they work on your teeth. Most brands will have a slightly different amount of time they recommend you wear the strips, so carefully read your instructions. Avoid touching the strips to allow them to work uninterpreted.In general, you will wait for around 30 minutes, before removing the strips.
In order to keep your teeth dry during the whitening procedure you can try lying in bed on our back, keeping your mouth a little bit open. This will reduce the quantity of saliva, which may interfere in the whitening process. Try breathing through your mouth for a while as well to help dry out your mouth.
 After the amount of time that your specific strips have instructed you to wear them has passed, you will need to remove the strips. Peel them away from your teeth and throw them away when it is time to remove them.Don't leave them on longer than specified as this can cause irritation and sensitivity in the teeth and gums.
Leaving the strips on for a longer amount of time won't increase the whitening results.
Clean your mouth after using the strips. Try rinsing with water or brushing your teeth to ensure that all the whitening gel is out of your mouth. Try not to swallow too much of the gel as it can be toxic.
 Whitening strips work over time, utilizing slow exposure to the chemicals responsible for the whitening process. You will need repeated use of the strips before you see any noticeable difference in how white your teeth are. Keep using the strips for the recommended amount of time to get the most out of them.Use twice daily for 30 minutes at a time.
A minimum of 14 days is the recommended length of use.
Sustained results can be expected at around four months, but they also work well after a professional teeth whitening in a dental office.
 Some whitening strips contain hydrogen peroxide, which is poisonous if swallowed. Try to avoid swallowing any of the gel or saliva that is produced when wearing the whitening strips.Don't worry if you accidentally swallow a small amount of gel. Small amounts will likely not produce any symptoms.
 The chemicals in whitening strips can cause some sensitivity in the teeth and gums to occur. This may be the result of the gel coming into contact with the gums directly, applying the strips for too long or too much, or a sensitivity to the gel.Take a break from whitening strips if you notice your teeth or gums becoming sensitive.
Ask your dentist if you are able to use whitening strips safely.
 Not all tooth whitening strips use the same chemicals and processes to achieve results. Some may actually exacerbate preexisting dental issues or cause new ones to arise. Ask your dentist if whitening strips and other whitening products are a good fit for you., Keeping up with regular brushing of your teeth is a great way to help keep them white and healthy. Make sure you are brushing your teeth properly and often enough to get the full benefit. Remember to take your time when brushing and reach every tooth completely.


Brush twice daily, for around two minutes each time.
Don't brush too hard as this can remove enamel or damage the gums. Also try to avoid using a toothbrush that is too hard (always use soft) and do not use a new toothbrush immediately after the treatment or after drinking a soda as the enamel is weakened and very sensitive to abrasion.
You can try using whitening toothpaste in addition to your whitening strips but make sure you are also using toothpaste with over 1100 ppm of fluoride, which may help with any sensitivity. Try using strips and whitening toothpaste for two weeks to start, but alternate the whitening toothpaste with the fluoride toothpaste (best used before bed).
 Using mouthwash in addition to regular brushing and flossing can help improve the health of your mouth and teeth. Mouthwash is used to kill bacteria as well as wash away any loose debris knocked loose by brushing or flossing.


Try to swish your mouthwash for at least 30 seconds before spitting it out.
If the mouthwash is too strong, you can water it down, or dilute it with water from the start using a 50:50 dilution.
You may want to use whitening mouthwashes in addition to your whitening strips.
 Although flossing can be difficult and takes time, it is an important step in maintaining the health of your teeth and gums. Flossing works by removing built up plaque and tartar that brushing might have missed. Keep in mind that it is better to prevent any future problems than spend loads of money to repair the damage.


Start with a long piece of floss, about arms length.
Wrap the floss around your middle fingers, spanning the gap between your hands.
Work the floss down in between teeth on both sides of each gum papilla (the gum triangle which is located between teeth).
Pull the floss to one side of the tooth, forming a “c” shape.
Move the floss up and down the length of the tooth to clean it.
 Some foods can cause your teeth to become stained, resulting in a yellowish coloration, which is more likely to produce results much faster than normal if you are using strips. Other foods can cause your enamel to wear down, which can lead to tooth damage and pain. Try to avoid some of the following foods and drinks as you work to whiten your teeth:


Coffee, tea and wine can cause your teeth to become stained.
Sugary foods or highly acidic drinks, like orange juice or soda, can wear the enamel away on your teeth. This can cause cavities or other dental issues.
 Making regular appointments with your dentist is a great way to keep your teeth healthy. Your dentist can help you to catch small dental issues before they become serious, as well as maintain regular care practices.


Your dentist may be able to provide whitening services for you and help you to track their progress.

