 Copper is a great conductor of electricity, and most wiring is copper. You need two strands about 1 ½ feet (45 cm) long.


Use small wire cable cutters to cut the copper wire.
 The shielding is the rubber that covers the copper wire. Removing it can be achieved by carefully squeezing the cable cutter so that it cuts through the shielding but not the wire. The shielding can them be stripped from the ends with your hands.
 The holes should be in the middle of the cork about 1/2" apart. This cork will hold your wires in place. Think of it as the bottom, metal part of your light bulb.
 Leave about 2" or so exposed above the top of the cork.
 The hook of each strand should curve the same way. This will hold onto your filament, the part of the bulb that actually lights up.
 Make five strips. The thinner your wire is before beginning, the better. Thinner wire will almost always result in a better light.
 You want a long braid of wire. It needs to be tightly wound as well.
 For an even better fit, you can tighten the hooks around your iron filament. The more of it touching, the better.
 This is your "bulb." It will help protect from shock, but also creates a more concentrated light.
 If you have electrical clamps, they will be much safer and easier to use. If you don't, make sure you're wearing rubber-soled shoes and have safety gloves on. Attach one wire to each end of the battery to complete the circuit and "turn on" the light bulb.









You can use any battery, but starting small is usually best. C or D batteries (1.5 V each) will do the trick.
If you're not getting enough light, try attaching your batteries in series.
 This is a simple scientific machine, so their are simple ways to test and fix bulbs that don't work.



Ensure all the ends are touching. You must have a complete, unbroken circuit to get light.

Thin out the filament. Try it with only 3-4 strands. You could also replace the iron with graphite, as mentioned in method one.

Add more power. Use a bigger battery, or attach multiple batteries together, for more power and more light.

