 Add 2 tablespoons (21 g) of coffee grounds and 1 teaspoon (3 g) of cocoa powder to a small bowl. Mix the two ingredients well so they’re fully combined.








Be sure to use caffeinated coffee grounds. Caffeinated coffee usually offers a richer color, and the caffeine is also thought to stimulate hair growth so it may help if your brows are sparse or patchy.
Adding the cocoa powder helps lighten the color that you get from the coffee grounds. If you can want to make the dye lighter, add more cocoa powder. If you want the dye to be darker, add less cocoa powder.;
, After you’ve combined the coffee grounds and cocoa powder, add 2 tablespoons (26 g) of coconut oil to the bowl. Stir the ingredients together well to create a liquid mixture.








You can substitute another oil, such as olive or jojoba, for the coconut if you prefer.
 While the coconut oil helps create a smooth, liquidy pigment to dye your eyebrows, you want it to stick to your brows. Drizzle a little honey into the bowl, and mix it into the coffee mixture to make sure that it will stay on your skin.








There’s no exact amount of honey to add. Start with a small amount, and test the mixture on your finger to see if it’s sticky. If it slips off, add a little more honey.
When you’re finished mixing the dye, it should have paste-like consistency.
 Once the coffee mixture is fully combined, let it sit for 3 to 5 minutes. That will give the ingredients time to bind together., To ensure that there isn’t any makeup, dirt, or other residue on your skin and brow hair that might affect the dye, it’s important to clean your face. Use your usual facial cleanser and water to wash your face, paying special attention to the brow area. Pat your face dry with a clean towel.








If you have very dry, flaky skin, you may also want to exfoliate your brow area with a facial scrub before dyeing the brows.
Be careful not to get any of your cleanser in your eyes. Most formulas will sting.
 Before you apply the coffee dye, you want to be sure that your brows in the proper shape. Use a clean spoolie or brow brush to carefully comb them into place, following your brows’ natural shape.








If you aren’t happy with your brows’ shape, consider having them professionally waxed, threaded, or tweezed into shape before tinting them.
 After you’ve brushed your brows into place, check to see if you have any stray hairs. Remove them with a pair of clean tweezers, so you don’t accidentally apply the dye in areas that you shouldn’t.
 When your brows are combed into place, dip an angled brow or eyeliner brush into the coffee mixture. Smooth it over your brows in your desired shaped. Apply a second layer to ensure that the entire area is covered.








You don’t want to apply the coffee mixture outside the lines of your brow. If you’re worried about being precise enough, mark the outer edges with a brow pencil so you know where to place the coffee dye.
 Once the dye is applied, wet a cotton swab with water. Run the cotton swab over any smudges or mistakes that you may have made to remove the coffee mixture from your skin.








You can also use a damp paper towel to remove any smudges, though it’s harder to be precise.
 When the coffee mixture is spread over your brow, let it sit in place for approximately 20 minutes. The longer that you let the dye sit, the darker your brows will be, so you can adjust the time accordingly.When you’re dyeing your brows for the first time, it’s best to err on the side of caution and stick to 20 minutes or less. If your brows aren’t as dark as you’d like, you can repeat the process.
 When the dye has sat on your brows for about 20 minutes, wet another cotton swab. Run it over your brows to remove the coffee mixture, making sure to get all of the residue off.








If you prefer, you can wipe the coffee mixture off with a damp washcloth. Be aware that it may stain the cloth, though.

