 While The Federalist Papers were published anonymously, three of the founding fathers, Alexander Hamilton, who became Secretary of the Treasury, John Jay, who became Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and James Madison, who served in congress before becoming the fourth president were later revealed to be the authors of the articles. The Federalist Papers are legally established as important references to the creation of the Constitution., Even if you paraphrase or summarize a quote or section from the articles, you still must cite it. Failure to cite the original source of a quote or a paraphrase of the original source is considered plagiarism.Paraphrasing and summaries are restatements in your own words of written or spoken text. A paraphrase usually restates a portion of the text in a few sentences. A summary condenses larger chunks of text. When paraphrasing and summarizing, you must reword the information completely and not just substitute a few words from the original text. You must also be careful not to change the original meaning in the original text with your rewording.All three citation styles require you to cite all quotes and paraphrasing in text. However, each style cites paraphrasing in different ways.
 This may draw criticism from legal experts who think that the influence of The Federalist Papers on the Constitution are not well founded, or a professor who wants to see you use more than one source for your paper.Some legal experts believe The Federalist Papers are self-contradictory or that they may not have persuaded the ratifiers of the Constitution at all. They also argue that The Federalist Papers were written to support the ratification of the Constitution, rather than to explain it and that they are an unreliable source for determining the original intent of the founding fathers because of the secrecy of the Constitutional Convention.
All of these critiques of The Federalist Papers are valid. But none of them work against the articles in a significant way. So if you are going to make a claim about the original meaning of The Federalist Papers, take the counterarguments noted above into account.