 Sit or lie down and elevate your leg so that your toes are at your eye level or higher. This improves blood flow and helps to heal ulcers. Do this three to four times every day for at least 30 minutes.Elevate the end of your bed about six inches, so that your leg is elevated while you sleep. You can use boxes or books for this., If you have venous ulcers, you may also have swelling in your feet and legs. Wearing compression stockings can help this. Compression stockings differ from the compression bandage you wear while your ulcer heals, because you can take stockings on and off.Request compression stockings from your doctor or pick some up at your local drug store or pharmacy. Ask your doctor the following questions:

How many hours a day should I wear my stockings?
Should I take them off at any point in the day?
When shouldn’t I wear them?
Can I wear them while my ulcer is still healing?
What size and tightness should I wear? (If you don't get them from the doctor directly)

, Obesity, smoking and inactivity can all cause venous leg ulcers. Do your best to eat a healthy diet, stay away from cigarettes, and be as active as possible in your day to day life.

Try to go on daily walks.
Stay away from fast food, processed food, and foods that have high sugar and simple carbohydrate contents, such as white bread.
Create circulation by doing ankle rotations and raising and lowering your foot when you’re sitting. Standing still and sitting without elevating your leg can make swelling worse.
Talk to your doctor before starting any exercise regime to find out what's safe for you.
 Your skin may feel itchy if it doesn’t get good blood flow. Do NOT scratch it – this can damage your skin and cause more ulcers! Use regular moisturizing lotion on dry, itchy skin.If that doesn’t help, ask your doctor for recommendations – they may give you a steroid cream to improve the itchiness.
Keep your skin well moisturized to prevent breaks in the skin that can turn into ulcers. Do not put lotion on an open wound or between your toes, however.