 Is a friend coming round? Are you moving/going on vacation anywhere? Are you having difficulty finding your possessions beneath the knee-high pile of clutter covering your floor? Or maybe you don't have an incentive, you just want to make your bedroom a peaceful place you can escape to after an exhausting day at school or work? Whatever reason you have for cleaning your room, just follow the steps below to have a fun and functional room.;
, Do you like the feeling of your room being clean? Do you like that feeling that everything is fine, and you can relax? That's not so strange, since the state of your bedroom does affect your state of mind.This is just another incentive to fix any messes and keep it tidy.
 If you like your room being tidy then when events come up like birthdays, Christmas etc., try to get rid of your old stuff. You can donate them to charities, hospitals, etc.
, This will help you to prioritize what you want sitting out, and what you can afford to stash away most of the time! Throw away some stuff that you think is not essential to you.
 Dresser/desk drawers, closets, space under the bed, attics/basements, spare rooms. Whatever works, put your extra stuff there. Create a system for storing clothes, both clean and dirty. Try buying a pencil holder for pens and pencils.
 The main thing in your room is usually your bed. Thus, when the main thing is tidy, it will make the rest seem better. So just pull the covers over your bed and make sure the cases are on the pillows. Also its great if you can take everything off your bed but not necessary.


Make it every morning. A small amount of time goes a long way to making the room feel tidy and encouraging a good night's sleep at the end of each day.
 Start with large items first, then move on to papers, etc.
 Follow the simple rule of "taking something out and then putting it right back". Sing the cleanup song, if you must! Putting on music can help this process go a lot faster.
 If your stuff starts accumulating again, just take a few minutes each day to put everything where it belongs. Take a few minutes every night before you go to bed and make sure everything is in its place or neatly put away. You should also make it a habit to make up your bed every morning before you leave the house.
 This can make a huge difference to how you feel, as you can't see yawning gaps of more stuff.
 Clean it at least once a week to keep it from getting too messy.
 It can be that all your papers about hobbies can go in a green folder and the green folder goes into the white binder and goes on the first shelf. Whatever works best for you, do it.
 As you complete a task, stop and look to see if it is correct. You don't want to not have done something correctly and start something else. So when the task is complete go on and finish cleaning. For example, your dresser is disorganized, you cleaned it all up, then check to make sure everything is in its correct spot.
 Is under your bed dirty? This is what you should do. Slide and remove everything from under your bed and put it in the middle of the floor. Go through the things you'll need. If you really love something, keep it but put it in an organized place. Do not keep everything like a slob, force yourself to throw it out because you won't have anymore junk. If there is food under your bed, then immediately remove it before pests come and take over.
 If your desk is cluttered with pots and cups and brushes, pencils, paints, homework, papers anything like that, just neatly put them to one side stack and papers and move them to somewhere they would seem neat, like the side of your desk or in drawers. Like the bed, when the desk is tidy, a lot of the space will seem better.
 This will help you to cope. However, don't make them too long, as you may find it difficult to go back to cleaning.
 After cleaning your room, get some lights. String lights look the best and hang them up and turn them on. Soft lighting brings a comforting place that's easy to focus in. Don't make your room too bright it makes it harder to focus, and harder to keep clean.
 Or each night before bed, examine your room to make sure everything is in its correct place. If you have a carpet, vacuum it or if you have a laminate floor sweep and mop it.


Everyone goes about tasks differently. Some people prefer cleaning a bit everyday; others like to attack everything in one sitting. Find out what works best for you.
 Try to make a deal with your parents concerning your getting a reward every week for keeping your room clean, neat and organized; even if it is just a small treat, it's still worth it!

, This might be anything from having a cookie to seeing your favorite program on TV. Rewards don't always have to be big. They are simply something you can enjoy that you wouldn't normally.

