 The very first thing that your users will see is your app icon. It needs to be clean, informative and memorable. Avoid using text; something related to your app/game is a much better choice. Remember that the icon is the very first thing potential user will notice - so keep it clean and simple.


Research your competition and see what kind of icons they use - this way you will be able to create one that stands out from the crowd and is easy to spot. Use colors and shapes to your advantage. If majority of your competitors are using color red - use blue to stand out.;
, Make your title short and to the point, but include your main keywords in it. This will help you to rank higher in search results. Use description to explain in detail what your app does, why is it better than your competitors and how it will help user. Use first few sentences to attract users to keep reading it.


Currently there is a 4,000 character limit on descriptions, so make the most out of it by promoting your app. Hire experienced sales pitch writer if you lack ideas to create proper call-to-action description.
 Is it an application or a game? All games are applications, but not all applications are games! If you are not sure which one is your application, ask around developer communities. You also have to choose the right category. Unfortunately, you can only choose one category, so if your app fits into more than one category choose the most relevant one - one where the most targeted users will see it.
 Including a demo for a paid app is a great way to attract more users and sales. You should also include screenshots of your app so potential users can get a hold of what you are offering. This is an important part of attracting users to trusting your app and downloading it!

, Reviews are important part of an offsite ASO. iOS store ranks higher apps with positive reviews and ratings. They will also build a trust factor that will translate in more downloads per visitor. Genuine reviews will help you to reach top rankings.


You can achieve that by asking your beta users about rating your app. Also including in-app request will give you a boost.
 App Downloads are the most important part of an offsite ASO. The more downloads you get for your app, the higher chance other users will see it, download it and boost your rankings. It is as simple as it gets - as long as app provides a high quality product, it will attract new downloads thanks to high rankings. You can get an initial boost in downloads from forums and family by simply asking them to check and review your application for you.

