 The same facial cleansers used for acne on your face can generally be applied to any part of the body that's prone to acne outbreaks. If you know that you tend to get a lot of acne on your back, for example, you may want to try using a facial cleanser specifically for your back on a regular basis to help prevent future outbreaks.


Facial cleansers help remove dirt, sweat, body oil, and anything else that might clog your pores.Choose a gentle cleanser that won't irritate or damage your skin. Even though your back (for example) may not be as sensitive as your face, it's still best to avoid irritating your skin with harsh cleansers.
Work your chosen cleanser into a lather, then apply it to the part of your body most susceptible to acne outbreaks. Thoroughly wash the cleanser away under running water like you would for your face. It's best to treat body acne in the shower, as washing your back or neck may get messy in the sink.;
, There are many over-the-counter topical creams and lotions available that help treat acne. While it may be difficult to navigate which products are most effective, you can compare products by their ingredients to get a better sense of what products you need. Common over-the-counter topical ingredients include:


Alpha hydroxy acids - remove dead skin cells to prevent pores from clogging, reduce skin inflammation, and stimulate new skin growth.Benzoyl peroxide - kills bacteria on your skin that may cause pores to clogRetinoid creams/lotions - help unclog pores and help remove dead skin cells to prevent future pore clogs.Salicylic acid - helps prevent pores from plugging
Sulfur - helps remove both dead skin cells and excess body oil from the skin

, Certain irritants may contribute to acne across your body, especially if you are prone to sweating. One of the most common irritants for body acne is tight clothing, which may hold sweat and oil against the pores of the skin.Wear loose-fitting clothes and avoid tight-fitting straps from accessories like backpacks and sports equipment. These may cause additional friction against your sensitive skin, and may further trap oil and dirt against your pores.

