 Follow the manufacturer's instructions very carefully when assembling the crib. Baby cribs are manufactured to conform to strict safety standards.Assembling the crib incorrectly may endanger your baby.
Contact the store or manufacturer if you are having trouble with the instructions.
Contact the store or manufacturer if you are missing any pieces of the construction.;
, Look for places the crib pieces could inflict injury or places that are accessible to the infant that should not be.Check for loose fittings including bolts, screws, joints, awnings, etc.. that could collapse the crib and/or fall on the infant.
Look for sharp edges or rough spots. This could include improperly sanded wood on the crib frame, metal protrusions, and improperly fastened screws.
Check the mattress support hooks. Be sure the mattress cannot accidentally flip and entrap the child.
Make sure there are no gaps larger than two fingers between the sides of the crib and the mattress so the baby's body cannot slip out.
Avoid corner posts over 1/16th inch high so a baby's clothing cannot catch.
 Again, make sure it is a crib linen for a baby.Be extra careful that the fitted crib sheet fits securely, with no slipping off at the corners. This could be become a suffocation hazard otherwise.
 As safety protocols may change and/or problems be discovered, you should stay alert to see if your crib is included.Keep a record of crib product serial numbers.
If you have a warranty in effect, keep the documentation in a safe and secure place.
A recall may be issued through the store, manufacturer, or government so stay informed on these fronts.
 If the crib is not a comfortable option, the bassinet is a simpler choice that sometimes is used for the first few months of infancy, and even passed through families.Be sure the bassinet is cleaned appropriately if it is a re-used one.
Check that the bassinet sits firmly on its stand. You should be keeping the bassinet/stand near the bed of the parent(s).
Examine the bassinet and the stand for loose parts or linens.
Use only the authorized mattress (or padding) and fitted sheet for the bassinet. Always make sure you use sheets that will fit snugly around the mattress--check the dimensions for a match.
Don’t add toys with stuffing or additional non-fitted bedding material.
Don’t let things dangle into the bassinet such as from a mobile, curtain cords, or window blinds.
Place your baby so they rest on their back in the bassinet.
Do not use bassinets for infants that can already sit, climb, or otherwise move significantly on their own.
 This is more of a case of avoiding places that could pose hazards to the baby.Avoid placing the crib near a window with blind, curtain cords or baby monitor cords; babies can strangle on cords.
Avoid placing the crib near drafty areas to prevent illness.
Avoid placing the crib near high foot traffic, noisy areas so the infant's sleep isn't interrupted.
Don't put the crib near places where it could be prone to falling or tipping over.
 This will reduce the chance for injury.This applies to short naps or sleeping for the night.
Ensure the mattress is firm and not lose from the crib frame.
Check for foreign objects in the crib that could be a suffocation or choking hazard. This includes extra bedding items like pillows, quilts, stray clothing, and/or extra blankets not designed for the crib.
Consider moving the crib in the same room as the parent(s), at least for the first few months.
 The sleepers are not as bulky as blankets, but should be plenty warm and comfortable with reduced suffocation risk.Check that whatever sleeper you buy is suitable in size for the crib. Ask your crib's manufacturer if you are unsure.
Never attempt to double-up on the sleepers or blankets as the infant could get tangled up in them.
 When situation the baby in the crib, you want to ensure the blanket will not easily unravel and allow the infant to get tangled.


Tuck the blanket around the crib mattress
Cover the baby only as high as his/her chest.
 If the baby or toddler is tall enough and old enough to climb out frequently, it may be time to switch to a bed.Parents can delay the transition somewhat by lowering the mattress (if possible) or raising the rails (if possible).
The transition can happen frequently between ages 1 1/2 to 3 1/2
Parents may need to coax the child from the crib to a bed with a "party" or having them select the bed themselves.
 This is one of the most serious threats to an infant while in the crib. It's cause is largely still unknown.Babies that were born premature and at low-birth-weight seem at higher risk for SIDS.
Babies whose mothers didn't get medical care during the pregnancy, mothers who smoked, and situations where twins or multiple babies were born also posed greater risk for SIDS occurring
Regarding cribs and sleeping, when babies sleep on their bellies or sides (and roll over onto their bellies), they may not breathe well and increase the risk of SIDS.
 There are no warning signs before hand at all.Babies who die of SIDS seem healthy before being put to bed.
SIDS victims show no signs of struggle, and are often found in the same position as when they were placed in the bed.
 SIDS is diagnosed usually when no other cause of death can be found.


Medical experts review the baby's and parents' medical histories
Doctors will study the area where the baby died
An autopsy is also performed.
 These are steps you can take when caring for your baby in its crib especially during sleep times to reduce the risk of SIDS.Be sure the baby is sleeping on its back. Check periodically to ensure he or she has not rolled over.
For at least the first six months after birth, allow the baby to sleep in their crib/bassinet in the same room as the parent(s).
Check periodically that no foreign objects including additional bedding are in your baby's crib.
Test the crib mattress for firmness and ensure its attachment is secure frequently.
Make sure the fitted sheet is not slipping off the mattress corners.
After your baby is about a month old, consider giving them a pacifier at nap/sleep times.
 There is no sure way to prevent or test for SIDS. If the unfortunate should happen, consider joining a support group for grief counseling.Look for SIDS-specific support groups.
Consult a psychologist.
Talk with family, friends, and/or clergy.

