 You can’t borrow more than your home is worth, so you need some idea of its current value. Estimate the value in the following ways:


Look at your tax bill, which should contain the assessed value. Contact your county assessor if you’ve lost your bill.
Research how much comparable homes have sold for in your area. Visit the Zillow or Trulia websites. Make sure the homes are similar in size, with the same number of bedrooms and bathrooms.
Have your home appraised. You’ll probably have to pay a few hundred dollars to get a professional appraisal. Obtain referrals to an appraiser from a real estate agent or your lawyer.
 Let’s say your home is worth $200,000, but you still owe $100,000 on the mortgage. In this situation, you only have $100,000 in equity. Generally, lenders let you borrow up to 85% of your home’s equity.In this situation, you can borrow up to $85,000 to repay student loans.
 In addition to having equity in your home, you’ll need to satisfy other requirements—just as you did when you applied for your initial mortgage. Review the following:Credit score. Generally, you need good credit to get a second mortgage. However, if you have substantial equity, you might still qualify if you have a lower score.
Income. You need to prove that you can repay the loan.
Debt-to-income ratio. Add up all debt, including credit card debt, and compare it to your income. For example, you might make $4,000 a month but have $1,000 a month in debt payments. In this situation, your ratio is 25%. Generally, your ratio must be 45% or lower to qualify for a loan.
 If you’re comfortable with the risks, then contact a loan officer and ask for an application. Remember to provide all information requested and double check it for accuracy. If you have a question about the application, contact the loan officer for help.
 Once you get the mortgage, you need to use the proceeds to pay off your student loans. If you go with SoFi, they pay your student loan lenders directly. You won’t receive a check, and can instead sit back and relax.However, if you get your own mortgage, you’ll receive a check from your lender. You need to deposit it into your bank account and then pay off your student loans.

