 This form of therapy is ideal for helping adolescents with thoughts and behavior that contribute to Anorexia Nervosa. During the 45 minute sessions, the adolescent is taken through a talk therapy known as cognitive behavior therapy. The therapist trains the adolescent to learn positive and healthier ways of coping with strong feelings, such as distress.This process allows the adolescent to gain self-esteem and to learn coping mechanisms that can combat his or her need to control what he or she eats.
Individual therapy can be done by a private practice therapist, or in a psychiatric hospital as part of a more extensive treatment plan.;
, Most adolescents with Anorexia Nervosa end up failing to make sound decision, especially those with low self-esteem. Because of this, it is important that the family knows how to take care of the adolescent. Family therapy can help to air out conflicts so that the family can be more efficient at helping the adolescent. Proper family interaction plays an important role in ensuring that adolescents do not develop anorexia. The family should train a child to focus on inner worth rather than outer beauty through positive appraisal and affirmation. The whole family should practice healthy eating habits and eat a balanced, and healthy diet.


The therapist is involved in providing psychosocial support, information, monitoring progress, and ensuring proper communication between all family members. He or she may schedule a visit to your home twice a week to engage everyone in a family discussion.
 There is no specific medication for Anorexia Nervosa. However, Tricyclic Antidepressants can be used to treat the underlying depression associated with the condition. Pamelor is a commonly prescribed antidepressant for adolescents.


The usual dose is 40 mg of Pamelor taken over the course of four doses each day.
 An adolescent suffering from Anorexia Nervosa might not have an understanding of how to eat properly and still maintain his or her health. Nutritional counseling in this regard, becomes an important component of Anorexia Nervosa treatment. During a nutritional counseling session, a nutritionist or a dietitian will teach your child about healthy eating and proper nutrition.


The nutritionist will also help your child to develop and follow meal plans. These meals will add up to roughly 2,200 calories a day for girls, and 2,500 to 2,900 calories a day for boys., Sometimes, interpersonal, family-based therapies, and medication may fail to work. If your child still refuses to eat, hospitalization in a medical or psychiatric ward may be required. You could enroll your child in a day or residential program, instead of full hospitalization. In the hospital, your child will take part in intensive therapy and nutrition education sessions.


To be hospitalized, your child must medically, and psychologically at risk. A distorted body image can make adolescents experience severe depression, self-mutilation, or even suicidal thoughts.
A weight loss that exceeds 25% of the whole body mass in three months is a criteria for hospitalization as well.