 Whether you're buying your own cardstock or ordering pre-made cards, making sure to include some extra. Do so as a precaution in case you accidentally ruin a few. Make sure you also purchase your envelopes at the same time to match sizes.


If you're printing at home, make sure your printer can handle the type of paper and photo qualities you're employing. If your printer can't, you can always go to any office supply store for a small fee.
It is possible to make your own envelopes. If you have time for this, do feel free!

, Verify that all of your margins are accurate, that the card looks neatly organized, and that the colors and graphics selected are suitable.


Are you printing one per page? Two? Three? Make sure you have the settings sorted before you start.
 Make sure that you have enough toner, black, and color ink for the entire printing job. If you're using photos, it will take higher quality, slower, more ink-consuming printing.


If you're worried about the shabbiness of paper printing, a simple solution is just to back your template on color coordinated cardstock. Print out two invitations per printer sheet and use the thicker paper as a border -- it will give it texture and durability.
 Check your printer every few cards to make sure that the margins don't shift or the paper doesn't jam. Using cardstock or other thick paper increases the risk of jamming your printer. Make sure your printer is capable of printing on thicker paper, and if it is, make sure you're feeding the paper from the correct tray for cards.


After the cards are all printed, attach any embellishments you see fit. It's best to use craft glue -- make sure not to use too much! Gloopy invitations are not the way to go.

If attaching things like seashells, ribbon, or doilies, give the invitations 30 minutes or so to dry. Be incredibly careful when stuffing them into their envelopes.
 Address, stamp, and mail your invitations. Don't forget to include a return address, either hand-written or on a label. Invitations should never be sent without a return address.


If your invitations are heavy, make sure you have adequate postage. Maximum letter weight is 3.5 ounces in the US.

