 There are many different types of art gallery jobs. Think about whether you want to focus on curating, sales, arts educator (preparing and presenting for school tours) or cultivating relationships with new artists. It will be helpful to have a clear focus on which job interests you the most., Choose the type of art gallery that interests you. For example, an auction gallery dealing in the classics is very different from a contemporary art gallery or a western art gallery. Focus your experience and art contacts on this area of the art world.


It is also important to understand how different galleries function. For example, you should know the difference between a commercial gallery (professionally run for profit) and a vanity gallery (the artists pay to display their work)., If working in an art gallery is your greatest dream, you'll need to make sure that you live in a city with a thriving art scene. If you live in an area without easy access to many cultural offerings, such as museums and galleries, you will want to consider moving. You will probably need to move even before landing a job. It will be very hard to make the necessary connections if you can't easily access a network of art world insiders.
 Each city has its own influential circle of museums, galleries, collectors and philanthropists. It takes time to get contacts in the art world, so remaining in the same city among the influential crowd will make you a more attractive addition to a gallery's staff. Maintain a presence in the local art world. The following things can add to your resume and help you to get a job


Become a member of local museums. You will want to be able to speak to visitors about local exhibitions. Contributions along with your membership may also get you invitations to exclusive events.
 As with any industry, the art world has its own publications. Familiarize yourself with the trade journals and websites. Subscribe to them, so that you are current on trends within the industry, as well as job openings and opportunities., As you are finishing your degree, turn to your professors for career advice. There should also be an advising office at your university that can provide information about different job opportunities. Take advantage of these resources. If you've had an internship, ask your supervisor for advice about which career path you should take.