 Being responsive to interested buyers and your customers is important in any sales situation, but perhaps even more so on eBay where auctions can move quickly and people must rely only on email as a way of being in touch.


Check your email frequently so that you can give prompt responses to questions about your items or inquiries regarding payment or shipping.
Considering downloading the eBay app to your smartphone so that you can manage your communications more easily.
Be friendly in your emails. It's always a good policy to treat people with courtesy. On eBay that can earn you repeat customers and great feedback.
 You have the opportunity after every transaction to give feedback about your buyer. Do it. And do it in a timely way. eBay success is built on reputations. Be generous and quick in giving feedback in the hopes that your buyers will do the same for you. Don't withhold feedback--waiting for comments from buyers first before you post feedback about them; you'll seem petty.


Unless a transaction was particularly horrific, come up with something positive to say to your buyer. Even a simple "Thank you for your business" is better than not leaving any feedback at all.
 You can purchase small wholesale lots of products that most people use on a daily basis and make those the focus of your eBay business. There are a lot of products that fit this description. Do you want to sell clothing or home decoration, beauty supplies or kitchen items? Make a decision, do some research on your market and learn how to target buyers and meet their needs.
 One of the most common reasons buyers turn to eBay is to find unusual items that they can't find anywhere else. Browse through eBay's community groups to see all the folks who share common interests (stamp collectors,knitters, stay-at-home moms, vegans, etc.) and sell items that appeal to their specific needs and desires.
 Power Sellers represent an elite 4 percent of eBay sellers. A Power Seller designation tells buyers that you are trustworthy, honest and offer a fair deal, which in turn brings more buyers your way. Not only that, Power Sellers enjoy a number of advantages and benefits and special access from eBay. Depending on their level, these can include priority customer and technical support, discounts from UPS and even health insurance. Power Seller must meet a list of eligibility requirements.Be an active member for 90 days.
Average a minimum of $1000 in sales per month for three consecutive months.
Maintain a minimum of four average monthly listings for three consecutive months.
Have an overall feedback rating of 100, of which 98% or more is positive.
Have an account in good financial standing.
Uphold the eBay community values, including honesty, timeliness and mutual respect
Comply with all eBay listing and marketplace policies.

