 Writing stuff down is actually part of the mental process for committing to a goal, so write your dream down every morning. Doing this will remind you why you are going to try your best each day to keep up with your deadlines.
Keep a dry erase or chalkboard next to your vision board to rewrite your goal every day. You don’t have to keep it since the process is what is important.
Get different colors and take a few minutes to write it nicely, and differently from the day before, so that it catches your attention when you pass by it.
 Look at the nearest deadline you made on your calendar and decide on 1-3 things you can do today to work towards accomplishing it.Don’t overwhelm yourself with more than a few daily goals. One is ideal; three is the maximum.
Don’t take even one day off from working on your goal. Do something to keep it at the top of your list so you don’t lose momentum.If you are on vacation, etc., and just can't actually work on your goal, at least take a few minutes to think about it and plan for when you return home.
 You can’t stay on task if you can’t find needed supplies. Set aside a place just for working on your dream and gather what you will need to achieve daily goals. This may be a desk, a space to practice, or any other area specific to your long-term goal.If your dream is to be a professional athlete, find a quiet and appropriate place to practice.
If your chosen sport is a team sport, find a gym or arena you like to practice in and figure out the best times to go.
If you are heading towards a career in writing or research, set up a study area in your house with a desk, a comfortable chair, a bookshelf, and a computer, if needed.
If your dream is to be an artist, set aside a space to create art. Gather the supplies you will use most: paints, pencils, paper and/or canvas, any tools you like to use when making art.
 Play background music only if it is conducive to you working. Turn off the television, or better yet, don’t include a TV in your workspace at all.Ask family and friends not to interrupt you, and put your phone on silent.


If your dream requires writing or reading, or other skills that require steady concentration, you should be able to work smoothly through any background noise without being distracted by it by lyrics or dissident tones.
Try classical music, or jazz, or make up a playlist with songs that you know well and aren’t easily drawn into singing.
If your dream requires practicing physical efforts everyday, choose music that motivates you to work harder. You might listen to dance or pop music with lyrics about achieving goals and working hard to get what you want, for example.
 You need a 15 minute break every 45 minutes to stay sharp and focused on the task at hand.Use your break to get up and move around, if your work requires you to sit, or to sit and relax, if your work is primarily physical.



Start a meditation practice.This is not only a great way to change tasks and refresh your mind, but also keeps your brain more focused throughout the entire day.
Athletes might use break time to rest and rehydrate with some water while watching video of professional performances.
If you practice inside, go outside for your break to get a change of scenery, and vice versa.
If you are working inside while sitting for long periods, you might get up and take a dance break or complete a short chore.
If you have a pet, play with them for 15 minutes for stress relief and fun. Take your dog for a short walk or grab a piece of yarn to play with your cat.
 Set up rewards for each task or part of your plan that you complete and/or for meeting timed goals.Sometimes your best might be doing your work for the day even though you don't want to. Reward yourself for overcoming the urge to procrastinate!
Rewards can be monetary, free time to spend how you like, or anything else that makes you happy. It’s up to you!
Make sure you aren’t spending out of your means, or scheduling too much free time to be able to meet your next deadline on time!
Be careful about using food and drinks as rewards. A piece of expensive chocolate is a great reward, but rewarding yourself every day with a kind-size candy bar is not good for your health.

