 You know the one: the beautiful (silicon-augmented) girl who spends all day shopping or sitting by the pool. You don't want your millionaire to want you only because you fulfill a specific picture, because that makes you very easy to replace. It doesn't set you apart. It's easy to find plenty of girls who fit that image. It's hard to find one that excites him and can match him in the things he enjoys or wants for his life.


Another part of the cliché, of course, is that you only love him for his money. It's fine to want a guy that can provide for you, but you should choose a guy that can provide for you and that you also love and have a deep connect with. He doesn't want an obvious gold digger, because he knows that will just cause his peers to judge and pity him. He wants to feel loved.;
, Most men, rich guys included, want a woman who respects herself. Why should he like you if you don't act like you think you're likable? Show him you're worth it by taking care of your body and appearance (eat healthy, exercise, dress for success, and practice good hygiene).
 Usually, rich men don't want a total bimbo. They're usually pretty smart themselves, and they want someone that can keep up with them. It's more interesting for them! Study hard in school and stay interested in learning once you're out of school. Go to college if you can, and if you can't, attend free online courses from services like Coursera and keep up on the latest TEDTalks.
 Rich guys usually partake in at least some cultural events and you need to be able to enjoy and fit in with that environment. Have a developed interest in music, art, literature, and film. Understand and explore foreign cultures, history, and politics too (since rich guys are often world travelers).
 No one wants to be with someone who's completely shallow, just an empty shell that never does anything. That's boring! Get out there and do things with your life. Have hobbies and dreams for the future (that you actively pursue, don't just sit around thinking about how much you'd like to be the next big star). This will add complexity to your character and make you seem like a fuller person.
 Talent is always sexy and makes you more interesting. Learn a skill or build one that you already have. The easiest route to go is to become a great cook (very much a learned skill), but you could also learn to draw or paint or play an instrument.
 Be a passionate lover but also be passionate in how you live your life. When we're with someone that's really enjoying their life and pursues what they love, that inspires us to do the same. This is why passion is so sexy! Pursue your interests. If you've always wanted to do something, do it. Once you find your millionaire, they'll be very impressed.
 Frequent the bars and cafes around major medical and tech universities. This will help you meet guys that are well on their way to being doctors and IT overlords. If you meet him when he is still young, he'll be more likely to be single and less worried that a woman is after him for his money. You'll have to deal with the intense schedule of a grad student, but that's just a mark in your favor. You'll show him that you're with him through thick and thin.
 Generally go to places where rich men are likely to be. Skip the cliché of the country club in favor of lunch at cafes and restaurants around major business districts. Try bars in upscale areas at night.
 Rich people usually develop expensive hobbies and collecting rare stuff is one of those hobbies. Rich guys will often collect vintage cars, vintage toys, comic books, or old signs. Develop your interest in and knowledge of these things and then check out upscale auction houses when these items are on the block.
 Charity events are also commonly attended by the wealthy. Don't go in unprepared though. Learn about the issue that the event is for and the work that the organization does. When you go, be prepared to talk to people you don't know. Even making friends in the right places can help you meet someone worth marrying.


You don't have to donate to the charity you're attending the event for but donating something is probably a good idea. Putting on such events is expensive and these organizations rely on getting donations to make it worth it.
 Did you know that about 22% of married couples met their spouse through work?Get a job at a major tech company or other very profitable, stable company and see who you meet!

, You can use many of these tactics to just make friends who are wealthy. Eventually, through them, you may meet your elusive future spouse. If you become very good friends, you can even ask them to set you up! This is a good route to take, because you will be less likely to come across as just another gold digger.
 There are lots of dating services, both online and in real life, that are specifically geared towards helping you meet a rich partner. Pick a reputable one and see where it leads. These services still focus on matching people for compatibility, so remember to do those earlier steps about working on yourself as a person.
 Your future spouse needs to understand that you're not just in it for the money. They need to see that you do really love them...and you should really love them! Relationships are hard, and they only really work when you're truly bonded to that person. Don't bring up money in conversations (especially early on) and try to be fairly frugal. If they want a pre-nup, don't fight them on it. You can even suggest one if you want to make them more comfortable.
 Because it is so common for rich people to be taken advantage of, it's more common for them to have trust issues. You need to create an environment of trust. This will set you apart from all those other people and show them that you're the one they should marry. Be someone that they can confide in, never judge them, and be open with them about your own secrets and insecurities.
 Don't be the kind of date that just lets everything happen to you. Take an active role in your date! You should take them places, even if the place isn't very nice. Be flexible and handle yourself well when things don't go according to plan. Ask them about things you know they'll want to talk about.
 Everyone wants to marry the person that they believe is going to make their life better. When you're rich, you don't have to worry about finding someone that can provide for you. Instead, they're worried about meeting a spouse that can make their life interesting and fun. If you want them to propose, be that person. Get them out of their shell. Get them doing fun, amazing stuff that they never would have done otherwise. Always be positive and avoid complaining at all costs. They won't be able to get enough of you!

, Be a master in the art of love. Not the sex part (although that won't hurt): be good at actually loving them and help them to fall in love with you. Be completely unselfish in your relationship. Work to bring them happiness. Surprise them with acts of love every now and again. Be cheesy. It's a good thing.
 Don't give everything up all at once. You can sleep with them if you want to, but don't sleep with them often or spend all your time with them right away. Why should they marry you if having you as a girlfriend or mistress gets them what they want?

, It is easier. Give it a chance if you are young. Stay in school and understand what new fields are opening up. Invest money every month in a savings account - no matter how small - just start saving. If you are working, try to be the best in your job.
 If you are average looking, slow-witted with a dull personality, forget it. Write down a list of what needs to be improved, then do it. You need to look just as rich and powerful as the man you're trying to catch, but don't forget your personality and personal style.
 Do not talk about how much money they have or how much they make. If they bring it up, be polite but ask no questions. Make it not important in the conversation.
 Avoid swearing, drinking, drugs, laughing loudly, aggressive behavior, and flashy outfits. Work on a more elegant style. Think classy and understated, not "labels". You want to be the girlfriend then wife, not the mistress.

