 When you buy a pack of cigarettes, whatever variety, the pack will have been sitting right-side-up on the shelf for quite a while, and the tobacco will have loosened up some in the paper. Many smokers will pack the tobacco back down toward the filter while the cigarettes are still tight in the package, making each one somewhat easier to light and draw from.


While it's not necessary to pack cigarettes, it is true that cigarettes from packs that haven't been packed have a tendency to "kick the cherry," or lose the lit-end when the ash is tapped off.
It's also true that the tobacco will recess some, back into the cigarette, leaving a little empty tab of paper on the end of each one, which is somewhat easier to light than a cigarette with tobacco flush with the end.
 Pinch the between your thumb and middle finger in your dominant hand, the top of the pack pointed down toward the floor. Hold the pack in place with your pointer-finger on top. Hold your other hand open flat, your palm pointed up.


You don't have to remove the plastic wrap from the outside of the pack first, and in fact it's better if you don't. You don't have to worry about the top of the box flapping open while you're doing it.
Soft-packs and hard-packs are done in exactly the same way, as are filtered cigarettes and unfiltered, but it's a good idea to handle soft-packs a bit more gently, since there's nothing separating your finger from the cigarette but a thin piece of paper.
 To pack the cigarettes, bring the top of the pack down firmly into your open palm, slapping it. Hold the pack loose enough so you're not bruising your palm, just letting the momentum of the swing carry the pack into your palm.


Bring it back up and repeat this process about 10 times, depending on how packed you like your cigarettes. More packing will recess the tobacco farther into the paper, resulting in more empty space at the tip of the cigarette and denser tobacco, making the draw somewhat more snug.
 If you don't like how far you've packed the tobacco, you can return the cigarette to the pack and pack it a few more times. If you packed it too much, you can flip the pack over and pack it a few times in the opposite direction, if you wish.

