 Geniuses are passionate about the things they do. If you want to think like a genius, find what you love and dive in headfirst.


Figure out what your learning style is and make use of it. The major types are auditory, visual-spatial, verbal-linguistic and kinesthetic. Experiment with different techniques for absorbing information and stick with what works best.
Learn how to self-educate. There are lots of resources available on the internet and through local services like community colleges and libraries that can put all sorts of exciting information at your fingertips.
Be pro-active and ask questions. There are people you meet every day that know all sorts of things and have a variety of valuable skills to share. As a genius, be interested in the potential in everything.
Be over-comprehensive in your studies. Learn everything there is to know.
As you learn about different disciplines, think about how they connect to one another.
 Genius ideas have often occurred in the pursuit of something that many contemporaries thought to be downright crazy. Create opportunities for yourself to discover new things by embarking on journeys on which no one has yet embarked.
 It is on the edges of knowledge that innovation and discovery happen. Don't be afraid to question conventional wisdom, because geniuses are often the ones who rewrite current conventions.
 Try for quantity before quality. To produce exceptionally good work, do a lot of whatever you're doing. It increases your chances for success and it means you will get more practice along the way. It also takes the pressure off, knowing that while an effort may be your first, it will likely not be your last. Most geniuses in history, whatever they were doing, did a lot of many things, and not all of it was genius!


There is a theory that to become a "master" in any subject, you need 10,000 hours of practice. Professional orchestra players and computer programmers demonstrate this idea. (Citation: Malcolm Gladwell's book Outliers, 2009, but see also Creativity: Genius and other Myths, Weisberg, 1986)

, Bloom's Taxonomy is a breakdown of the six levels of thinking, from the lowest level to the highest. You can use it to help you think about thinking on a deeper level.


Knowledge is accepting and believing a fact. Knowing 2 + 2 = 4, doesn't mean you know what 2 + 2 = 4 means.
Application is knowing how to use the fact. You can determine that 2 cats plus 2 cats equals 4 cats. You don't know what 2 + 2 = 4 means, but you can apply it.
Comprehension is understanding a fact: You understand the concept of addition and how 2 + 2 = 4.
Analysis is breaking down information into its parts. 4 - 2 = 2; (1 + 1) + (1 + 1) = 2 + 2 = 4.
Synthesis is Creating something new. (2 + 2) + (2 + 2) = 4 + 4.
Evaluation: Discussion of the merits of 2 + 2 = 4.
 You are different. You think differently. Every kind of genius is different and individual. And every kind of opinion has something true and something you can learn from.


Remember that different ideas have not historically been accepted well, and yours may not be either. Geniuses throughout history have not let this deter them; neither should you.
 It involves connecting and transforming information (data, knowledge, concepts, experiences, etc.) in personally meaningful, purposeful and useful ways. Use this image or choose another and it relate it to your life.;
,,,,