 Once they have assumed Ihram at one of the miqat, pilgrims proceed to the Ka'bah, the holiest site in all of Islam. Until they reach the Ka'bah and begin to perform the rituals of Tawwaf, pilgrims are encouraged to repeat the Talbiyyah to themselves continuously (or as often as possible when it is reasonable to do so.) Pilgrims may also offer their own unique, special prayers to God or recite portions of the Qur'an — the precise words you offer aren't as important as maintaining a solemn, humble, devoted mindset.
 At the Ka'bah, pilgrims complete the Tawwaf — the act of walking around the Ka'bah seven times in a counterclockwise direction. Each "circuit" starts and ends when the Black Stone is on the pilgrim's right (there is a brown marble line marking this starting point.) The pilgrim recites a short prayer to express the intention to complete Tawwaf before beginning. This prayer is:


"In the name of Allah, Allah is the Greatest. O Allah! Having faith in you, confirming the truthfulness of Your Holy Book, fulfilling Your promise and following the Sunnah of Your Prophet (peace be upon him)".
After this intention prayer, the pilgrim begins to walk. The first three circuits should be completed quickly; the next four slowly. While completing the seven circuits, the pilgrim is encouraged to touch and kiss the Black Stone each circuit if possible (if it is too crowded to kiss, it is appropriate to kiss the fingers and touch the stone.)
Men should expose their right shoulder (and only their shoulder) by tucking their robes under their right armpit., The Tawwaf is a very special experience during which Muslims have a greater opportunity to express their devotion to God than during their ordinary life. While completing the Tawwaf, one's thoughts should be pure and focused on God. Many pilgrims choose also to offer oral praise as they walk. The most common recitations used for this are:



Labbayka Allaahumma Labbayk. Labbayka Laa Shareeka Laka Labbayk.



"My God, I have responded to You. I have responded to You, and I proclaim that there is no other god besides You; I have responded to You"





Innal Hamda, Wan Ne'mata. Lakawal Mulk. La Shareeka Lak



"For You alone is All The Praise and All The Bounty, and for You alone is The Sovereignty. You have no partners."





, After the Tawwaf, the pilgrim completes another special Umrah ritual called the Say'ee. The Say'ee involves walking back and forth between two small mountains called Safa and Marwah. Starting from Safa, pilgrims complete seven circuits, making a total of four stops at each mountain. At each stop, the pilgrim recites the following short prayer:Allahu Akbar! (repeated three times) Laa ilaaha illa Allah wahdahu laa shareeka lah. Lahul-Mulku walahul- Hamdu wa huwa 'alaa kulli shay'in Qadeer. Laa ilaaha illa Allahu wahdahu, Shadaqa Wa'adahu, wa nasara 'abadahu wa hazamal-Ahzaaba wahdah!

There is no god but Allah. He is One and has no partner, to Him is the dominion and all praise is due to Him. We are returning, repenting, worshipping, prostrating, and to Allah we are very grateful. Allah is true to His promise, He gave victory to His servant and defeated the confederates all by Himself.
Other desirable (but not required) behaviors for the Say'ee include walking at a fast pace between the two green signs on the side of the path, making small prayers or reading the Qur'an, abstaining from talking to others, and reflecting on the Day of Judgement.
 After the seventh circuit of Say'ee, the major events of the pilgrimage are over. At this point, the pilgrims at Marwa have their hair shaved or cut as a sign of their symbolic "renewed" or "rejuvenated" state. Men are strongly encouraged to have their heads shaved. Trimming the hair is permitted, but shaving the head entirely is preferable. Women only have their hair trimmed.


After this hair-trimming, the Umrah is over and pilgrims are released from the state of Ihram. They may revert to their normal clothes and assume their normal behavior, though they should maintain a devout, humble mindset as long as they are in Mecca.
 While Umrah can be performed by itself, the rituals of Umrah also make up the first part of the longer Hajj pilgrimage. If Umrah is being performed as part of the Hajj, pilgrims typically skip the hair-cutting ritual described above and do not leave the state of Ihram (this may differ depending on the type of Hajj the pilgrim is completing — there are three different varieties of Hajj.) If they do cut their hair, they must re-enter Ihram before starting the rest of the Hajj rituals.


The details of the Hajj rituals themselves are beyond the scope of this article. See our article on the Hajj for relevant information.

