 This rule holds for any scene, from suspense to romance, but it is extra important here since most directors want low-lighting in order to be dramatic. While editing, you can easily darken up a scene to make it more mysterious or suspenseful, but adding light will dramatically decrease picture quality.


A good rule of thumb is to work with a wide range of lighting, using big, clear bright areas offset by dramatically dark shadows.
Putting your camera into black and white mode is often the best way to check for well-lit scenes., A good shot is like a photograph -- you could stop the movie and still see a compelling image. As such, the shots need depth, and this is doubly true in suspense filmmaking, where you can use the background to show things to the audience that the character might not notice. A woman washing dishes, followed by a shot of someone entering her house, is creepy. But a shot over the woman's shoulder as she washes, as a shadowy frame fills the doorway, is downright terrifying.


This is where storyboarding ahead of time is your best friend. How can you compose each shot to have suspense -- not just the scene as a whole.
 The most famous example of this is in Kubrick's The Shining, where he breaks the essential "180-rule" that claims that cameras shouldn't be on opposite sides of the room. Without knowing this rule, viewers were completely unsettled because it was unlike anything they'd ever seen. These subtle details separate the masters from the amateurs. Other ideas include:



Voyeuristic shots, where the camera acts like a predator hunting prey. As an audience member, you understand someone is watching your hero without every showing the villain. Frequently, filtering the shot through tree leaves, blinds, etc. can help.

Unnaturally low or high shots, as well as extreme close-ups, don't feel like real life. They jar the viewer and keep them on edge.

Hand-held camera work with shakes and unsteadiness, give a chaotic, uncomfortable feel, especially in moments of tension., Suspense requires silence, stillness, and moments of quiet, which build feelings of dread until the big moment happens. Don't just film the "action" of the scene -- make sure you get plenty of slower, creepier, and more atmospheric footage as well. You editor will thank you.


Long shots naturally put viewers on edge, as we're used to relatively short cuts between each shot. The longer you hold the frame, the more people feel like there is something they are missing or is about to happen, building the coveted suspense.
 No one is suspenseful after they know what happens -- you're only feeling nervous when waiting to see what is coming. Once you show your cards, you've moved away from suspense and into action -- an essential part of the movie or scene, but not just yet. The best suspense gives you little pieces and clues, knowing that the creature in the audience's imagination is far more terrifying than any you can show on screen., Another classic Hitchcock technique, the transition between a super shallow shot to a big wide-angle lens will keep interest and force the audience to suddenly scan the screen -- why the change? Am I missing something dangerous? Is something big about to happen? These subtle technical points will make your scene not just suspenseful, but artful, as well., Just because the biggest scare or worry has to come last doesn't mean you need to be suspense-free until the final minute. Good suspense artists know that close calls pull you further up in your seat while also giving you a bit of hope for success. Without that balance of fear and hope, you can't get suspense, so be sure to "pay off" the viewer to keep them engaged. Ideas include:


The villain just missing his/her strike. Frequently, the hero doesn't know how close they got to dying yet. But the audience does, and it is terrifying."False scares," like when the viewer expects to see the villain, but it is just a stray cat popping out. Be careful about using too many of these, however, as they can feel easy and cheap very quickly if viewers never get real suspense.
Cutting before the climactic action is often a good way to hide the villain or scare for later. It also makes the next time the characters visit that spot extra terrifying.