 You may want to dress your dog up for this special occasion. Dressing up your dog can be fine, but be sure you are thoughtful of what you are making them wear. Your dog’s safety should be the number one priority, not how cute they look in their birthday suit.


For example, make sure there aren’t any small buttons they might choke on or a scarf that could become wrapped too tightly around their neck.Because of the dog’s heritage, an outfit that fits tightly around their midsection may make them feel like they are being dominated. This feeling can cause them to freeze up, standing still in one place until the garment is removed, or they may try to remove it themselves by shaking, pawing at it, or rolling in something foul smelling., You should also make sure that your dog is going to be comfortable in any kind of costume you pick out for them. Ensure their outfit fits well, is not going to make them too hot, is made of comfortable material, and won’t impede their ability to go to the bathroom. Your dog should be able to do anything they would normally do—run, jump, sit, lay down, roll over—while they are wearing an outfit., If you’ve decided to go ahead and dress your dog up, the next step is picking an outfit that is appropriate for the occasion (keeping in mind the safety and comfort issues mentioned above). Your local pet supermarket will have some options for dressing dogs up, like birthday outfits and Halloween costumes. You can also find more specialized outfits for just about any occasion online, like a bow tie or special harnesses for a wedding. You must also pick a garment that fits your dog appropriately. There are three basic measurements you’ll need to do this:


Topline (length of your dog’s back): Measure from the highest part of the back (between the shoulders) to the base of the tail, or where the tail meets the body
Girth (chest): Measure all the way around the biggest part of your dog’s ribcage, keeping your tape measure behind the front legs
Neck: Measure all the way around the neck, where your dog’s collar naturally rests, Be sure to pay attention to your dog’s behavior while they are dressed up. If you notice they are acting strange or irritated, take the outfit off. It could be the outfit is rubbing them the wrong way, is too hot, or is just plain annoying. Ultimately, you know your dog’s temperament best, so use your best judgment.


Dogs that are dressed up often receive more attention than those that aren’t. While this is usually a good thing for dogs, if your dog likes to be left alone or is not great with new people, it might not be a good idea to dress them up.