 The producer supplies the necessary materials for building your log home. You can source a producer by looking at different company's plan books, which will give you an idea of the type of log homes that they have produced previously. Otherwise, you can stop in at a model log home, and if you're impressed with the style and layout, you can hire the same company to produce yours. Make sure that you have an open line of communication with your chosen producers - they should listen to your ideas and always keep you in the loop.


You can do a background check on possible producers by researching previous log homes they've built and getting references from their customers.You can also check with the Better Business Bureau, the state attorney general's office or the Log Homes Council., Carefully consider your options when it comes to choosing a builder. There are many on the market, and their quality and service vary considerably.


Besides finding a builder you can communicate well with and painstakingly checking references with past customers, you also should visit finished homes to personally inspect the builder’s work.
Keep in mind that it usually takes several years for a log home to completely settle and expose any construction defects. A 3- to 5-year-old home probably is the best example of a builder’s art.Before selecting your builder, you also should check with the local contractor’s board or similar state or regional authority, including your state’s attorney general’s office, to see if the builder has been involved with litigation in the past.It’s wise to choose a builder who is familiar with your local building codes and the environment of your site.
Make sure your builder is licensed and bonded, otherwise if you run into problems you could have little legal recourse.
 You will need to negotiate with your builder or building company about items such as the price of their services, the design of your home, and the estimated time frame for completing the project. Once both parties have come to an agreement, the terms will be laid out in a contract which you will both be required to sign.

