 Even if you aren't changing your name because of marriage or divorce, there are plenty of reasons you might want to change your name. You can change your name if you don't like it, for religious reasons, to reflect your new gender, or to create a combined name.Invalid reasons include:Changing your name to avoid legal judgements, debts, or obligations
Changing your name to defraud someone else
Changing your name to hide from the law or police

, File it with the Probate Court in the county you live in. Be sure to check your specific county for name change fees, since they vary. Note that you can fill out the form online, print it out, and file it with the court. If you pick up the form from the office, you'll be charged an additional fee. If you print it out at home, the court has strict rules about the quality of the printed forms. Be sure to check the technical printer requirements. Fill out the form and attach a certified copy of your birth certificate and divorce decree. Include the following information on the petition:Your current full legal name
Your date of birth
Your address and telephone number
Why you'd like to change your name
The new name you want
Your attorney's name and address, if using legal services

, Depending on your county's requirements, you may need to attend a court hearing. This is when you'll learn if your petition has been accepted, denied, or is contested by someone. If your petition is accepted, it will be published in the local newspaper.You may also be required to prepare and serve or simply serve your spouse with the notice of your name change. Or, the court may do it for you. It's important to check your county's operating procedures regarding this., If the court doesn't accept your petition for a name change, understand the reason why you may have been refused. Courts can deny name changes for a number of reasons, including:Changing your name to avoid legal judgements, debts, or obligations
Changing your name to defraud someone else
Changing your name to hide from the law or police