 You will need a container with a lid (or an empty soda can), one egg, one tablespoon of milk, one tablespoon of vinegar, a pair of scissors and a zip-lock baggie.You will only need the zip-lock baggie if you’re using a soda can, since that will act as the can’s airtight “lid.”;
, You need to use a container that you don’t plan to ever use again, so an empty soda can is a quick and easy choice. Carefully cut the top 2 inches of the can off with a sharp pair of scissors.


If you have some sort of plastic container with a tight-fitting lid (that you have no other use for), feel free to improvise and use that instead of a soda can.A glass jar (such as a mason jar) with a lid will also work well., You can crack the egg fully open and drop the contents inside, or you can make a crack in the egg and toss the whole thing in there, shell and all. It’s going to smell awful either way.


You can even drop the whole egg in there without cracking it, but the brewing time for the stink bomb might take a little longer.
Any kind of egg will do – white, brown, free range, etc. Whatever type that’s currently in your refrigerator will be perfect.
 Measure out 1 tablespoon of milk and 1 tablespoon of vinegar and put them both in the container with the egg. Any type of dairy milk will work, but make sure it’s dairy (for instance, almond milk will not work because it’s non-dairy). Use regular white vinegar.If you dropped the whole egg in there and didn’t crack it, you’ll need more vinegar. Pour in enough so that it covers the entire egg.
 If you’re using a soda can, put it in a zip-lock baggie and close it up tight. The baggie should be large enough so that the can fits easily inside and so that you can still set the can upright on a flat surface after you close the baggie. If you are using something else for your container, make sure you put the lid back on tightly.


Once you’ve closed the baggie up, put the can in a warm place where it won’t be disturbed.Let the stink brew up for about a week before using the bomb. The longer you wait, the more intense the stench will be.
 Don’t unleash the stench be removing the baggie (or lid) until you’ve decided where to put the bomb! This type of bomb works best if you hide it somewhere, such as in a sibling’s bedroom or under the kitchen table.


This bomb will have a terrible stench - a combination of rotten eggs and spoiled milk.
Be careful not to get any of the mixture on yourself – it smells awful!

