 It’s easy to feel overwhelmed when you’ve got a thousand things to do at once. But looking at your to-do list as a path rather than a mountain can help you to feel less stressed. Ask yourself which tasks are most urgent and which you can save until tomorrow, or even the next day. Acknowledge that you won’t necessarily be able to get everything done today and that stress will only make the work you do feel harder.Where possible, try doing a little bit of work every day on the big tasks you have to accomplish. This slow-and-steady approach will help you to feel calm as deadlines approach and will also allow you to focus the bulk of your attention on more immediate tasks without neglecting bigger, long-term ones.
 If you’re feeling so frazzled by all the things you have to get done that you’re having trouble doing anything, try picking one simple task and focusing on that. Then pick one more task and focus on just doing that. Eventually, you’ll get some momentum going and you won’t feel so overwhelmed. You’ll just move on to the next thing.


Avoid multitasking. Trying to do three, or six, or ten things at once isn’t efficient. You can’t do any of the tasks as well when you’re doing all of them at once, and you’ll end up making mistakes that will require you to do more work than you otherwise would have. Instead, focus on one thing at a time and do it as well as you can. When you feel comfortable with your work, move on to the next thing., Exercise is a great stress reliever. It gives you a chance to exorcise your anxiety and also releases endorphins, which are hormones that make you feel happy.Regular exercise is best, but even a short walk or an office “dance break” when you’re feeling overwhelmed can beat your anxiety into submission., Studies show that constant access to email and social media may contribute to higher stress levels and loss of focus. If you want to calm your mind, try taking a break from your computer and your smart phone for an hour a day. Worst case scenario, you get to focus on something else for a while., Coffee is a stimulant, so it can raise your blood pressure and make your brain activity more frenetic. If you drink a lot of coffee, it may be contributing to your stress. If you want to have a calm mind, try drinking water or tea after your first cup or two of coffee.
 Mindfulness is the practice of focusing on your body and your senses for a period of time. When you have a quiet moment, spend some time focusing on whatever you are doing in the present time. Ask yourself, “What am I doing right now?” Pay close attention to your body—your posture, your senses, your physical movements.Don’t analyze or critique what you’re doing. Just notice it as if you are a casual observer.
If you feel your mind wandering focus on your breathing for a moment, like you would during meditation.
Notice all five of your senses. Pay attention not just to physical sensations or sights, but also smells, sounds and tastes.
If you find yourself having thoughts that won’t go away, take some time out of your mindfulness to write the thoughts down. Then you can go back to being mindful, knowing that you’ll get back to those thoughts when you’re finished., Set aside some time in each day to remind yourself of the good things in your life. They can be different things every day or the same things, and there can be as many as you want. Your blessings can be as simple as a delicious meal you ate that day or as major as the love of your family—whatever makes you feel grateful.