 Sometimes you don't give yourself enough credit for the many positive milestones in your life. You might look around and compare yourself to others on their journey while ignoring the many achievements you have made possible.


Reflect on the greatest milestone or accomplishments in your life. Write these down and review the list regularly when you start to doubt your capabilities.For example, you might list "Graduating from college," "Getting a promotion at work," or "Helping start a local fundraiser for needy families." These accomplishments can be anything that makes you proud.;
, Along with achievements, you can also get insight into the many challenges you have faced in your life. Doing this can help you remember how strong and persistent you can be. Plus, if a challenge remains difficult for you, you can devise new ways of trying to overcome it.Jot down some major challenges you have faced. Notate how you viewed these barriers at the time and how you look at them now. Then, spend some time thinking about what you would change about the situation if you could.
 You might assume there’s no good in revisiting old memories. Many confuse the feeling of nostalgia with “living in the past.” In truth, nostalgia can offer rewarding psychological benefits such as fighting loneliness, boredom, and anxiety.Plus, it makes the fabric of your life appear richer because you come to see how even tiny moments impact your life's journey.


If you have a memory or keepsakes box, go through it every now and then. Look at photos, old cards, and certificates of achievement from your school days. Reread old letters or notes from previous lovers. It may even be nice to listen to music from a certain period in your life.
 If you are working towards making changes in life and achieving goals, start asking yourself how you might want to engage in life differently. What types of things would you be doing and experiencing? Would this make you happier or more relaxed?Provide yourself with daily positive affirmations and self-talk to help you reach towards the changes you desire to make. By incorporating positive affirmations, you may increase your overall self-esteem and your motivation to reach your goals.
 Nostalgia also seems to help you strengthen your relationships and enhance your feelings of social connectedness.Take advantage of these redeeming qualities by calling up an old pal from a previous time in your life. If possible, it may even be nice to visit with them, too. Bring any relevant items from your keepsake box along with you.


You might say to an old high school friend, “Alice, I was looking through some of my old things and found some picture from our cheerleading days. It made me remember all the great times we shared. I’d love to get together with you and revisit those memories. Want to grab coffee tomorrow?”

, It seems that sensory details lend to a better nostalgic experience. Take a trip back down memory lane by going to some places that held great memories for you. There you can reflect on the sights, sounds, and smells of times past.For example, it may be nice to go to your grandma’s house and imagine how her kitchen was once filled with the smell of cherry pie. Or, stop by your elementary school. Close your eyes and remember the sounds of children laughing and squealing on the playground. Hold a related keepsake item in your hand to evoke stronger memories.
To keep the experience positive, avoid revisiting places with strong negative or traumatic memories. Try to think fondly on the wonderful experiences you have had in these locations.

