 To go through these breathing exercises, you need to get in a comfortable position. This can be sitting down and lying down. Make sure you sit or lie down somewhere comfortable, like a bed, comfortable chair, or a mat on the floor.Place your hands either loosely by your side with the palms facing up or resting lightly on your torso. The key is to be comfortable.
Make sure your body is not tense. Soften any places that might be tense, like your shoulders or jaw.
Settle into the position, feeling all the places where your body connects with the surface beneath you.
 Make a note of the pain you feel. Where is the pain? What does this pain feel like? How are you reacting to this pain? Bring awareness to the pain so you can deal with it through the next steps of your meditation., Focus only on this moment. Let go of the past and the future. Focus only on the moment where you are. Be aware of the physical sensations of your body, from the temperature, to where it touches the surface beneath you, to the clothes you’re wearing, to any pain or discomfort.Focus on your thoughts and feelings in this moment. Try to keep it about this particular moment, not the past or present.
Refrain from passing judgment on your feelings, thoughts, or physical sensations. One of the keys of meditation is to become aware without passing judgment. Get rid of all criticism and negativity in your mind. Replace it with positivity. Be kind to yourself.
 Next, breathe. Don’t try to breathe differently, but just let yourself breathe naturally. Notice the way you breathe. Listen to the sounds, and notice how it feels physically.Think about how your chest and abdomen responds to your breath. Think about how the breaths feel as you inhale and exhale. Notice any details about them.
Remember to stay non-judgmental. You are only observing and not making any judgments about your breathing. You are just breathing and being in the moment.
 After you have focused solely on your breathing for a few minutes, start broadening your awareness to other parts of your body. Focus on your pain. Wrap your mental awareness around that pain. As you breathe in and out, allow the breaths to soften your pain, massage those areas, and take away the rough edges.As your wrap your breath around the pain, put kindness, love, and gentleness into those breaths. Treat your pain as you treat someone you love who is in pain.
Pain is a stream of sensations. Concentrating on the pain and using your breath to help channel those sensations can help the pain lessen.
If this gets too intense for you, expand your awareness back to your whole body and focus on relaxing and settling down into the surface beneath you.
 Remain with your mind and breath focused on your pain as you soothe and soften the pain. You may continuously broaden your awareness and bring it back to the pain as the pain sensations change.Expand your sensations broader than yourself and your pain. Try to find pleasant sensations and experiences around you. This can be the way your legs rest on the floor, the feeling of your breath, the softness of your shirt, or the sun on your face.
 After you have focused on your breath and pain for as long as you want, end the meditation. To do this, expand your mind from the pain and your breath to your body, then the world around you. Slowly, become aware of your surroundings. Open your eyes slowly. Move your body slowly as you come back to full awareness.