 Fill a large saucepan about half full with water, estimating the amount needed to fully cover the full batch of green beans. Set the saucepan on your stove over medium-high to high heat, and let it reach a rolling boil.


Do not add the green beans before the water reaches a boil since doing so would cause the green beans to overcook.
If desired, you can add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of salt to the boiling water. Doing so may help enhance the flavor of the green beans, but it will also add more sodium to the dish, so you can opt to leave it out if desired.;
, As the saucepan of water boils, fill a separate large bowl with water and several handfuls of ice. You’ll need this ice water to quickly stop the cooking process later on, so it must be prepared before you begin blanching the green beans.
 Add the green beans to the pot of boiling water. Wait for the water to resume boiling, then set your timer and allow the green beans to boil for about three minutes.


When ready, your green beans should turn brighter in color, and spear easily with a fork., Using a slotted spoon, transfer the green beans from the boiling water to the bowl of ice water. Keep them in the ice water for three minutes, or until completely cooled. This prevents the green beans from continuing to cook after being removed from boiling water.


This process, known as blanching, is a recommended cooking practice for vegetables that removes bacteria, and stops enzyme actions that result in loss of vitamins, flavor, color and texture.You may opt to skip blanching if you’re in a hurry, but blanching is strongly recommended. Skipping the blanching process may result in a loss of some nutritional value and taste.
 This allows the green beans to drain of water before sautéeing. Failing to drain the water can result in a soggy final product.Note that blanched green beans can be refrigerated in an airtight container for up to two days, but when possible, you should move directly into the sauteeing process from the blanching process to ensure the best flavor and texture.
 Pour the oil into a large skillet and set it on the stove over medium heat. Allow it to heat for about one minute, waiting no longer than three minutes.


Minimizing the amount of heating time for the oil should prevent the oil from burning and releasing toxins.
If using you’re using a nonstick skillet, you must add oil to the pan before preheating to extend the life of the nonstick coating. If using another type of skillet, you may either preheat the pan first for about five minutes and add the oil after, or preheat the oil and the pan simultaneously as done with a nonstick skillet; the choice is less crucial here, so do whichever cooking practice feels more comfortable.
 Add the minced garlic to the hot oil and cook for approximately 30 seconds, stirring occasionally. This enhances the garlic’s flavor while also cooking off its strong rawness.As a general guideline, the garlic is ready once the color deepens slightly and the aroma becomes more appetizing.
Be careful when working with garlic. It burns quickly if left unattended, which will ruin the taste of the dish. It's best to start over with fresh oil and fresh garlic if the first batch burns before you can cook the green beans.
 Add the green beans to the skillet and stir frequently for three to five minutes, or until heated through.Check for doneness. Green beans cook at different rates based on size and age. Undercooked green beans tend to be rubbery, while overcooked green beans tend to look and taste mushy. Your sauteed green beans are done when flavor is robust and you can bite through the beans with no resistance.Once finished, remove the green beans from the heat to prevent them from overcooking.
 Toss the green beans with a sprinkle of salt and pepper, to taste, or add other seasonings as desired.Enjoy the green beans immediately for maximum flavor.


If cooking the green beans ahead of time, drain any excess oil on clean paper towels, then refrigerate the green beans in an airtight container until ready to serve. You can keep cooked green beans for up to four days., For an easy way to liven up sauteed green beans, you can try adding other dried herbs or spices to the dish when you would usually add plain salt and pepper. When experimenting with flavor, start small--about 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) of any spice or 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of any dried herb--toss to coat, taste test, and add more as desired.


Popular herbs for green beans include basil, oregano, thyme, rosemary, sage, and tarragon. If you’d like to stick with only one herb, try rosemary; if you’d prefer an herb blend, basil, oregano, and thyme often work well together.
For a spicier dish, consider cumin, chili powder, or curry. For something deep yet mild, consider celery seed or nutmeg.You should also keep the other dishes of your meal in mind when choosing spices, and pair the seasonings added to your green beans accordingly. For instance, if you’re serving the green beans with chicken flavored with rosemary, adding a little rosemary to the green beans can help tie the meal together.
 Use about 1/4 cup (60 ml) unsalted slivered almonds, pine nuts, or walnuts.Toast the nuts in the oil after the garlic but before the green beans, stirring and cooking for about three minutes or until they smell stronger and get deeper in color. Add the green beans and continue cooking as usual.If you don't like the taste of toasted nuts but still want to try this option, you can also add the nuts to the dish alongside the salt and pepper.You may also choose to omit the garlic when using nuts if desired.
 For an easy dressing, whisk together 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of balsamic vinegar with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of olive oil. Add the dressing to the green beans after sauteeing them, tossing to coat well.You can either allow it to warm up in the pan for another minute or let the dressing remain at room temperature by serving the green beans immediately after.
For another variation, consider mixing 1 Tbsp (15 ml) balsamic vinegar with 1 tsp (5 ml) of honey.Add the dressing to the pan during the last minute or two of sauteing, stirring well to coat.
 Bacon is a classic way to dress up green beans. Cook 4 to 6 pieces of bacon before cooking the green beans; let it cool, then tear or cut it into small pieces. Cook the green beans as usual, then sprinkle the finished green beans with the bacon before serving.You can saute the green beans in the bacon grease for a stronger bacon flavor, or drain the bacon grease and stick with olive oil for a healthier variation.

