 If you want to look like the leader of your clique in girl scouts, always look clean and put together. Use makeup products from your local drugstore that work well with you fashion, style, and skin tone. Use any type of makeup just don't apply it too heavily. Natural looks best.;
, Try any type of hairstyle. You can style your hair anyway you want to. Try something different than what people usually see. It'll make you stand out. Also, you can add hair accessories to your hair. You can buy cute hair accessories from a ton of places without breaking the bank.
 Try putting together outfits with jewelry that goes well with it. There's some girls that are allergic to fake silver, gold, and nickel, so buy sterling silver or jewelry that doesn't hurt your skin. If every jewelry gives you a reaction go see a dermatologist.
 It doesn't matter what size or shape you are, be confident in your clothes. If you don't want to follow a certain trend, it's okay to be different. If you are interested in what is hot right now read Glamor, Allure, Elle,and Teen Vogue.
 A good purse is always a must. This fall animal prints are very trendy. So if you want to carry a little hand bag it's good to pick a bag that suits you.



Having confidence in yourself goes beyond what you wear, look like, and own. Confidence is being comfortable in who you are as a person. Love yourself, and others will see you're comfortable in your skin.
 Shower regularly, brush your teeth and hair, wash your face, moisturize, and always get a good nights sleep.
 Be nice and courteous to other people. Show them that you're a cool person to be around, and just be yourself.
 You don't always have to do something just because other people are doing it. Do what makes you happy, and if anything ever makes your uncomfortable you don't have to do it. You are your main priority and you owe it to yourself to treat you with respect.
 Learn how to act at fancy dinner parties, when you're a guest at somebody's home, or when you're speaking with your elders. Manners are very important, and if you display that you know how to behave people will start to see how important it is.
 Just be confident.

