 While fighting the computers is great to get started, you're going to quickly plateau if you don't fight better opponents. Head to the online modes or join in with a friend to really improve your skills against a living, unpredictable opponent.


Almost all fighters have online modes that match you up against similarly skilled players automatically, so don't let worry about getting pummeled keep you offline., Each character often has similar moves, but their timing, reach, damage, and speed are often wildly different. This means that certain characters have an advantage over others, and you need to play each character a little differently. While a complete list of differences across all games is impossible, in general:


Know if you favor speed or strength. Quick characters need to dart around and pepper lots of attacks at the opponent while stronger characters need to pick the opportune moments to deal major damage.
What is your reach? Does a character have long attacks and lots of projectiles, or do they need to get up close. What about your opponent?
Search online for your game's "Tier List," which is a ranking of how good each character is against each other character as written by professional players., Fighting games are not purely based on your reactions, though they appear that way to outsiders. You need to keep the entire game in your mind as you play. For example, if you have one or two attacks that are connecting early on, you shouldn't expect to rely on them the whole fight. Your opponent will quickly adapt and punish you for a lack of creativity. You might, instead, save these attacks for the opportune moment, making the most of them to catch your opponent off-guard.


Is the game on a timer? If so, the player with the most health when time runs out usually wins. This might lead you to take more or less risks as the clock winds down.
Are there special bars to fill up? Usually blocking fills up your combo or special bar, so starting out reserved and then surprising your opponent with a big attack could be more effective then attack right out of the gate.
 After an attack, how long is it before you can move again? How long does it take to start an attack before it deals damage? In general, the longer these times are, the more damage the attack does but the more vulnerable you are to a counter-attack. You need to know how long it takes to complete a full attack to make the most of your moves, and to know when you can safely move in on your opponents., Conditioning is when you make your opponent expect a certain attack, then switch things up to gain the upper hand. Conditioning is essential for all top-tier players and takes many forms. You can condition using the game by cutting common combos short, you can condition over long matches by sticking to one strategy before brutality changing gears, and you can condition opponents with repeated attacks, changing it up just as they get used to blocking it. The essence of conditioning is playing your opponent, not just reacting to them., Jumping is predictable. Once you're in the air, you can't block or change directions, giving your opponent plenty of time to get ready and counter your attack. While there is time for jumping to surprise, dodge, or initiate a combo, you should save it for sparse, opportune moments., Resist the urge to constantly attack, especially when you have the lead. Make your opponent come to you and dictate the flow of the fight that way, picking them off when they make mistakes and tempting them to take risks to get the fight even. Playing conservatively is all about reading your opponents and breaking them down bit by bit, and though it takes some patience, all the best players do it., A gaming pad with buttons and joystick is essential if you want to seriously play fighting games. They are usually $40-80 and come in a variety of designs. If you have any plans of competing in fighters, you'll need on to stand a chance, as they are more responsive to movement and quick combos than a controller.