
There are numerous places where ticks thrive in different parts of the world.


Contact your the department of health to find out which outdoor spaces near you have tick problems.
Avoid places with lots of woods, forest, bushes and grass, especially from late spring-mid summer when ticks are most active.
Stay away from overgrown walking trails if possible.;
,


Bright/light colored clothes will make it easier to spot ticks.
Wear long sleeves, long pants, and socks. Tuck in your shirt, and if possible, tuck your pant legs into your socks. If you are going to spend a great deal of time in a place where ticks are likely to be present in large numbers, use tape to seal the line where your pants meet the socks. This will help prevent the ticks from getting in.
You may want to treat your clothes with permethrin. Permethrin will kill any ticks that land on treated clothes. Impregnated permethrin usually lasts a few washings. Do not apply permethrin directly to skin., The CDC recommends using an insect repellent with at least 20-30% DEET on skin and clothing. Make sure that all exposed areas are treated, and repeat treatment as needed.However, a lot of people are against the use of DEET as it is a very strong chemical and it should never be used on children. Other methods for tick protection include:

, Wash and dry clothing using high heat levels to kill any ticks that you may not have found., In addition to exposed skin, check protected areas such as the groin, armpits and scalp.
 Use tweezers to carefully remove the tick. Do not use any irritants such as a match, nail polish, petroleum jelly, or other products to remove the tick. Contact your physician after being bitten by a tick to see whether you should take an antibiotic after being bitten by a tick. This is usually not necessary, but may be recommended by your doctor in high-risk cases., Since you may not always be aware of tick bites, it is a good idea to be able to recognize the Lyme disease symptoms. The symptoms of Lyme disease vary from one person to another.
 it can help to wash your hair, face, and hands as often as you can. When you get shampoo and soap into your skin, the ticks will fall off quicker than they normally would.

