 Any chemical treatment that changes the color or structure of your hair weakens it and leads to breakage. Box dyes are especially damaging to African hair. Visit a salon instead for dyes that are less harmful, but still not completely safe.
 Heat can dry out your hair, sometimes irreparably damaging individual strands. When you do use heat treatments, take the following precautions:


Apply heat protectant before you begin. Spray on, brush to distribute through the hair, and wait for it to dry.
When blow drying, pull the hair downward with a vented, round brush. Direct the heat downward to flatten the cuticle, instead of lifting and frizzing it.
Set your blow dry to blow cool air for a safer, but longer, drying process.
When visiting the salon, ask your stylist for low-heat options.
 Limit the use of glued-in extensions, tight braids, tight cornrows, and hard, gel hairstyles. These place excessive amounts of stress on the hair. Loose braids and cornrows are fine.


Wear styles that keep your hair out of your face, so you’re not constantly moving it, tucking it behind your ears, or arranging it with pins. The less you have to handle your hair, the longer it will stay healthy.
 Choose a style that keeps your hair ends tucked away where they won't get damaged. You can do this with cornrows, braids, two-strand twists, bantu knots, or finger coils. Loose, larger braids and knots are less likely to break.


Remember, keep the style loose to minimize tension on your hair.
Even if you don't like this as a permanent style, use it overnight to protect your hair in your sleep.
You may even be able to mist or wash with conditioner without removing the style.
 Relaxing and straightening treatments tend to contain harsh chemicals. Use them only when your hair is healthy, and stop if you notice damage. Here's a rough guide to determine how often you can get away with relaxing:


For coarse hair — relax every 2-3 months.
For fine hair — relax every 3-5 months.
For super fine/soft hair —relax hair every 6 months

, Keratin is the natural protein found in hair. In this treatment, the protein will penetrate the hair under the cuticle to make it strong and smooth.


Home-use products that contain keratin are more budget friendly, but may not be as effective.

