 This test will help gauge how good your standing posture is:Stand with your heels 2 to 4 inches away from a wall, and with your head, shoulder blades, and buttocks touching the wall.
Reach one hand back and, placing your palm flat against he wall, slide your hand behind your lower back curve.
The space between your lower back and the wall should measure roughly one hand’s thickness.
If there’s too much space, tightening your abs will help flatten the curve in your back. If there’s not enough space, gently arch your back until you can fit your hand between your back and the wall.;
, Computer work, lab and research-heavy jobs, and inactive lifestyles can weaken your back, chest and arm muscles, and cause you to slouch. Slouching can make you look saggy, tired, and heavier than you are.



Improving your posture will instantly boost the appearance of your back. It will also pull in your stomach and make you look taller and slimmer., Follow this checklist to ensure that you have good standing posture:Keep your shoulders back and relaxed. Don’t force them back to the point that you’re uncomfortable.
Pull in your stomach. Again, there is no need to be forceful here. Just gently pull in your stomach muscles (you’ll likely feel the lower part suck in and the upper part tense a little).
Stand with your feet hip-width apart.
Ensure that your weight is evenly balanced between both feet. (You can shift side to side and back and forth a bit to get a sense of how your weight distributes itself on your feet.)
Allow your arms and hands to hang naturally at your sides.
Keep your knees relaxed, with a gentle bend in them.
Ensure that your head is balanced on your neck. Your head shouldn’t be tilted in any direction. Your neck should feel like it connects in a long, straight line with your spine, as if a string is attached to the top of your head and is gently pulling you upward.
 Follow this checklist when you’re seated to ensure that you have good posture:Your feet should rest flat on the floor when you’re seated so that your knees are level with your hips. If this isn’t possible, get a foot rest.
Sit back in your chair so that the chair supports your lower back. If the chair doesn’t touch your lower back, use a pillow or rolled-up towel behind your lower back.
Raise your head toward the ceiling, and slightly tuck in your chin.
Your upper back and neck should be straight but comfortable.
Your shoulders should be relaxed. Make sure they’re not slouching, climbing up towards your ears, or pulled backwards.
 It’s particularly common to experience postural issues when working at jobs that require you to sit at a desk. Having a proper setup can improve your posture, and prevent pain and injuries.Your desk should be set up so that it’s as easy for you to sit as tall as possible while you work.Your screen should be at eye level and you shouldn’t have to turn or lean forward to see it.
Your chair should support your lower back, and keep your hips and knees on level with one another.
Your elbows should be kept at 90 degrees and close to your sides while working, so ensure that your keyboard does not sit higher up on your desk or too far away., If much of your day is spent hunched over books or a computer, it’s necessary to take regular breaks get up and move around, and stretch. Ideally you should stretch and/or get out of your chair every 20 to 40 minutes.If you can’t take breaks every 20 to 40 minutes, at the very least remember to do some gentle stretches while sitting, and/or to change your position in your chair.
 Improve your neck posture if you are used to looking at a computer screen. Extend your neck backwards, like you are trying to touch it to a wall, hold for 3 seconds and return it.


Repeat 10 times, doing several sets throughout the day.
This exercise will improve your neck muscles so that you’re less likely to slope forward when you stand. It will also remind you to keep your back straight while you work.
 Stand against a wall with your heels 2 to 4 inches away from the wall. Pull your shoulder blades together and touch them to the wall. Then, tip your chin down slightly and touch the back of your head to the wall.


Ensure that your back isn't over-arched and your shoulders aren't lifted toward your ears.
Hold the position for several minutes until it feels comfortable.
Return to the wall 2 to 3 times a day to check that you are keeping the correct posture.
 These are helpful if your arms tend to fall forward. Simply squeeze your shoulder blades together and hold them for 3 seconds. Release and repeat 10 times.


Perform several sets throughout the day. You can do this at your desk, on the couch, while you’re on the phone — really while you’re doing anything.
 Having a strong core will help improve your posture. Try doing yoga or pilates a few times a week. This will help build your core muscles and also strengthen and tone the rest of your muscles.