 The MSPA (Mystery Shoppers Providers Association) has a large database of reputable companies, free of charge.They work to deter scammers and keep a running list of scam sites.
The MSPA offers training and resources for mystery shoppers, for a fee.You can become a member of the MSPA and have access to networking information and other benefits.;
, The MSPA recommends refusing payment from a company that offers you a check without asking you to complete an assignment. This is likely a scam.The scam promoter or company may send you a check with instructions to deposit it in a personal bank account. They will then tell you to withdraw the amount in cash, and wire it to a third party. But the check is fake and the person who deposited the check (you) will then be responsible for paying back the bank.
Some scammers will use the MSPA logo in their emails or letters to appear more legitimate. It's always best to be suspicious if the company sends you a check before you complete the work, even if their email or letter has an MSPA logo., Dishonest companies use newspaper ads and emails to give you the impression mystery shopper jobs are the first step to higher-paying jobs. They may tell you that you need to register or get certified to be a mystery shopper. But it is not necessary to pay anyone to get into the mystery shopping business.Once you pay the “hiring fee”, you likely won’t get a refund from the promoters or a position at a company.
 Don’t just go to their website and take a quick look around, or answer an email from a so-called shopper service and wait to get hired. Call the company through a listed number on their website, or locate them by googling their name. Look at the address and contact information listed on their website or on google pages to make sure they have a physical office.Contacting them allows you to confirm they are a legitimate company and can offer you a real position as a mystery shopper.
 You will need basic information about yourself. You will also need official documentation like your social security number.


Always be wary of scam sites and never give out your SSN if you feel uncomfortable with the site. Companies usually offer a fax in or mail in option for the application if you do not want to give this information out online.
Some applications may ask if you have a credit card you can use for purchases in the store during your shift. But, if the company is legitimate, you should not have to give out your credit card number.
 Make sure there is no fee for registering with the company.


By registering, you become an independent contractor for the company. Once you have registered, the company will look over your application. They will then contact you directly with possible mystery shopping jobs. You are required to fill out an application with information such as:Name, address, home phone, email.
The distance you are willing to travel to reach a job.
Languages spoken fluently.
Any other mystery shopping companies you have worked for.
Date of birth, background, ethnicity and education.
Some applications may need your social security number.
 Once you become an approved shopper, the company will email you with your shopper ID. You will also be given access to a database with possible jobs in your area.After you choose which shops you are interested in, you can choose from a range of dates to perform the shop.
Keep in mind accepting the shop means you are committed to completing the shop during the specified time frame.
 As a mystery shopper, you will pose as an ordinary customer. You will then evaluate the business’ service, cleanliness, quality and efficiency when helping customers.You must also be at least 18 years of age.
You will receive complete guidelines for each shop where you complete a job. It is your responsibility to uphold the guidelines. You must also fulfill all the expectations of a mystery shopper at a certain store or shop.
It’s important to demonstrate excellent observational skills and be detail oriented. You need to be able to watch the store and the employees as you shop, without making it obvious that you are a secret shopper.
 Reputable companies will hire you as an independent contractor, not an employee. This means you can choose your assignments according to your schedule and take as many jobs as you’d like.So you can squeeze in a mystery shop during your lunch break or commit several hours a week to mystery shopping.The average shop time is between 1 and 2 hours.
 A reputable company will pay you once you write a quality report for the shop, based on your experience as a mystery shopper.The usual rate varies from $5 to $20 a shop.Some mystery shops will ask you to buy a meal or a sale item. The company will reimburse you for these costs.

