 Heat 3 tbsp (45 mL) vegetable oil and three popcorn kernels in a large, heavy-bottomed pan with a lid. When all three kernels have popped, the pan is hot enough to add the rest.


Canola oil or another vegetable oil with a medium or high smoking point works best.
If you're using microwave popcorn, just microwave the bag and skip down to melting the butter and sugar. You'll miss out on some flavor, but it will work out.;
, Remove the pan from heat and add ½ cup (120mL) popcorn kernels. Wait 30 seconds, then return to medium-high heat. This delay lets the kernels reach an even temperature so they pop closer to the same time., About every ten seconds, lift the pan and shake from side to side for three seconds.Occasionally crack the lid so air and moisture can escape.
 Once the first kernels start to pop, add granulated white sugar and shake well to mix. Wait until the popping starts again, then heat until the popping slows to once every one or two seconds. Pour the popcorn into a bowl and set aside. Don't just take the pan off the heat, as the hot pan can still burn the sugar.


The sugar can get very hot. Let it cool before you snack.

If you smell burning, pour out the popcorn right away. There's a fine line between browned sugar and charcoal.
 Stir together ⅓ cup (75g) butter and ⅛ cup (2 tbsp / 25g) granulated sugar. Heat and stir in the pan until fully melted, or simmer for a couple minutes for a caramel sauce.You can also melt this in the microwave in about one minute.For a thicker, caramel-y sauce, use ¼ cup (50g) golden syrup instead of sugar. You can put this on normal popcorn instead of sugared popcorn, unless you really have a sweet tooth.
 Sprinkle on about ½ tsp (2.5 mL) of salt, or to taste. Not only does this add a flavor of its own, it can make the popcorn taste sweeter by masking the bitter flavor from burned kernels or scorched syrup., Stir the butter and sugar mixture until smooth, then pour it onto your popcorn bowl. Wait at least five minutes before eating so the glaze cools down and the popcorn crisps.


If you want the glaze to harden, chill it in the refrigerator for 15–20 minutes.