 Small hard drives up to 1 terabyte are available online and in most electronics departments at large box stores.


It is best to keep a removable hard drive for backing up files, if you don’t have a cloud storage provider.
Refrain from using the same backup drive as a way to occasionally transfer files from computer to computer.
If you use cloud backup, check to see if you can download your files onto another computer by signing into a new computer. Some programs may not have this capability, while others may require verification of computers for security purposes.;
, This is ideal if your PCs are located far from each other.


Flash drives are available at office supply stores, box stores and online for $5 to $50, depending on the size.
In place of a USB drive, you can opt to burn the files onto a CD or DVD; however, unless you buy expensive rewritable discs, burning a disc filled with files will write the disc permanently. With removable hard drives and flash drives, you can delete and reuse the drive.
 Double click on the removable drive when it pops up. You want it to be open in its own window.


Disable software that comes with the removable hard drive, if you want to use it for this purpose. Some hard drives come with software that helps you back up your computer.
 Navigate to the place where the files are located.


If your files are haphazardly organized, now is a good time to organize them into files of similar genre and file type. It is easier to transfer folders than individual files.
 This will allow you to click and drag the files from the computer to your drive.
 Alternatively, you can click on the file name and drag each item individually.
 A small dialog box may pop up to tell you that are files are being transferred. For large files, it will tell you how long it will take to copy files.
, Close it out. Go to My Computer and right click to eject the removable drive.


Failure to eject the drive before removing it from the computer can result in the loss of some files.
 Double click the drive window when the computer detects it.
 You will want to arrange the folders side by side, just as you did before, to drag them onto your computer and into the correct location.


If you choose to drag them onto your desktop, you can reorganize them into other folders later. 