


You can still maintain propriety in avoiding drab shades of gray and black and choosing more prismatic hues
Choose shades that fit your personality and style. If you are bold and outgoing, try brighter hues. If you have a quieter nature, muted tones will work wonderfully.
Collect scarves in colors that match the rest of your closet – you will wear them more and can mix-and-match them with multiple outfits.;
,


Brown Eyes: Give chocolate-y doe eyes a pop by contrasting them with hues of blue, teal, and violet. The warm undertones of brown from your eyes are off-set by cool shades of purple and blue, making them stand out.
Green Eyes: Vibrant green eyes coordinate well with pretty shades of red, pink, and peach. These complimentary colors add cheer and interest to any ensemble.
Blue Eyes: Baby blue's can be balanced beautifully with a headscarf in gold, bronze, orange, or brown. The richness of these warm tones flatters the cool notes found in your eyes.



Fair Skin: Ivory undertones in skin are easy to flatter with colors on the warm-end of the color spectrum. That means choosing shades of red, orange, yellow, and brown.
Golden Skin: Pretty beige and sun-kissed gold skin looks best with blue and green hues, to balance out your natural warmth.
Chocolate Skin: Deep coffee-hued skin pairs wonderfully with shades of plum, coral, and peach. The bold warmth in both your headscarf and skin tone will give you a soft, welcoming look.



Small prints are easy to work with and match most outfits.
Popular patterns in small prints include floral, polka-dots, plaid, herringbone, and paisley.
Delicate prints can become busy and overwhelming to the eye if worn in many colors. Try to find these small prints with a limited color palette.



Find patterns that range from the size of your hand and larger – this helps the scarf avoid looking too busy if it incorporates many colors.
Large floral prints are a theme in big patterns, but you can also find beautiful vintage and abstract prints.
Big prints give you the option of using bold color.



Wear a large-printed scarf with an outfit with small patterns or vice versa.
Too many patterns can overwhelm an outfit, so avoid combining more than two or three prints.
Keep your color palette muted and simplified.



Your scarf is meant to compliment your clothing, but choosing colors and patterns that are too "matchy-matchy" can make a pretty outfit look forced.
You don’t have to wear the same colors. A blue shirt doesn’t have to be paired with a blue hijab; try a contrasting hue or tinted variation.
Prints and colors do not have to “match” to “go”

,
Solid colors can be juxtaposed nicely next to each other, but do so in moderation.



Start with a square shaped scarf and fold it in half, forming a triangle.
Wrap it around your head, with the folded strip going across your forehead.
Pin the two sides under your chin
Take the loose ends from under your chin and wrap in opposite directions around the back of your head
Tie in a knot or bow at the nape of your neck

,


Take a long oblong shaped scarf, and wrap it around your head with the ends in the front
Tie the ends in a large knot under your chin
Wrap one of the ends around your head, and pin behind your ear
Repeat the previous step with the other loose end from under your chin
If your scarf is long enough, wrap around your shoulders and pin again near your neck or shoulders. If not, pin again under the chin.



Use a thick headband or square scarf folded in the bandana style, and tie at the nape of the neck
Take a second long oblong shaped scarf and wrap around your head; pin under the chin
Wrap the two ends under the chin and over the head; pin behind the ears.
The scarf should be loosely draped under the chin, giving a flowing, elegant appearance.



Take a scarf on your head and leave equal sides.
Pin the scarf tightly from the chin
Take one side over your head to your cheeks and pin it again.
Take the other side and cover your chest with it.

Add a stiff-backed headband over the top of your scarf for extra support and interest.
Use vintage brooches to pin the sides of your scarf instead of pins.
Create texture by purchasing scarves with embroidery or beading, or add your own to a scarf you already own.

Drape long necklaces over your neck scarf to maintain proper covering
Pretty, dainty necklaces can be placed over your scarf and peek between folds of fabric for a simple look.

