 How long do you have to finish it? It may be between an hour or a week. Depending on the time you have - you may want to consider timing yourself and aiming for a certain time to finish.;
, Plan when you start and when you finish. Also, plan a break. Halfway through, make sure you have time to relax and remove yourself from the hard-work for a few minutes. Having a quick break will also refresh your memory and keep you from getting bored.
 Find a suitable working area where you will not become distracted and nobody can interfere. Make sure you have plenty of working space and everything you need. Here is a rough guide of what you might need; depending on what you are studying, you may want to adjust the list to suit your needs.


A computer or laptop
A dictionary
A calculator
A pen
Sheet(s) of paper
A pencil
A ruler
A compass
A rubber

, Sit down in a comfortable chair and make sure the temperature and atmosphere of the room is right for you. Open a window if you need fresh air, turn up the heating if you are cold, etc. This will make it much easier for you to settle into the atmosphere of working and you will probably find it less boring.
 Place a glass of water far from your work (particularly computers) just in case you spill it, and a small plate of snacks. You may want to include the following:


Fruit (grapes, a banana, etc.)
Biscuits
Chocolate (in small portions)

, Try not to eat it all in one go - take a few bites and then leave the rest for later.
 Make sure you have enough time to refresh your brain and relax slightly, but not so much that you completely forget about the work and/or get carried away and not be bothered to start working again. About 15 - 20 minutes should be enough time. During your break, consider a mini snack and drink, and try not to over-work your brain. Just relax and watch T.V or perhaps have a little sleep. But remember to set the alarm!

, The work will be much more enjoyable if you have some music in the background to keep you going.
 If texting a few friends every now and then will keep you happy - then do it. But don't engage in a non-stop texting session. Keep it short and don't text too much. It will take your mind off studying every now and then so you don't feel so bored.
 Perhaps visit your favorite site? Every now and again, quickly check your emails or quickly read something from your favorite site - but don't spend ages and don't do it continuously.
 Complete it in different sections - not all in one go. After each section, take some time to take a look at it to check for any mistakes, and then go onto the next section. With an organised space, water and snacks, a few friendly text messages from friends, and music in the background, you'll probably handle it quite well.
 Once you have finished, check it, and go to relax. If you have any other work to complete - have a quick break before going onto the next thing. You don't want to wear yourself out!

