 Contrary to popular belief, goldfish do not thrive in small bowls. A good rule is for every inch of fish = five gallons of water. That means if you plan on getting two common goldfish, your first tank should be at least ten gallons. Notice how that said "first" tank. When kept in healthy conditions, goldfish can grow to be anywhere from five to ten inches long, even if they are half an inch when you buy them. They also live up to twenty years, sometimes longer. Purchase the largest tank you can afford. If you don't buy a large aquarium in the beginning, you will have to continue purchasing larger tanks throughout the fish's lifetime. All tanks should have gravel/sand, a filter, and plastic or (preferably) live plants.;
, When most new fish keepers think of the word goldfish, the image that pops into their head is the little common orange fish you win at the fair. But there are many varieties of fish out there; Comets, Fantails, Black Moors, Pearlscales, Orandas, and hundreds more, ranging in price from thirteen cents to two-hundred dollars. Do some research to pick one that is suitable for your tank.
 Try not to buy them from pet stores. Aquarium stores often have fish in better condition and are more knowledgeable about fish care. Fancier fish may have to be purchased from a fish breeder and can often be shipped to you. Resist the urge to save some cash and buy a thirteen cent feeder fish. These fish are often unhealthy and of poor quality, and it only supports the industry.
 Is it relatively clean and free of waste? If a thermometer is visible, is the water between 60-75 degrees Fahrenheit? Do other fish in the tank look ill? The living conditions of a fish have a big impact on a fish's health, so choose from a clean tank.
 Does it have white spots, or ich on it's body? Are it's eyes abnormally swollen? Does it have ripped fins? If it floating upside down, darting around or swimming lethargically? If the answer to any of these is yes, do not choose that fish." Look for taught, clean fins and shiny scales. A fish should be swimming upright at a relaxed pace.

