 If there was no way for you to complete your assignment without the materials you left at school, try to go in early the next morning. If your school offers early morning study hall (or a breakfast period), you can easily get there early and work in the morning. If you need to get into your classroom, you can email your teacher to see if he or she can let you in early.
 If you are not able to go into school early (or if you do not finish your assignment during that time), you can work during any downtime you have during the day. If a teacher gives you time in class to work on something, you can work on the homework from last night instead. You can work during any free period, recess, or lunch in order to get the assignment done.
 If you were not able to get the assignment done during your school day, you may still be able to turn it in without getting a late grade. Talk to you teacher and find out if you can stay after school for a little bit to finish the assignment. It is likely that your teacher will need to stay for a little while anyway, and he or she may respect your initiative to get the late assignment complete as soon as possible.
 A similar option is to email the assignment to your teacher. Sometimes if you can get it to your teacher the same day it is due (even in a digital format), your teacher will not mark the assignment late.Talk to your teacher and find out if this is an option for you. Then complete the assignment as soon as you get home.


If you have multiple email accounts, use the one associated with your school.
Once again, use proper grammar, complete sentences, and good etiquette when you communicate with your teacher via email.
 If all else fails, talk to your teacher about getting an extension. Explain what happened, describe all the methods you tried in order to get this assignment done, and ask for permission to turn it in late. If this has never happened before, your teacher will probably appreciate your honesty and let it slide. If that happens frequently, however, you may not be as lucky.