 To get a passport, you need a minimum of two passport-size photos, your birth certificate, and one other form of identification (preferably that proves your citizenship in your country of origin). If you have a passport, be sure it has at least 6 months left before it expires. Some countries will not issue a visa if you have less than 6 months remaining before the expiration date.If you don’t already have a passport, you’ll need to allow 4-6 weeks for processing, so be sure to start this process ahead of time.;
, Countries participating in the Visa Waiver Program do not require citizens of reciprocating countries to pre-arrange a visa. However, other countries may require you to apply for a tourist visa (and get that visa approved) before visiting.This can be a costly and time-consuming step, so be sure to get it out of the way ahead of time.
Some countries require that tourists pay entrance and exit fees, so find out if this is applicable to your trip and be prepared to pay the fees.U.S. citizens can visit the website for the U.S. Department of State to find out the visa requirements for traveling to foreign countries.
 You may need to begin immunization injections many months in advance. Immunizations are usually optional but recommended for tourist travel in certain parts of the world. For some countries you need no immunizations at all.Check out the Center for Disease Control website to learn which immunizations are recommended or required based on your destination.
 If your health insurance policy doesn’t cover you while abroad, it’s wise to purchase health insurance that will be accepted in your destination country, just in case something should happen. Similarly, if your trip ends up getting cancelled or postponed, purchasing travel insurance ahead of time can save you money, time, and a lot of hassle., You may choose to stay with friends or relatives, or book a hotel or hostel while on your trip. Though it’s possible to make these decisions last-minute, you’ll feel more prepared if you have sorted out these details ahead of time. Research places to stay online and read reviews from other guests to find the best spot for your money., Depending on the location, you may be able to walk, ride a bike, drive a car, or take a boat or train to get around your destination. It’s a good idea to look into this beforehand, so you know, for instance, if you’ll need a hotel close to the train station, or how to get a ticket for the subway.

Many countries do not recognize a driver’s license from another country, so if you plan to drive while on your trip you’ll need to obtain an International Driving Permit. In the U.S., you can do so through AAA or the National Auto Club.