 Setting out all your texts and materials in advance will save you time. Invest that energy in the evening and you won't have to frantically search for your science homework in the morning or panic because you can't find your protractor. Just pack ahead of time and concentrate on getting up, dressed, and out the door.;
, Clothing decisions, while important, are not so crucial as to make you late. Set out your outfit the evening before. That way, you can try the clothes on calmly and make a decision. It will also give you the chance to make sure that your chosen attire is sharp and matches. No one likes to end up with mismatched socks!Make sure that your clothes are clean and crisp. Pick out items that need laundry or ironing in your downtime – these tasks are too time-consuming to manage in the morning rush.
Check the weather forecast for the following day on television or online and dress to suit. Choose an outfit to match the weather, especially if it might be cool or rainy., Keep track of all of your minor morning tasks with a daily or weekly to-do list. If you need a permission slip for the next day, get it signed and stowed away in your book bag. If you need lunch money, get it the night before. Organization is the key. Keep close track of what needs to be done each day.


A to-do list might be in your head or an actual list. Similarly, it might be for one day or something that you go through each and every day.
If you do keep a physical list, try putting it in a prominent place where you will see it, like the refrigerator or the bathroom mirror.
 There is nothing as frustrating and time consuming as searching for lost keys or a cell phone. Put all those small personal items in a set place, those things that you tend to lose. Try a basket on a counter or end table, or even the pocket of the jacket that you always wear. Put them in the same place every day so that you know where they are., Make the door your loading area for the morning rush. Put your shoes, coat, gloves, hat, lunchbox, backpack, and anything else you might need in the entryway so that you can quickly up, dress, and out., Making food can eat up a lot of time, but don't think you have to choose between something quick and something healthy. Set out your breakfast the evening before or keep it ready-made in the refrigerator. If you are really short on time, grab something to take with you on your commute.Oatmeal is both delicious and nutritious. You can make enough for a whole week on Sunday evening and keep it safely in the refrigerator. Single packets of instant oatmeal are also just that -- instant. It only takes a minute or two to cook.Breakfast smoothies are great convenience foods, as well. Just find a balanced recipe (try ones with a good balance of fruit and protein), blend, and enjoy.People often say that fruit is nature's fast food. It comes prepackaged, ready-to-eat, and can be taken on the go. Bananas, apples, oranges, or grapes are good ideas.
 Getting up late will put you at an immediate disadvantage in your quest for punctuality. It will foil all your best laid plans. Have a reliable alarm clock or two. Know how to set it and do so every night.


For heavy sleepers, louder alarms might be more effective. Choose an alarm setting that will shake you out of bed.Radio alarms follow this rule. Choose a rock station over easy listening or talk radio.

