 Any new job requires a training and adjustment period. Ask as many questions as you need to in order to really understand what you’re doing and what is expected of you. If possible, talk to the person who did your job before and ask for suggestions. Take notes if it’s difficult to keep everything straight. Figure out how your co-workers’ jobs fit into the company so that you know who to ask about what.


Does your job change based on the time of year? If so, figure out how it’s going to change before it gets crazy.
What are the specific duties of your job, and are they written down? If so, it can be useful to refer back to what is required of you as you’re getting a handle on what your work entails. If they aren’t written down already, write them down yourself.
Who do you report to? Do you go through the same person each time?

, Start off well and show your boss and co-workers that you are a good and reliable worker. Show that you are invested in your work and work well as part of a team.Be punctual, in both arriving at work and hitting deadlines.
Complete your tasks so that others can complete theirs.
Listen carefully and respectfully to coworkers and your boss. Incorporate their suggestions into your work where required or appropriate.
Keep your personal and work life separate.
 Identify tasks and skills you want to acquire to move further in your career. Talk to your boss and co-workers about ways to help you gain new work experiences that can help you. Think about ways you could work with other departments or groups to gain new experiences and work with new people., All of us need help at work at different times, and it often turns out that you go to your coworkers and bosses with problems, not solutions. Rather than just ask for help, think through possible answers to your problem, and present them as well., Make sure you keep track of the work you do, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Every 3-6 months, write a few paragraphs about what you have achieved in that time, and include any numerical data about your work, like the number of accounts secured, amount of money in grant funding, or other measurable metrics. Even though it won’t appear in this form on your resume, it’s a good way to track your progress. It can also be a great point of discussion for you and your mentor.You can also assess your progress by writing about:


Are you doing well and feeling fulfilled at your job? If not, what could change so that you would feel that way? Is the work easy or challenging?
Think about whether this is a job that you are willing to stay in long-term, or if you feel like starting a new job search immediately. Sometimes it’s worth sticking with a job so that you can show you followed through with a long-term project, for example, even if it’s not fulfilling to you, realizing that it’s important to learn how a project comes to fruition.
On the other hand, if you are unfulfilled, poorly compensated, and with no possibility for advancement, you probably should start looking for a new job as soon as possible.
 If you're not achieving as much as you had hoped in your current position or career trajectory, it may be time to reassess your strategy. For example, you can seek a new job or even a new career that more closely matches your goals, skills, and interests. In the same way, note where and how you were able to achieve the most success and do it more often.


Reassess your goals and motivations regularly to make sure you're still headed where you want to go. If you aren't, make a change immediately.

