 What makes a good guitar teacher will be different for everybody. Some people learn by watching, some learn by hearing. You may want to find somebody who specializes in the kind of music you like, or somebody who just knows how to get the best results no matter what style of music the student prefers. Find the best style for your way of learning.


The style of music you like is only one consideration. For example, a guitarist who prefers the blues might take lessons in flamenco-style guitar. While flamenco and blues are not at all alike in style or substance, the techniques for flamenco guitar are much more involved, and could result in a guitarist with much more complex blues style.
 Whatever teaching style you prefer, make sure it includes reading music. Because there are six strings involved, and many notes that can be played on different strings, playing guitar by reading music is not easy. Training in this skill is very helpful.
 No matter what style of music you're learning, taking lessons involves a certain amount of tedium: repetition, difficulties, more repetition, and exercises that are much more about wiggling your fingers the right way than they are about actually sounding interesting. This can lead to burnout if you don't keep it fun!









Practice the lessons set out for you, and then when you're done, close the book and play what you like, any way that you like.
When practicing scales or patterns and you think your mind is going to go numb from boredom, spice up the scales or patterns with embellishments. Make sure you work on the actual notes so that you learn the techniques assigned, but also try things like using bends instead of frets for close notes; adding varying degrees of vibrato; turning on the distortion, reverb, and delays; playing the same music backwards. The idea is to do anything to break the routine and keep it interesting.
 Whether you're learning on your own or taking lessons, the only way you'll get better is by practicing, or "woodshedding." This means practicing and playing as often as you can, for as long as you can.









Learning to play the guitar involves many things: building strength and endurance in your fingers, learning where the notes are on the guitar, building "muscle memory," playing cleanly, and playing with feeling. These all take time to develop, and some parts will happen faster than others. Just keep at it, and you will get the hang of it.
Every single guitarist you've ever heard of or listened to on the radio or admired has been exactly where you are. They also have one other thing in common: they never stopped playing and practicing!

