 Along with your ingredients for the cake, you'll also need a few supplies from the kitchen, including:Electric beaters
Whisk
Two medium bowls
One small bowl
Two eight-inch cake pans
Two wire cooling racks
Spoon;
, Set the oven to 350 F (177 C). With vegetable shortening, grease the bottom of the two cake pans to prevent the batter from sticking.


You don’t have to grease the pans if you're using non-stick products.
 Measure the flour, salt, and cocoa into one of the medium bowls. Whisk or stir the ingredients together.


Do not add the sugar to the dry ingredients, as it will get creamed with the wet ingredients.
 In the second medium bowl, combine the sugar and oil. Beat the mixture with the electric beaters on medium speed until the two are completely incorporated.


Add the eggs, one at a time, followed by the food coloring and vanilla. Beat the mixture until all the ingredients are combined and the black food coloring is evenly distributed.Use a whisk if you don’t have electric beaters.
 Pour about a quarter of the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients and beat on medium speed. Gradually add the rest of the dry ingredients. When everything has been combined, beat on medium speed until the batter is smooth and even.


Don’t overmix the batter, as this can develop the gluten and make the cake denser and less fluffy.Scrape the sides of the bowl as necessary to make sure everything gets incorporated.
 Combine the vinegar and baking soda in a small bowl. Mix them together, and give the mixture a moment to stop fizzing.


When it calms down, add the baking soda and vinegar mixture to the batter and beat it just long enough to combine everything., Divide the batter evenly between the two cake pans. Bake the cakes for about 30 minutes. Add another five minutes if necessary. You know the cakes are done when you stick a toothpick into the center and the toothpick comes out clean.Allow the cakes to cool for about 10 minutes. Then, remove them from the cake pans and transfer them to wire cooling racks. Allow to cool to room temperature.
To remove the cakes from the pans, flip them upside down onto a plate and gently tap the bottom of the pan if necessary.
 You can either frost the cakes separately and have two cakes, or you can layer them on top of each other to make a single layer cake. Remember to put a layer of frosting between the two cakes if you're layering them. Use your favorite frosting, or make a cream cheese icing by creaming together:½ cup (4 oz) butter, room temperature
½ cup (4 oz) cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups (230 g) powdered sugar
1 teaspoon (6 ml) vanilla

