 Use a white terrycloth towel to apply gentle pressure to soak up the stain. Don't rub or scrub as this will make the stain worse, causing dirt particles to get ground in to the carpet.Blot starting from the outside. Work your way inward with a clean towel to avoid spreading the stain.
Rinse the area with clean water, then blot it again. Don't over-wet your towel.;
, These include soda, alcoholic beverages, berries, excrement, milk, mud, dairy products, wet or latex paint, gravy and jelly.Mix 1/4 teaspoon (1.25 mL) of white vinegar or non bleach detergent with 32 ounces (960 mL) of water.Pour the mixture into a spray bottle and spray onto the dried stain.
Rub the area with a sponge and blot it dry with paper towels.
 Special water-soluble stains include those from blood, chocolate, coffee, wine, tea, vomit and mustard.Mix 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of ammonia with 1 cup (240 mL) of water. Use a mild detergent instead of ammonia for a wool or wool-blend carpet.Pour the mixture into a spray bottle and spray onto the dried stain.
Rub the area with a sponge and blot it dry with paper towels.
Pay attention even to clear-colored stains such as white wine. The sugars actually caramelize over time causing discolored patches., Lay a paper towel over the spill and iron it on a warm setting. The heat should cause the spill to lift off the carpet and stick to the paper towel.
 Rub a cotton ball moistened with rubbing alcohol on the glue. Gently wipe off the glue residue and continue rubbing until it is gone.
 Apply an ice cube to the gum or wax for around 30 seconds.If a large area is affected, hit the frozen area with a blunt object until it shatters. Vacuum up the pieces and blot the area with a towel.For smaller pieces of gum, use a spoon to lift the frozen gum and cut the carpet underneath. Go as close to the frozen gum as possible and only cut a small amount.,


Mix water and white vinegar together in even proportions. Pour the mixture into a spray bottle, or moisten a rag with it. Spray or blot the area.
Mix 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 mL) of non bleach detergent with 32 ounces (960 mL) of water. Pour the mixture into a spray bottle and spray onto the dried stain.
Clean the mixture off the area with a sponge, then rinse with water and blot dry with paper towels.
 These machines are available from around $50 to $200 and use suction to remove dirt and stains. Use with a neutral detergent specifically designed for wool.