 Make sure that your battery is indeed strong and charged, that everything on the motor (particularly the starter) is working, and that your fuel is at least marginally sound.


If these baseline requirements have not been met, make sure to address them, because your car will not start without them.
 If your car has been sitting for a while, all the fuel in the carb (if there is one) has probably evaporated, and what was in the fuel lines either has evaporated as well or drained back into the tank.


To get gas back where it needs to be, pump the gas pedal a couple times.
Then, try turning the key and let the engine turn over for just a few seconds.
If it doesn't fire up, stop, let it sit for a minute, and try again.
If you managed to get some fuel or oil in the carb, you will probably have to try a couple times to get the engine to start, because the fuel/air mix is off.
However, that little dose of gas will quite likely give you a sputtering start followed by a fail, followed by an engine that turns over but does not fire.
 If you get a sputtering start and then a fail, you can try adding another teaspoon of raw gas straight to the venturi, or just alternate turning it over and giving it a break, until it starts.


Because the fuel lines are empty, it will take a while to get fuel from the tank, through the pump, through the filter, and into your cylinders.
Your fuel pump doesn't work on air alone, so it might take a while and several tries, but the little bit of gas you are manually adding will eventually cause the engine to turn over, and draw additional fuel into the carburetor.
This is especially true on cars with a mechanical fuel pump.
If you have an electric pump, you might be able to hear it cavitating, and will hear a change in the sound it makes once actual fuel is moving through it.
 If you've been turning your engine over repeatedly, and it won't start, you probably have varnish or carbon deposits on your spark plugs.


Remove your spark plugs and give them a good soak in raw gas.
Clean them with a toothbrush and let them dry out before replacing them.
If you have new spark plugs, you can try replacing them entirely.
 You can also check the distributor, if there is one, to look for anything that could be preventing contact.


Any contaminants, such as rust or water, could cause bad contacts.
Use WD-40 to clean the contacts.
Be mindful that your distributor and wires must go back exactly how you found them.
If after you try all the above steps, your engine won't start, you may have more complex and serious problems keeping you from running.
You might need a rebuild or a new engine, but this probably won't be the case if the car was running when you put it into storage.
 Once the car is running, make sure you ventilate the room and avoid breathing in any engine fumes.


Expect smoke, and if your gas has gone bad, expect bad smelling smoke that lingers for a while.
If you are in a closed storage facility, get out, let the car warm up, and let the air clear.
 You can also expect some rough idling from your car, but don't let this tempt you to 'gun it'.


Let the idle even out on its own, and if the car has trouble keeping itself running, give it a little gas until things even out.
Once the engine is at its optimal temperature, the idle should start to level itself out on its own.
If not, it's most likely bad gas, so let it burn off some more of the bad gas while you add some good gas.
 If you haven't already, put the car in gear and roll it out of your storage facility, onto some pavement or gravel.


Someplace level is best, because you should now go back and check your fluids again.
Keep an eye out for fresh leaks and drips.
 After you warm up your car, the fluids' consistency may have changed to reflect their more accurate levels.


Automatic transmission fluid usually shows a correct level while the engine is warm, and the transmission is set in neutral or park.
Engine oil shows correctly with a warm engine, but with the engine off.
Let the car cool down before you check coolant levels, but if you have no visible leaks or detectable smells, you probably don't have to worry.
Do another walk around, to make sure tire air pressure is acceptable, top off fluids as needed, and find a good radio station.

