 There are two basic categories of ADHD medication: stimulants (such as methylphenidate and amphetamine) and non-stimulants (such as guanfacine and atomoxetine). Hyperactivity is treated successfully with stimulant medication because the brain circuitry being stimulated is responsible for controlling impulsivity and improving focus.Stimulants (Ritalin, Concerta, and Adderall) help regulate neurotransmitters (norepinephrine and dopamine). , Stimulants have fairly common side effects of decreased appetites and trouble sleeping. Sleep issues often can be resolved by lowering the dosage.

Your child’s psychiatrist or pediatrician may also add a prescription to improve sleeping such as clonidineor melatonin.
 Non-stimulant medications may work better for some persons with ADHD. Non-stimulant anti-depression medications are often used to treat ADHD. These help regulate neurotransmitters (norepinephrine and dopamine).

Some of the side effects may be more worrisome. For instance, youth taking atomoxetine must be monitored closely for potential increased suicidal ideation. , Deciding on the right form and specific prescription of medication is tricky because different people respond differently to different medications. Work with the doctor to find the right form and dosage for your child.

For example, many medications can be taken in an extended-release format, which erases the need to deal with dosing at school. Some individuals decline regular usage of medication and take it only on a situational basis. In these cases, individuals want a fast-acting version. For older children who learn to compensate for their ADHD challenges, medication may become unnecessary or be reserved for special occasion usage, such as when taking college entrance exams or finals.
 Children will probably need extra reminders and assistance in order to take their medication regularly. It can help to use a weekly pill container., The medication’s effectiveness may change depending on certain factors. The effectiveness may change depending on growth spurts, hormonal fluctuations, diet and weight changes, and as resistance builds up. 