 Weighbridges come in many different configurations. However, there are three main categories from which to choose, with the first one being full-length vehicle scales. These scales usually have 6-10 load cells joined together on a single platform. They are designed to measure the entire weight of the vehicle at once. As a result, full-length truck scales are the best for industries that charge for cargo by its weight, such as recyclers and cement transporters.Single axle scales usually measure the weight of one axle group at a time. These scales are not approved for commercial trade where transporters charge for cargo based on weight. With multi-axle vehicle scales, it is possible to get the aggregate vehicle weight along with individual axle weights for greater flexibility.
 With the first option, the ground is excavated and the scale is installed in a pit so that it is level with the road surface. While this type of vehicle scale foundation takes up little space, you still need to install a drainage system to prevent underground water and debris from causing damage.As the name implies, above-ground scales remain on the road’s surface. These scales are easier to maintain and service, but they take up more space, since ramps are required on either end to allow trucks to drive onto the weighing platform., For instance, be on the lookout for scales that protect cell load connection cables with stainless steel braided sheathing. Additionally, cell load systems that operate with quick disconnects instead of cables are easier and faster to service. Scales with this technology can save you time and money during servicing downtimes., Truck scales lose accuracy over time and will eventually require recalibration. However, the time between calibrations largely depends on the technology used by the scale manufacturer to maintain accuracy. This enables transporters that charge by weight from overcharging customers inadvertently or giving away product when the scale makes overweight errors., Cargo load may be measured for a wide variety of reasons, some of which include:It is possible to process these tasks using a scale that is integrated with data management software. Truck scale utility applications vary from those designed with basic functionality to advanced ones. Important features include:

Checking compliance with traffic safety regulations
Inspecting proper axle balance while loading trucks
Verifying stock balance after dispatch of orders
Calculating costs when charging by weight

, To make the best choice, opt for a provider that offers comprehensive replacement parts, emergency service, thorough maintenance checkups, and reasonable scale warranty durations too.