 Boredom will certainly set in if you have no idea what you are looking at. Knowing a few of the ins and outs of the baseball game will help keep you interested in what is going on.Baseball games last for nine innings, consisting of 2 halves, so that both teams get to bat in each inning. Each half is ended when the defensive team on the field gets three outs.
A batter can be walked to first base if the pitcher throws four balls before he throws three strikes.
The batting line-up remains the same throughout the game, so you can always know when your favorite player is coming up. He will also be in the batter’s circle warming up when the player before him is at bat.
Runs are scored when a player rounds all the based and touches home plate without being tagged out.;
, It can seem like there is less to be excited about when your team is on the field in the defensive position instead of batting and scoring. When the team you are rooting for has taken the field, you're still rooting for them. You want them to get their three outs as quickly as possible.


Outs can be achieved by the pitcher throwing three strikes and the batter striking out, a defensive player catching a fly ball, or a player being tagged by a defensive player holding the ball.
The defensive player with the ball in hand can also force an out by tagging the bag before the runner gets there if there are runners on every base behind the bag they are tagging. Force outs also apply to tagging first base before the batter reaches it.
 You are likely watching the game with some baseball fans. A true fan loves nothing more than sharing their infinite knowledge of the game. They probably have some nifty stories, they can explain what is happening on the field and they can point out some little idiosyncrasies certain players have, which you may have never noticed on your own., It can feel pretty senseless to watch a game if you have no investment in the outcome. Choose a team to root for. Either one will do. You can join your friends and root for their favorite team, or engage in a little playful banter by rooting against them.
 It could seem like people are speaking a different language when they use baseball terminology and slang. Get in on the game and learn some of the lingo to talk shop with your friends. There is a lot of lingo out there, but here are a few common terms to get you started.A “long out” is a fly ball which threatens to be hit out of the park, but is caught at the last second.
A “one-two-three” or “three up, three down” refers to getting all three outs on the first three batters.
ERA stands for earned run average, referring to how many earned runs a pitcher allows in the game. This is a common stat that fans will track.
RBI stands for run batted in and is another common tracking stat. This is the credit given to the batter for hitting the ball which allows another runner to make it to home plate to score a run.
The “clean up hitter” is often fourth in the lineup and is considered the strongest batter who can hopefully hit a “grand slam” when the “bases are loaded” with a player on every base and he hits a “home run” bringing all the players home to score, himself included.
 There are several games you can play for money, bragging rights or sips of beer. Playing a game based on what is happening on the field will have you that much more invested in the baseball game, while enjoying your own friendly competition.


Pass the Hat is played by everyone putting a dollar or quarter into a hat. One person holds it for each at bat. When the batter changes, the hat gets passed to another person. The person holding the hat on the third out wins the pot, and everyone antes up again.
Ground Ball vs. Fly Ball is pretty self-explanatory. You guess whether the batter is going to hit a ground or fly ball. If you guess wrong, you have to drink. If the batter strikes out everyone drinks. If he walks, no one drinks.
 No good baseball gathering is complete without a spread of good all-American snack food. Take a break from the game, sneak some chips and dip, fire up a hot dog and crack open a soda. Have a good chat with a friend around the snack table, and you’ll be refreshed and ready to return to the game., If you have lost track of the game, the line score can get you back up to speed. It will be displayed in a box on the screen and keep you posted on the runs, hits, score and innings.The teams are listed on the far left of the score line.
Reading from left to right, the hits and runs scored are listed below the inning numbers running along the top of the grid. They are designated by the letters “H” and “R.”
The boxes following the ninth inning column are the sum of the hits and runs for the game, letting you know who is in the lead.
 Even if baseball isn’t your passion, continuing to watch games and track a team will draw you in. You will start to learn the lingo and the players, have a better understanding of the strategies, and become more invested in your team.


Gather some buddies and try watching the games for a full season. You just may learn to love baseball.

