 "Chalk paint" is going to give your cover a vintage-y, worn feel. Consider it the journal equivalent of distressed cabinets or jeans. Even though it's only on the bottom layer, it's vintage powers will seep through in places just enough to give it that touch.


To do this, open the journal up. This way you can paint both sides at the same time and they can dry simultaneously.
Make sure it's dry before you continue any more decorating. It should take roughly 2-3 hours to dry. Alternatively, you could leave it overnight and come back to it in the morning.
 What would you like on your journal cover? Maybe some old postcards, some sheet music, a pretty paper pattern? This part is all up to you. The pieces can be as small or as large as you'd like them, too.


Take a minute to arrange them until they're perfect. If you feel like something is missing, don't settle – think of another piece you could add to bring it all together. Once it's glued down, there's no going back.
Make sure you have enough embellishments for the spine and back, too. These bits are just as important.
 Holding the pieces in place with your non-dominant hand, spread the glue evenly and thinly over the entire front of the journal with a foam paintbrush. Leave it for a couple of hours to dry before you flip it over and do the back (you don't want the first side to end up glued onto the table). Make sure both sides are dry before you continue.


Ah, Mod Podge. The crafty crafter's reason for existence. This stuff is like a miracle all wrapped up in a container. If you don't have any laying around, splurge for your first jar – it's useful in so many projects you'll surely be able to find something else to do with it in no time.
 You now have a journal that's covered in paper and glue. Hmm. Probably needs a bit more, right? At this stage, add a few more small embellishments that can stick out. It'll give your journal that pop that most don't have.


As for ink stamps, an easy way to add them is to put them onto white tissue paper. Stamp the page, dip a paintbrush in water, and draw a watery circle around it so it easily tears out. Then place it however you like on your journal., Even if you didn't add a second layer of embellishments, your journal needs at least two more coats of glue to make sure it's sturdy and ready for everyday use. Make sure the second layer dries before you put on the third. And then voila! Your vintage-y, decoupaged journal is ready for compliments.

