 If you are typically worried about how people think about you, drinking may help you relax and stop worrying. This also means some of your base instincts may be revealed. If you are holding back a temper it may flare up out of control when you are intoxicated. If you know you have an issue like that, you need to work not only on your self-control, but also try to change your natural inclinations.


If you are an angry drunk, you may find that you tend to be mad during the day. If that's the case and you want to act sober, you may consider anger management classes. There it's possible to learn techniques to avoid becoming angry in the first place.
 When your judgement is impaired by alcohol, your sober friends may be able to tell your state by your tells. Ask them to recount changes in your behavior. See if they would be willing to give you examples. Commit these changes of behavior to memory. You will need to work on hiding them to act sober.


One way to ask your friends about your drunken behavior is to asky what type of drunk you are.Even if they do not have specific examples of your odd behavior they may have an overarching sense of how you are. Happy drunks tend to be very jovial the more alcohol they consume. Angry drunks tend to be mean and problematic. There are many other types but this would get the conversation going.
 You likely know how you normally behave too. If you record yourself when you are drunk, you may see more than your friends do. This could allow you to confirm your friends' observations if you think they are unbelievable. Furthermore, you will have clear documentation of your odd behavior. This will give you a good starting point when trying to identify your tells.


You don't have to do this by yourself or even much of the time. You may have a friend record you with their phone when you aren't looking. You may even use your phone to take an audio recording to see how you sound later when you are sober.
 If you don't want people to know you are drunk, you have to stop acting abnormal. Drunk people can often be identified by their unique behaviors.Asking friends about your odd behavior or viewing/listening to a recording will give you information. Your goal is to identify your tells and write them down. This gives you a list of things to work on.
 Some tells you can avoid through practice. You have to maintain some level of non-drunkenness though. Once you have a list to work on, get drunk. In your drunken state, try to act as normal as possible. You will have to look at your list of tells and avoid doing any of those abnormal behaviors. If that's too difficult, you may be too drunk. Scale down your drinking for now until you get the hang of acting sober at a lower state of drunkenness.


Keep in mind that the more drunk you are, the harder it will be to hide your tells. If you keep drinking, eventually you will not be able to hide it.
Not all tells can be avoided.You will want to avoid giving people the opportunity to observe those aspects. For exampleIf you know you have alcohol on your breath, don't get too close.

