 Remind yourself to let the tension out of your muscles with a deep breath. Just relax, letting the small muscles in your face, neck and shoulders unclench. Are there any parts of your body you have curled or tensed nervously? Let them go. This physical tension is picked up by other people, even unconsciously, and tells them you are stressed or unhappy.


What are your eyebrows and forehead doing? Let them relax -- downturned eyebrows and furrowed brows tell people you are less trustworthy.If you're really stressed, work down your body slowly. Take a breath and relax your face. Then take another and relax your shoulders, then arms, then legs, all the way to your toes.;
, The very act of smiling actually makes you feel happier.So smiling not only makes you look happier, it makes it easier to keep looking happy. Make a habit of smiling more often, such as when greeting people or when you agree with a point someone makes. And, if you're really feeling down, smile at yourself in the mirror. The mental boost is real.


Aim for a big, open-lipped smile. Showing your teeth is a good thing!
In a full, genuine smile, you should feel creases in the skin by your eyes. Your whole face lights up with the smile.
 Go online and learn a couple of jokes. Repeat a semi-embarrassing story about yourself. Let yourself chuckle at an off-color story or a joke a friend is telling. Whatever your strategy, find more excuses to let out a good laugh as much as possible. You'll look happier automatically, and the lingering smile will help you feel happier too.
 Great posture and body positioning is key to appearing happy. Furthermore, good posture actually helps you feel better, making it a lot easier to actually look happy. You want to appear open and inviting to conversation, showing the calm confidence that happy people have.


When standing, "line up" you major joints. Your shoulders are above your hips, which are above your knees, which are above your ankles, forming a straight line up.
Pull your shoulders back to puff your chest slightly out. Your spine should be upright, not hunched forward or backward.
Keep your chin parallel to the floor and make eye contact when speaking to others to build trust and confidence

, Wear clothes that make you feel sexy. Shower and spritz on a perfume, cologne, or spray that you enjoy. Get the haircut you've always wanted. When you don't have to think about your outside appearance, you can calm down and focus on your inner "appearance." Wearing clothes you love and taking pride in your looks is a great way to exude happiness in any situation.


Clothes don't buy happiness, and you don't need new outfits to look happy. Rather, just spend an extra 5 minutes in the morning to look fresh, providing confidence all day long.

