 Let him/her know that you've noticed that you two have been fighting a lot. However, while explaining that, do not point out that it's his/her fault or he/she has started most of the fights. Otherwise, your sibling may feel defensive, and you'll soon find the two of you bickering over this!

, Wait for him/her to be finished talking, then make a few comments of your own as well. However, do not take too much time in this for there are the negative points you must face as well. Also, your sibling might get bored of this conversation and want to leave, possibly sparking another fight between you two.
 Do not interrupt your sibling while he/she is talking or feel defensive about some comments that he/she makes. It will be your turn to talk soon, and it's best that you know what you've been doing wrong.


Listen to what your sibling has to say. Then, he/she may feel obliged to fully listen to you when it's your turn to speak.
 However, when telling your sibling, do not start off with an accusatory tone or he/she might immediately feel defensive. Instead, use a polite and kind tone while saying words similar to, "Well, I've noticed that we don't do our fair share of chores a lot. Maybe we should both work on that."


Keep in mind that saying "we" is better than saying "you" because "we" means the two of you will work together on this. It's not just your sibling that has to work on it.
 Although you two may want to work on all the areas at once, it's easier said than done! It will become harder for you to balance all of those areas at once so it's better to tackle a few at a time.


If you feel that your relationship isn't strong enough to handle two or three areas, stick to one if necessary. However, don't procrastinate in handling the other areas!

, Try to work together on this and make it a team job instead of a solo job. That way, you and your sibling will feel more supported and encouraged by each other.


Hand out a positive comment or two to your sibling so that he/she feels motivated to improve in that area.
Don't focus on the negative points. Rather, look past them. At least your sibling is striving to improve in that area.
, However, do not tattle on your sibling and pin the blame on him/her because that will show how immature you are. Plus, your sibling will feel hurt and that may worsen the conditions of your relationship with him/her.

