 One of the most common symptoms of preeclampsia is swelling (also called edema), especially in the hands, feet, legs, and face. It can be difficult, especially in mild cases, to distinguish the swelling associated with preeclampsia from the normal swelling experienced by many pregnant women, but call your doctor if the swelling begins suddenly, seems severe, or is located in the hands or face (as opposed to the feet or legs, where normal swelling often takes place).;
, Women with preeclampsia often experience persistent headaches, which may feel either dull and constant or severe and throbbing. Occasional headaches are no cause for alarm, but if your headache won’t go away, even after you’ve tried over-the-counter pain relievers, or if it is extremely painful or accompanied by other symptoms, such as swelling or visual disturbances, see your doctor immediately.
 Weight gain is a normal, necessary part of pregnancy, but sudden weight gain of more than a few pounds in a week can be a sign of preeclampsia. Discuss your weight gain regularly with your doctor, and call for an appointment if you see a sudden gain, especially if you have any other symptoms.
 Pregnant women often experience heartburn and indigestion, and these are not generally signs of preeclampsia, but if you have severe upper abdominal pain, especially if it radiates to your back or shoulder, seek medical care immediately.
 Although queasiness and vomiting are associated with normal first-trimester “morning sickness,” a sudden onset of these symptoms later in your pregnancy might be a cause for concern.
 Like many of the other symptoms, back pain is common during pregnancy and does not necessarily indicate a problem all by itself. However, if you have severe lower back pain, it could be the result of a problem with your liver – something that can happen with preeclampsia. See your doctor, especially if you have other symptoms.
 Women who develop preeclampsia sometimes notice increased symptoms of anxiety: they may feel panicky, experience shortness of breath, or notice a racing pulse. If you notice mild versions of these symptoms or have a general sense that “something might be wrong,” speak to your doctor at your next appointment. But if these symptoms are severe or appear alongside other signs of preeclampsia, get help right away.


According to the Preeclampsia Foundation, many women who develop preeclampsia report that they have felt an intuitive sense that something was very wrong. You may have feelings of anxiety or a sense that something is going wrong with your pregnancy even if everything is fine, but trust your instincts and call your doctor anyway. Some women worry about annoying their doctors or seeming high-maintenance, but it’s better to be safe than sorry.
 Some women with preeclampsia experience blurred vision, light sensitivity, vision loss, and other visual disturbances. These symptoms can be very serious, so if you notice them, call your doctor immediately or go directly to an emergency room.
 Anyone can get preeclampsia, and doctors aren’t completely certain why it develops, but there are some factors that seem to heighten a woman’s risk. One of these is age: women over 40 or under 20 may have a higher risk of developing endometriosis.
 If you’ve had preeclampsia before, or if you have a history of high blood pressure, your risk is elevated. If you have an autoimmune disorder, diabetes, lupus, or polycystic ovarian syndrome, you may also have an increased risk.


The increased risk of preeclampsia that comes with diabetes also applies to gestational diabetes (the form of the disease that afflicts women only during pregnancy). If you have gestational diabetes, watch carefully for symptoms of preeclampsia.
 You also have an increased risk if your mother, sister, aunt, or grandmother ever had preeclampsia. If possible, ask your parents and grandparents about any family history of the condition.
 If you are obese, you are more likely to develop preeclampsia.


Do not attempt to eliminate this risk by going on a strict diet during pregnancy. Instead, talk to your doctor about a safe rate of weight gain, and eat as healthfully as possible.
 Women who are pregnant for the first time develop preeclampsia more often.


There is some evidence that your first pregnancy with a new partner – even if you’d had a baby with another person before – may also increase your risk.
 If you are pregnant with twins or triplets, your risk of preeclampsia is higher.

