 Using your diaphragm when you speak and sing is essential for actors and singers. Your diaphragm is in the area just underneath your sternum (where your ribs meet). By breathing into your diaphragm and using this breath when you sing your voice will have more power.Breathing into your diaphragm instead of into your chest will also reduce strain on your vocal cords.


To practice diaphragmatic breathing, take a breath into your abdomen. You should feel your abdomen expand as you breathe in. Then, release the breath slowly with a hissing sound. Try to keep your shoulders and neck relaxed as you breathe.You can also place your hands on your abdomen as you breathe in. If your hands rise when you take in a breath, then you are breathing into your abdomen.;
, Taking tension out of your jaw will allow you to open your mouth wider when you speak or sing, which may result in a clearer voice. To remove the tension from your jaw, push on your cheeks with the heel of your hands just below the jawline. Draw your hands down toward your chin, then start back at the top massaging your jaw muscles.Allow your mouth to gently open as you draw your hands downward.
 Practicing your vocal range can also help to improve your voice for singing. To practice your vocal range, place a stirring straw between your lips and start to make a low “oo” sound. Slowly start to increase the pitch of the “oo” sound. Go from the bottom of your vocal range to the top of your vocal range.The air that doesn’t fit through the straw presses down on your vocal chords.
This exercise is helpful for reducing swelling around the vocal chords.
 Trilling your lips is also a good way to exercise your voice and give it a clearer sound. With your lips gently closed, blow air through them while making the “uh” sound. Your lips will vibrate together from the air that is released.The air trapped inside your mouth will close your vocal cords, allowing them to gently come together., Humming is an effective way to warm up your voice and to cool it down after using it for a long performance. To start, close your lips and relax your jaw. Inhale through your nose and let the breath out on a hum. Start by making a nasal “mmm,” then move the hum down through the lower part of your register.This exercise activates the vibrations in your lips teeth and facial bones.
 Stretching your tongue can make it easier to articulate your words, which is essential for stage actors. To stretch your tongue, press your tongue against your palate, then stick it out of your mouth. Press it against one cheek, then the other. Place the tip of your tongue behind your bottom lip and fold the rest out of your mouth, then fold your tongue backward with the tip on your palate.Repeat these exercises 10 times in a row.
 Saying tongue twisters may also improve your ability to speak clearly because it gives you practice enunciating. Tongue twisters will also exercise the muscles in your lips, face, and tongue, which can benefit your voice. Make sure that you exaggerate the sounds of each word that you speak as you say the tongue twisters.


Start slowly and progressively speed up your recitation of the phrases.
Practice “P” words by reciting “Peter Piper picked a peck of piquant peppers.”
For “N” and “U” words, try, “You know New York. You need New York. You know you need unique New York.”
Give your tongue a workout by repeating, “Red leather, yellow leather” over and over.
 Try to say the word “gees” like you are Yogi Bear. As you do, you may feel your larynx drop. Having your larynx in this lowered position gives you more control over your vocal cords, so you might find it easier to hit a higher note after doing this exercise.Repeat this exercise a few times.
 Start with one sound and then transition all the way through the ooh, oh, uh, and ah sounds to give your voice a good workout. Doing this may make it easier for you to hit a higher note or to keep your voice stable while you are singing.Repeat this exercise a few times per day.
 To improve your voice for speaking on a stage and for singing, you will need to exercise it on a regular schedule. Warm your voice before using it extensively, but also practice vocal exercises twice per day for best results.


Try setting aside 15 minutes to do vocal exercises when you wake up, or do them while you are getting ready for work or school. Then do them again before you go to bed, such as while you are making dinner or taking a bath.

