 Ammonia is a caustic substance that should be treated with caution, but it does come closer than any other method to creating the green brown appearance of naturally aged brass.


Ammonia will eventually evaporate off the brass, so you'll need to commit to repeating this process every time your brass returns to its old appearance. How long this takes depends on the exact qualities of your object.
This process will not succeed if you do not follow the steps for Preparing Your Brass beforehand.
 You'll need "full strength" or "clear" ammonia, not the dilute household ammonia more commonly sold at supermarkets. The hardware store is also a good place to buy a plastic bucket with airtight sealable lid, sometimes called "pickle buckets".For tiny pieces of brass, you can use a glass bottle with airtight cap instead of a bucket. Tie it with a cord and suspend it over a small amount of ammonia, screwing the cap firmly to hold the cord in place and trap the ammonia fumes.
 Ammonia fumes are toxic and should never be inhaled. Work outside if possible or in a room with great air flow.
 You should create a stable, flat "shelf" large enough for the brass object to sit on. Use a piece of plywood for large objects, stacked on top of several pieces of wood to make it stable.
 Keep the ammonia level below the upper surface of the wood. You don't need too much, although more ammonia may hasten the process.
 Make sure they are stable and in no danger of falling into the ammonia. If they do, remove it with gloved hands and wash in warm water. Dry before returning to the wooden bucket.
 Depending on the temperature and humidity, freshness of the ammonia, and exact characteristics of your brass, the antiquing could take hours to take effect. Check back every hour or so to see how its progressing, taking care not to breathe the fumes that escape the bucket.


Open the lid slightly for a quick glance, then close it tightly to keep most of the ammonia fumes in.
 Once the desired color is reached, let it dry naturally in an area with flowing air. Wax it if you want a more polished effect.


The aging effect of ammonia is only temporary, so you probably don't want to lacquer the brass since you would eventually need to remove the lacquer to re-antique the brass.
You can use the same ammonia bath to treat other brass objects, but not indefinitely. Eventually the ammonia's potency will be used up and you will need to replace it.