 The type of cut you want depends on what you plan to use the bacon for. The cut of bacon determines its thickness.Most bacon is standard cut, which comes in strips that are 1/16 of an inch. Thick cut bacon is slightly larger than standard cut. The strips are generally twice as thick as standard bacon. Both of these can be used in typical breakfast foods, but thick cut may be better as an addition to pastas and soups.
Center-cut is cut close to the bone. It generally has about 30% less fat than other cuts. If you're looking to cut down on fat, go with center cut.
You can also buy a slab of bacon at the butcher's counter. This bacon is uncut, allowing you to determine thickness by yourself.;
, Curing is the process of adding salt and spices to bacon to give it its distinct flavor. There are various curing methods used for bacon.Most bacon is wet-cured. Wet-cured bacon is brined in salt water and preservatives. The majority of supermarket bacon is wet-cured. If a bacon's curing method is not listed, it was likely wet-cured.
Dry-cured bacon is rubbed with salt and spices rather than brined. You can dry-cur your own bacon, or look for dry-cured bacons at your supermarket.
Uncured bacon is not really uncured. All bacon goes through a curing process. If you see bacon labeled as uncured, it means the product uses more natural ingredients during the process. If you're adverse to chemical preservatives, you may want to look for uncured bacon.
 Bacon is grilled on a variety of different surfaces. The type of wood used to cook bacon can affect its taste.Hickory-smoked bacon generally tastes the most like classic bacon. If you're looking for a classic breakfast food, try this type of bacon.
Cherrywood-smoked bacon has a milder flavor. If you want only a slight bacon flavor, like in a soup, try cherrywood-smoked bacon.
Applewood-smoked bacon has a subtle, fruity taste. It could make a great addition to a sweeter dish.
 Bacon is usually made from a pig, but there are other varieties. Bacon can also be made from a duck, beef, and lamb.Duck bacon has less fat than regular bacon, so if you're health conscious it may be a great choice. If you like duck meat, try duck bacon.
Beef bacon is similar to pastrami. It tastes similar to regular bacon, but with a beefier taste. It also tends to be juicier.
Lamb bacon has a rich flavor. If you enjoy dishes made from lamb, you may prefer lamb bacon.
 Canadian bacon is a fully cooked pork loin. It is more like ham than bacon. Typically, Canadian bacon is used on eggs benedict. If you're making eggs benedict, go for Canadian bacon., Pancetta is cured pork belly. It resembles American bacon but it is not smoked. It is rolled into a spiral and then sliced for cooking. It can work well as an addition to a salad or to a pasta. This is because it maintains its shape better than regular bacon., If you're vegetarian, or catering to someone who is, there are many varieties of vegetarian bacon. You can stop by your local supermarket and browse the vegetarian section to find veggie bacon.Tempeh is a substance made of fermented soy. Tempeh bacon is soaked in spices to get a similar taste to bacon. This can be a great meat substitute in dishes.
 In general, less ingredients will yield a higher quality bacon. A bacon packed with artificial flavors and preservatives may shrink more during the cooking process, leaving you with small strips of bacon to eat. It may also not taste as good as bacon made from more natural ingredients.In general, the ingredients list should not contain more than pork, salt, brown sugar, and water.
Bacon that has a lot of other ingredients is probably packed with artificial flavoring and preservatives. You may notice words that are long and difficult to pronounce.
 Nitrates are compounds that are found naturally in foods like vegetables. They are sometimes added to processed foods, such as bacon, as preservatives. While it's unclear whether nitrates as an additive are harmful, nitrate-free bacon generally uses less artificial ingredients. It's a good idea to see if you can find bacon free of nitrates.Keep in mind, the nitrate-free label is not entirely true. All bacon has nitrates. Nitrate-free bacon is made from celery rather than sodium-nitrate. Celery nitrates are more naturally occurring. As it's unclear if natural nitrates are better for you, it's debatable whether nitrate-free bacon is worth the extra cost. However, the label "nitrate-free" may help you locate bacon with less artificial flavoring.
The nitrates in well done bacon may be worse for your health than in medium done bacon. You can counteract the effects of nitrate with vitamin C. If you like bacon well-done, make the extra effort to find nitrate-free bacon. Also, have some fruit or a glass of orange juice after eating your bacon.
 If you want to support local farmers, locally sourced bacon may be the way to go. In addition to helping local farmers, it is also likely to be free of added ingredients. If you're concerned about ethical farming, many local farmers practice more humane treatments than are used on factory farms.You can go to a local farmer's market. You are likely to find naturally sourced bacon there.
You can also visit a local food co-op. Many co-ops work with local farmers, so you're likely to find nitrate-free bacon at a co-op.
 Uncured bacon is not real. All bacon is cured, and the uncured label merely means bacon was cured with more natural ingredients. Uncured bacon may be a good idea if you want a more natural taste. However, companies often use the label to convince consumers to pay more than necessary. Check the ingredients list if you see uncured bacon. Make sure the bacon actually uses less artificial flavoring and preservatives than other varieties., It is hard to determine the exact temperature at which to cook bacon, as bacon varies in thickness and quality. In general, however, you should always cook bacon until it's fully browned. Partially cooked bacon is not safe for consumption.Keep an eye on bacon while it's cooking. It should be crisp overall, and the color should have darkened some. Do not eat bacon until it's reached this state. Sometimes, cured meats retain some pinkness during cooking. This does not mean your bacon is not done. If it's crisp to the touch, and the color has darkened, it is usually safe to eat.
Avoid eating spoiled bacon. Most raw bacon will last 7 days in the refrigerator. Canadian bacon will only last 3 to 4 days. Leftover bacon lasts 4 to 5 days.

