 Ditch the overly processed bread products and find a more natural option complete with nutritious whole grains. These not only have more beneficial vitamins, minerals and dietary fiber, but they’ll also let you taste the bread more clearly underneath the heavy coating of sweeteners and other toppings.You could even start making your own bread from scratch, which will give you total control over what goes in it.
Low carb breads made without gluten are also a good way to avoid overloading on starches.;
, Separating the whites instead of using the whole egg significantly reduces the amount of cholesterol and overall calories going into the dish. Keep in mind that you may need to crack a few extra eggs to make up for volume you lose by not including the yolks.Isolating the whites may prevent your French toast from tasting so “eggy,” as well.
To simplify the cooking process, pick up a bottle of egg white beaters from the supermarket to keep on hand for hassle-free breakfasts., Shake in 20-30g of unflavored powder while you’re mixing up the batter. The added protein will help you feel satisfied faster, which means you’ll eat less and keep your muscles fueled and ready to burn energy all day long.Enriching your French toast with protein can keep you from having to serve fattening side dishes like bacon or sausage alongside it in order to fill up.
Avoid flavored protein powders, as these will interfere with the finished product.
 Opt for a low sugar variety of maple syrup, or, better yet, make the switch to raw honey. These items contain far lower concentrations of sugar without sacrificing the smooth, rich sweetness you need to make the dish taste right.A good serving size for syrup and other sweeteners is around 1-2 tablespoons, or about 30ml.There is evidence to suggest that maple syrup may have certain health benefits, so consider simply going easy on it rather than giving it up altogether.Lend depth to your French toast using sweeteners with complex flavors like orange blossom honey or date syrup infused with fruity or floral notes., Sprinkling on a healthy dose of confectioner’s sugar is usually the last step in preparing French toast, but it adds a lot of unnecessary calories. Stick to a low sugar syrup, honey or fruit to sweeten your breakfast rather than overpowering it with extra sugar. Chances are, you won’t even miss it when it’s not there.Instead of powdered sugar, try a dash of cinnamon, nutmeg or allspice. These spices are bold and help promote a healthy metabolism.