 Keratin is found naturally in vegetables like kale, broccoli, onions, leeks, and garlic. Include these foods in your meals to boost your body’s keratin naturally.Liver, fish, yogurt, and low-fat milk are other good food sources of keratin.;
, Include healthy proteins in your diet to help your body make more keratin. Eat lean meats, poultry, fish, eggs, and low-fat dairy. Remember that red meat is high in fat, so be sure to balance your other health needs with your keratin-friendly diet.If you’re vegetarian or vegan, snack on high-protein products like walnuts, almonds, and beans.
 Include fatty fish in your meals several times a week. Salmon, mackerel, herring, trout, sardines, and tuna are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids that can help your body make keratin.Limit salmon and canned tuna to 12 oz. per week.
Don’t eat mackerel if you’re pregnant – it’s considered a high-mercury fish that’s best avoided during pregnancy.
 Your body needs vitamin C to make keratin.Include plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables in your diet, as these are high in vitamin C. Some of the best produce for vitamin C include:Citrus fruit and juice, like orange and grapefruit
Tropical fruits like cantaloupe, kiwi, mango, papaya, and pineapple
Strawberries, blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, cranberries, and watermelon
Broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts
Peppers (green and red), tomatoes, and potatoes (sweet and white)
Leafy greens like cabbage, spinach, and turnip greens

, Your body needs biotin to make healthy hair and skin, partly due to its role in keratin production. Upping your intake of biotin-rich foods may improve hair and nail quality, though not much research has been done on this.Get biotin from foods like:


Eggs (with the yolk)
Vegetables like cauliflower, beans, blackeyed peas, soybeans, and mushrooms
Whole grains
Bananas
Nuts like almonds, peanuts, walnuts, pecans, peanuts and their nut butters

, Cystine is turned into a building block of keratin in your body. Include foods rich in cystine in meals regularly. Eggs are one of the best sources of cystine. Other good food options are beef, pork, seeds, and milk.Choose lean and low-fat options, which are better for your heart and overall health.

