 Because many of the symptoms associated with LCM occur in many other illnesses, it is important to see a doctor so that they can identify your specific condition. Even if it’s not LCM, the combination of so many symptoms indicates that you need some sort of medical treatment. Be sure to tell the doctor about any exposure to mice, areas contaminated with mouse droppings, pets such as hamsters, or any work you did with laboratory mice.


Even if you seem to be recovering, see a doctor anyway. Sometimes people infected with LCM seem to recover before relapsing into the second, more severe phase of the illness.Your doctor will prescribe a specific course of treatment based on your condition.
Even with medical help, recovery may take several months;however, recovery outlook is excellent, as less than 1% of cases end in death.;
, The symptoms of LCM can be caused by a number of different diseases and disorders. Let your doctor know about any problems you have been having with your health. The most common symptoms of LCM include:


Fever
Malaise and fatigue
Headaches
Nausea and vomiting
A lack of appetite
Aches and pains in the chest, jaw, and testicles, There are several tests that can confirm or rule out the presence of LCM.


Your doctor may test your white blood cell count and platelet count.If the doctor finds these counts are low, you might have LCM.
You might also get your blood tested for liver enzyme levels. These enzymes, if slightly elevated, could indicate LCM.
Another test that can help determine if LCM is present is the spinal tap. This procedure involves inserting a needle into your spinal canal to collect cerebrospinal fluid. Examining the fluid, a doctor can look for a decrease in glucose levels that could indicate LCM.
 Symptoms such as the above can be caused by many different disorders, not just LCM. If you have been exposed to mice, mouse droppings, or areas contaminated by mouse saliva, urine and stool, you may have particular reason to suspect LCM.

