 You’ll want a camera that lets you adjust how much light and movement you can capture. Doing nighttime photography requires you to be in control of these changes, rather than relying on a camera’s automatic mode.You may also use a film SLR camera. While these cameras will take nice pictures at night, they are more difficult to use. Digital SLRs now provide the same capabilities as film cameras, so make a choice depending on your preferences.;
, Lens size, or focal length, is measured in millimeters. Wide-angle lenses have smaller focal lengths than typical lenses, ranging from about 35 to 10 mm. Wide-angle lens allow you to let in more light in order to capture broader scenes than the naked eye. This makes them perfect for nighttime photography.Wide-angle lens are especially recommended when shooting the night sky.
 It’s important to keep your camera as stable as possible when taking pictures at night. Because you’ll be experimenting with the amount of time your shutter remains open to let in light, you’ll need an extremely still camera. This will minimize any blurriness to give you sharp and clear images.If you’re going to be doing a lot of walking to reach your spot, try a lightweight aluminum tripod.
If you’re concerned about your camera’s stability, purchase a large and sturdy carbon-fiber tripod. Be aware that these tripods are both heavier and more expensive than alternatives., When you push the button on your camera to take a shot, you create a small amount of vibration. To avoid this movement, use a cable or wireless remote that allows you to push the button from a distance.If you don’t have a cable or remote shutter release, use your camera’s self-timer feature. This will allow you to engage the shot and then step away from the camera.
 It’s important that you’re able to see when you travel to your chosen spot and set up your equipment. If you’re in total darkness, a flashlight is essential for safety.Your flashlight may also work as an external flash bulb. You can shine it on your subject to help your camera focus on that subject.
 You don’t want your camera to die on you or run out of storage space during the middle of your photography session! Check that you have a minimum of 8Gs of free space, and fully charge the battery the night before., RAW is a type of file format for images. Unlike JPEG files, RAW files store all the data recorded by your camera’s sensor when you snap a photograph. JPEG files compress some of this data. You’ll generally want to make some post-photography edits with nighttime photographs, and taking RAW files gives you more control over those adjustments.RAW files also record higher levels of brightness, or steps from black to white, than JPEGs. This gives you a smoother transition in color tone, a crucial feature for nighttime pictures.
 Be sure to minimize the vibration and movement your camera is subjected to while you photograph. Either set up your tripod or place your camera on an extremely flat and stable surface.
 The aperture is the size of the opening in your camera’s lens, measured in f-stops. Moving from one f-stop to the next doubles or halves the size of the opening and, as a result, the amount of light you let in.Start with a small f-stop, such as f/2.8, to let in a higher amount of light. Wide-open apertures are optimal for shots of the starry night sky.Experiment with higher f-stops, such as f/16, f/18, or f/22, for low-light exposure. Low lighting can also produce great nighttime shots, especially if you’re photographing landscapes that have streetlights., The shutter speed refers to the amount of time your camera shutter is open, measured in seconds. This affects the level of light let in and the amount of movement that’s captured. For night shooting, start with slow shutter speeds, such as 10-30 seconds. This long exposure time should provide you with excellent shots of the stars, nighttime traffic, or cityscapes., The ISO refers to the sensitivity of your camera’s image sensor to light. The lower the ISO, the less sensitive the camera is to light, which results in less grain in your image. Higher ISOs of above 500 will give you more light sensitivity and more grain, which is important for nighttime photography.If you’re worried about “noisy,” or overly grainy shots, you can experiment with lower ISOs of between 100 and 500., Most cameras have a light meter reading on their viewfinder or live view display. This readout gives you the exposure value of your image, which indicates whether your image will be properly exposed based the aperture, shutter speed, and ISO.You want your light meter to hover just over zero, rather than a negative or positive number. Adjust your aperture, shutter speed, and ISO based on your needs for the photograph while also aiming for zero.
 This will pre-flip the mirror, exposing your digital image sensor, before your push the button to take your shot. As you won’t be able to use the viewfinder after you’ve set up the mirror lockup, choose this feature only after your shot is completely set up., While your phone isn’t comparable to a digital camera, it can still capture images in the dark. Stabilize your phone on a tripod or flat surface, minimize your use of the flash, and don’t engage the zoom., In most nighttime photographs, your main focus will be the sky and the stars. Angle the camera so that the sky dominates the upper and middle sections of the picture., Adding an interesting element at the base of the shot will provide contrast with the sky and complete the photograph. Try unique rock formations, mountains, trees, or even your car., The moon and stars will affect your photograph in different ways. A full or bright moon will light up elements of foreground, but will make it difficult to see the stars. Without a moon, your foreground will be darker, but the stars will be more visible.For a balance between the two, photograph at the beginning or end of the moon’s cycle.
 In order to see your chosen focal point in the shot, you may need to brighten it up. Experiment with the amount of light you shine by employing a variety of light sources.Try using a flashlight or headlamp for a small amount of extra light to help your camera focus. These small sources won’t add too much artificial light to the shot.
Use your car’s headlights or portable studio lights to illuminate a large object like a building or rock structure. Bring shields just in case you need to dampen the amount of light you receive from these larger sources.
Remember to turn off your camera’s built-in flash, as this will wash out the entire landscape.

