;
, Click on the foreground color picker on your tools panel. A box will appear or your color picker set then the CMYK settings as indicated on the illustration.



Create a new layer by clicking on the small icon beside the trash can on your layers panel (or you can also use the shortcut Shift + Ctrl + N).
Switch your set foreground color to the background color and then fill your new layer with your set color. Fill your new layer by using the shortcut Ctrl + Backspace (or you can also use the paint bucket tool).
 Set the color by following the CMYK percentages used on the accompanying illustration and then create another new layer to fill it with your new set color.


You can also try to rename your layers “Top Layer” and “Bottom Layer" organize your work more easily--rename them according to your preference.
 Using these colors apply a filter on your top layer. Apply a cloud filter by going to Filter > Render > Clouds.
 Go Filter > Noise > Add Noise and then add blur the effect using Filter > Blur > Gaussian Blur. Set the radius of the Gaussian Blur to 2 to 4 pixels.
 Do this by right-clicking over your top layer and by clicking on your blending options. On your blending options dialog box add an inner glow and then follow the settings used for the glow on the accompanied illustration.



Add a new layer first and change the colors on your foreground and background color to black and white by typing Shift + D.
Then go to your brushes panel and use a soft mechanical brush changing the mode to Color Burn mode and the opacity to 30%.
Brush the edges of the paper or your document.



Create a new layer first again and then click on X on your keyboard. This will switch the color white as your foreground color.
Then using your lasso tool, create now different kinds of torn patterns on your document. Keep adding also the patterns by holding on your shift key.
Using the Chalk Dark Brush, brush on the patterns. Change also the settings on the brush by changing the mode normal and the opacity to 40%.
, Click on the gradient tool for the gradient editor. A dialog box will appear change then the settings and the colors as indicated on the accompanied illustration. Then after doing so apply a radial blur on the new layer.
 Click X again on your keyboard to switch your black to your foreground color. Employ a new effect by applying different kinds of brushes on the document. Set also the settings of the brush to Color Burn with opacity of 60%.
, To link the layers, select the first two layers and hold the Alt key. Apply this shortcut to the other layers. There you have it, paper aged to tee through the use of Photoshop!

