 Once the temperature is ideal (between 68-80 degrees Fahrenheit) and stable, it is time to add your yeast. The yeast will metabolize the natural sugar found in the grapes into ethanol (alcohol). The amount of yeast you need will be specified to your yeast package, but it is usually one yeast package per one carboy or 70 pounds of grapes.


Note: Wine yeast is different than common bread yeast. Do not attempt to substitute.
 If not already in your fermenter, move the yeast/must combination into the fermenter. Once transferred, stir your fermenting must daily. Keep in mind that the fermentation process releases heat, so be sure to keep the wine in a cool place. Otherwise, your yeast may prematurely die.


The longer you let your wine ferment the darker it will be and the more tannins you will have. Do not ferment for longer than a week.
 Press the remaining must in the fermenter to remove all possible juice from the solid grape waste. When done add the extracted juice into the carboy. Fill the carboy to 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) from the top.
 Secure the carboy with a bung and airlock. Now fermentation will begin in earnest. The airlock is filled with water to allow the wine gases to escape but prevent airborne contaminants from entering the fermenter.
 After 10-14 days, the little cap in the air lock will stop popping up and down. When this happens this means that the yeast is no longer fermenting.
 When you siphon the wine into a new clean carboy, leave any sediment behind in the old carboy.
 Measure the specific gravity using your hydrometer. If the specific gravity has reached 0.995 or lower (indicating increased alcohol levels) proceed to the next step.


If your specific gravity is above 0.995, allow your wine to ferment a few more days, and check again.
 Add bentonite to the wine. Bentonite will cling to the dead yeast and any other particulate matter. This will help them settle out of the wine and to the bottom of the carboy. The addition of bentonite also prevents further fermentation. After adding bentonite wait for 24 hours.


Make your bentonite slurry by adding 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of bentonite to 1 US-pint (470 ml) of boiling water. Then add 5–7 tablespoons (73.9–104 ml) of this slurry to each carboy of wine .
 After a day, add 1 ounce of liquid isinglass for every 5 or 6 gallons (one carboy) of wine. Wait ten days.
 At this stage you can let the wine age further, or bottle it now.

