 If you do not have insurance already, you should enroll in an insurance program. Insurance can provide free or discounted diabetes supplies under basic coverage.


You can enroll in an insurance program through healthcare.gov, a public database provided under the Affordable Care Act. Under AFA, you cannot be turned down for preexisting conditions and you may be eligible for a discounted premium depending on your current income. There is a toll-free number to call if you have any questions.You can try to pursue a private insurance program on your own. You will have to undergo a health insurance physical, which will serve to determine your pay rate. This choice may be costly, especially if you already have diabetes. This may increase your monthly premium.
If you are currently employed, see if your employer provides health care options and what you need to do to get on their plan.;
, If you're already insured, call your insurance company to talk about diabetes coverage. You can ask them what supplies will be covered under their program, what the copay is, and whether local pharmacies will offer you free or discounted supplies. If you're unhappy with your current coverage, consider pursuing an alternative insurance plan.
 Medicare is a government assistantship program that provides discounted health care to those 65 and over. If you're in this age group and need help paying for diabetes supplies, look into Medicare.



Medicare Part B is basic medical insurance provided by Medicare. Part B will cover blood sugar self-testing equipment and supplies, insulin pumps, and therapeutic shots or shoe inserts.If you have or are at risk for diabetes, you'll be encouraged to enroll in Medicare Part D, which is Medicare's prescription drug coverage. This will cover diabetes supplies insulin and other anti-diabetic drugs.Make sure you find health care providers that accept Medicare as a form of payment. Not all providers do and you'll be required to pay full costs of coverage if your medicare is denied., Medicaid is a state-administered health insurance plan for low income individuals and families. If you qualify for Medicaid, you may be able to get diabetes supplies for free or at a discounted rate.


Medicaid should cover inpatient and outpatient services for most medical issues. This means doctor's appointments regarding diabetes will be covered as well as diabetes supplies.As with Medicare, make sure the health insurance provider you choose accepted Medicaid before making an appointment. If your doctor does not accept Medicaid, you'll be expected to pay full costs., If you are a US veteran, you are entitled to certain health care benefits upon returning from active duty. Call your local VA office to ask about coverage.


Certain herbicides that veterans are sometimes exposed to during service can cause diabetes. If this is the case for you, you may be entitled to full coverage and disability assistance.Even if your diabetes is not a result of your service, you are entitled to some health care coverage as a veteran. A variety of diabetes supplies may be covered depending on your program and benefits. Talk to someone at your local VA office to ask about coverage.