 A traumatized child may exhibit any or all of these behaviors after a disaster:

, The child may feel lost without a person they trust, or a favorite object like a toy, blanket, or stuffed animal. A traumatized child may become extremely upset if this person or object is not with them, because they feel unsafe.
 They may be afraid to sleep alone at night, with the light off, to sleep in their own room, or have nightmares, night terrors or bad dreams.



Some children may obsess over preventing the event in the future, such as constantly checking the smoke alarm after a house fire. This may turn into Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.
 After all, their adults were not able to control the disaster, so they reason "who can?" and decide that nobody can keep them safe. Children abused by an adult may be afraid of other adults, especially adults who look similar (e.g. a small girl hurt by a tall, blond man may be afraid of her uncle because he is tall and blond).
 For example, a child abused by a therapist may scream and cry if they see the therapy building, and may panic if they even hear the word "therapy." Some children may be able to tolerate it with help from a loved one or security object, but be unable to bear being left there alone.
 The child may blame themselves for the traumatic event because of something they did, said, or thought.


Fears are not always rational. The child may blame themselves for a situation in which they did nothing wrong, and could not have made things any better.
This may lead to obsessive-compulsive behavior. For example, maybe a boy and his sister were playing in the dirt when the traumatic event happened, and now he feels the need to keep everyone perfectly clean and away from dirt.
 A traumatized child may feel alienated, and may be uncertain how to interact normally with others, or not interested.
 A child may become afraid of wind, rain or sudden loud noises;

, The child may talk about worries that their family will not be safe, or will not have anywhere to live. A traumatized child may obsess over their family's safety and try to protect their family.
 A suicidal child may start talking a lot about death.
