 Some modern sports cars actually backfire intentionally when it comes time to decelerate. This is mostly done to add to the car's presence and bravado. Considering it is much more difficult to properly backfire a more recent model, you might want to exploit the existing opportunities. Try decelerating after hitting a decent (~60mph) speed, and see if you can hear it. Better still, get a friend to watch the exhaust as you drive and decelerate. , Modern cars (roughly after 1990) require more tweaking before they can backfire safely. Because the ECU is there as a failsafe against backfiring, the chassis of the car isn't designed to normally withstand it. A sturdier exhaust port (such as the Tomei Type 80) will minimize damage to the car's body.
 Depending on the model of car, there should be a port With a Flash Tune Kit (or something along the lines of it) hooked up to your car, you'll be able to modify the ECU software directly. Changing (or 'modding') the ECU software will change the times and rates in which fuel is injected. Unfortunately ECU modding hardware and software is fairly expensive, and might put you back over $1000 dollars. Keep in mind ECU mods are often specific to certain models, so you might have to do some searching before you find one that suits yours. , This is where it comes tricky, as it requires you have an existing knowledge of your vehicle's specifications. You want to figure out what engine RPM you want for your car to start backfiring. If you just want the roar and pop of a backfire, choose an RPM to cut all fuel. Input a higher number for a given RPM if you want the flames. It goes without saying that adding extra fuel is more dangerous; if you're relatively new to this, it's recommended you experiment with the safer route first.


Although the particulars will vary depending on the model of car and type of ECU kit, generally speaking, you will want to access the input and cut fuel intake at the RPM you'd like your car to pop at. If you're using a Flash Tune Kit, for example, input the given RPM intake as the most negative integer the system will accept. Input these negative integers (e.g. -15 etc.) to encompass the range of a couple hundred RPMs. This will essentially 'trick' your engine into popping.
Entering a number incorrectly could inadvertently destroy your car. It is not recommended you even consider doing this without some expertise in motorworks.

