 You need to adjust the cost basis of stock purchases for any commission you pay to a broker. You add this to the original cost. The total cost of the stock plus the commission equals the tax basis.


For example, suppose you purchased 100 shares at $50 per share and you paid a $100 commission. The cost basis is (100 x $50) + $100 = $5,000 + $100 = $5,100., If you sell the securities for a profit, the cost basis equals the cost basis of the previous owner. If you sell the securities for a loss, you can use either the cost basis of the previous owner or the value of the stock at the time of the gift, whichever is lower. You have to use the lower value because you cannot write off losses that happened before you owned the securities., When you inherit stocks, the cost basis is the value of the stocks at the time of the previous owner’s death. This is called “stepping up” the cost basis, and it assumes that the value of the stock has increased over time. Stepping up the cost basis benefits the person who inherited the stock because it decreases their taxable capital gains. Any income taxes that accrued on profits when the previous owner was alive are forgiven but included in the decedent's estate for tax purposes., If your spouse dies, the cost basis of any stocks is stepped up to the value of the stocks at the time of the death. It is almost like you inherited the stock. If unmarried couples own stock together, the portion of the cost basis that gets stepped up when one dies is determined by the portion owned by the other person.For example, suppose two brothers purchase stock together. One contributed 80 percent and the other contributed 20 percent. If the brother who contributed 80 percent dies, the cost basis of 80 percent of the stock would be stepped up to the price at the date of death.
 If assets are transferred from one person to another in a divorce, the cost basis also changes hands. This means that the cost basis is not stepped up. The amount of the cost basis for the new owner equals the cost basis of the previous owner., If you own stock shares in a company and the company splits the stock, your cost basis is spread evenly across the old and new shares. For example, suppose you own 100 shares of $10 stocks for a cost basis of $1,000. The company declares a two-for-one split, so now you own 200 shares of stock, but the cost basis remains $1,000. The only thing that changes is the cost basis per share, which now equals $5 ($1,000 / 200 = $5)., If you sell some stock, you may choose to reinvest those dividends to purchase more stock. This is called dividend reinvestment. Suppose you made $100 from dividends on your shares of a stock, and you reinvested that to purchase 10 more shares of stock. The cost basis for each of those shares of stock is $10 ($100 / 10 = $10).