 You don't want to get too close to the person you're spying on, so a small pair of binoculars is key to observing them from far away. You don't need a heavy, fancy pair that will weigh down your bag and be super obvious. Find a a small, plastic pair at a dollar store or camping store.


Try to find binoculars in a neutral color, like army green, that won't call attention to what you're doing.
 If you have a camera on your phone, then you're already set. Otherwise, buy a disposable camera so you can catch events as they unfold. You'll have proof of suspicious activities once you get the film developed.
 These glasses have mirrors on the inside of the lenses, so you can see what's going on over your shoulder without anyone knowing. Find a pair of dark sunglasses with large, flat frames and a sheet of plastic mirror paper.Cut out two pieces from the mirror paper and trim them to fit inside your lenses. They should cover about 1/3 of the lens on the side furthest from your nose.Tape the trimmed mirror paper to your frames or have a parent attach them with a hot glue gun., You can use a doctor's stethoscope to listen through walls or closed doors. Or, if you have an mp3 player, you can modify it to actually record conversations with your spy stethoscope.


If you don't have a stethoscope, grab a glass and place the rim against the wall. Don't hold the glass flat--tilt it slightly so the sound will echo out for you to hear.
 There are times when a spy must take on another persona, and having a few disguises as your disposal will help you change your identity quickly. Pack hairbands to pull your hair back, and a beanie or a hat under which you can tuck your ponytail. This can hide your hair color and can also help if you need to go undercover as a boy.


Find a pair of glasses, which may be enough to change your look and throw someone off the trail.
Try some fake, stick-on mustaches when your hair is tucked up to really change your look.
Bring a brown or black eyeliner pencil so you can quickly add freckles, moles, or wrinkles to your face.

