 Some OTC cold sore medications can shorten the duration of cold sores, although they're only effective if you apply them at the first signs of an outbreak. As soon as you notice tingling, apply an ointment containing docosanol. Other ointments may also contain benzocaine or lidocaine to relieve the pain, reduce cold sore symptoms, and protect your skin. They may contain alcohol that dries out the blisters, promoting healing.Realize that OTC cold sore ointments might be expensive and only shorten the duration a little (a few hours to a day).;
, Wet a clean cloth, wring it out, and place it over the outbreak area. Or, you can fill a compress bag with ice cubes and place it over the area. Hold the cloth or compress bag in place for up to 20 minutes. A cool compress can reduce redness and help healing.If you use the wet cloth, it can remove skin crusting common with cold sores.To avoid damaging skin tissue, never apply ice directly to your skin. Always make sure there is a cloth in between your skin and the ice.
 Cold sores may dry out your lips and mouth, so apply a sun block or lip balm that contains zinc oxide. These can protect the area from further damage. If you notice the area is dry, you can apply a moisturizing cream.Avoid using lip or skin products with sunblock if your doctor prescribes you to take topical acyclovir, an HSV treatment., Treatments to try to try include:Propolis: Apply this synthetic beeswax which is available as an ointment (3%). It may reduce the severity and duration of your cold sores.
Topical zinc: Some studies suggest that applying zinc oxide cream can help reduce the duration of an outbreak. However, more research is needed., Contact your doctor if you have any condition that lowers your ability to fight infections (like HIV, autoimmune disease, or are getting chemotherapy), your symptoms are severe and don't go away after two weeks, or you have blisters or sores near your eyes.Your doctor may prescribe antivirals if the outbreak is severe, painful, or you're at risk for spreading HSV. Antivirals include:


Acyclovir
Valacyclovir
Famciclovir
Penciclovir

, Before you notice cold sores (fluid-filled blisters), you may have tingling, burning, or itching around your mouth and lips. The area may also swell and appear red. About 24 to 48 hours later, small blisters may appear on the edge of the lips, combine, and burst, leaving open sores that crust over and heal on their own.Cold sores usually heal within one to three weeks depending on whether it is your first occurrence. However, cold sores can last up to 6 weeks.Your first occurrence of cold sores may be accompanied by a fever, headache, painful gums and sore throat. Following outbreaks usually happen at the same spot but aren't usually as severe.
 Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV), a common worldwide virus that is contagious. There are two types of HSV. HSV-1 causes cold sores or fever blisters around the mouth and HSV-2 usually causes genital herpes (although HSV-1 can also cause genital herpes). HSV-1 is spread through skin to skin contact like kissing or through sharing utensils or glasses. It is common and up to 90% of American adults have been exposed to it, although not all people who have the virus show symptoms.After the first infection, the virus lies inactive. However, HSV-1 can be reactivated, leading to further outbreaks of cold sores.
 Usually, HSV-1 is not dangerous. However, if you have a weakened immune system (because of HIV/AIDS, burns, anti-rejection therapy for transplants, chemotherapy) you are at a higher risk for serious complications. These complications include HSV-1 spreading to other skin areas, eye infection leading to blindness, and organ complications. Pay attention to triggers that can reactivate the virus. These include:Fever
Common cold
Stress
Sun exposure
Hormonal changes (such as those related to menstrual cycles)
Fatigue

If you have a condition that lowers your ability to fight infection, get medical attention if you think you have an HSV infection.
 HSV is very contagious and while HSV-1 is usually associated with mouth sores, it can cause genital warts. To prevent the spread of HSV, you should:Avoid kissing people with visible cold sores
Avoid sharing personal items (like towels, lip balm, or hygiene products)
Avoid sharing utensils or glasses
Keep your hands clean by washing your hands frequently
Be careful touching your eyes and genitals
Avoid performing oral sex

