 Make sure the rack you'll be using is placed in the middle of the oven.;
, Then, place them in a greased 8" square pan. To grease the pan, butter is preferable, but non-stick spray, olive oil (a non-flavored kind), or shortening work, too. You can also cube the bread into 1" pieces if you want a uniform, classic, make-no-mistake-about-it bread pudding.


What kind of bread to use? Well, that's sort of up to you. But sourdough, French, brioche, Italian, or even sweet rolls will guarantee a delicious flavor.
 Try to get it spread as evenly as possible, because you want every bite to have a hint of buttery goodness. Mix it up in the pan a bit if need be to immerse all the pieces.
 If you're using raisins, of course! You can also use 1/2 cup of another dried fruit if raisins aren't your thing. But toasted nuts (pecans, anyone?) or even fresh fruit (like a chopped apple) are to die for, too.
 If you're looking for a twist, the zest of a lemon or orange or 1/4 cup rum or grand marnier could do the trick.


What does "milk" really mean? It can mean anything from soy to 2% to a mixture of milk and cream, if you're feeling extra decadent. The thicker and creamier it is, sure, the fattier it'll be, but it'll also be more scrumptious, too.
 Make sure it gets everywhere! Mix it up a bit so all sides of the bread can sop up the flavor.
 This helps the bread absorb the mixture and to coat all bread pieces. Mix it up slightly to spread the mixture evenly.


At this stage, you can opt to put the pudding in the fridge for up to an hour to give the flavor a chance to soak into the bread. However, if your stomach is rumbling now, it can be skipped.
 You'll know it's done when you insert a toothpick into it and it comes out clean. Let the bread pudding cool for 10-15 minutes. You can resist for that long, right?

, You can also top with milk or cream to make it extra gooey. Or keep reading for some extra delicious ideas!

, We briefly mentioned this up top, but bread pudding is a great base for a number of flavors. It's sweet, but not too sweet, and rich, but not too rich. Here are a few ideas to spruce up your dish:


Fresh fruit, like apples or berries
Dried fruit, like dates or figs
Pecans or walnuts, toasted and chopped
Caramel or butterscotch drizzled on top
Top it with sugar, brown sugar, or a streusel topping of oats, brown sugar, cinnamon, and a bit of flour and butter

, Just when you thought it couldn't be any better, huh? After it comes out of the oven and while it's cooling, grab your saucepan and start making a sauce to pour over the individual servings. It's quite simple:


Combine 1/2 cup sugar, 1 stick butter, 1/2 cup cream, and 1/4 cup Jack Daniels in your pan. Heat over medium-low and when it reaches a light boil, take it off the heat. That's it! Drizzle over the pudding and try not to salivate.
 ...Or maybe it does get better. Heat 1 stick of butter, 1 cup of sugar, and 1 egg in a saucepan, whisking and stirring till it thickens. Then, whisk in up to 1 cup of bourbon and take off the heat. Drizzle over and enjoy!


Don't let it simmer or it might curdle! You just want it to get warm and thick.

