 It's best to make your name fit the HP universe, so use normal, but not too common, names. Some ideas are: Blair, Isabelle, Sarah, Jacqueline, Eleanor, Carol, Zoe, Scarlet, or Lorna. If you are a "pureblood", then use the name of a constellation or star, such as Lyra, Aquarius, Phoebe, Mira, Juliet, Calypso, or even Phoenix! One thing to not do, is give your character a name that is overly long or have a clichéd meaning (such as Lillian Darkness Rose Raven), that is both a Mary Sue trait and unnecessary. There are limitless possibilities, so be creative but follow canon laws!;
, Maybe she has dark brown hair? Bright ginger? Or black? Maybe even an uncommon colour such as auburn or platinum blonde? Also think about eye colour, skin tone etc. This part is both fun and hard, as you have to find an appearance that is both unique and fits the HP universe. Don't give your character unnatural hair colours unless they dyed it! br>
, Maybe she is bitter and arrogant on the outside, but is actually unsure of herself? Or humorous and outgoing? Or maybe shy and timid? There are loads of personality traits that you can choose, just try to be original and make sure that it makes sense. Give her some flaws as well as strengths, they make a character more believable and it is interesting for the readers to watch them overcome those flaws. Some examples of flaws are: Unconfident, stubborn, reckless, or antisocial. Some strengths are: Cunning, patient, loyal, or kind.
 Something to remember is to not make her related to a canon character, because that will be illogical and a sign of unoriginality. Maybe she has parents who are rich but is too busy at work to care about her? Maybe a normal family with annoying siblings? Maybe she have a twin sister who is the polar opposite?

, Maybe your characters, halfblood, Muggle-born, or pureblood. This part is optional, you don't have to go into detail but their blood might affect the way other students treat her!

, Are they in the bold and loyal Gryffindors, the cunning and ambitious Slytherins, the wise and confident Ravenclaws, or the kind and modest Hufflepuffs? Your choice entirely. But remember, it has to match their personality! A useful way to determine their house is to find a good sorting hat quiz, then choose the answers as your character would!

, Maybe your character is best friends with Luna and Cho? Maybe she hangs out with Crabbe and Goyle? Or even the Patil twins? Make sure the friend you choose is someone who can get along with her, or perhaps she is a loner in the first place? Even better, make up other original characters to be her friends! Don't make her friends with the trio or Draco Malfoy, that's too overused. Don't make her friends with almost everyone, give her some rivals and you would have some interesting conflict!

, What good is a character for, if you can't show it to anyone? Go out and roleplay on sites like pottermore.com or write a fanfiction on writing sites, especially Fanfiction. net and Deviantart. Or google after Harry Potter themed writing sites.

