 If you want to submit some work that you've already written, or find an online venue for a writing project that you're thinking of undertaking, there are several resources in place for writers to check for submissions calls. When publications are seeking content of a particular style or content, they'll open submissions to unsolicited writers and consider work, sometimes for free, sometimes for a small fee. This can be an excellent way to get your good writing considered by professional publications.


Writer's Chronicle, the Association of Writing Programs (AWP), and the Poets & Writers database all collect lists of writing contests, open submissions, and general submission guidelines for a variety of websites and other publications. If you're not familiar with the sorts of publications that might be interested in your style of writing, explore there to learn more.
 Submitting work to selective journals is much easier if you become familiar with individual publications and the types of work they tend to publish. Spend time researching the writers, the editors, and reading the entries on the publications before you submit your work. If a journal only publishes serious and highly academic writing about culture, they're probably not going to be interested in a short story about werewolves.


Consider culture publications like Slate, The Awl, Jezebel, Flavorwire, the Culture-ist, all of which accept submissions on a rolling basis, and produce a diversity of interesting and engaging content. Non-fiction and cultural criticism would be excellent for these publications.
Check out literary journals like Narrative, PANK, Octopus, H_NGM_N, and Sixth Finch if you want to publish creative work. These are all highly-respected online journals that publish work by respected authors. If you've got non-fiction, short stories, or poetry that you'd like to see online, research journals that publish content you'd like to read and send them your best stuff.
 Online publishers will accept submissions in any number of different ways, so it's important to locate the submission guidelines of the particular publication you hope to submit to. It should be clearly marked on the site menu. In particular, you want to pay attention to the open-reading period dates to make sure you get in a submission on time, whether or not there is a required reading fee, whether or not there is a page count limit on submissions, and other specific instructions.


For some venues, it may be appropriate to query the editor before submitting your work. If so, prepare a formal proposal to submit your concept for a writing project. No uncapitalized informal emails to the editor, or PMs via Twitter asking Paul Muldoon if he wants to read your poems for the New Yorker. Go through the proper channels.
Make sure to pay attention to the policy regarding "simultaneous submissions" and multiple submissions. If you send a story to Jezebel and Diagram at the same time, you might rankle some feathers if they're both huge fans of the work. That's what is known as a "simultaneous submission," and isn't allowed by many publications. Multiple submissions, or submitting more than one piece at a time, is generally not allowed anywhere, except with poetry.
 If you've found a good publication to shoot for, it's time to get writing! Show them your best stuff and polish it thoroughly, editing, revising, and cleaning up your work like crazy. If you're going to make it through the blind reading rounds, your work has to stand out from the crowd, so consider every line, every turn, and every word choice.


Online publications are often looking for "buzz-worthy" stories and new perspectives in their content. try to be current and on-top-of your submissions to online publications. If you're writing nature poems about plum blossoms or essays about Wordsworth, online publications might not be the best venue, unless of course they're really great.
 Almost every online publication accepts submissions online, either through a submissions manager, or via email as an attachment. Proofread your piece one last time and let it fly.


Write a cover letter, addressing the section editor directly, by name. You should be able to find this information on the "Masthead" page of most publications. If you're submitting News or non-fiction, find the appropriate editor and address it directly. In your cover letter, include any previous publications, your contact information, and a general salutation. Shorter is better.
 Most publications are highly selective, choosing only a small number of the pieces under consideration. If you get a long string of rejections, welcome to the club. That's part of being an online writer. Revise your work, resubmit, and research new venues to try with your best writing.

