 Sometimes, it gets taken for granted that we love our parents or our siblings, and though they're really important to us, we simply don't use "those words" in normal conversation. If that's how you were raised, get over it! Whether or not your family is comfortable expressing their love for each other, be the icebreaker and tell them.


You can tell them during an event—a wedding dinner, Thanksgiving, or just a family dinner. Raise a glass and say something like "You're my family, and I love you all."
You can tell them in private, in an unguarded moment. For example, surfing the web for the latest Lolcats hilarity, give your Dad a hug and tell him you love him. It doesn't have to be all gooey and sentimental—just a statement of fact.
 Sure, it's a goofy beer commercial tagline, but the idea is right. For some, saying this is a cultural taboo that is hard to overcome—especially for guys. But the fact is, good friends are like the family we choose, and every now and then, it's a good thing to tell the people that matter to you that you love them. This is true whether they're the same sex or not. Just keep in mind that this is not about romance and sex, this is about friendship.


For example, he's been your best friend since high school. He was there when that boy broke your heart, you were there for him when she went off to college in another country and ended the relationship. You've talked about going beyond friendship, but decided that's not how you felt about each other. You've celebrated milestones together, and even though you live in separate states, you keep in touch regularly. Next time you see him, if you haven't already, say something like "Danny, you're such a great friend. I totally love you!" Chances are, Danny feels the same way.
Another example is "the buds." Both of you guys were on the team together and have always had a friendly rivalry. You've been there for each other through thick and thin. He's your best bud, and you love him like a brother. After celebrating an event, or when thanking him for something he's done, just say it casually: "I love you, bro." Then punch him in the arm if you feel too awkward!
Your BFF is another person to tell. You two have shared secrets, shared crushes, go to parties together, and cry on each other's shoulders. Even when you lived in different countries, you Skype at least once a week, and you'd be lost without her. Just say, "I love you so much, Buttercup," or whatever you like to call each other. She'll say it right back.

