 Certain objects react to microwave frequencies:


A straight fluorescent light bulb (not a compact one)A neon "NE-2" bulb from an electronics store, powered and hooked up to a voltage divider so it is just barely glowingCheap, consumer-grade microwave testers are often inaccurate, but fine as a first testA professional-grade microwave tester can cost several hundred dollars USD.This is only necessary in professional contexts.;
, If you are using a light bulb, dim the lights so you'll be able to see the bulb glow. Skip this step if you are using a microwave testing device.
 Running an empty microwave exposes the magnetron (power source) to high power levels, which can damage or destroy it. A small glass of water (roughly 275 mL / a little over 1 cup) will reduce this risk, while still leaving plenty of un-absorbed microwaves to test for leaks.This is especially important for older microwaves, which may have lower quality shielding around the magnetron., Set it to run for one minute.
 Hold the light bulb or tester at least 5 cm (2 inches) away from the surface of the microwave, including the handle. Move the object slowly (about 2.5 cm / 1 inch per minute) around the door seal and any areas that look damaged.The microwave's power decreases rapidly with distance. Consider testing it at the distance you normally stand from the microwave, for instance the edge of the kitchen counter.
If the microwave stops before you are done, replace the glass of water and run the oven for another minute.
 If your microwave leaks, the fluorescent tube will glow, or the neon bulb will become noticeably brighter. Electronic testers react in different ways, so check the manual. If the tester displays a measurement, anything about 5 mW/cm2 at a distance of 5 cm (2 inches) is cause for concern.All of these methods are just quick tests, even the consumer-grade tester. These results do not necessarily mean your microwave is dangerous, but it does mean it's worth taking steps to address the problem.

