 You want to give the best first impression you can when meeting people, and that starts with your physical appearance. Luckily, looking good does not actually take a lot of work -- clean off, brush your teeth, and wear clean, crisp clothes.


Wear deodorant and, if you are putting on cologne or other fragrance, be sure to use it in moderation.
Imagine you are going out on a date. You want to be clean and prepared to impress.;
, Clubs are, without fail, hot, dark, and sweaty places. You want to look presentable but still have the freedom to move, dance, and enjoy yourself. Remember, however, that every club is different -- some have a dress code. You may want to check the place out online or ask a friend before you head out.


To look polished but still casual, try a pair of dark wash denim jeans.Try not to wear black, as black-lights have a habit of making unflattering reflections. Blues, grays, and solid color shirts or basic patterns look clean and cool., While you don't want to spend the whole night talking to people you already know, having friends around makes the whole evening more fun and gives you people to talk to when things get awkward. Most people go to the club with friends, and if one of your friends makes a connection with someone, the rest of the group often gets introduced as well.


Avoid calling your group an "entourage" or your "wing-men."
If you're going alone and aren't the most gregarious person, you may feel awkward. That's okay though! Just try to have fun, meet people, and dance.
 Despite the rumors of alcohol as "liquid courage," sloppy drunks are no fun for anyone. There is nothing wrong with having 2-3 drinks throughout the night, but you shouldn't need to get hammered in order to talk to women. Pace yourself so that you are clear and coherent. You should be able to hold a conversation with someone and dance without stumbling.If you need a time-frame, try to limit yourself to one full drink an hour.
 No one likes a person who is clearly just looking for someone to hook-up with. It alienates your friends and, more often than not, comes off as visibly creepy. More importantly, having fun will make it easier to meet someone, as you won't feel as nervous and will have the confidence to talk to others. Having fun exudes positive energy!


It's fine to want to meet women when you go out. But if the only reason that you go clubbing is to meet women while intoxicated, then you will usually go home disappointed.
 Finding the right woman to talk to might be the hardest part of the whole process, but try not to overthink things. Head up to the bar and chat in line while you wait. Say hello to a woman sitting along the wall or at the edge of the dance floor. Focus on quiet areas where you could actually have a conversation.
 It is remarkably simple and yet remarkably effective.While you'll need to have some conversation topics on hand, breaking the ice doesn't require a perfect pick-up line. More often than not, they've heard it before and it won't be funny or charming.


If she smiles back and introduces herself, offer to buy her a drink. Make sure, however, that she doesn't have a full drink right in front of her., You aren't trying to determine if someone is your soulmate, you're just trying to break the ice. Mention something about the club, her drink, or the music. Humor is one of the best ice-breakers on the planet, so throwing in a joke here and there shows that you are spontaneous, fun, and laid-back.Avoid talking about marriage, exes, or long-term commitments. Remember that flirting is supposed to be light and fun, not serious.
 Saying "you're the most beautiful woman I've ever seen" is bland and unspecific and she will, more likely than not, not believe you. But if she has beautiful eyes, a great fashion sense or killer hair, tell her. You don't want to rain compliments down on her, but a genuine compliment can go a long way.


If she complements you back, don't deflect or ignore it. Thank her politely and accept the compliment.
 Sometimes a simple, confident approach is all you need to get the girl on your arm. Once you've smiled, made eye contact, and said a few words, nod towards the floor and ask her to dance. While this may seem like the equivalent of asking for a kidney donation in the moment, just go for it. A little confidence and directness will go a long way. You could say:


"Let's dance."
"Can I borrow you for a song?"
”I love this song. Want to join?”

, People will reject you for a variety or reasons, 99% of which aren't personal. They may have a partner, want to hang out with friends, feel tired, etc. Don't take it personally. It happens to everyone and your life will be no worse off because a stranger at the club wasn't interested in dancing with you., There is a variety of signs that someone may be interested, and they change from person to person. That said, there a few universal signs that she may want to take things to another level. If, however, she breaks eye-contact frequently, refuses to face you, or shrugs off the conversation, just move on -- she probably isn't interested. Here are some signs that she might enjoy your company:


She is laughing, smiling, and has an air of comfort around you.
She is breaking the touch barrier, often by touching your upper arm.
She is teasing, joking, or lightly making fun of you., She's laughing, making eye contact, and smiling, and the best way to see if she's ready for a dance is to lightly make contact. When you get up, gently place your hand on the top of her arm or the small of her back, or touch her hand at the bar when she makes a joke or good point.Don't linger or grab her; a brief touch on a non-threatening area, like the arm or hand, is enough.
 After you've danced, chatted, and had a good time, hand her your number and let her know you had a good time. More often than not she'll respond by giving you her number as well, but even if she doesn't, you've put the ball in her court.For example, you could say: "I've had a good time, and I'd love to see you again. Give me a call sometime."
You could also try something like: "Let's grab another drink/coffee together soon."

, If you've really clicked and can feel serious sparks between the two of you, let her know. Tell her you've had fun and ask if she wants to grab drinks, needs a ride/walk home, or wants to grab a late-night snack. If she asks you "what are you doing after this," it is likely not for casual conversation: she wants to see you later that night. Let her know that you'd love to grab another drink or have her over to your place.


For instance, you could say: "Let's grab a drink somewhere quieter."
You could also try something like: "I'm getting out of here -- you have any plans?"

