 Measure the length and width of one side of the roof. Multiply those numbers to get the area of that side. If the shed is a basic A-frame, multiply that number by two to get the total area of the roof. If the roof has an irregular shape, find the area of each part of the roof.You’ll need to set up a ladder so you can reach the roof. You may also want to have someone on another ladder at the other end of the roof to help you.
Write the numbers down so you don’t forget them.
 Go to the local hardware or home improvement store and locate roof felt. Use the roof area numbers that you wrote down when you measured to ensure that you buy enough felt to cover the entire roof.If you have multiple options of roof felt, you’ll have to choose what is in your price range and seems like quality felt.
 Climb up the ladder with a scraper of some kind. A scraper on a long pole is most effective. Position the scraper under the old felt or shingles and work it forward and backward so the roof covering comes loose. If the felt is nailed down or glued tight, this can be time consuming.Be sure to dispose of the felt in the garbage once it is all removed.
 Use a claw hammer or another nail removing tool to pull any nails that are crooked or sticking up from the roof. Any nails that are hammered flush with the roof decking can be left in place. Use a wet rag to wipe down the surface if it seems grimy.Be sure to toss the nails into a bucket or trash barrel so they don’t end up in your yard. Loose nails can pop mower tires or end up in someone’s foot if you leave them on the ground.
 As mentioned above, weatherproof paint or primer adds an extra layer of sealant, even if you're covering the roof with felt. Paint the roof at the same time that you paint the rest of the shed, or paint it separately when you are focused on felting the shed., Unroll the felt horizontally along the length of the roof. Be sure to hang the felt about an inch over the edge of the roof so that water will run off.The width of the rolls of felt you bought and the size of the roof will determine how many pieces of felt you need to lay.
 The exact type of nail you use can vary, but it’s important to use galvanized nails to insure that they don’t rust. Pound nails into the felt as you unroll it so that it stays in place. Nail around the entire perimeter of the felt, putting a nail roughly every 30cm (about every foot).You’ll need to use nails that are at about 20mm (⅘ inch) long to ensure they go through the felt and secure into the roof.
 When the first piece of felt is nailed in place, unroll the second piece horizontally as before. Make sure that it slightly overlaps the first piece to aid the flow of water. Nail the second piece in place as before.

Cover the whole side of the roof in this way. You may only need one or two pieces, depending on the size of the roof and the size of the felt roll. If you only need to use one piece, move to the other side of the roof.
 Cover the second part of the roof in the same way you covered the first side. Start at the bottom and hang a bit of felt over the edge. Nail the felt in place as you go along. Be sure to overlap each piece on top of the one before it., When both sides of the roof are felted, lay one final piece on the top point of the roof. You don’t have to use a piece that is the full width of the roll. Cut it down to one foot or so, making sure it covers the crack of the apex and overlaps each side of the roof.Since the felt on the sides of the roof form a crack at the top, it’s important to cover this with a final solid piece.

