 The key to success lies in establishing consistent schedules and routines combined with organization and structure. Not only will this alleviate the stress on the child with ADHD, but it should also decrease misbehaviors that are spurred on by that stress. The less stress, the more success; the more success—and resultant praise —the better the self-esteem, which sets a child up for additional success in the future. Consistency and routines will help your child participate around the house more easily. Chores are often a sticking point for children, especially those with ADHD. Decrease the arguments and petulance of assigning chores by setting and enforcing a consistent time they occur. Tie them to a regular reward whenever possible. For example, instead of serving dessert at the end of dinner, serve it after the table is cleared and dishwasher loaded. Beds must be made before going outside to play.
 Children with ADHD need tasks to be broken into steps—chunking—that are given either one at a time or in written form. Parents should give positive feedback as the child completes each step. , When you give instructions, give them one step at a time. Then have your child repeat the instruction then getting praise at each step.For example:

Loading the dishwasher: First load all the plates on the bottom. (“Great job!”). Now load all glasses on the top. (“Excellent!”). Next is silverware …



, A child with ADHD doesn’t have a great concept of time.People with ADHD struggle with clock issues, both with gauging the amount of time it will take to accomplish a task and estimating how much time has passed. Give your child ways to report back to you or complete a task in the right amount of time. For example:

Buy a kitchen timer to take outside when you want him to come in after 15 minutes—or play a CD and tell her she needs to complete her chores by the time it ends.
You can teach a child to brush teeth the right length of time by humming the ABCs or the Happy Birthday song.
Play beat the clock by trying to finish a chore before a particular song ends.
Sweep the floor to the rhythm of a song., Children with ADHD are constantly trying to make sense of their environment. Parents can help by organizing the home, especially the child’s bedroom and play area. Establish a storage system that separates items into categories and reduces the crowding that leads to overload. Consider color-coded storage cubes and wall hooks as well as open shelves. Use picture or word labels to remind them what goes where., Label storage tubs with corresponding pictures. Have separate storage tubs for different toys (dolls in the yellow bucket with a picture of Barbie taped on it, My Little Pony toys in the green bucket with the horse picture attached, etc.). Separate clothing so that socks have their own drawer and there’s a picture of a sock on it, and so on. , Keep a box or a storage bin in a central location of the home where you can pile your child’s toys, gloves, papers, Legos, and other miscellany that tend to spread all over the place. It will be easier for the child with ADHD to empty that bucket than to be told to pick up all her things from the living room. You also might establish a rule that the third time you find Darth Vader in the living room unattended, he gets confiscated for a week—or that if the bucket gets full, a lid will be put on it and it’ll vanish for a while with all those special treasures inside.
 Winter, spring, and summer breaks can be nightmarish times for parents of children with ADHD as the structure and schedule of the past school year suddenly ends. Imagine walking a high wire without a net for nine months and then all of a sudden, the wire snaps and you are plummeting toward the ground. That’s summer break for a child with ADHD: falling without a net in place. Plan ahead and install structure so your family doesn’t unravel!