 One of the keys to smooth, fluid solos is remembering to remain relaxed. Even as you're flying around the kit, remember to keep breathing. It sounds like a silly thing to remember, but many young drummers instinctively hold their breath when things get difficult, which freezes them up and slows down their muscles.Don't tense up your muscles to force yourself to move faster. Keep your joints loose and relaxed.
 Remember, your audience will be entertained if you take them on a journey. Creating soft, quiet moments will make the intense moments much more powerful, as they will be noticeably more forceful compared to the softer playing right before it.


Remember that you can use dynamics on every single piece of the kit, from floor toms to crash cymbals.
How smoothly can you ratchet up tension? Try playing a roll on a snare or cymbal, starting from almost silent and transitioning smoothly into the loudest you can play., Playing in an uncommon time signature (e.g. 7/8 or 3/2) sounds impressive in your drum solo, provided you know what you are doing. Feel free to switch time signatures abruptly in your solo to add a new feel, vibe, or spice to what you're playing. Mix it up and be creative -- just make sure you can get back to "normal" by the end.


This is a common jazz trick by artists from Buddy Rich to Dave Weckl, but even rock drummers use it. Check out Brian Setzer Orchestra's "Rock This Town," for a swing-rock example., Even if you leave the strict "1, 2, 3, 4" count, you are still in charge of keeping time for the band. When the solo is over you need to slip back into rhythm or else the band will be in complete rhythmic disarray. The best way to practice this is to play to a metronome. You can leave the beat for a while, but make sure you land right back in time with the machine when you're done.
 While a great solo is within the reach of most drummers, you won't improve if all you do is beat and bash on the drums each day. To become a better soloist, you need to spend 15-30 minutes every day on the basic, boring technical skills that make up any good drummer's arsenal. Think of it this way -- even the best-planned solo will fall flat if the notes themselves are sloppy, inconsistent, or off time.


Search online for "rudiments," which are small drum licks that are meant to be repeated over and over again to build technical skills.Practice to a metronome every day, even when you're not playing solos. Remember that, on stage, you need to be the rest of the band's metronome, too., Even if you're a heavy metal drummer, you can learn tons from famed jazz drummers like Art Blakey, Max Roach, and Buddy Rich. The inverse is true too, as even classic drummers can pick up pointers from the likes of John Bonham and Chad Smith. Each drummer has a unique way of approaching solos, and most famous drummers have trained or played in a variety of bands. Getting as good as these guys is about absorbing new techniques and new influences.