 It doesn't matter how long you have been together, there will always be things you don't know about one another. What’s more, relationships are hard work, as you both grow and change over time, so will your relationship.


Making assumptions can be self-limiting and prevent the growth of the relationship. How do you know when you are making them? Spotting an assumption is not always easy, but, generally, you are probably making an assumption when you feel rejected, neglected, hurt, or have an urge to lash out or blame your partner for something.Instead of assuming you know anything about your partner, make an effort to ask questions and maintain an open dialogue with one another.
 Emotions can be a major roadblock to compromise. When you feel upset or angry with your spouse, you might fight him or her on an issue that’s not even very important to you. Check yourself during a disagreement to see what’s really driving you.Are you truly invested in this issue or are you just disagreeing to prove a point? If you don’t feel strongly about the issue—and your partner does—relent in order to claim a win for the relationship. Don’t let your emotions divide the two of you.
For example, your spouse got a promotion that required a big move and you're feeling resentful about having to leave your group of friends in the area. You might fight your spouse on the issue despite knowing that the move would mean more income for the household. Instead of standing in the way of progress with resentment, let your feelings be known. Tell your spouse "I'm really sad about having to leave behind my good friends. Will there be room in the budget for me to visit them a few times a year?"

, Sometimes the tone of your voice can skew your intended message and cause your spouse to put his or her defenses up. Couples often find that it’s not always what you say, but how you say it, that matters.Starting a tense conversation off with a soft, warm tone can make all the difference in how your spouse reacts. Try this:


When you have something important to say, take a deep breath before initiating the conversation. Use “I” statements that minimize blame, such as “I feel angry when you…” and use a friendly, affectionate tone. Refrain from using sarcasm or accusations that push the discussion into a bad place.
 If you remain close-minded or rigid in your own point-of-view, you reduce the likelihood of reaching a peaceful resolution.

