 It’s normal to feel sad after a trauma, or to mourn for any loss in functioning. Yet, it’s important to distinguish between the grieving and adjustment period and depression. Generally, symptoms of depression affect multiple environments (such as home, school, and work) and persist two or more weeks. Here are some signs to look out for:Feeling persistently sad, low, or empty
Feeling hopeless or helpless
Irritability
Loss of interest in previously enjoyed activities
Changes in eating or sleeping habits
Unexplained aches, pains, or digestive problems that do not ease with treatment;
, It’s likely you will see medical doctors regularly after a major brain injury. Because brain injuries can affect so much of one’s functioning, it’s important to include a multidisciplinary team in your recovery. Your team may include a general practitioner, rehabilitation physician, occupational therapist, speech pathologist, social worker, neuropsychologist, and/or therapist. Having multiple specialists will help address multiple issues that brain injuries can affect.With proper treatment, you may be better able to respond to emotional stressors.


Having a treatment team can help your overall recovery, including understanding and dealing with mental, emotional, and behavioral changes.
 After a brain injury, it’s likely you will have regular medical check-ups. Use this time to discuss mental and emotional health. It’s important to regularly check in on your emotional and mental functioning following a brain trauma.Talk to your regular medical doctor if there are any specialists that you can see to improve your recovery.


Ask your medical doctor if you should obtain a referral for mental health specialist, or if you can screen for depression at appointments.
 If you start to notice differences in your mood, thoughts, behaviors, or emotions, contact your health care professional. This can include changes in sleeping and eating, having thoughts of suicide, feeling sad, down, anxious, or hopeless, aggression, and a lack of interest in your favorite activities.Don’t keep secrets from your treatment team. Disclose any changes you experience and let your treatment team know how these changes affect your life.
Even the smallest detail may be important, especially because of your brain injury. It may be helpful to inquire from those near you or to bring a family member to appointments.
 A therapist can help you work through feelings of depression, offer coping strategies, and help you build skills to combat feelings of depression. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has shown to be effective in treating depression resulting from traumatic brain injury.CBT can help you learn social skills and life skills, and help to manage depressive thoughts and feelings more effectively.


Therapy can help you manage aggression, which is a common symptom after a brain injury.
Find a therapist who specializes in working with people with brain traumas. You may have different needs than other people, and a therapist who specializes in brain traumas may be more sensitive to your treatment.
 A neuropsychologist can assess your current functioning in certain areas such as memory, facets of IQ, impulsivity, decision-making, and other mental/emotional functions.If you feel like you may have mental or emotional deficits as a result of your injury, consider seeing a neuropsychologist specializing in traumatic brain injuries. A report can help you pinpoint any problems you may experience as a result of your head injury, such as memory problems, and how to cope with any deficits.


Testing cognitive functioning may qualify you for disability income, assess your functioning for a job, or qualify you for interventions at school.
Testing can help assess any deficits, then provide resources for dealing with this deficits. If you have speech problems, for instance, you can obtain a referral for a speech therapist.
 Support groups can be beneficially in joining with others having similar experiences. You can gain information and support from those who have experienced similar difficulties.It’s likely others have also experienced depression and may have recommendations for how to cope.
 You may want to discuss medications for your mental or emotional well-being with your health care professional. If your health care professional determines that medications can benefit you, make sure you talk about any side-effects you may experience.


Disclose any current medications you take-- particularly those for brain injury-- as they may interfere with some medications., Many people with brain traumas experience changes in social functioning. While you may have been polite and well-mannered in the past, you may now struggle with observing non-verbal social cues or responding in socially appropriate ways. You may experience changes in your relationships because people cannot handle the personality or social changes. You may need to re-learn social skills or social norms as part of your treatment.A therapist or social worker can help work on social skills.
 Brain injuries can affect many areas of functioning, including behavior. People around you may remark that you behave differently. Of note, many people have changes in aggression and become more aggressive following a brain injury. Ask those close to you what behavior changes they observe, and bring these concerns up to a therapist.A therapist can help build skills to cope with mood swings and changes in behavior.
Ask a therapist to work with aggression if this is something you struggle with. You can learn ways to take a “time out” before exploding in anger or find other coping methods to help you control the aggression.
 Pain from a brain injury can contribute to symptoms of depression. If you experience pain as as a result of your brain injury, find a specialist to help you manage your pain.You may take medications or find ways to work through pain in more manageable ways.


Practice managing pain on your own by using deep breathing, visualization, or distraction., If you’re experiencing thoughts of suicide, reach out for help as soon as possible. Call a friend or family member and say how you feel. You can also call a hotline or go to the Emergency Department at your nearest hospital.



Call Emergency Services. If within the United States, call the national suicide hotline at 800-273-8255.
 Getting adequate sleep each night can help deter depression, as not getting enough sleep can make symptoms worse.However, many people suffer from sleeping problems following brain injury. Let your mind relax before bed and relax your body. You can take some deep breaths and allow thoughts to float across your mind without latching on to any.


Aim to get 7-9 hours of sleep each night.
Sleep is especially important for healing the body, especially the brain. Lack of sleep can make brain injury symptoms worse, including headache and irritability., Physical activity can be beneficial in treating and coping with depression. Exercise can work as well as antidepressant medication, yet without the negative side effects.The best results come from 30-60 minutes of exercise, on most days of the week.


Consider taking a walk, going to a gym, or starting a dance class. Think about how you can have fun while still getting some exercise!
Exercise can also help you cope with any resulting aggression from the brain injury.
 Keep an active support group of friends and family to reduce isolation. Even if your family lives far away, arrange phone calls or video chats. Having an active social life can safeguard you against the risk of social isolation, which can lead to depression.While you may want to isolate after a major head injury, keep some friendships alive and don’t turn people away if they want to help you.
If you’re struggling to function socially with previous relationships, consider volunteering with animals or with children. That way, you can still maintain social contact and begin to build friendships.

