 Not all puppies wear collars when they're with their breeders, so it's important to get your puppy used to wearing a collar. Leash training should be done in a fun environment, as early as possible to get your pet comfortable going on walks.


Don't pull your puppy about! Instead, put it on the leash and follow it. Encourage it to go your direction if needed, but don't drag it along. Working at the puppy's pace will help it adjust to the leash much faster. Once it has, then you can move on to lead-manners.;
, Whether you want to be fancy about it is down to you, but make sure your puppy can reach the bowl effortlessly. Additionally, don't leave food in the bowl so the puppy can help itself when it wants to. Set feeding times, and ensure your puppy gets regular meals throughout the day. As it gets older, you can decrease the amount of meals it gets to as low as once a day.
 To help your puppy settle into its new home, ask the breeder for some bedding from its original bed where it slept with its litter mates. These scents will help your pet to relax more in its new home.


A clock with a clear ticking sound mimics the mother's heartbeat, which can also be very comforting to a young puppy. Don't be lured by the puppy's cries, all puppies do this but they all quickly settle after a couple of days, provided their owners ignore the cries.
 With so many brands out, which one is the best? It is recommended that your puppy continues to eat what the breeder fed them when they weaned off their mothers milk, so ensure you ask the breeder what they have been feeding their puppies, and then buy in that food. Alternatively, you can gradually wean them onto a different brand that you'd prefer.


Ultimately, if you want to actually provide benefits to your animals health, raw meat diets are becoming increasingly popular. Dogs are descendent of wolves. Being carnivores, they require meat in their diets to lead a nutritionally balanced life. Prey Model Raw diets are the most popular as it provides an equal amount of Bone, Muscle and Organ meat that your dog will need.
 X-Pens, kennels, or crates are sometimes appropriate for dogs, especially if you must leave the dog alone in your space for any length of time, before housebreaking. It is a great idea to have one of these set up all the time in your house and encourage a pet to seek quiet time in this area. It builds confidence as the pet always knows there is a safe place to go to escape noise, unwanted social interaction with strangers and other animals.


Kennels can range anywhere between $30-$300 depending on the size, model, and the material. Talk to an employee at a pet store in your area to find an appropriate size for your dog.
 Your puppy will go through many stages in life and some of that will involve chewing. Make sure that you have an appropriate toy substitute or else you might start losing your shoes. Enrichment is really important to our animals mental health as they do not have the ability to go out and seek entertainment on their own. Having toys and pleasant experiences in the home while owners are away or occupied will reduce anxiety, destructive behaviors and promote general wellness.
 Never take your puppy outside beyond your garden until it has had all its shots. This is vital as the boosters give the puppy immunization against lethal diseases such as Canine Distemper, Parvo and (in some countries) Rabies.


Take your puppy to a vet for its shots, and follow the vet instructions. You will likely be asked to return in 2+ weeks for follow up shots before your puppy can venture with you beyond your own yard.
 Make sure your ID tag has not only your dog's name but your contact information and secondary contact information. It's recommended that you use your veterinary clinic as a secondary contact, since they are easier to contact than a friend or relative that may be at work.


If you live somewhere that requires your animal to have a license makes sure to purchase one from your local City Hall. To find out if your pet needs a license call your local SPCA/Humane Society or Animal Control Unit. The fines for not having one far out weight the price of getting one in the first place.
 Animals respond best to positive reinforcement, so avoid using any harsh training methods such as lead-yanking if your puppy pulls, or "burying his nose in it" if your puppy does business inside. Puppy Classes are a great way to get the best of both worlds (socialising and training), but if the budget is beyond what you can manage, home training is great too.


Check out positive reinforcement training methods such as Clicker or the older toy/food reward training. Do not be encouraged to train your dog for "protection," this is not necessary, and in most cases your dog will use its "protection training" in the wrong situation and could end up being put down for aggression.
Consider investing in a training course for your dog. Be prepared to spend some money to either attend a group training or hire a personal k9 trainer. This is important to the development of your puppy as it helps eliminate poor social skills, anxiety and aggression early on. Group prices are always a good value because generally they are slightly cheaper but you also have the social aspect of other dogs being present!

, A puppy might already know how to put food in its own mouth, and may not need to wear a diaper, but it's still a baby. Puppies are highly dependent on its caretaker (you) for essentials like socialising, food and training. Puppies are also mischievous and get up to no good if they're not closely monitored. If you don't have the time to look after a puppy round-the-clock, then you aren't ready for a puppy.


Many young dogs end up in shelters as their owners either didn't have the time to care for a puppy and see to its needs daily, or decided their badly behaved, under-stimulated working dog was too much for their comfy sofa-life.
When you're sure you're ready for a puppy, and you're firm on your decision of the breed that's appropriate for you, then start getting the necessary stuff to make the dog happy and healthy.

