 You've moved to a country where Spanish is the mother tongue and it's non-sensical to think that everyone is going to speak English in addition to Spanish. While some Panamanian's and other Latin Americans do speak English, it's the minority rather then the majority.;
, Because everyone speaks Spanish it is common sense to learn basic Spanish. How to greet people, how to ask for things, even just a few phrases will help you tremendously. And the locals will appreciate your attempts to speak their language. What is important is that you're understood, so don't worry about being perfect, as long as you're trying you'll find everyone is friendlier and more welcoming, as well as more helpful. It makes a huge difference in how you're treated.
 As an example, it's polite to say "Buenas" when you see someone, in the elevator, at a store, in a bus. It doesn't matter if you know that person or not. And when someone says "Buenas" to you, you answer with "equal". Learn about the culture and why people do the things that they do and how they do it. If you try to fit in and respect their culture you will be treated better in return.
 That means most of the amenities you're used to overseas are available here, but in limited amounts and for a premium price. Air conditioning is very expensive, American style homes and condos rent and sell at a premium and imported food is sometimes difficult to find.  When you do find imported items there is a huge markup. While these things can make it more difficult to live in a third world country, there are other benefits that outweigh the negatives. You can live on the beach for much less than overseas and the weather is much nicer, though it is very hot in most places, especially in Panama.
 Panama and Latin Americans do not have the same expectations regarding restaurants and stores that Expats do. Therefore when you move to Latin America you need to prepare to wait to be served, wait for the cashier, wait in line and generally just wait. Take deep breaths, tell yourself you'll be done soon and that you're not overseas anymore and you will get through it. Find places where they get to know you and then the service improves and continue to go to those stores and restaurants, after being in Latin America for a while you will learn where to go and where to avoid.
 The average Panamanian lives on $440 a month and in some Latin American countries it's less then that. So as someone who is local will not understand how you can have so much money and complain. In addition their average work week is around 70 hours including their commute and it's likely that many expats will be complaining while sitting at the beach drinking margaritas. Do not be one of those expats.
 No matter where they are from, what their social standing is, no matter if they are a maid or the President of the country, treat everyone as equals. When you show respect to people you get a huge amount of respect back. There is no reason to be contemptuous towards household help or people who are poorer or have less education then you do. Consider yourself privileged and you will find you are much more content with your life in Latin America.
 There are groups all over Panama and Latin America for Expats to connect and spend time with each other. There will be times you just need to be around people from home. When that happens contact a group, go to a get together or just hang out at the local Expat restaurant or bar. Most communities have happy hours each night for Expats at a local restaurant. Find out what the schedule is and keep it handy for those times you really need it.
 Learn more about where you're living and the different areas and history. The more educated you are about where you're living the more interesting you'll find it and enjoy it. Panama has an amazing eco-culture as does much of Latin America and you can travel almost anywhere for dollars by bus and find hotels for a fraction of the cost of the USA. Traveling can become a regular part of your life rather then a once a year vacation somewhere.

