 It can be anything, as long as it's not boring, insulting, or illegal. Take other video bloggers as an inspiration, such as Casey Neistat, Katersoneseven, Charlieissocoollike, Nerimon, Frezned, Italktosnakes, or Vlogbrothers. But you have to be unique and true to yourself. Don't be a copycat - don't do what everyone else does.;
, Make your channel interesting. Make sure you think over your username, though, because it's nearly impossible to make it big with a jumbled, unreadable username with a bunch of numbers!

, They really have to be good, and interesting. Post one or two daily for a little while, and then go daily or every other day after that. Really try not to skip two days, because what you give your viewers becomes their standard

, You will get at least a fifth of the views of the original video! Awesomeness TV on YouTube allows you to post video responses to their how to be a YouTube star series.
 If possible, try to set a specified day that you will upload videos. For a vlogger, at least three or four times a week. If this is too much, try to do one per week.
 This means the difference of viewers scrolling past you and clicking on your videos. Look at tutorials on using the software you have. Windows has Windows Movie Maker preinstalled, and all Apple products have iMovie available. Android has Movie Maker preinstalled.
 If you're a YouTube partner, a whole new world of options opens up for your videos. Setting an avatar is easy, but if you want a banner, you'll need to pick a picture and edit it within computer margins. If you're a YouTube partner, you can also have the option to create a custom video thumbnail. Make sure that, when you edit, you have text, a closeup of your face, and a really cool background.
 You will need to have at least a few thousand views to do so. YouTube gives you money for allowing ads to be displayed on your videos, and that's how great vloggers earn money with their videos! Your videos will appear often in search results as well.
 Don't shut them out or ignore them. Take time to respond to comments, messages, and video responses you receive. This leaves a good impression and your followers will appreciate it.

