 Sweet potato slips need a bit more space than some other garden vegetables, so dig your holes 12–24 inches (30.5–61.0 cm) apart each. They need be only as deep as the root ball on the bottom of the slips and about ½ an inch up the base of the plant., Place each small slip in your pre-dug holes and cover the stems with soil about ½ of an inch up the base. The leafy part of the potato plant will begin to sprawl in vines outwards while the roots will produce the tubers between 6–12 inches (15.2–30.5 cm) deep in the soil.
 Protect your sweet potatoes from cold weather by adding your chosen mulch to the top. This will also help to block out weeds and prevent too much vine growth, which steal energy from tuber growth.
 At first planting the sweet potatoes will require a lot of water. Over time, you should reduce the amount that you water them until they receive moisture only about once a week. Begin watering daily, knocking off days from your watering schedule as each week progresses.
 Sweet potatoes have a relatively long fruiting period, becoming ripe and ready to harvest in the early fall (hence their association with Thanksgiving). Continue watering on a weekly basis, and weeding the beds if necessary to keep the plants healthy.
 After about 120 days after planting, the sweet potatoes should have reached full maturity. When possible, wait until the last possible time (the last warm weather before a frost) to harvest the sweet potatoes, as this will result in larger and more tasteful tubers.
 One of the most important steps, sweet potatoes must be cured after harvest. This will help them to develop their flavor (they won’t have much immediately after being dug up) and to grow a tougher skin - literally. Place the sweet potatoes in an area with a temperature of 85–95 °F (29–35 °C) with 80-90% humidity for 5-10 days. After this, they should be ready to eat!Consider using a small space heater and a humidifier in a large closet or small room to cure the potatoes.
 One of the best things about these lovely tubers is that they will remain fresh and good to eat for many months if stored properly. Keep the potatoes in temperatures hovering around 70 degrees (that means no refrigeration!) in an open, dry area. Never store your sweet potatoes in a plastic bag or tightly sealed container.