 TANF was created with the goal of helping "families in need." A family, according to TANF definition, includes at least one caretaker and one child, or one pregnant woman. "Need" is determined by state, but it is refers to the amount of income that a family brings in. The lower the income, the greater the need. TANF aims to assist needy families so that children can be cared for at home.
There are preventative measures provided for out-of-wedlock pregnancy, and the program encourages two-parent families.
TANF also aims to reduce the dependency of needy parents by preparing them for work.
 In order to qualify for TANF, you must meet work and income guidelines on both federal and state levels. These guidelines are usually comparable from state to state.


Countable assets, including bank accounts and money kept in the home, must come to $2000 or less. If the family owns or buys a licensed vehicle, that vehicle must not exceed $8500 in cost.
Usually, you do not need to have a job when you first apply to TANF. However, you will be expected to work or actively participate in work training programs or other work-related activities for as long as you are enrolled in the program.
 You are allowed to apply for TANF if you are a legal resident of the United States. You must also be a legal, full-time resident of the state in which you are applying for TANF.


U.S. citizens are eligible--but if you are not a citizen, you must have a green card, be an American Indian born outside of the U.S., be a victim of human trafficking, be a Hmong or Highland Lao, or be a "qualified alien."
Qualified aliens are those who physically entered the U.S. prior to August 22, 1996, and who resided in the U.S. continuously (without leaving to live anywhere else) before becoming "qualified" or legal. Those who entered after said date must wait five years after obtaining a qualified status unless they are refugees, asylees, or meet other specific requirements., In most cases, you will only be able to receive TANF if you live with a child under the age of 18, but there are other conditions that will permit you to apply.You can be a pregnant woman with no other children.
You can be a parent with a child under the age of 18, regardless of whether or not the other parent also resides in the home.
You can be the legal caretaker of children whom you are not the parents of.
You can have a child who is over the age of 18 but under the age of 19 who is has not graduated from high school student but is a full-time student at a secondary, vocational, or technical school.
You could be the caretaker of a disabled person who is over the age of 19 and under the age of 21 if that person is taking part in full-time secondary school.

