 To prevent the bathroom from getting too crammed, the center of the sink should be at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) from the closest wall. Use a tape measure to determine the length and width of the area you have planned for the sink.;
, Most sinks are around 34 inches (86.4 cm) from the ground. Vessel sinks, which sit on top of a counter or a vanity, can be tricky to measure because they tend to look like a bowl sitting on a counter. When you measure for a vessel sink, remember that there will be several inches of sink extending up from the vanity or counter, rather than dropping into it.
 Bathroom sinks can cost from under $100 for a basic sink to several thousands of dollars for more ornate or custom fixtures. Decide how much you are able to spend before you start shopping.
 Once you know what will fit in your bathroom, you can decide between the many different bathroom sink designs.


Keep a common and traditional look with a wall mounted sink. These are ideal for small bathrooms. These basic models have no floor support and the drain is often visible beneath it.
Choose a pedestal sink if you have limited space, but you want to conceal the plumbing. These sinks are secured to the floor and have no wall mounting.
Create a trendy look with a vessel sink. These look like large bowls and come in many different materials and colors.
Maintain a versatile bathroom with a drop-in sink. Also called self-rimming or top-mount sinks, these can be installed into any counter top or vanity. Made of cast iron or china, they often have an extra overflow drain, and their piping is concealed by the counter top.
Use a framed vanity sink for an older-home feel. Also popular in apartment bathrooms, these sinks are trimmed with a metal frame and they fit into plastic vanity counter tops.
Choose a console bathroom sink if you like the ease of a wall mounted sink, but prefer the extra support of two legs at the front of the sink.
Consider an under mount sink if you have a solid surface, such as stone. These are installed beneath the counter top, and their basins are slightly wider than the counter top opening. These are modern and provide a sleek look to an upscale bathroom.
 Make sure the sink you choose will fit with your plumbing, the faucets and other hardware you have in your bathroom. If you are completely remodeling the bathroom, you can plan all of this ahead of time. If you are simply replacing your sink, you will need to be sure it is compatible with what is already in place.
 Most sinks are made from cast iron, porcelain, vitreous china, fire clay, stone, glass, metal, concrete, or even bamboo and wood. Ask about cleaning instructions and what to do in case of damage.
 Check local hardware stores, home improvement centers and design showrooms. Most places will provide delivery and installation.
 You may be able to find a larger selection and lower prices online. Conduct an Internet search for bathroom sinks, and thousands of online retailers will come up, including well-known sites such as Amazon and eBay.

