 According to the American Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the level of indoor air pollutants are between 2 to 5 times higher than outdoor levels of pollutants. In addition to smelling bad, these toxins can negatively affect your environment and health. Circulating fresh air throughout your home can eliminate toxins and remove bad odors. Open up your windows, turn on a few fans, and allow the wind and sunshine to naturally eliminate toxins and odors from your home..


Sunshine naturally eliminates foul odors. If you can't open your windows, open up your drapes or curtains., Even after you've eliminated the source of the foul smell, some odors continue to linger. Air purifiers contain filters that are equipped to absorb these lingering smells. These products can also eliminate indoor pollutants, such as gases and chemical toxins, from your home.


Look for Air Purifiers with HEPA filters.
Air purifiers also eliminate allergens and asthma inducing materials from the home environment., Over time, dirt, allergens, molds, and pet hair build up inside air ducts. These materials can emit foul smells and may have an adverse affect on your respiratory health. If you are interested in eliminating this source of bad smells from your home, hire a team of professionals.


According to the CDC, there is no evidence to support the claim that cleaning your air ducts will improve the quality of your health. Professionals in the field, however, do assert that it will remove foul smells from your home., After conducting a study on abating indoor air pollution, NASA concluded that low-light houseplants are capable of improving the quality of indoor air. Today, the organization relies on a variety of potted plants to filter out chemicals and carcinogens from their space stations. Like those at the space station, we can benefit from these natural air purifiers too. Use these low-light plants to purify your air and eliminate the smell of varnish, paint, glue, carpet, and detergents. NASA suggests “having 15 to 18 houseplants” per 1800 square feet.” Recommended low-light plants include:


English ivy
Spider plant
Pothos
Peace lily
Snake plant
Philodendron
Rubber plant
Areca Palm
Boston fern
Aloe plant