 If you're easily spooked, you might want to do this during the day, in the company of a friend or relative who's calmer than you. Avoid websites with scary pictures or background music, because those might make you nervous as well. Instead, browse around for sites explaining in loose terms what types of environment are likely to hold paranormal activity of any kind, or which sorts of people and situations often summon paranormal manifestations. Remember, the more you know about it, the better prepared you are.;
, Very few people can claim to have truly witnessed a paranormal manifestation. There is usually a reasonable explanation for something that looks like a ghost. This is why it is also useful to learn more about it: the more you know about something, the less scared you'll be.
 Most experts agree ghosts come back because they have unfinished business, and will haunt the places where they lived and/or died. Old hospitals and sanatoriums, abandoned sites, underground tunnels and prisons, medieval castles and closed-down inns or hotels are usually the scenes for ghost stories because these are often places that may be haunted in real life; they carry great emotional tension, and someone who died there would likely return there.
 Your best friend here is the one who can remain calm during a crisis, and who is able to soothe you even when he is feeling scared too. Find someone you trust, talk to them about your anxiety, and if you must go to somewhere you think may hold something paranormal, ask them to tag along. You should figure in which way you are best calmed down. It might be that you want a friend who goes along and jokes all the way to lighten your mood, or that you need someone who just holds your hand and carries a flashlight.
 Most ghost sightings occur when people are in pairs or alone.
 All experts on the subject agree no supposed ghost or paranormal manifestation was ever directly responsible for harm on a human being. Movies (especially thrillers) tend to exaggerate to bring up a reaction.
 It is said some ghosts avoid these symbols. Plus, if your faith is strong, you will feel more confident.
 Most experts on the matter believe in the method of "asking and cursing". If you hear or see something you cannot explain, ask what is it they want. Wait a few seconds. If no reply comes and the manifestation continues, begin to curse heavily and aggressively. Many stories coming from Western European countries feature cursing as a form of making ghosts withdraw.
 Be skeptical about ghost sightings and stories, and always look for the logical explanation in everything. Sometimes, things are not what at first they seem and the human mind likes to play tricks. You hear a noise? Consider everything that may be producing it instead of a ghost: pipes, mice, bats, insects, the wind, the TV, a radio which wasn't properly turned off and is giving off static, a man sharpening his knife, house pets, neighbors. A person once thought he heard footsteps in his house, but later found out old wooden houses do tend to make noise as the wood dilates or shrinks according to temperature changes. Try not to Panic.

