
The ability to make quality decisions.
The ability to communicate effectively. Use easy to understand language at a level appropriate to the listener to eliminate unnecessary repetition and minimise misunderstanding.
The ability to provide personal reinforcement without creating a sense of contentment that may lead to arrogance. Athletes must feel good about their performance but must never lose the hunger to grow.
, Anticipate and expect questions.


Assure the athlete when they do well and pull them up when focus or effort drops.
Observe learning taking place if you pay attention.



Possess the humility to give due credit to those who deserve it. It is immensely important for you, the coach to appreciate the problems of the athlete and be compassionate towards them.
 Trying to force them to abide by the coach’s personalised style of performance enhancement may not be the best thing to do.
 Write playbooks and new strategies in your spare time. Keep a notebook of what you plan to do.



Learn ALL of the players names as quickly as possible. Find out the players' preferred name (e.g. James vs Jim, Jaclyn vs Jackie).
Learn their strengths and their weaknesses, capture your thoughts in your notebook.
Work along with their strengths, and try to improve the areas they are weak in. Be friendly with your team. No one wants to take orders from an unfriendly person.
Get to know your coaching staff. This goes for any coaching job. Being friendly will make you either rise the ranks or have happier assistant coaches (depends which job you get).
Don't be afraid to give your ideas to the head coach, and review any ideas if you are the head coach.
,


Warm up before every game.
Coach the games!
Use all of the previous tips to your advantage.
Know what to do if your catcher gets hurt.
Have all of your strategies memorized.
Don't just sit on the bench for the whole game. Take time to congratulate a player who did well, and to reassure a player who choked that it is just a game.
 There will always be a "next season". But, nonetheless, try to make your mark. It will increase your job security.


Keep going! Once you have coached a Little League Team, you might get calls from middle school teams. Once you coach them, the high schools might come knocking. Then colleges will be calling you.
