 Kids look to the adults in their lives as role models, and the earliest lessons they learn about developing values tend to come through imitation.


If you say one thing but do another, you can easily send your kids mixed signals.
For instance, if you want your kids to learn cooperation and compassion, you might encourage them to share their toys. If they see you take something that belongs to someone else or refuse to share a resource of yours when needed, however, they can easily come to doubt the importance of those values.;
, Talk about what life was like for you when you were the same relative age as your kids. Discuss the difficulties and triumphs you had in developing your current value system.


Make sure that the stories you tell are true and avoid exaggerating any details.
For example, try telling your child about a time when you were tempted to cheat on a school assignment. If you resisted the temptation, explain your reasoning and how your honesty was a positive influence. If you didn't resist the temptation, explain any negative internal and external consequences that followed.
 If your values are derived from a religious faith, for instance, teach that faith to your kids. It is important for them to understand where your values come from when learning why those values are important.


It can be especially helpful to expose your children to a community that holds the same value system, like a church. Doing so can provide them with even more role models.
 You cannot—and should not—completely shelter your kids from outside influences. You should, however, be aware of the other influences acting on your child's development. Both good and bad values can be taught to them by others.


Others who play a big role in influencing your child might include relatives, teachers, coaches, friends, and friends' relatives.
Ask about the beliefs and values that these individuals hold dear.
You do not need to completely prohibit your kids from interacting with someone whose values differ, but talk with your child after he or she spends time with that person to make sure that the negative influence isn't rubbing off.
 When your child breaks the rules or ignores a value you've set down, demonstrate that the behavior is unwanted by issuing a fair punishment for the misdeed.


The consequences need to match the crime. For instance, taking the last piece of cake when it belonged to someone else in the family is a less serious offense than cheating on a test at school, so the punishment for the former should be less than that issued for the latter.
 Your kids will not be able to learn values from you if you neglect them. Spending time with them demonstrates how important it is to care for others, and it also gives them a chance to learn from your example.


Oftentimes, children who misbehave from a young age do so for the sake of gaining attention. If you demonstrate that positive behavior gets just as much attention as negative behavior, if not more, then the positive behavior will seem more appealing.
 Growing up is difficult. There are many things your kids will have trouble figuring out as they grow, and they will inevitably make some mistakes. Let them know that they have your unconditional love so that they feel comfortable turning to you for advice when they wrestle with matters of right and wrong.
 When you talk to your kids about values, ask them questions that really make them think about the topic. Avoid spelling things out for them. The lesson will be more firmly fixed if they are allowed to reach the conclusion on their own.


For example, instead of saying, "He should not have lied to his friends like that," ask, "Do you think what he did was wrong?" or "How do you think he should have handled the situation?"
Asking your kids a question can trigger a conversation about values. It also forces them to mull over important issues, and the conclusions they draw are more likely to last longer than conclusions drawn for them.
 Listen to your kids' doubts, concerns, struggles, and questions. Stay firm, but keep an open mind. Questions are a good sign that your kids are thinking about the matter seriously.


If your child questions a value you have taught from a young age, try to stay patient and calm about it. Exploding at him or her will usually make the child want to rebel even more. Discussing the matter calmly will make it easier for a child to accept your opinion as valid.
 You need to stand as an authority figure, but at the same time, you also want to talk about values in a comfortable, casual setting that will keep your kids at ease. Most people—especially kids—are more receptive to information shared during a conversation than information thrown at them from a soapbox.


When your child does something wrong, briefly explain what was wrong and issue an appropriate punishment. Do not begin preaching about why the action was wrong while everyone is still angry and upset, though.
Instead, wait until both you and your child have calmed down. Rather than fixating on your disappointment, talk about the wishes you have for your child and how you would prefer to see your child demonstrate those values in the future.
 Many values are personal and need to be developed internally, but you can set expectations and rules governing the outward display of values. Set these expectations fairly and make sure that your kids are clear about what they are.


The desire to please one's parents by meeting their expectations is a fairly instinctive one. If you set high expectations that include meaningful values, your child will most likely aim to reach these expectations.
 The more often you talk about the beliefs and values you want to pass down, the more natural those values will seem. Frequent conversation is a good way to keep the topic on their minds more consistently.


It's important that these conversations take place when your child behaves well or behaves in a neutral manner. If you only talk about values when he or she misbehaves, the topic can easily take on a negative connotation.
 Let your kids know that you love them. Tell them every day. When children know that they are loved, it is easier for them to understand that your expectations and the values you are trying to teach are ultimately for their benefit.


Showing love is very important, but even if you constantly show your kids love, you also need to speak words of love to them on a regular basis.
 Morals and values have been conveyed through stories for centuries. Read with your kids or introduce books to them that convey the types of values you are trying to instill.


At a young age, fairy tales can be an excellent choice.
While kids are still in a formative period, the best books are those in which the boundary between right and wrong is clearly defined.
Books that discuss morally gray topics should be saved until after an adolescent has already developed a strong moral foundation.
Regardless of the book, it's best to read through it together or to have a thorough understanding of it before your child picks it up. Doing so will make it easier for you to discuss the contents of the book and any questions it may raise about values.
 Limit the types of movies, television shows, and games you allow your kids to view. It can also be a wise idea to limit the amount of time your kids spend with these forms of entertainment.


Even positive media sources are not as valuable as active learning opportunities. Kids learn more through hands-on experience than they do through passive observation.
Make sure that most of the media your kids view demonstrates positive moral values, especially when a child is under the age of 7 or 8. Studies indicate that kids who watch such shows are more likely to be respectful than those who regularly watch violent material.Restricting controversial material once a child reaches adolescence should be done with some caution, though. It is better to discuss why the behavior or content of a show is bad than to simply prohibit the child from watching it without any further discussion.
 Encourage your kids to do community service and other forms of volunteer work. Better yet, make it a family affair by volunteering alongside them.


Among other things, volunteer work can encourage generosity, responsibility, and compassion.
One idea might be to volunteer your help for an elderly neighbor. Encourage your kids to mow that neighbor's lawn or go with them and deliver some home-baked treats.
 One of the most basic, classic ways to start building values in your child is to assign daily and weekly chores. Be clear about the chores your child is responsible for and how much allowance he or she will receive in return for completing them thoroughly and punctually.


Chores teach kids about the importance of responsibility and the benefits of hard work.
 Encourage your child to join a sports team. If he or she isn't interested in sports, look for other team activities worth joining, like a debate team, yearbook committee, or trivia team.


Teamwork is the most obvious value being taught here, but joining a team can also encourage kids to learn about values like dedication, responsibility, and humility.
 Sit down with your child and make notes for your loved ones from scratch. These notes can be “thank you” notes, holiday cards, or “thinking of you” cards.


"Thank you" cards teach gratitude.
Holiday cards and "thinking of you" cards teach consideration and kindness.
By hand-making the cards, you can also encourage creativity.
 Challenges are an unavoidable part of life. Encouraging children to face controlled challenges while they are still young can instill in them the values and ethics they need to make it through the uncontrollable challenges of adolescence and adulthood.


Consider planting a garden with your kids. Gardening can be a challenging task, but it can teach kids about perseverance. If you plant edible crops, you can also teach your kids about self-reliance.
In a more general sense, you can encourage your kids to do things that don't come easily. Encourage a shy child to approach new kids on the playground. Encourage a temperamental child to calm down instead of exploding when something goes wrong. When your kids manage to do something that is difficult for them, praise them for it., Look for ways to encourage your kids to think of the circumstances and feelings of others. Many values can be developed and strengthened once a person learns empathy.


At a young age, you could flip through a magazine with your child and ask him or her to identify emotions based on what the pictures show.
At any age, you can play the "buddy game" with your kids. Put the names of everyone in the family into a hat. Everyone should draw a name at the start of the day, and throughout the rest of the day, each person should look for ways to do something nice for his or her randomly selected "buddy."