 Before you purchase a set of mason jars, make sure they’re graduated. Graduated jars have lines that measure the volume of the jar’s contents. That way, you’ll have total control over your portion size.For example, if you’re on a diet that calls for a 1/2 cup of oatmeal for breakfast, you can measure the appropriate portion and place it into a super-portable, half-pint sized jar.;
, Get a large saucepan hot over medium heat. Add the oats, water, and salt and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low, simmer for three minutes, then remove from heat.Ladle equal portions of the oatmeal among the five mason jars. Let them stand uncovered for about an hour, or until they’re cool to the touch. Cap them, then put them in the refrigerator.
Make overnight, no-cook oats by portioning uncooked oats into the mason jar (for instance, 1 cup) and then adding your liquid (such as 1/2 cup of almond milk). Add any mix-in ingredients (nut butter, raisins, cranberries, etc.), cover, and refrigerate overnight. In the morning your oatmeal will be soft and ready to eat.
Pint-sized jars allow more room for additional mix-ins, but you can use half-pint jars for a more portable size and extra portion control.  
You can mix in optional added ingredients, like fresh or dried fruit and milk, before refrigerating your oatmeal or after you reheat it. It just depends on how portable you need your breakfast to be and whether you prefer a hot and cold temperature combination. Stir in maple syrup or honey for a healthy sweetener before reheating. Or, for a nice hot-cool temperature combination, reheat your oatmeal then add fresh blueberries, chopped strawberries, or a sliced banana.
Add different nutritious mix-ins to each jar to switch up your breakfasts’ flavors. You can add fresh blueberries to Monday’s jar, toasted almonds and coconut to Tuesday’s, raisins to Wednesday’s, and so on.
 Coconut quinoa with cherry compote is a great way to make your breakfast ahead of time and/or eat it on the go. To start, grab a medium saucepan, get it hot over medium heat, and add the almond milk and quinoa. Bring it to a gentle boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer until most of the milk has evaporated. Stir frequently while it simmers.Slowly stir in the coconut milk to the simmering mixture, adding about 1/4 of the can at a time. Stir gently until most of the liquid evaporates, then add the salt. Remove the pan from heat, then cover and set aside.Try not to reduce the milk completely. Leave a little liquid left so the quinoa has nice, creamy consistency.
 Get a medium frying pan hot over medium heat, then add the cherries, water, salt, and cardamom. Cook, stirring frequently, until the cherries release their juices and the sauce thickens, or about 10 to 15 minutes. When it thickens, stir in the maple syrup, cook for another two minutes, then remove from heat.You can add the cherry compote to either the oatmeal or the coconut quinoa.
To toast sliced almonds and shredded coconut, heat a small frying pan over low heat. Add the almonds, and flip the pan or stir them gently as they toast. Transfer the almonds to a separate dish once they have just started to brown. If your shredded coconut isn’t already toasted, use the same pan and technique to get them brown.
 Use one pint-sized jar or two half-pint jars, depending on your portion preferences. First, add the cooked quinoa, then a layer of the cherry compote, the toasted almonds, and, finally, the shredded coconut. If necessary, or if you prefer, continue to add another layer of each until you reach the top of the jar.Enjoy it cold, or if you prefer your quinoa hot, reheat it in the microwave for two to three minutes.

