 Click or tap on the level number on the game map. The Coconut Wheel can only be used on Ingredients level.;
, Before starting the game, click or tap on the Coconut Wheel booster to equip it for use within the next game. The Coconut Wheel is a round pink candy with a licorice center.


A check mark will appear on the booster selected.
 Click or tap the “Play!” button to begin the next game.
 The Coconut Wheel you’ve equipped will be placed on a random location on the board.


Note that some levels may already start with Coconut Wheels in specific locations on the board. Take note of this before equipping it as a booster.
 If Coconut Wheels are already in play on a particular level, some may come frozen under jelly. Free the Coconut Wheel from the jelly before using it. This can be done by making a match or combo adjacent to the jelly.


If the Coconut Wheels are free, skip this step.
 The Coconut Wheel can be activated and used by switching it with a candy next to it. After the switch, the Coconut Wheel will start spinning and roll into the direction of the swapped candy.


If the switch was done horizontally, the Coconut Wheel will roll horizontally.
If the switch was done vertically, the Coconut Wheel will roll vertically.
 The Coconut Wheel will roll over the next three candies in one direction. All of the candies will then become Striped Candies, which will then explode in the same direction, wiping out the columns or rows.


If the Coconut Wheel rolled over an ingredient or a blocker, nothing will happen to it. It only works on free candies.
 With a Coconut Wheel being able to turn the next three candies to Striped Candies, it makes sense to use them for bringing down ingredients, which is just right since it can only be used on Ingredients levels. Just make sure the Coconut Wheel rolls in the right direction to wipe out the needed columns.
 If you can get a Coconut Wheel side by side with a Striped Candy, you can mix them. The move will activate the Striped Candy, clearing out a row or a column depending on the direction of its stripes, then the Coconut Wheel will roll over the next three candies, making all of them Striped Candies and activating them to clear out three more rows or columns.


The Coconut Wheel will then go back and roll over another three candies in the same row or column, making all of them Striped Candies and activating them again.
This can be useful in clearing out several rows or columns of candies or blockers, and in bringing down ingredients.
 If you can get a Coconut Wheel side by side with a Wrapped Candy, you can mix them. The move will have the Coconut Wheel roll over the entire row or column, turning all candies into Wrapped Candies, then having all of them explode at the same time.


This can be useful in breaking out blockers in full rows or columns, and in bringing down ingredients some rows.
 If you can get a Coconut Wheel side by side with a Color Bomb, you can mix them. The move will have the Coconut Wheel roll over the entire row or column, turning all the candies into Striped Candies and activating them to clear out all rows or all columns, then the Color Bomb will explode.


This can be useful in clearing out all the columns of candies or blockers, and in bringing down ingredients.
 If you can get two Coconut Wheels side by side, you can mix them. The move will have the first Coconut Wheel roll over the entire row or column, turning all the candies into Striped Candies and activating them to clear out all rows or all columns, then the second Coconut Wheel will do the same thing for the same row or column.


This can be useful in clearing out all rows or columns twice, and in bringing down ingredients.

