 A grid pattern normally displays pictures in orderly columns and rows. This may not be feasible if you have many different kinds of frames you want to use to display your pictures. In this case, you might allow some framed pictures to take up two rows or columns (or more), in a flexible grid pattern.


While using a flexible grid, try to preserve enough of the row/column structure so the grid pattern is still obvious. This will keep your hung pictures looking neatly arranged.;
, By orienting pictures with the same size and shape frames in different ways, you can create jigsaw puzzle effect to display your family photos. Some pictures may be oriented portrait style (up and down), and others landscape style (left to right). Put these together like Tetris pieces to create a unique design.


If you buy discount frames in bulk, this can be an inexpensive, visually appealing, and original way of displaying your pictures.
Your pictures don’t have to fit together perfectly. You could create interesting patterns by leaving some gaps between pictures in your jigsaw puzzle design., This is an excellent way of displaying pictures that are different sizes. Especially if you’re hanging your pictures on the same wall, using like-colored frames will unify your display even with frames of different sizes.


With an assortment of photo sizes, you may want to use thicker frames for smaller photos. The added boldness can bring prominence to smaller pictures that are surrounded by larger ones.
If you have a frame that you want to use but isn’t the right color, in many cases you can use a suitable spray paint to convert it to your desired color., In many cases, a bright red colored frame will draw eyes right to your hung pictures. But these kinds of bold, contrasting colored frames might be hard to find at typical general retailers or home goods stores like Target, Walmart, or Michael’s Craft Store. In this case, you might use a suitable spray paint on your frames before inserting your pictures.


Before you go to the hardware store or a general retailer to purchase spray paint, check your frames to see what they are made of. Wooden, plastic, and metal frames will require different kinds of spray paint.
 In unadorned spaces, like hallways, you can draw focus to your pictures while adding warmth to the display with wooden frames. Use a clean white mat background behind the pictures in the frame to create a visually unifying effect in your photographic arrangement.


To create a blending effect between your pictures and the wall color, you might want to choose a similar shade as the wall color for the mat background.
To give your photographs extra pop, you could choose a color that contrasts the color of your wall for the mat background of your photo.
Before cutting mat backgrounds for all your photos, try a single picture and see how it looks when hung on the wall. This way, it’s less likely that you’ll end up with a color scheme you dislike.