


See Back Up iPhone Contacts for instructions on backing up iPhone contacts.;
, Skip this step if you have a regular (billed monthly) plan. Prepaid account holders (pay-in-advance) should visit the “Activate, Switch, or Bring Your Own Device FAQs” site and click “Activating a device you’re bringing to an existing line.” Follow the prompts on the screen to complete the activation.
 If you no longer have your old iPhone, you can skip this step.



If you don’t have access to your old phone and you received a new SIM card, use these steps to guide you through inserting the new SIM card in your replacement phone.
If Verizon did not send you a new SIM card and you don't have access to your old phone, contact Verizon for a new free SIM card.
 The entire tray will come out of the device, leaving the SIM card exposed.
 Be careful not to touch the gold connectors.
 Put the old iPhone aside for now.
 With the new phone powered off, insert the paperclip into the tray of the replacement phone and pop out the SIM card tray. Insert the new SIM card, and remember to reinsert the SIM card tray.



Call (877) 807-4646 from another phone. You can’t use your replacement iPhone to make this call.
Follow the prompts to activate your replacement phone. You may need to enter information from your receipt or replacement package, so keep those things handy.
 The phone will boot to a setup wizard.Follow the prompts until you reach the “Wi-Fi Networks” screen.
 If there is a network password, you’ll be prompted to enter it upon connecting.


If you don’t have access to a wireless network, select “Use Cellular Connection” if it appears. Follow the subsequent screens to connect to the cellular network.
If neither a Wi-Fi nor cellular network are available, the “Connect to iTunes” option will appear. Tap that option, then plug your phone into an Internet-enabled computer running iTunes.
 You will be guided through a brief Setup Assistant wizard that will help you set up your iPhone preferences, including restoring from your old iPhone’s last backup.


If you’re using the “Connect to iTunes” activation feature, begin by following the prompts on the computer screen.
 Once you tap this button, you will see a progress bar at the top of the screen. When the activation is complete, the word “Verizon” will appear at the top of the screen.


If you are asked if you want help from Siri, just tap “Dismiss.”
The activation may take several minutes.
 If you are unable to activate your replacement iPhone using this method, call (800) 922-0204 or visit a Verizon retailer for assistance.

