 If you hear a comment about your weight, the best thing to do is often to walk away. Bullies thrive on getting a reaction. If you show the boy you won't be intimidated, he may stop.Act as if you didn't hear the comment. Then, continue on your way without offering any reaction.
You don't have to ignore the comment on an emotional level. It's okay to get sad and vent to someone later. However, pretending not to react in the moment may make the boy avoid bothering you in the future.;
, The comments may not stop in the future. You also may be in a situation where you can't walk away. In this case, it's appropriate to calmly explain the comment was unacceptable in the moment. It's never okay to talk about someone's weight, especially in such negative terms.Let the boy know you don't appreciate that kind of language. Say something like, "Calling someone fat is not acceptable language and it's a form of harassment." Bullies are often never called out on their behavior, which is why they feel it can continue.
Even if you're very upset, try your best not to come off as angry when addressing the bully. The boy wants to know he upset you, and anger will show him as much. Use an even tone of voice rather than raising your voice., You need to make sure you assert yourself when dealing with a bully. After you tell the boy the comment was unacceptable, lay down some basic boundaries. Bullies often target people who won't stand up for themselves. If you show you're willing to address someone's bad behavior, you will be less likely to be a target for a bully in the future.Passive aggressive requests may not be taken seriously. They may also give the boy a chance to shrug off his behavior by saying something like, "I was only joking. Relax." Do not say something like, "Can you maybe not say that again? It kind of bothers me."
Instead, be clear. Say something like, "Do not talk to me like that again. I'm not going to continue to have contact with you if this keeps happening."

, While you should not respond with hostility, as this will encourage the boy, do not repress your anger entirely. It's important you allow yourself to feel what you're feeling inside. The boy made a hurtful, inappropriate comment and you have every right to be upset and angry.You deserve to feel the feelings you have. Anger is not a bad emotion. It can often help us identify negative behavior as well as our personal boundaries.
If you're feeling angry, acknowledge this. You can even express in a calm way to the boy (for example, "It makes me angry when you talk to me like that."). However, make sure to control your anger enough that you can express yourself clearly.
 Afterwards, you should find a caring friend or family member to share your feelings with. It's never okay to be called "fat" and you will need help processing your emotions. Find someone to rant to after the incident.Pick someone you know is empathetic and a good listener. Someone who's somewhat emotionally absent may not be of much help.
You should also choose someone you feel comfortable with. If necessary, you want to be able to yell, cry, and express other strong feelings.
 If you keep getting harassed by the boy in school, tell someone. If he's picking on you, chances are he's picking on other students. Bullying can have very negative consequences and you should speak up when you see it happening.Try talking to someone at your school you trust. You can talk to an empathetic teacher or principal, or even a teacher's assistant or student teacher.
If you don't feel comfortable going to someone in your school, you can talk to your parents. Let them know what's been going on and have them speak to someone at your school.
 When someone calls you fat, you may feel very alone and alienated. It can help to find likeminded people. Fostering new relationships, or strengthening existing ones, can help you feel better after being bullied.Try joining a club that caters to your interests. You can, say, join the Yearbook staff if you're interested in writing. This will help you meet people who value art and writing as well.
Being around people who share your values makes you feel less alone. It will remind you not everyone judges you based on your weight.
 It's easy to get caught up in negative thoughts about your body when someone calls you fat. In the aftermath, remind yourself that you are not solely defined by your body. There is so much going on inside of you that matters more than your physical appearance.Think about all your capabilities, skills, and talents. Think about your identity deep down, focusing on the positives of who you are as a person.
It's important to remember these things cannot be taken away from you, no matter what comments people make about your body. Remember you are more than your physical being.
 If you're feeling bad about yourself, look for ways to boost your confidence. You can work on improving a hobby or skill, developing a new talent, or getting physically active. Even if your goal is not weight loss, physical activity can have a positive impact on your overall mood.If you choose physical activity, try not to make the focus of your workouts weight loss. This may make you feel worse. Instead, think about how impressed you are with your body's strength and everything it can do.
 It's easy to obsess over a negative comment about your weight, especially if you're already insecure. This can have a big impact on your self-esteem. In order to build up your self-esteem, think about things you like about yourself and practice self-compassion.Write down a list of your best talents. Maybe you're a great writer. Maybe you're a talented swimmer. Think about these things instead of focusing on your weight.
You should also focus on positive aspects of your personality. Remember, it's what on the inside that counts. Think about your best qualities. You can even make a list of things you like about yourself. For example, "I'm caring, I'm a good friend, I'm a good listener," and so on.
Try writing a letter to yourself from the perspective of a friend who loves you unconditionally. Imagine that you have a friend who loves you unconditionally. What might that person put into a letter to make you feel better?Imagine how you would talk to a friend. How might you talk to a friend who had just experienced what you did? What might you say to make a friend feel better? Try to talk to yourself in this way., It can be hard to empathize with someone when they hurt you. However, it can help to try to understand what the boy was going through. The boy may be unhappy on his own end, causing him to lash out in other ways.Think about the boy in question. Do you know anything about his personal situation? Maybe he has a troubled home life. Maybe he simply seems on edge in school a lot.
His comment may not be about you. While it was inappropriate and you have a right to be upset, he may be acting out because he's hurting in other ways.

