 Heat about 1-inch (2.5 cm) of water in a small saucepan and add 2 cups (650 g) of chopped cauliflower florets. Put the lid on the pan and steam the cauliflower for 4 to 5 minutes. Drain the cauliflower and set the florets on a paper towel to dry. Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C).You could also steam the cauliflower in the microwave. Place the cauliflower florets in a microwave-safe bowl with about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water. Heat the cauliflower for 6 minutes or until it's soft.F

, Transfer the steamed cauliflower florets to a food processor and put the lid on it. Blitz the cauliflower until it's blended. Spread out a kitchen towel on a work surface and scoop the cauliflower onto it. Gather the ends of the towel together, so the cauliflower is in the center of the towel. Squeeze the cauliflower in the towel over the sink to let the excess water drain out.Use caution since the cauliflower and water may still be hot. If it's still steaming, wait a few minutes before squeezing it.
 Spray a baking sheet with cooking spray and set it next to your work space. Get out a mixing bowl and place the drained cauliflower in it. Stir in the remaining tot ingredients until they're combined. You'll need to stir in:1 egg, lightly beaten
1/2 cup (50 g) of shredded sharp cheddar cheese
1/2 cup (50 g) of shredded parmesan cheese
1/3 cup (30 g) of panko breadcrumbs
1/4 cup (5 g) of chives, chopped
Salt and pepper to taste

, Scoop 1 tablespoon of the tot mixture into the palm of your hand. Use your palms to shape it into an oval tot shape and set it on the prepared baking sheet. Form the rest of the mixture into tots. You should get about 3 dozen cauliflower tots.If you'd like to make larger cauliflower tots, keep in mind that they'll take longer to bake and may not be as crispy.
 Put the baking sheet in the preheated oven and bake them for 15 to 20 minutes. They should be golden and crispy once they've finished cooking. Serve them with the spicy ketchup. For the spicy ketchup, stir together:1/4 cup (55 g) of ketchup
1 tablespoon of sriracha sauce

