 Hold a straight edge, such as an eyebrow pencil or a ruler, vertically in front of your face.


If you want your eyebrows farther apart, line it up so that it touches the outermost of edge your nose and the inside of your eye. If you want your eyebrows closer together, line up the straight edge with one side of the septum. These lines will determine where your eyebrow should start.
Mark that spot with an eyebrow pencil. Repeat for the other eye.;
, Angle the straight edge so that it lines up with the outermost edge of your nose and the outermost edge of your pupil.



It's very important that you look straight ahead — both your face and your eyes should be looking directly forward at the mirror.
Wherever the line intersects your eyebrow is where the peak of your arch should begin at the top border of the eyebrow.
Mark that spot with your eyebrow pencil.
Repeat for the other eye.
 Angle the straight edge further so that it touches the outermost edge of your nose and also passes along the outermost edge of your eye.



This tells you where the eyebrow should end. Mark this point with your eyebrow pencil.
Repeat with the other eye.
 This will determine the brow thickness.











Follow the natural curvature of your eyebrow.












Your eyebrows should be 1/4 – /1/2 inch (0.5 – 1 cm) at their thickest.Pluck minimally above the brow — you want to retain your brow's natural arch. Only tweeze stray hairs.
If plucking isn't your thing, try shaping without it.
If your brows are sensitive, use ice to numb the areas before you tweeze.
 Certain brows better compliment specific face shapes.



To minimize the curve of a round face, direct the outer third of the brow towards the top of the ear.
If the face is square, direct it toward the middle of the ear. This helps balance the face.
If the face is long, keep the brow more straight across, directing it above the ear.
An oval face already looks balanced, but to enhance this harmony, you can direct the outer third towards the ear lobe.