 You don't want polish on them. If they're mucky then clean with washing up liquid and warm water. Then leave to dry. The white laces might need bleaching occasionally to keep them white, but they don't need cleaning every time.;
, You need a cold wet cloth and a bit of elbow grease for this. Try and avoid using soaps or hot water, these are no good for your leather. Just wipe the whole boot until it's clean; make sure you go inside where the tongue of the boot is. Dry with the dry side of the cloth.
 This step is the same for both red and black boots. Take your "wipe on" jay cloth, wrap it around your index finger on your strongest hand. Dab it inside of your tin of polish and start at the front (toe end) of your boot. Make little circles with your finger while applying a small amount of pressure.
 You can tell when it is all done because it goes "matte" and loses its shine. You will be able to tell if you missed a spot. Again, make sure you go in where the tongue is.
 Now's a good time to get started on a second or third pair to pass the time. Try and polish more than one pair at a time if you have them or have friends with a pair; it becomes a little system of polishing one while the others dry and your never having to wait.
 Take your "wipe off" jay cloth and do exactly the same thing as when putting the polish on, little circles starting from the toe. you should immediately see the shine coming through as you go. keep at it until the whole boot gleams.
 You could use a lighter to melt the frayed end into the knot to keep it permanent, but this is not necessary. If you do decide to do it please be careful, molten plastic is not something you want on your skin. light for a second and squish it down with something (not your finger). You should now have a lace with a knot on one end and the normal plastic bit on the other end.
 You should start with the opposite eyelet when you lace the other boot to make it symmetrical. Pull through until the knot is against the inside of your bottom eyelet.
, It needs to go from the inside, out.
,, You can tie a slip knot to stop it loosening or just tuck the end in.
 They are clean, shiny, laced up and ready to go and dance to some ska. Keep it rude.

