 Do not rely on articles or videos online to teach you how to administer insulin, whether it's via a syringe, inhaler, or another device. Your doctor can answer any questions and show you the correct way to use your device (for instance, with shots she will need to show you at which angle you should insert the needle). Your doctor will also give you your exact dosage and all the necessary prescriptions.
 Seek medical attention immediately if you experience an allergic reaction.


Some insulins are derived from animal sources, most commonly pork, and may cause allergic reactions in people that have severe allergies.Common allergic reactions to insulin include local and systemic reactions. Local reactions occur as redness, minor swelling, and itching at the injection site. This type of skin reaction resolves in a few days to weeks.Systemic allergic reactions can present as a rash or hives that covers large portions of the body, difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, wheezing, decreased blood pressure, increased heart rate, and sweating.This is a medical emergency and you should call 911 or have someone take you to the emergency room if it is close by.
 Hypoglycemia occurs when your blood sugar level is too low.Insulin will make hypoglycemia worse; instead, you will need to consumer quick-acting carbohydrates or simple sugars.


Low blood sugar interferes with your brain’s ability to function properly.
Symptoms of hypoglycemia can include dizziness, trembling, headache, blurred vision, having trouble concentrating, confusion, and sometimes trouble with speaking. Other symptoms can include tremor, heavy sweating, increased heart rate, feeling anxious, and hunger.</ref>
Using fast-acting insulin in the midst of a hypoglycemic event will quickly drop your blood sugar even further and result in severe confusion, inability to communicate, and loss of consciousness.If you mistakenly administer insulin when you are having a hypoglycemic event, quickly alert friends or family to seek medical attention, or call 911 if you are alone. Severe hypoglycemia events are serious and life-threatening situations.You can begin to reverse the reaction by drinking orange juice, taking prepared glucose tablets or gel, or quickly begin to consume some form of sugar., Lipodystrophy is a reaction that sometimes occurs on the skin where frequent insulin injections are given.Symptoms of lipodystrophy include changes in the fatty tissues just under the surface of the skin. Unwanted changes that indicate lipodystrophy include both thickening and thinning of the fatty tissue in the injection site areas.Check your skin regularly for lipodystrophy as well as inflammation, swelling, or any signs of infection., Never put syringes or needles in the regular trash.Sharps, including used needles, lancets, and syringes, are considered to be biohazardous waste since they came in direct contact with someone's skin or blood.Always dispose of needles that are used or damaged in a sharps container. Sharps containers are designed to be a safe way to dispose of syringes and needles.Sharps containers are available for purchase at your local pharmacy, or online.Review your state’s biohazardous waste guidelines. Many states have specific recommendations and programs that can help you develop a regular system for disposing of biohazardous waste.Work with a mail back kit. Some companies offer to supply you with the appropriate sizes of sharps containers, and agree to set up an arrangement for you to safely mail those containers back to them when they are full. The company will dispose of the biohazard materials appropriately, according to EPA, FDA, and state requirements., Once the injection has been given, discard the needle and syringe in a sharps container. When an insulin pen is empty, discard the device in the sharps container.


A needle that has pierced your skin, or the skin of someone else, is not only dulled, but contaminated with possibly serious and contagious diseases.
 Some insulin products are very similar but not exact. Talk to your doctor before you make any changes in your insulin regimen, including switching brands.Even though some brands are similar, your doctor has chosen the brand that best suits your needs, and your dose has been adjusted to the way that product reacts in your body.Use the same brand of syringes and needles. It is easy to become confused and administer the wrong amount if the syringes and needles look different.
 Check the expiration date on your insulin product often. Avoid using insulin that has passed its expiration date.While the potency may be close to the potency when purchased, there is a risk that you will not get enough from using products that have expired, contaminants may be present, or particles may have formed inside the vial., Once the first dose has been used from an insulin product, it is considered open.This includes insulin that has been properly stored in the refrigerator or at room temperature. Since the top of the insulin vial has been punctured, there is an increased risk of contaminants inside the vial, even if you have stored it properly., Be familiar with the brand of insulin you use, your dose, and the brand of additional supplies you use.Be sure you consistently use the same size insulin syringes and needles that were prescribed for you.Using a U-100 syringe in place of a U-500 syringe can be extremely dangerous, and vice versa.
Talk to your doctor or diabetic healthcare provider if you notice any changes in your products or have any questions.