 The taskbar is the bar at the bottom of the screen. Doing so invokes a pop-up menu.
 It's near the bottom of the pop-up menu.

Alternatively, press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Esc.
 This tab is at the top of the Task Manager window., It's a link near the top of the window. Doing so will reset the usage clock for each app on your computer to zero., Click the Start menu





and type file explorer into Start, and then click





File Explorer at the top of the Start window., This tab is in the top-left section of the File Explorer window., It's a box-shaped icon in the upper-right side of the File Explorer window. Doing so opens the Folder Options window., You'll see this option in the upper-left corner of the Folder Options window., It's in the "Privacy" section toward the bottom of the window. Doing so will remove your recent searches from the File Explorer.

If you pinned any folders or files to the File Explorer, they won't be cleared.
 To do so, uncheck both the Show recently used files in Quick Access and Show recently used folders in Quick Access boxes in the "Privacy" section. Doing so will prevent future searches from appearing in the File Explorer., It's at the bottom of the Folder Options window. Your File Explorer history should now be clear., It's on the left side of the taskbar, just right of the Windows logo. The Cortana window will pop up.

If you don't see this option:

Right-click the taskbar.
Select Cortana.
Click Show search box.
 It's on the left side of the Cortana window. Doing so will open Cortana's settings in the window., It's below the "My device history" heading. Doing so clears your on-device search history., This link is below the "My search history" heading. Clicking this link opens a Bing page with all of your searches listed in chronological order.

You must be connected to the Internet in order to view this page.
 It's a link near the top of the Bing page., This button is in the "Clear search history" section near the top of the page., Doing so will clear Cortana's search history entirely., It's a dark-blue app with a white "e" on it., This option is in the top-right corner of the Edge window. Clicking it invokes a drop-down menu., It's at the bottom of the drop-down menu., This button is beneath the "Clear browsing data" heading., You can check other items here as well, but these two items must be checked in order to clear your Edge history., It's in the middle of the menu. Doing so will delete your Edge browsing and downloads history., It's a light-blue "e" icon., This option is in the top-right corner of the Internet Explorer window. Doing so invokes a drop-down menu., You'll see this icon near the top of the drop-down menu. Clicking it will prompt a pop-out menu to appear., It's at the top of the pop-out menu., These two options will ensure that you clear all aspects of Internet Explorer's history., It's at the bottom of the window. This will clear your Internet Explorer browsing history., It resembles a red, green, yellow, and blue sphere., This icon is in the top-right corner of the Chrome window. Clicking it will prompt a drop-down menu., It's near the bottom of the drop-down menu. Selecting it invokes a pop-out menu., It's near the top of the pop-out menu., This is the drop-down menu at the top of the "Clear browsing data" window. Make a selection for how far back you'd like to delete the browsing history (for example, selecting the beginning of time will delete all the recorded browsing history)., Both of these categories make up your browsing history., This is a blue button at the bottom of the window. Clicking it will promptly clear your browsing and download history., This app resembles a blue globe with an orange fox wrapped around it., It's in the top-right corner of the Firefox window., You'll see this option in the middle of the drop-down menu., It's a tab on the left side of the Firefox window., This link is below the "History" heading on the right side of the page.

If you don't see this option, click the box next to "Firefox will:", then click Remember history.
 To do so, click the box to the right of "Time range to clear:" at the top of the Clear Recent History window, then click a time (e.g., Today or Everything)., These items will ensure that your Firefox usage history is targeted when you click Clear Now., It's at the bottom of the window. Doing so will immediately clear your Firefox history.