 If you are troubled by water retention, and the lifestyle changes have not improved the situation, make an appointment to talk to your doctor. There are a number of potential causes for water retention, and there may be an underlying issue that a doctor will need to diagnose and treat.


Your doctor may advise you on some additional minor things you can do to tackle fluid retention and swelling in the limbs.
They may recommend you avoid standing for long periods of time.
Or that you raise your legs regularly during the day to improve circulation., Chemical diuretics are one of the most common treatments your doctor will prescribe for fluid retention. These medications do have side-effects, however, and your doctor is unlikely to prescribe them if they think lifestyle changes can do the job.In some instances diuretics may even worsen the condition, as they change the balance of salt and water in the body.
Be sure to follow your doctor’s advice and only use prescribed medication according to the instructions you are given., It is common for women to suffer from premenstrual water retention, and there is some evidence that suggests the use of oral contraceptives can have a positive effect. Birth control pills that prevent ovulation can limit the physical symptoms of premenstrual syndrome, including water retention.Ask your doctor about this. They will be able to advise and talk you through the different options depending on your circumstances and symptoms.
 There are some supplements that may help you, but you should always consult with your doctor before taking anything. If you have premenstrual water retention, this is some evidence to support the use of calcium, magnesium, B vitamins, and vitamin E.


Lifestyle changes will always be preferable, so don’t try to take a shortcut by consuming lots of supplements.
Remember that taking too many supplements can cause you to develop other health problems., There are some people who claim that herbal diuretics can have a positive effect, and help you to avoid water retention. In theory certain natural substances make you urinate more, but there is little actual evidence to support this in practice. Talk to your doctor about potential herbal treatments, which may be combined with lifestyle changes. Some natural diuretics include:Ginger
Dandelion
Hawthorn
Parsley
Juniper

