 Shop at thrift stores and buy sturdy clothes that you won't need to worry about changing very often. The goal should be durability, reliability, and utility, not "style." Some hardcore punks look like traditional punks, with spiky pink hair and patch-laden vests, while others look like TV repairmen, while others look like metal-heads.


Black denim and Dickies are great for establishing a hardcore visual style that's simple and working class. You want to look like you'd be equally comfortable cutting linoleum as you would throwing down in a mosh. Denim or leather jackets optional.
Avoid the mall and big box stores. Don't buy band tees at Hot Topic, buy them at the show you went to, and buy them directly from the band. That money, instead of going to some corporate stooge, goes straight into the band till, where they'll use it to put out more records like the ones you love. You'll be feeding artists, not CEOs.
 Nothing shouts hardcore like a solid pair of workbooks, especially chunky Doc Martens. Paired with rolled-up jeans and solid colors, a utilitarian pair of working man's boots are as hardcore as you can get. Especially black leather.
 The simpler, the better. Rep your favorite bands with locally-sourced t-shirts, or else rock a simple solid-color T. Plain button-ups and work-shirts are also perfectly applicable to hardcore, often buttoned all the way up to the collar.
 Most hardcore punks don't wear studs or dye their hair or do anything fancy. You want to look like you don't have enough time to care about things like "hair" because you're so engaged rocking and tearing down mainstream values. Keep your hair short and messy, or shave it.


Some hardcore punks wear dreads, like Keith Morris from Circle Jerks, but for the most part this is rare and encroaches into some cultural appropriation territory.
 Something might seem hardcore and "punk" when you're in your group of friends, but empathize with others who might not share your worldview and your particular way of seeing things. Give yourself a good reputation in the community to activate change, don't be a degenerate. Swastikas, iron crosses, and other offensive imagery aren't punk and they won't give you any credibility in the hardcore community. You'll just look like a kid who's trying too hard.Be smart and be aware. Like anything as varied and complex as hardcore, there have been loads of misunderstandings and misconceptions as a result of adopted symbols and imagery associated with it. Sid Vicious of the Sex Pistols used to famously make a regular habit of adorning himself in swastikas, because this was the "most punk" disgusting thing he could think of doing, and–while this doesn't make it right–he lived in an entirely different culture and context than today. Think twice about how you choose to represent yourself to strangers.

