 Instead of saying "Kate and me are going to the cinema" (or Me and Kate are going to the cinema) say "Kate and I are going to the cinema". Often people who are otherwise well-spoken will make this mistake, but using "I" is correct. Remember to only use "I" when you are the subject. It would be wrong to say "Jack likes Sally and I." because here "I" is part of the object. Instead here it would be "Jack likes Sally and me." There is nothing to it, but to do it.
 For example, an incorrect use of the word "like" would be: "The other day I got on this, like, bus and went to, like, Southampton to meet my, like, boyfriend".... Even if it sounds natural to you, it sounds annoying to a person who speaks English properly. Whereas the correct use of the word "like" would be: "I like biscuits and I also like American cookies."


Another context where we use 'like' is when describing a simile, which uses the word 'like' or 'as' as a comparison to another (often unlike) form or non-living object. For example, "the sea sparkled like the stars at night". This can be expanded to be more complex, "the sun shone on the sea, like stars in the night."

, We were all taught in grade school that swear words are rude, yet most of us swear more often than we need to. Frequently using curse words or bad language does not give a good impression, especially in polite company. Expanding your vocabulary should help you to find alternative words to express yourself. If you can expand your vocabulary, you can eliminate swearing at all costs - and once you accomplish this, you'll often find that in most everyday situations, there is no need to swear at all.
 Taking grammar classes will teach you how to form complete sentences with proper grammar, as well as improving writing ability (in particular, spelling and syntax) and vocabulary. If you can train yourself to write grammatically well (and then say these sentences aloud while pronouncing each word correctly), you will learn to 'pick out' what is correct grammar and what is not. The more you practice writing and reading, the more you will be able to 'hear' the grammar when constructing sentences both in text and in speech, which is how you develop a good 'ear' for using correct language. Once you grasp this skill, bad sentence structure will be more noticeable to you - and therefore it will be more likely good grammar will stay committed in your memory. Say for example we are geologists.