 One of the most common issues many couples find themselves facing is unrealistic or differing expectations of how the relationship should be. Either of you may fall prey to unreasonable beliefs, such as "My partner should complete me." Or, one partner may expect sex several times within a week, while the other does not have the same expectations.


In general, when your expectations are unreasonable or too high, one or both of you can end up feeling unfulfilled, which is a major threat to the relationship.
Clarify your expectations through communication.Sit down with one another to verify each person's wants and needs within the relationship and discuss the feasibility of both. Also, anticipate that your partner's expectations will likely change throughout the course of the relationship. Check in periodically to ensure that you are both on the same page.;
, Research shows that three of the main temptations in a committed relationship include the 3 A's: addiction, affairs, and anger.If you are encountering either of these threats in your relationship, it's important to know how to effectively handle them.


If either partner has an addiction, such as gambling, sex, or alcohol, the partner with the problem must be willing to acknowledge the issue when the other partner points it out. Once you have acknowledged there is a problem, the two of you can work together to get help both individually and as a couple. Be willing to find healthier ways to cope than by turning to these outlets. Get help with this process by seeking out a professional.
If there is another person threatening the livelihood of your relationship, it's necessary to cut all ties with this person immediately to save the relationship. Talk with your partner about cheating prevention strategies and minimize your chances of getting intimately involved with someone new.If one of you has an anger issue, you must take initiative to prevent anger from exploding into physical abuse or snide sarcasm--both of which can be damaging to your relationship. Go to counseling or take an anger management course to help both of you find more adaptive ways to cope with anger.
 The green-eyed monster known as jealousy can pull the legs from beneath even the most stable of relationships. Some jealousy in relationships is quite common and may not jeopardize your relationship satisfaction. For example, you may feel envious or insecure when your partner looks for a second too long at another, or when he or she pays more attention to the kids than to you. However, feeling jealousy and acting on jealous feelings are different.


Know that acting on jealousy by accusing, looking for assurance constantly, or acting out can destroy your relationship. While it's normal to feel jealousy every now and then, you can prevent these feelings from ruining your relationship by recognizing that jealousy is an emotion, not a reality. Simply because something your partner does makes you jealous does not mean that your feelings are supported by facts.
For instance, if your partner is working late with a cute coworker, this is not evidence of infidelity. If there is no evidence to support your emotional reaction, try to let it go for the sake of the relationship.
Accept that some uncertainty is a part of any relationship and be willing to reexamine your assumptions about how relationships work. For instance, if your parents divorced because your mom fell for another man, this does not necessarily reflect your own relationship. Learn how to separate your quick assumptions from the truth., Do you constantly hound your partner about nitpicky things? Do you turn even the smallest issue into a major fallout? Doing so can cause tension between you and your partner and threaten the livelihood of your relationship.That’s why it’s smart to learn how to choose your battles. Here’s how:Make a personal agreement to only raise issues that are actually important. Measure importance by how much they will matter down the road. Will this matter next week? Next year?
Resist the urge to react right away. Give yourself some time to consider the dilemma and think about your position.
Pick a time when you both are able to talk calmly and freely. Wait until tempers fade and until you have privacy.Work together. Consider your partner as your teammate rather than your enemy. Take turns expressing your grievances and producing possible solutions. Arrive at an agreement together.
 The other side of choosing your battles is knowing when and how to compromise. Sometimes, you just have to agree to disagree. The only way to do that is by finding some common ground. You may have to ask yourself the following questions to achieve compromise:How can we negotiate our differences while maintaining love and respect?
Do I feel okay not being right?
Do I value my partner’s differences?
Am I open to learning something new?
Can I put my needs aside for his/hers?
Am I sacrificing my values?

, Research suggests that one’s ability to forgive in a romantic relationship is a central component to a lasting, healthy relationship.Even when your relationship is threatened by internal or external forces, the gift of forgiveness supports relationship satisfaction. Build an attitude of forgiveness by:Considering the desired outcome (i.e. a common goal)
Avoiding building a case against your partner
Turning off your inner critical voice that gives advice that worsens the situation
Avoiding your inherent fear of intimacy that tends to push your partner away
Keeping negative family dynamics out of your current relationship

, Both you and your partner will feel happier and more fulfilled in your relationship when both of you takes ownership for your actions. There will be times when one of you knows that you are wrong. However, in an effort to appear tough or to push your partner away, you let the issue explode out of control. Admit when you’re wrong and save your relationship the trouble.Recognize that admitting you have done something wrong creates an opportunity to make it better. This may help you to be more willing to admit when you have made a mistake.Avoid associating your actions with your value. If you make a mistake, that does not make you a bad person. Try to remind yourself of this if you find yourself beating yourself up for a mistake you have made., At the start of a relationship, things probably felt electric between you and your partner. You wanted to chat about any and everything all day long. As the relationship progresses, these involved conversations become few and far between.Reignite the passion and minimize problems in your relationship by boosting your communication.


No matter how tired you are, or what you think you already know about your partner, make an effort to draw him or her into a real conversation. Look online for conversation starters, such as “What would you do if you knew you could not fail?” or “How would you spend your money if you won the lottery?”
Topics can be silly or serious, as long as you two are talking freely and excitedly about your opinions, thoughts, feeling, ideas, and dreams. Be sure to exclude heavy topics like kids, bills, health concerns, or resentments. You can choose a different time to discuss more serious subjects.
 Just as you and your partner may have stopped talking, one or both of you may also be guilty of not listening. When one of you doesn’t feel heard, relationship satisfaction may plummet and the odds of your mate looking for quality conversation elsewhere rise. Practice active listening to show your spouse you are attentive and engaged.


In addition to removing distractions, making eye contact, and orienting towards your partner when he or she is speaking, there are a number of strategies you can try to improve your listening skills.Restating: “From what I hear, you’re saying…”

Summarizing: “Let me put this in my own words to make sure I understand. You feel…”

Reflecting: “It sounds like you are really upset about this…”

Validating: “I can see this is hard for you to discuss. I’m glad you’re sharing it with me now…”

Using “I” messages: “I feel ignored when you come in on the phone and don’t greet me. It would be nice if you could pause your conversation to say ‘hello’.”



, Another aspect relating to communication that can decrease relationship threats is developing interpersonal sensitivity. Research shows that by improving your ability to identify emotions, understand why they occur, and regulate them can influence both you and your partner’s relationship satisfaction.The first step towards developing emotional intelligence is learning to identify emotions in yourself and others. You can learn this through the practice of mindfulness, which involves focusing on the present moment. This technique promotes calm and focus in order to become more self-aware of your thoughts and feelings., A significant aspect of a healthy, affair-free relationship is spending quality time together. What better way is there to pass the time than by engaging in activities that you both love? When you cultivate common interests, you have fun together, have more to talk about, and strengthen your bond as a couple.


Consider joining in with your partner in an already developed hobby or start anew by taking up one together. The sky is the limit on what you can do—hiking, horseback riding, yoga, painting, or even watching horror films.
This isn’t to say that you should spend every waking moment together, of course. It’s just as important to have separate passions that you enjoy on your own. When you have positive activities to explore outside of the relationship, you will feel more fulfilled with your mate., Surprisingly, giving and receiving physical affection doesn’t always come naturally. Some partners weren’t hugged or kissed in childhood and, therefore, don’t see these gestures as indicators of love. However, research shows that physical affection is a cornerstone to each person feeling satisfied in the relationship.


Other reasons to be physically affectionate include reducing stress, releasing feel-good hormones, lowering blood pressure, and improving mood.So, even if you aren’t normally very touchy-feely, give your mate the gift of loving touch whenever you can.
 Recognition can go a long way towards helping both partners find satisfaction and reducing the chances of either of you straying. Showing appreciation by recognizing your mate’s positive qualities actually provides motivation to stay in the relationship. In other words, the more you recognize your partner for being kind or caring or attentive, he or she is more likely to keep those habits up.Take time out often to appreciate and recognize your partner. You might say “I feel so blessed to have you in my life. You are such a thoughtful and committed partner.”

, As time passes and each individual has separate and shared experiences, you naturally change and grow into a slightly different version of yourself. In worse-case scenarios, individual growth can translate to growing apart in the relationship.


You can overcome the notion of “growing apart” by encouraging one another to pursue outside interests and learn new things. When both partners feel like they are contributing in life and love, they are more satisfied overall.Support your partner as he or she pursues an education or a new career path. Show an interest when they are trying out a new skill or hobby. Work together and separately to find meaning and purpose in your lives and you will feel more connected in the relationship.
 A key part of eliminating relationship threats is keeping things fresh. It’s common for couples to grow disinterested or dissatisfied when you’re with the same person doing the same things for weeks, months, or years. Counteract the gradual fade of infatuation by spicing things up every now and then.Just like spices in your cabinet, there are a variety of ways to add zest to your relationship. Perhaps, you feel stuck in your routine. Shake things up by planning a date night mid-week. Or, maybe the two of you have become too predictable. Surprise your partner with a massage after dinner or pop by on lunch break for a picnic.
Make sure that your date night plans are a priority. Compare your schedules to identify a night that will work for both of you. If you have kids, make sure that you arrange for child care as well.
Spice can also refer to intimacy. Instead of the usual peck on the cheek before departing to work, pull your partner in for a long, sensual French kiss. Leave a sexy note in your partner’s lunch. Send a dirty text in the middle of the day. Think outside the box and come up with a few fun ways you can freshen up your relationship starting now.

