 Preheat a gas or charcoal grill, preparing separate areas for direct and indirect heat.


If using a gas grill, turn on two sets of burners (the front and rear or the left and right) to medium-high heat. Leave the middle burner off.
If using a charcoal grill, position piles of hot coals on each side of the grill but leave the middle section clear.
 Remove any ties and cut out the backbone of each quail using sharp kitchen scissors. Use your hand to push down along the length of body until it lies flat.


Keep the quail flat as it cooks by inserting two skewers along the width of the body. Both skewers should go through both legs.
 Coat the quails with olive oil or melted butter, then rub the surface of each with salt and black pepper.


When grilling the quail, the skin should brown easily regardless of whether you use butter or oil. Either way, however, you should distribute the fat evenly over all sides of the bird using a basting brush or spoon.
 Place each quail breast-side down on the hot side of the grill. Cook the quails for 3 to 4 minutes, or until the first side is thoroughly browned.


Avoid turning, flipping, or otherwise moving the birds as they brown. You'll need to keep them relatively still to adequately sear in the juices.
 Flip the quails to the back-side and cook for an additional 3 to 4 minutes, allowing this other side to brown, too.


Note that the quail should still be positioned over the hot side of the grill during this step.
 Once both sides are browned, move the birds to the middle or indirectly heated section of the grill. Continue cooking them for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the meat feels slightly firm and the juices run clear.


Keeping the grill lid closed during this time will hold in more heat.
You should be able to rotate and flip the quails over as they cook during this step without disrupting the cooking process.
 Remove the cooked quails from the grill and let them rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving.


Transfer the birds to a serving dish and place a loose tent of aluminum foil over them. The foil should help the quails retain more heat as the juices settle and distribute themselves.
Quail can be served with wild game sauce or lemon juice, if desired.

