 You can buy okra from many fruit and vegetable suppliers. Make sure that the okra is fresh.









While it may be difficult to harvest your own okra , it is possible and proves inexpensive.;
, Too large and the okra will have a flat taste, and may be too tough to eat. Too small, and the okra will be difficult to cook.









Avoid okra that look shriveled or are soft when squeezed.
The okra should snap rather than bend.
 Do this without cutting the pod itself. The conical stem attached to the pod can be carefully trimmed around to remove if desired. Remove the thin layer with your fingers. Doing this ensures that the whole vegetable is edible but it is time-consuming to do.
 The fuzziness on okra doesn't have to be removed before cooking on young okra. To remove it from older okra:









Defuzz under running water. Rub the pod gently using a fine nylon scourer, paper towel, or a vegetable brush.Pat the okra dry inside a dishcloth or spread it out to air dry.
 This can be done by giving the okra a vinegar treatment, although you will need to do this well in advance.








Pour half a cup of vinegar into a bowl for every 500 g (1 lb) of okra.
Gently swish the vinegar over the okra to coat all okra in the bowl.
Leave for 30 minutes to soak in the vinegar.
Remove the okra and rinse well. Dry and use as suggested by the recipe.
 There are different ways to prepare okra depending on how it is being cooked:









Slice into even-sized pieces for Cajun and Creole stews (e.g., gumbo) that are thickened using okra after topping and tailing it.
Cut into slices or leave whole for frying (see below).
Leave whole (but cleaned and prepared) for stews and casseroles where the recipe requires this. If the okra is cooked whole, it is not able to release its gelatinous substance.If using as a thickener, blanch the whole okra first. Slice the okra and add to the dish 10 minutes before cooking time finishes., Okra goes well with eggplant, onions, peppers, and tomatoes.
 These are tough, with little flavor; see the instructions above.
 If you cut them too thick, they will take longer to cook.
, Don't use flour, as this will cake up and the okra will end up mushy.
,,, When the okra is golden, take it out and let drain on paper towels. Enjoy.
