 It's a grey app with gears on it that you'll likely find on the Home Screen.
 This option is toward the top of the column of Settings options that's on the left side of the screen., To use Home Sharing on your iPad, you must be both connected to the same network as your computer.

If your iPad isn't connected to the Internet, you'll slide the Wi-Fi switch right to the "On" position, then select your home network.
 This icon is about halfway down the Settings column., This option is below the "HOME SHARING" heading near the bottom of the "TV" page.

If you instead see your Apple ID email address here, you're already signed in.
 These are the credentials you use to purchase items from the App Store., This will sign you into your Apple ID account on your iPad's Home Sharing feature. Now you'll need to sign into iTunes and enable Home Sharing on your computer as well., It's a white app with a multicolored musical note on it., This is either a menu item in the menu bar at the top of the screen (Mac) or a tab at the top of the iTunes window (Windows)., It's at the top of the drop-down menu.

If you instead see your name and Apple ID email address here, you're already signed in.
 These credentials must match the ones you entered on your iPad., Doing so will log you into the same Apple ID account that you're using for Home Sharing on your iPad., It's either a menu item in the top-left side of the screen (Mac) or a tab near the top-left corner of the iTunes window (Windows)., It's about halfway down the drop-down menu., Doing so will invoke a pop-up window.,, This will enable Home Sharing on your current network for your Apple ID. You should now be able to view any videos that are in your computer's iTunes library while on your iPad (and vice versa)., This app is black with a grey and blue TV monitor icon. You'll typically find this app on the Home Screen., It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen., Doing so will open it in full-screen mode. It should begin playing right away, though you may first have to tap the "Play" triangle icon.

You may first have to tap a category such as TV Shows.
You won't be able to view home videos (e.g., non-purchased videos) in the TV app over Home Sharing.

