 Certain companies place a lifetime guarantee on their products, which means that if they break, they’ll often replace them for free. This can be a real money saver in the long term. For instance if you buy a $300 coat with a life-time guarantee, you could save hundreds or even thousands of dollars that you would have spent replacing cheaper (or equivalently priced) coats without a lifetime guarantee. Before shelling out money on such a product, make sure the company is reliable—check the Better Business Bureau, read online reviews and articles, and check out the quality of the products for yourself (in-store, if possible).
 This may not be useful for all items, but a you may want the extra protection when you spill coffee on that new laptop. It is important to ask exactly what the warranty covers and what nullifies the warranty. This can save you thousands of dollars in repair and replacement costs.For expensive gadgets and cars, the warranty is usually worth it. For products that are usually reliable within the original warranty, it's usually not worth it to buy the extended warranty., You may be tempted by a shiny new television, but if it’s still working and still compatible with other electronics, it may not be worth the extra cost. It’s worth noting that some items need to be replaced more frequently and failing to do so can cost you more money. Replacing filters on air conditioners, tires on cars, and clogged valves on dishwashers can make them last longer, and help you save money by extending the lives of the products.Some things need to be replaced for health and safety reasons. A toothbrush should be replaced every three months, pillows every year, mattresses every 5 to 10 years, and fire extinguishers every 10 years., Buying in bulk can be a great saver if you have enough storage space and you know you will be able to use the goods. If you can save a significant amount of money on bulk purchases of perishable items, it may be wise to split your purchase with another person or family. Some items that can really save you money if you buy in bulk: shampoo
toothbrushes
office supplies
alcohol
toilet paper

