 Reading is critical as the first step. Books that can be helpful include Machiavelli's The Prince; The 48 Laws of Power, by Robert Greene; The Art of War, by Sun Tsu; and other books that are readily available on philosophy and the human psyche. These will help broaden your understanding of certain methods of control and influence, as well as raise your apparent level of education.;
, Although a bookworm might have an I.Q. of 150, if he lacks personal charisma, he will likely be ignored. Likewise, although the stereotypical jock might seem charming, if they lack the intelligence to form creative thoughts, they will seem shallow. Find a balance and middle ground in between these two traits that works for you. Get to know people, display yourself as witty and charming, with a bit of hidden intellect. It will help give you an air of mystery, enticing others to want to learn more.
 Once you have your persona in place, begin meeting people. Ensure that you leave a positive impression. Show interest in them. Get them to talk about themselves. People love talking about themselves and by listening patiently, you will earn their trust and respect. During this you may be able to find people who can help you achieve objectives later. Remember though, that these relationships must be maintained. Stop through every so often to see how they are doing.
 If your persona and networking tactics are effective, a minority of the population will recognize you and begin to talk about you with others. This is all you need right now. Be patient and continue maintaining your networks.
 Once you feel your networks are in place and the time is right, make yourself out as the candidate for a leadership role. Now, this will only be effective if the position is decided by popular vote, or at least influenced by the majority's opinion of you. If you are shooting for student body president for example, this would be the time to enter your nomination for yourself.
 Now that it is clear you are running for a position, Begin bringing the undecideds into your camp. The best way to do this is by getting your name out in the public eye. Studies have shown that in smaller elections, people are more inclined to vote for a name they recognize than someone who matches their political beliefs. Your goal is to use this statistic to your advantage. Remember, there is no such thing as bad publicity. However, keep in mind that doing juvenile or childish things can tarnish your reputation.
 By now, if you have executed things correctly, you should find yourself in the position you were going for. Your name will be known to a good majority of the student body, and your networks will look up to you even more than before. Continue to maintain those networks, make them into your strongest supporters. With their assistance and your new-found political power, you should be in a position to bring into effect the changes you originally sought power to achieve. Follow through on your goals, but do not turn your back on those who brought you into power. Continue building their trust in everything you do. Do not throw anyone under the bus.
