 When someone else you know is dealing with mental illness because of childhood bullying, giving them encouragement is one of the best things you can do. It lets them know that you care about them, helps them recover from being bullied, and it shows that you believe they can cope with their mental illness.Let them know when you see them making progress with their mental illness. For example, you might say, “I’ve noticed that you are getting out of the house more. That’s great!”
If they need support, try listening to them without judgment. Encourage them to come to you again if they need it.
Encourage them to seek or continue treatment if they aren’t currently working with a professional. You could try saying, “Have you talked with your doctor about how you are feeling?”
You can also tell them things like, “I know you can overcome this.” Statements like that will let them know that you believe in them.
 You can support someone you care about with dealing with mental illness if you make the time to check on them on a regular basis.If the person is also a victim of childhood bullying, checking on them can also make sure that they are coping with being bullied okay.


Ask them how they are coping with their mental illness. You may also want to ask if there is anything you can do to help.
Call the person every few days or so just to catch up and see how things are going in their life.
You can also send a quick text or message to touch base and see if they need anything.
If you know the person is having an especially hard time coping with their mental illness, you should encourage them to see a mental health professional.
 Stigma and misunderstanding surrounding mental illness can cause the person to feel the same shame, embarrassment, nervousness, and fear that the bullying caused them as a child. You can help them deal with this by advocating for them when you can.When appropriate, educate people in your community about mental health in general and how they can support people with mental illness.
If you notice someone being mean or disrespectful then speak up and tell them to stop. You might say, “Just because he has depression doesn’t mean he deserves to be treated like that.”

