 Jot down the days you missed from school, and the homework that was due in each of your classes in a notebook or planner. Create a detailed list of all of your assignments and due dates according to each teacher and subject. Write down any study materials or supplies you think you’ll need to complete the assignments. Consider downloading a homework tracker app from the Apple or Google Play store to help you with organization. , Read over the syllabus, course guide and homework assignments, if available, for the days you missed for each class. Download any attachments, including PowerPoints and study guides that correspond to those days. If your class has an online portal, check the calendar and announcement boards for news about upcoming quizzes or exams.


Create a bookmark folder of teachers’ websites online to check for missed homework. Make it a daily routine to check them for new homework assignments. Doing this will take away any big surprises with upcoming announcements.
 If your absence is planned, call or email your teachers to let them know ahead of time what days you’ll be missing. Schedule a time to meet with your teachers in person the day you return to class, or the day after, to discuss your missed homework. Don’t let too much time pass. Apologize to them about missing class, and ask them for the best way to make up the missed work.


Voice any questions and concerns you have over the amount of homework that was assigned and how long it’ll take you to complete. Discuss any time conflicts you may have with completing the missed homework, such as a job, sports or family business. Set a time that works for both you and your teacher in turning in your missed homework to them. Ask your teachers about their policy for turning in homework late. It is not uncommon for teachers to take points off for missed homework. Some teachers don’t accept late homework at all, unless it’s discussed ahead of time. , If you have a syllabus for the course, you will already know what the lessons and homework will be each day for the rest of the semester. Aim to work three to six weeks ahead of schedule. Knowing what is due in six weeks will help you to maximize your time. Set deadlines for completing each missed homework assignments.


Create a homework schedule, goal or check sheet and mark off each completed homework assignment as you go. Create one from scratch using a notebook, or use an online template to help you get started. Make it a goal to finish as much as you can by your deadline.
 Call or email a fellow classmate and ask about the homework you missed. Find out about readings, study guides, worksheets and projects that were given in class. Request to copy, rewrite or scan any notes they took during the classes you missed. Set up a time to meet and study with them via phone, email or in-person.

