 While it may seem counter intuitive, the best way to take your mind off of problems in the long term is to confront and overcome them. Otherwise, the same issues will continue to crop up and cause anxiety until they are dealt with.


Ruminating -- a tendency to replay anxious thoughts over and over in your mind -- is a mental habit that has to be broken. Begin by allowing yourself to consider the root source of your anxious thoughts. What is the scenario you fear most, and why do you worry about it?After you have identified the source of your anxiety, let yourself imagine the worst-case scenario. Often we let open-ended scenarios frighten us, when in reality we can handle the worst-case scenario. Ask yourself, what is the worst thing that can happen, and can I handle it?;
, It is impossible to force yourself to not worry about your problems, especially if the problems present real challenges to your daily life (like finances or relationships). Giving yourself a set time period each day to worry can help you find freedom the rest of the day.


Schedule 20-30 minutes at the same time every day to think about the issues that worry you. Remind yourself at other times that it is not the time to worry.Be sure your "worry period" is early enough in the day that it does not interfere with your sleep., Contrary to what you might see on TV, meditation doesn't have to be complicated, spooky, or mystical. Lots of ordinary people practice simple varieties of meditation to help calm their minds. Meditation is about developing the discipline to quiet or focus your mind.


Start by sitting in a comfortable, quiet room free of distractions. Sit in a position that is comfortable for you, but keep a straight back and good posture. Use a chair if you prefer.Close your eyes gently and breathe naturally in and out through your nose. Focus your attention on the way the air feels entering your nose, then your throat, then your lungs; and then on how it feels leaving again.If you find it hard to focus on your breath and your mind starts to wander, just gently redirect your thoughts back to your breath. You can do this for just a few minutes and then gradually increase the time you spend clearing your mind., Like meditation, yoga is a common but often misunderstood mind and body exercise that many people use to calm and center themselves after a long day. Like meditation, it can be relaxing and quieting, but unlike meditation it also involves a sometimes-rigorous exercise component that helps to keep you in shape and makes you actively focus on things other than whatever is bothering you.


Try investigating a yoga studio in your area. Many studios will allow you to take a class for no charge to see if it’s a good fit for you.
If you can't afford classes in a studio or gym, consider your local community center or YMCA, which often have yoga and other classes at a discount or on a pay-per-class basis.
If group classes are not right for you, purchase a DVD series or try YouTube lessons. These can be just as effective as a course in a studio, and when you learn the moves well enough, you can do them without the video.

