 Pick fabric or leather moccasin loafers for a purely casual shoe. Opt for suede, lightweight textures, and plain leather loafers if you want shoes that are adaptable to both casual and dressed-up looks. Select patent leather loafers for a more formal style.Wear suede and lightweight textured loafers in the spring and summer.Look for sturdy material like leather if you’ll be wearing them in cold seasons.;
, Loafers with pointed toes are a more elegant style than rounded toes. High-heeled loafers can look more dressy than flats, especially in shiny leather.Moccasins are casual and make good house shoes. Penny loafers, apron loafers and Italian loafers go with casual or dressy outfits. Tuxedo loafers in patent leather are for formal events.Penny loafers have a leather strip over the front, with a slot that can fit a penny (hence their name). They make a great go-to shoe in oxblood leather.Moccasin loafers have a weave, or “vamp,” across the top of the shoe.
Apron loafers have an extra piece of material across the top of the shoe, and the toes are finished off with stitches.
Italian loafers have a metal clasp over the top of the shoe. Stick to simple versions of this shoe in classic blacks and browns. Wear these for business – for example, with dress pants – or casually, for instance with jeans.
 Choose basic shades or colors for more adaptability. Pick bolder hues if you plan to wear them seldomly, and want your loafers to steal the show. However, avoid gaudy colors and patterns – such as hot pink or animal prints – which can veer into tacky territory.Shades of black and dusty brown are versatile and classic.Navy is versatile in leather and suede. Burgundy can adapt to different looks and adds a pop of color.
Pale colors like sea green and powder blue are casual, summery options.
Neutrals can be mixed and matched with many colors in your outfit., Put the shoes on in the store, and test them by walking around a bit. If you’re buying shoes online, measure the length and width of your feet. Check the measurements against the measurement of the shoes.


Some shoes can be more comfortable after they’re broken in. However, you don’t want them to be too large, too tight, or quickly uncomfortable.
If your feet are in between sizes, pick the next half size up. If you have feet that are slightly different sizes, opt for the larger sized-shoe. Get adhesive pads for this purpose, which you place in the heel of the shoe for the smaller foot., It’s not advisable to buy cheap loafers (or leather shoes). You may be wearing them without socks at times, and they need to be resilient in warmth and sweat. The cost of loafers can vary hundreds of dollars, so check online reviews to make sure you’re going to get your money’s worth.Quality leather shapes well to your foot, resulting in more comfort. It also wears well over time.