 Toning shoes can vary in price between about $60 and $300. Much engineering goes into developing toning models, so they are not an inexpensive shoe.
 Look for the specific heel type you have chosen in the shoe description. Once you become familiar with the toning shoe terms like "balance pod," it will be easier to identify them as terms often associated with flexible rocker heels or collapsible heels once you start looking in stores.
 If you already walk or jog often, and you have found a shoe company you like, look for their model of toning shoe first, since the overall fit is likely to be better.
 Department stores, shoe stores and athletic stores now carry a large array of the most popular toning shoes, so try on a number of models before deciding on the shoe you want. You can also order from online shoes stores, like Endless.com, that offer free return shipping and exchanges.
 These are often the best indication of any discomfort associated with wearing them and how long they will last. You want to make sure you get a good product before paying the money.
 Most shoe companies do not let you return shoes if you have worn them outside. Since toning shoes garner larger prices, they may come with a warranty to return the shoes within a short length of time if they are not comfortable.
 Check Endless, Overstock, Piperlime, Zappos and other shoe sites for sales. Your body will be healthier if you choose the shoe that fits best and then look for the best price, rather than choose the shoe with the overall lowest price.
 Once there is a sale, go at the beginning so that you have a better chance of finding your size.
 These locations offer popular shoes at a deep discount. They usually offer a few brands of toning shoes at any given time.
 Try them on and wear them in the house to gradually decide if they are the right fit. Although there can be some slight muscle soreness at the beginning, return the shoes and find another model if you find they are painful or hurt other parts of your body.

