 Globe of Annihilation is Azmodan’s Q ability, which summons a gigantic globe that can travel a long distance and strike a large area for direct damage. This skill is exceptionally effective at clearing out minion waves, and can deal a significant amount of damage when used against tightly-clustered enemy teams. Azmodan has a lot of talents that improve Globe of Annihilation.


There are talents that increase its damage based on the distance traveled or based on the number of minions you kill with it. Then you have talents that speed up its travel time while dealing minor damage over time, reduce its mana cost and cause it to spawn a Demon Warrior should it hit an enemy.;
, Summon Demon Warrior is Azmodan’s W ability, which spawns a Demon Warrior that attacks the nearest hostile target and moves on to the nearest enemy lane. This ability’s most obvious use is to assist in pushing lanes, but it can also be used off-lane to scout around and give you a heads-up if an enemy is attempting to flank your position. It can be talented to increase the damage of the Demons while reducing the ability’s mana cost, as well as another talent so that the Demons receive less damage from non-heroic sources while wrapping them in a damaging aura.
 All Shall Burn is Azmodan’s E ability, which causes him to shoot out a laser from his hand to deal continuous damage that increases the longer the target is being attacked. Targets that don’t get away fast enough will suffer significant damage, making it exceptionally useful against towers, mercenaries and disabled enemy targets. It can be talented to reduce its mana cost while increasing the damage to structures, return a portion of the damage dealt, increase its maximum damage and be able to walk around at a reduced speed while using the ability.


Do note that All Shall Burn will be interrupted if Azmodan is stunned or if the target moves out of range.
 Black Pool is Azmodan’s first ultimate ability, which creates a pool of darkness around the target area which increases the damage of Azmodan’s abilities, basic attacks and summoned minions. This skill gives Azmodan the ability to deal significantly more damage over a short period of time, especially when coupled with properly-talented abilities. Its level 20 talent, Fifth Circle, slows both the attack and movement speeds of targets damaged by Azmodan’s abilities and basic attacks while under the effect of Black Pool.
 These Demonic Grunts can absolutely wreck enemy minions and structures, as well as unguarded mercenary camps. Toss it down when a lane is left unguarded, and watch the Grunts break down fortresses in the blink of an eye, especially when supported by minion waves and capture mercenaries.
 General of Hell is Azmodan’s trait, which creates a Demon Lieutenant at a targeted minion, mercenary or summon that you can target from anywhere in the map. The Lieutenant boosts the damage and maximum health of all nearby friendly minions, mercenaries and summons by 15%. This active trait gives Azmodan the ability to significantly improve both the attack and survivability of minion waves and charging mercenaries, especially since you can use General of Hell on any target across the map no matter where you are., The Demon Lord build is all about talenting Azmodan to make his summoned minions as deadly as possible while giving him the ability to quickly capture mercenary camps in the process. Azmodan can use Bribe, General of Hell, Summon Demon Warrior and Demonic Invasion to apply intense pressure on one unguarded lane before going off to support his teammates on the objective. Picking Mercenary Lord and Bolt of the Storm makes it a lot easier for Azmodan to push a single lane and giving him a much-needed escape option if he gets caught alone, while picking Army of Hell and Forced Recruitment give Azmodan the ability to more easily push multiple lanes simultaneously. This is not a build optimized for combat though, so the Demon Lord will not be as effective in team fights as other builds.



Talent Build: Bribe > Mercenary Lord OR Army of Hell > Bound Minion > Demonic Invasion > Hellforged Armor > Demonic Smite > Forced Recruitment OR Bolt of the Storm

, This build is all about capitalizing on All Shall Burn’s potential to do a ridiculous amount of damage against single targets. This gives Azmodan the option to quickly burn down bases that have been left unguarded or to fight on the front lines with his teammates as he focuses down vulnerable enemy heroes. This build relies heavily on All Shall Burn, which means that Azmodan will not be as effective if he is targeted by stuns as he focuses a target down. He will also be less effective the target’s mobility allows it to quickly escape Azmodan’s reach. Still, the Burner will prove to be a very real threat that the enemy team has to deal with or risk receiving huge damage if left unchecked.



Talent Build: Master of Destruction > Sin’s Grasp > Infused Power > Black Pool > March of Sin > Blood for Blood > Fifth Circle

, If the Burner is all about All Shall Burn, then the Bombardier is all about Globe of Annihilation. This build improves Azmodan’s ability to neutralize large enemy minion waves from afar while punishing enemy teams that stick too close together during teamfights. Sieging Wrath is the preferred talent in most situations, but Taste for Blood can give you more damage in situations where you have a teammate that coordinates his or her abilities to damage enemy minion waves so that you can more easily kill waves with Globe (e.g., Tassadar’s Psionic Storm, Sylvanas’ Shadow Dagger + Haunting Wave, Jaina’s Blizzard, Kael’thas’ Flame Strike, etc.).


Blood for Blood is also the preferred pick in most situations, but Battleborn gives Azmodan the ability to snipe enemy heroes and prevent them from turning in objectives in certain maps (e.g., the Dragon Statue in Dragon Shire, Blackheart in Blackheart’s Bay, Tributes in Cursed Hollow, and Shrines in the Tomb of the Spider Queen). This build, however, is not as effective when Globe of Annihilation is on cooldown and will become very inefficient if the Globes are reliably landed on multiple enemy heroes at once.

Talent Build: Sieging Wrath OR Taste for Blood > Sin’s Grasp > Infernal Globe > Black Pool > Hedonism > Blood for Blood OR Battleborn > Fifth Circle

, Azmodan has a very large health pool, which is surprising considering his specialist class. This allows you to build Azmodan in such a way that you boost his survivability on the battlefield while dealing enough damage to force the enemy to deal with him. You can effectively turn Azmodan into a front-line fighter to lead the way, which is extremely useful if your team does not have a warrior in its roster or needs an extra hand in absorbing some damage.


March of Sin is generally better than Relentless, but the latter talent is invaluable if you find yourself being the target of many stuns, slows, roots and other disables. Blood for Blood is also a good pick against enemy teams with lots of high-health warriors, while Imposing Presence is best used when the enemy team has a lot of heroes that deal heavy damage with their basic attacks (e.g., Illidan, Raynor, Valla, Tychus, etc.).

Talent Build: Master of Destruction > Gluttony > Gluttonous Ward > Black Pool > March of Sin OR Relentless > Blood for Blood OR Imposing Presence > Bolt of the Storm

