 Not all cleats will fit into all pedals, so when you are purchasing these it’s important to make sure they’ll fit together. If you purchase from a bike shop, an employee should be able to help you make sure you get ones that go together.Some cleats and pedals are made so they only go together as a set, while others will be interchangeable.
You will have the option of pedals with clip-ins on both sides, which are good for commuting. Other pedals have a clip on only one side with the other side being flat, which is good if you want to ride without clips sometimes.;
, It’s important to have shoes that are made specifically for cycling because they are made to fit the cleats. Having an expert attach your cleats can be helpful to make sure they are angled on the shoes correctly. Most bike shops should have someone who can help you with the process.


The centerline of your shoe is not exactly the same as the centerline of the cleat, which is why it can be helpful to have someone more experienced attach them.
Cycling shoes will have small holes in the bottom where the cleat screws onto the shoe. The exact placement of the cleats is partly personal preference, so if you attach them and try them out on the pedals, you can adjust them if they don’t feel quite right.
 Float refers to how much your shoes can move around in the clips. When you start out, it’s better to make them loose until you get used to how it feels having your feet attached to the pedals. Lower tension can also make it easier to unclip while you get used to that.As you get used to clipless pedals, you can tighten the tension up to increase your riding efficiency.
To adjust the tension, use an allen wrench. On the part of the pedal with the spring, you’ll see a small hole where the allen wrench is inserted. You’ll also see on the side a small gauge that moves as you loosen and tighten the tension.
 The cleat and pedal attach to each other to hold your foot in place. When the mechanism engages, you’ll hear and feel a click with lets you know you’re clipped in.It’s best to clip in your non-dominant foot first so you can stay balanced on your dominant foot. It’s also easier to push off with your stronger foot.
 Once you clip your first foot in, move the pedal so that it’s ready to drive downward and propel your bike forward. Giving a hard initial pedal with this foot will help you build momentum before you clip your second foot in.It’s easier to clip in the second foot when you are already moving rather than trying to balance the bike while you clip in.
 You do not have to have both feet clipped in to be able to pedal your bike. You can pedal a bit with only one foot clipped in until you gain momentum. Once you are going steady, clip your second foot in and pedal as you normally would.


Likewise, when nearing a stop, you can unclip and continue pedaling with that foot as you slow down.
 One of the biggest mistakes for new clipless pedal users is coming to a complete stop before unclipping. Once the bike is stopped, it will be much harder to balance. Anticipate your stop early enough that you can unclip one foot.Stop pedaling and get your dominant foot pedal into the lower position as you prepare to stop. Unclip this and keep pedaling until you are ready to stop.
 As long as your foot is pointing forward, it will stay locked to the pedal. Once you turn the heel outward, it disengages the clip mechanism. This may be hard to master, as it feels a little unnatural to turn your foot that way.


Make sure your foot is parallel to the ground, not tilted forward or backward. This will ensure the mechanism is aligned right and will easily disengage.
 Even though you are pedaling in the same motion as you would on flat pedals, it feels a little different with clipless pedals. If you can set your bike up on a stationary stand and practice getting clipped in, feel the difference in pedaling, and practice unclipping, you’ll feel more comfortable once you’re on the road.You probably don’t need to do this for weeks, or even days, just long enough to feel comfortable. If you ride for five minutes and you feel confident, then get out on the road. If it does take a few days to get the right, don’t feel bad.
It’s better to spend a little long getting used to your new pedals than to end up out on the road feeling uncomfortable with riding.
 Keeping your balance when you clip in is one of the hardest parts to learn. If you practice by balancing against something stable, you can get the motion down. While holding the wall, clip in both feet, pedal backwards to stay in place, and then unclip both feet.


When you are ready to ride, you can still begin to clip in by leaning on the wall for support. If you do this on your first few trips out on the road, you’ll get the hang of it enough that you won’t need the wall anymore.
 When you are first starting out riding with clipless pedals, you can make it easier for yourself by staying on level ground. It’s also good to have something soft nearby so that if you do fall, as most first timers do, you’ll have a cushion rather than falling on concrete., Cleats wear out over time, and if you don’t check them for wear, they may eventually snap while you are riding. Since this could cause an accident, it’s good to check them on occasion to see how they are holding up.


Cleats will wear out faster if you walk on them consistently, so it’s best to avoid this as much as possible. Consider having extra shoes to change into. You can also get rubber guards that go over the cleat to help protect it.

