 Before you begin the process of filing an online complaint with the FBI, pull together any copies of evidence you may have about the online gambling operation, as well as other information you may have.Keep in mind that the more information and detail you provide, the more likely it will be that the FBI will be successful in bringing down the illegal operation and bringing the perpetrators to justice.
However, don't hold off reporting an operation just because you don't have very much information. Even if all you have is the domain name of the website, it's information the FBI can use to investigate the activity.
If you happen to have any documents or other evidence, such as screen captures, you also will have the ability to submit them along with your complaint.
You don't have to be a victim to file a complaint with the FBI. The agency accepts complaints from any concerned citizen who wants to sound the alert about illegal gambling activity online.;
, The IC3 is run by the FBI, and collects information on internet crime submitted by private individuals. These reports are analyzed by the FBI and disseminated to other federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies where appropriate.For example, if the website that hosts illegal gambling happens to be operated out of a particular state, the FBI will forward information to that state's gaming commission to investigate and shut down the operation.
Even if the gambling activity itself is primarily occurring in a physical location, you still can use the IC3 website to report the activity if it has an online component.
 On the IC3 home page, there is a link to the online complaint form. Once you click it you will have to agree to the terms and conditions and accept the privacy policy before you can proceed filling out the form.Your information is kept secure, and your name and contact information remain confidential. However, you may be contacted by law enforcement officials looking for additional information about the operation described in your complaint.
Keep in mind that any information you submit must be true and correct to the best of your knowledge. Knowingly and intentionally providing false information could lead to fines and jail time.
 You cannot submit an anonymous complaint on IC3. You must provide your own name and contact information, as well as factual details about the illegal gambling operation you want to report.Accurate name and contact information ensures investigators can reach you if they have further questions or need more details about the activity.
Include as many details as you can, without making any judgment calls yourself as to whether a particular fact is important.
Keep in mind that something that seems inconsequential to you may unlock a pattern that connects this operation to other illegal gambling.
 Once you've reviewed the information you provided and are satisfied that it is complete and accurate, you can click the "submit" button to enter your complaint for evaluation with the IC3.You will have the opportunity to download or print a copy of your complaint for your own records.
IC3 will send you an email confirming receipt of your complaint and assigning you a user name and password. You can log in to IC3 with that information to review the status of your complaint at any time.
Keep in mind that while IC3 forwards your complaint to the appropriate law enforcement agencies, they all have discretion on whether to pursue an investigation or follow up on your complaint.
Once your complaint is submitted, it can't be deleted or withdrawn. However, you can add information to it if you learn anything new about the operation that was the subject of your report.

