 A relationship can often feel like a 24/7 job. However, it's perfectly natural to feel like spending some time on your own every once in a while, especially if you're under pressure. Find activities you can do by yourself without fearing that this would hurt the relationship.


If you're stressed because you feel you've lost your own self in a relationship, try to reaffirm your individuality and what makes you a unique person.
In fact, enjoying some independence will make you go back to your partner as a stronger individual. Missing each other is good: it helps you realize why your partner is so important and cherish the time you spend together.
 Especially if stress comes from outside the relationship, you should find external outlets so that you can unload the burden before being with your partner.


This depends on what way is best for you to decompress: sport works for many people. However, you might prefer reading, going out more often, walking or meditation.
 There is no better way to take the burden off your chest than shake it away with physical activity. Even if you're not exactly the sporty kind, you can be sure that sweating out stress will lessen its impact on your relationship.


The kind of activity depends on what you find most effective as a stress relief. Cardio activities like jogging, swimming or cycling can give you a chance to clear your mind. Or, you might prefer kickboxing or martial arts if you need to take out nervous tension. Yoga can work best if you wish to combine sport and meditation.
 Your partner shouldn't be the only person you unload your stress with. Talk to close friends or family members about your concerns and ask for their advice and sympathy.


If you talk to someone in your family, make sure they would be supportive. You don't want family issues to add more stress to what you're already going through!
Friends who care about you but are personally uninvolved in what's causing you stress could be the best people to talk to. For example, if stress comes from your job, look for support from a friend who's not linked to it.

