 Wearing neutrals with your colored jeans allows you to wear jeans in both bright and subtle shades, so the color you choose will be what sets the tone of your outfit.


For the most subtle look possible, choose a jean in a pastel hue or a deep tone. For instance, you could go for a light mint green jean or a deep olive green jean.
For a bolder look, go with a bright color. A lime green jean, for example, is a bold fashion choice no matter what top you choose to wear with it. Wearing lime green jeans with neutral colors is a safe way to be a little loud, though.;
, Choose a neutral top in a style that matches the tone set by your color choice.


Pastel jeans and deep tones work best with conservative blouses or a button-down shirt. A light mint green jean will pair well with a traditional denim button-down shirt, or a deep olive green might look nice with lacy off-white blouse.
A bold jean color matches well with a bolder style. A lime green jean can work with a black tank top accented with silver sequins. Funky necklines, peplum tops, and other embellishments also work well for bold colored jeans.Also consider the underlying color tone of your jeans when choosing a neutral. Blue-toned colors tend to work best with cool-toned neutrals like black, gray, silver, and white. Red-toned colors tend to work best with warm-toned neutrals like brown, gold, and cream. Classic denim works well with nearly all jean colors.
 Since this look is fairly safe to begin with, you can get away with an elaborate shoe style as long as the color is still neutral. Think brown, black, or white.


Wedge sandals are an especially trendy choice, but decorative flats, flat sandals, kitten heels, and stilettos all work, as well.
For colder weather, think knee-high riding boots or ankle boots with a wedge heel.
 Some styles work best for with bold colored jeans while others work better for pastels and deep shades.


For pastel jeans or deep shades, consider a cardigan sweater or structured blazer in a neutral color. A deep olive jean paired with a cream blouse would work well with a chocolate brown blazer. For bolder colors, think leather.
Of course, a jacket or sweater is only optional.
 A snakeskin purse or bold ring could work well with this otherwise safe style.


Stick with two or three key accessories. Having too many accessories can still make the outfit look too busy. Additionally, the more accessories you have, the less bold they should be.
A lime green jean and black tank top can be accented with a leopard print scarf and bulky brown bangle bracelet.
 You can introduce a little color into your make-up with eye shadow, nail polish, or lipstick, but choose one feature of your face to highlight while minimizing the rest.


As a general rule, wear everyday make-up with this style.
A deep olive jean with a cream blouse could be matched with light green eye shadow and a pale pink lip gloss.
A bright lime green jean with a black tank top could be paired with a smoky eye and deep red lipstick.

