 Medical school lasts four years and provides an intensive overview of basic medical science, the human body, and how to diagnose and administer medication.


Medical school is a stressful, time-consuming process that requires dedication on your part. Make sure you give yourself adequate time to study during your time in med school.
The first two years of medical school are academically based. You learn about basic science and human anatomy in a classroom setting.The second two years of medical school involve clinical training. You will work in a hospital with a team of other students, learning about medical work hands-on., After you complete medical school, there are several different routes you can take to become a medical examiner. Decide which route is right for you by weighing costs, efficiency, time, and your own personal learning style.


Forensic pathology in the United States requires at least 2 or 3 years of anatomic pathology residency training followed by at least one year of forensic pathology fellowship. Additional years (e.g. clinical / laboratory pathology residency and other specialty fellowships) can be added, if desired.
You can also do a more multifaceted path, doing a program that consists of anatomic pathology in addition to laboratory medicine and forensic pathology.This path is a good one if you know you enjoy pathology, but would like to keep your options outside of forensic pathology open.
A third option is to spend 5 years in forensic pathology and 2 years in anatomic pathology. A fourth option is one fellowship year of forensic pathology and one year of neuropathology, toxicology, or a related field following your basic pathology residency. These options might give you more expertise than that confined to crime scene investigation.Ask medical examiners you know as well as past professors and advisers about what path would be right for you.
 Depending on the path you chose, you might need to complete a Forensic Pathology Fellowship after completing your residency.


A Forensic Pathology Fellowship is designed to help you further your experience performing autopsies by investigating violent death. You will work with law enforcement agencies during this time, and play an important part in solving crimes and providing evidence for trial.You might be working in a local medical examiner's office. If you like the work environment during your fellowship, try to stay in touch with any connections you make. You might be able to find a full time job here down the road.Fellowships typically last one year.