 You have to choose classes that you will be interested in. Of course, you may still have to plow through gen ed courses, but that shouldn't be too much trouble. Once you start learning about what interests you, you might...;
, Don't like to study? It can be tough, but you have to find some motivation to learn, otherwise you may start slacking off. Try a rigid study routine, or try to make studying fun. Try applying what you are studying into a real life situation.
 College professors know who is and who is not paying attention in class, and this could reflect poorly on your grade. Make sure you let the professor know that you are interested and have a real desire to perform well in their course.
 As much as this is a warning, it is also a step. Never walk into class with a cell phone that is on, or an audio device, or anything that may distract you from giving the class 110% of your attention. You never know when the professor may mutter something like; "yeah, this might be on the test".
 Going above and beyond never hurt anyone, and it can be a great way of getting your name out in your department.
 College is your future, your social life is your past. Understand that every night you go out is another night that you could have been studying. Once you have your degree, you will have all the time you want to socialize.
 The college will charge you the same amount if you are taking 12 or 19 credits, so don't waste your time or money by taking just a few credits. Make the most of your time and.
 This is a big step, because it means that you'll have to make your education your whole life. Somehow you should always be contributing to your education, whether it is studying that extra fifteen minutes or finding that internship opportunity. Your time and energy are the ingredients to a good college education.
 This may seem obvious, but many kids are too afraid or don't care enough. Showing your professors that you are actively engaged in their material is never a bad idea, even if you really don't understand the material.

