 Make yourself get up and out of bed to turn off your alarm. This gives you no choice but to wake up and turn off the noise, and once you are out of bed it is much easier to stay out of it.


Set your alarm to go off with upbeat music. Most phones can use any song as an alarm, and many alarm clocks can use the radio to wake you up.
If you are still having trouble, try buying a natural light alarm clock, which wakes you up with light instead of sound. , Drinking a glass of water replenishes the water you lost from sweating and exhaling during the night and is proven to kickstart your metabolism, making it much easier to get your body moving in the morning. Put a full cup of water by your bed before you go to sleep so that it is ready in the morning.
Chewing mint or citrus flavored gum may also lead to faster feelings of alertness. , This needs to be more than just arching your back and yawning. Sit up and touch your toes, pull your knees to your chest, and do some light yoga if you are really struggling. Stretching forces blood to move throughout your body and into your brain, waking you up quickly but gradually.


Find the exercises and stretches that work for you and do them every morning. , One of the most common reasons why we feel groggy or drowsy is because we are too warm. Warmth, like sleep, slows down our metabolism and our mind, so throw the covers off, remove a layer of clothes, or open a window when you need to get up. Do this when you wake up, not when you sleep, as feeling cold can prevent you from having a good night's rest.
 Abrupt but certainly effective, splashing cold water on your face is a surefire way to make you alert and ready to tackle the day. Just remember that it may not be very pleasant.
 Think about what you need to do that morning and make a mental list of your tasks. More importantly, recognize why these tasks are important and why waking up to do them is important. , The longer you lay in bed, trying to muster up the ability to get out of bed, the harder it will be. But if you begin a task you are forced to begin your day, and the temptation to stay in bed will melt away. Make your bed, do some exercises, or start cooking breakfast right away to get your mind kickstarted and ready for the morning.


If you are still struggling, start with an activity you can do in bed, like reading a book or responding to emails.

