 Guinea pigs’ do not produce enough vitamin C. You must feed your pet fresh fruits and vegetables that are high in vitamin C. Recommended vegetables include kale, parsley, cabbage, greens (collard, mustard, turnip), spinach, beet greens, broccoli, Brussel sprouts, cauliflower, romaine lettuce, and celery (with leaves). Always wash fruits and vegetables before serving them and remove the leftovers after a few hours.Fruit is a treat and should not be part of the daily diet. Recommended fruits include strawberries, raspberries, oranges, honeydew melon, rutabaga, apples, cherries, and peaches.
Green peppers and oats can also be served in moderation as well.
Feed your guinea pig 4 or 5 different foods, twice a day.;
, Purchase fresh pellets that are enriched with vitamin C. Your guinea pig should have one food bowl for pellets and another food bowl for fruits and vegetables. Purchase the pellets in small quantities so they do not go bad. Old pellets will not have enough vitamin C.Guinea pigs under 4 months of age should be given an unlimited amount of pellets. After 4 months, give your guinea pig 1 tablespoon of pellets each day.
You should buy new pellets at least once a month.
Never feed your guinea pig rabbit pellets. Rabbit pellets do not have enough folic acid and vitamin C.
 Add 50 milligrams of ascorbic acid to one cup of drinking water and give it to your guinea pig. Make a new batch of water every 12 hours. This is only necessary if your guinea pig is not getting enough vitamin C through its food. Signs of vitamin C deficiency include:


Decreased appetite
Diarrhea
Rough hair coat
Swollen joints and ribs
Bleeding gums
Inadequate bone and teeth development

, Hay provides your guinea pig with fiber and is good for its teeth. Chewing Timothy hay helps grind down all of your guinea pig’s teeth.Your guinea pig should have a constant supply of fresh hay. Remove the old hay and replace it with fresh hay each day. Your guinea pig will not eat all of the hay that you provide.You can purchase this hay from the pet supply stores.


Orchard grass is a good alternative for Timothy hay.
Alfalfa and other legume hays should not be used. They are high in calories and can cause your guinea pig to gain too much weight.