 Handwritten apologies are the best non-verbal way to apologize. The length and tone of your message will depend largely on the severity and cause of the message. Forgetting a birthday is a far different matter than abuse or infidelity, for example. What is important, however, is that you write from the heart. Do away with the pretence of formal letter writing; write what you're feeling, and let the girl know you are sorry within the first two sentences.


Including a heart at the bottom denotes warmth and may be appropriate if you're in a romantic relationship with the girl.
Writing it by hand is important in this case. An apology letter is nothing if it isn't backed by a personal touch and vulnerability. It's much easier to mask emotions over a computer. However, for small matters a quick email or instant message can work as well.
 If you've done something to hurt the girl's feelings, doing something to make her feel good in consequence is a good way to make up for past faults.The way you go about making up to her is as potentially diverse and unique as the relationship itself. If you can think of some things the girl is interested in, you should think of those as potential opportunities to set things right. If you can't think of anything specific, there are few women out there who don't appreciate having back massages or dinner being made for them. It doesn't need to be anything too elaborate; a simple gesture can say a lot about the way someone is feeling.
 Although this probably only suits less severe or personal issues, an apology can in fact have greater weight when a dollar sign is attached to it. Of course, giving someone money would make it feel like a dirty bribe, so making a donation to a charity will carry the good intention without any of the foul undertones.


Donations, however small, should be accompanied with a specific statement why you're making it. Explain to the girl that you're making this donation as a way to affect positive change in the world from your apology, giving the fight you had an altruistic benefit for the world. Charity helps the world and is near-impossible to argue with.

