 Double-click the icon of your preferred Internet browser on your desktop.;
, Once your browser is open, type in http://www.odesk.com on the address bar and hit Enter. This will load up the main oDesk login page for you to sign in.
 There are two boxes on the top of the screen: for your email address and password; click each box and type in your information then click “Sign in.”

, In order for you to get to your Settings menu, click on the small gear icon on the top-right side of the screen.
 This will load a new page where you will be asked to type in your password again since you are accessing an account sensitive page. Click inside the password box and type in your password then click “Sign in” to access your settings.



After you click on the “Edit” button, all the settings below will become available for your to change.
 The first box is a drop-down menu where you can select your time zone. Click on the menu and scroll through the options until you find your new time zone.


This information is great for potential clients to see so that they can know exactly when you are available.
 The next box is for your address, which is completely optional. If you want to add your address, click on the box beside the option and type in your street number and street name.


Adding this information will add validity to your account.
 Below your address is a box for your city. If you move to a new city, you can just click inside the box and type in the name of your new city.
 Below the city is an option for your state. It is in the form of a drop-down menu. If you click on the option, a list of all the states will populate; find the one that shows where you are at and click on it.
 The next option is for a zip code; simply click inside the box and type your new zip code in.
 This is the last setting you can add. If you click inside the box, all you have to do is type in your phone number, including the area code.


Keep in mind, your clients can see your phone number once they hire you. This means that they will be able to call you.
 Once you have adjusted all your location settings to your liking, you just have to click the green “Update” button at the bottom of the screen to finalize your changes.