 Begin by visiting http://www.aaa.com. The AAA is actually made up of many organizations, serving different areas. However, you can reach any of these regional organizations by visiting this website.



Note: start with this step even if you plan to apply for membership in person, not online.;
, The AAA website may automatically detect the general area you are located in, and send you to the correct web page for your area. If it does not, it will likely display a popup box and prompt you to enter your zip code.


If you do not know your zip code, you may look it up by entering your address at the US Postal Service website.
 Some local AAA organizations display their regional address prominently on the front page of their website, which you were just directed to. If you do not see one, or if the address is not nearby, look for a "Find another office" link, or "Find a local branch," or similar. Click this link to be taken to a map or a list of all AAA offices in your region, including their phone numbers and hours of operation.


Try using your browser's Find command and enter "Office" or "Branch." This is typically available with the Ctrl+F key combination in a Windows operating system, or command+F on a Mac.
 Optionally, call the listed phone number and ask for information on membership plans. Your local office may or may not be able to register you as a member over the phone. Almost any AAA office should be able to register you in person, as long as you bring your driver's license and a method of payment.


To save time before you show up, know what type of vehicles you operate, and whether other members of your household wish to apply as well.
 There are dozens of regional websites, organized in many different layouts. Somewhere on the homepage, however, there should be a button or text link labeled Join Now or Join AAA.
 When you click Join, you will likely be taken to a chart comparing the benefits of different membership plans. The details of these vary between regional organizations, but the benefits are typically laid out clearly in a chart.


Usually, the organization offers Classic (or Basic), Plus, and Premier membership. The Plus and Premier memberships cost more, but come with additional perks as described, such as additional free towing, or free travel insurance under certain conditions.
If you do not understand a particular perk, the name of the perk may be a link that describes it in more detail. Other AAA websites have a question mark to click next to it, or a "View details" link at the bottom of the chart.
 The "Primary Member" price indicates how much you would pay each year for that membership. There is typically an additional "Enrollment" fee or "New Member" fee, which is an additional charge applied once, when you join. Finally, if you wish another member of your household to receive the same benefits, that may cost you an additional "Associate Member" fee each year, per additional member.
 The Classic or Basic plan typically only covers ordinary cars, not RVs, trailers, or motorcycles. Your regional organization may display detailed information on this in a Vehicle Types chart at the bottom of the page, or include it somewhere in the perk list.
 After selecting "Join" for a particular plan, you should be taken to a form. Enter your full name, personal information, and contact information, as directed. When you're done, hit next.
 You may be prompted for additional information, such as associate member information. Look for a "Convenience Billing" option. Select "No" if you do not want your credit card to be automatically billed at the end of each year. Keep it selected "Yes" if you want to automatically renew your membership each year.


If you disable convenience billing, you will need to manually pay your membership dues each year to retain membership benefits.
 Enter your credit card information, or your personal checking account information. After confirming the order via email, your membership card should arrive in the mail within a few days.


Do not enter your credit card information over an unsecured internet network, especially a public one used by many people.

