 The first step to having healthy nails is to avoid biting them. This will increase the chance of having those nails you so desire! Moreover, damaging the nail bed can invite bacteria and fungi and can cause infections., Cleaning with a nail brush is a gentle way to remove dirt, dead skin, and bacteria from underneath your nails. This is especially important if you bite your nails. You could also make a scrub with 2 spoons sugar and 2 spoons olive oil to make a scrub to exfoliate your hands and the matrix and cuticle areas. This will keep your hands clean and soft and also improve blood circulation in them.
 Although there isn’t much evidence to indicate that taking additional vitamin supplements will improve your nail health, some research suggests that biotin may strengthen weak nails., Get in the habit of using moisturizer, which it helps feed moisture to your nails,preventing hangnails and keeping your hands soft. Also, you can massage any kind of oil like coconut or olive oil around your cuticles to hydrate them and provide moisture to them enabling your nails to grow faster.
 This often tears the healthy tissue around the nail bed, which looks unsightly and can lead to infection.
 Excessive moisture can cause your nails to grow brittle and split, so wear gloves when you wash dishes and avoid soaking your hands in the tub.
 Strong cleaning agents like bleach and laundry detergent can weaken nails.
 This will help your nails retain their natural moisture.If you tend to have paper-thin nails, there are nail hardeners that have fibers in the liquid which help tremendously.
 Long, strong nails are the envy of every girl who sees them. Note that once you begin growing your own nails, it can take months to get them where you want them.


If you’re looking for a quick fix, wear fake nails. Although acrylic nails aren’t likely to damage your real ones, avoid applying them with unsanitary tools or allowing them to separate from the natural nails, both of which can invite infection.