 Draw some very simple design on it with light pencil marks. A square or circle is a good idea.;
,, If there is too much water in the brush, dab it on the towel to soak up the excess, or lightly shake the excess out of the brush.
 Don't use too much — just enough to make the watercolor liquid.
 Next, paint this inside the shape drawn on your paper. If the paint is too thick, and stays in one place, dip your brush into the water again and add a little more water to the paint on the paper. Keep experimenting with different amounts of water versus paint mixtures to get a feel for just the right amount of water versus paint you desire. If you want a "dry brush" look, you will use less water on your brush versus the amount of paint. If you want a very wet flowing look, you will want more water versus paint. Fill in the shape with color on your paper.
, Using a big brush or a sponge, get it wet all over. Then try painting into that with different colors. As the paper dries, observe the different ways the paint reacts with how much water there is on the paper.
 Colors mingle with each other on the paper easily and some colors migrate more than others. Try laying down stripes of blue, then a stripe of yellow or gold next to it, then a stripe of red after the gold when it's very wet. You'll see the mixtures your colors create as they form a smooth gradation.
 Now your strokes will still be soft edged but a little more defined. Once the color's down, let it dry completely and then add details wet on dry.
 Mix some sky blue. Mark some hills and a tree in your sketch lines. First paint them in loosely wet in wet. Then start adding some large details wet on damp. Finally add all the smallest details with wet on dry when it's completely dry.
 Hold the back of your hand over the painting, but do not touch it. It takes a little practice to really feel the dampness this way, but touching your painting could damage it or leave skin oils on it. Don't remove the tape around the edges until it's completely flat and dry. The tape is what's keeping the paper flat or flattening it out again when it bubbles up.
 It's a little more expensive but very convenient for a beginner.
 Then shake salt in it before it dries. You'll get some beautiful effects that you can use to make snowflakes in the sky or lichen on rocks.
, Anything you mask with masking tape will stay clean and white.
 Paint around or mask anything you need to keep white. Getting used to "negative painting" like this will also help you get more accurate outlines to objects than trying to draw the object itself. Try drawing just the shape of the space around the cup exactly and the shape of the space within the handle instead of drawing the cup. You'll see a big difference in accuracy!

, Once a watercolor mark or area is completely dry, mix a thin wash of another color and paint over it quickly. It will change the color and, if you do it carefully, won't disturb the details you painted under it. A light gold glaze on sunlit areas in a landscape can make the sunlight look much richer.
 Watch videos on YouTube and other places to get ideas for watercolor techniques. Then paint something you really like. A good type of painting that translates well to watercolor is Sumi-E or Japanese ink painting — those strokes and techniques are just as beautiful in watercolor.

