 Help the child get some exercise by going for a walk, riding bikes, or going to a park. All kids get built-up energy that needs an outlet, and it may be particularly the case for a hyperactive child. Getting fresh air and a change of scenery can be really useful in redirecting a child’s disposition.


Find a sport that the child enjoys doing. Do not pressure them to do a sport they don’t like, as this can increase their hyperactivity and lack of focus.
 Give your child a chance to take a breath and relax by reading a book with them or singing a soft song. Giving them a warm bath is also a good idea.Add lavender essential oils to the bath to create a calming scent.
 Nature can have a calming effect on people, even if it’s just spending time in the yard or garden. Taking a walk or hike in a forest can also be very beneficial, as the child will get fresh air, exercise, and a chance to clear their heads., If there is an activity that seems to trigger your child’s hyperactivity, such as something that is noisy, frustrating, too chaotic, and so on, redirect their attention to another activity. This can help refocus their attention.
 Meditating is, for any age, a good way to calm the mind and body. When children are unable to handle thinking about stressful situations, you can help them visualize how they can respond in those situations. This can help calm them down. Search online for examples of these, or find a book at your local library on meditation and guided imagery for children.For example, have the child sit and close their eyes. Ask them to imagine a calm space, like a beach or a forest. Have them pay attention to the sounds that they hear, the wind they feel on their face, and the details they see around them. Using a regular imagined calming space can be helpful.
 Teach your child how to take deep breaths to relax. Take a deep breath in through the nose and slowly breathe out through the mouth. Focus on different parts of the body while taking these deep breaths.For example, have your child think about their legs while breathing deeply and rhythmically. Have them tighten up their leg muscles when they inhale, and relax those muscles with every exhale. Go through different parts of the body until the entire body is relaxed.
Have your child imagine a warm color or light that surrounds them as they breathe. Imagine this color or light wraps them up to calm them down.
 Calming meditative practices like yoga and tai chi are not just good for adults. They help kids get centered and find balance in their lives. Find a DVD at your local library that guides kids through yoga or tai chi. Similarly, search online for one.
 If the child is old enough to write, give them a notebook or journal to write their feelings in. They can write a page or two every day, jotting down their thoughts, problems and concerns. They can either keep the page intact or crumple it up and throw it away.


Do not read your child’s journal. They should feel that they can be totally honest in their journal, and respecting their privacy will help them feel safe enough to write what is really on their mind.

