 In this mode, the main goal is clear all the chocolate. The number of chocolate bars on the board is indicated in the upper portion of the screen. This number is relatively useless as the chocolate bars spread after every move if you don’t take at least one out.
 The chocolate bars can be positioned in various parts of the board. Find them so you will know where to focus your matches.
 Chocolate bars can be taken out by making candy matches adjacent to them. Find a spot where you can make the most damage to the chocolate and make your match there.


The chocolate bars can spread very quickly if you don’t manage them early on. Take out at least one chocolate bar in every move. The sooner you take all of them out, the better it will be.
Don’t pay too much attention to the other candies or obstacles on the board. Your sole focus should be on taking out all the chocolate. Don’t waste your moves on matching the other candies.
 Similar to the original Candy Crush, you can make some combos that will generate special candies. These special candies can help you clear out more candies and earn more points. They are also useful in clearing up huge chunks of chocolate. Match these special candies with each other to get more awesome results.



Striped candy — A Striped candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. The direction is dependent on what direction the stripes are on the candy. Striped candies are useful in removing jellies and chocolate, when placed in the right position.

Wrapped candy — A Wrapped candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. This one’s more challenging and difficult to get as compared to a Striped candy. When you use a Wrapped candy as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way. Wrapped candies can be useful in removing obstacles within their explosion area, which can otherwise be difficult to get to.

Candy Bomb — A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row. Color bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all similar-colored candies will be removed from the board.

Jellyfish — A Jellyfish is a special candy that results from matching at least four candies in a box of 2 by 2. When used, a Jellyfish attacks an obstacle or a soda bottle, depending on the level. Jelly Fishes can be useful in removing obstacles or soda bottles from hard to reach areas, though they move in random.
 Aside from the main goal, every level requires you to meet a certain minimum score to in order to move to the next level. If you’ve successfully completed the goal, but didn’t meet the required score, you will still lose the game. Go for huge combos and cascading matches to get some bonus scores.