 Unless you've never worn makeup, don't feel that you have to stop using it. Makeup helps to reduce your age; with it, you can easily appear 10 years younger.


As you age, makeup camouflages imperfections, masks signs of fatigue, restores your colour, and illuminates your appearance.
If you've never worn makeup before, now is a good time to start. You don't have to go overboard, and be kind to yourself by visiting a makeup counter for specialist advice.;
, Rich base creams will outline the wrinkles and imperfections on older skin because they cannot penetrate properly. Look for fluid, liquid textures that are light and nourishing.
 Look for light foundations. Use one type for problem areas (freckles, brown spots, redness, etc.), then blend with a light foundation.


Watch out! Too much thick foundation will cause wrinkles and lines to stand out rather than be hidden.
 It is also dry. Whenever purchasing makeup products, the product must be suitable for fine, dry skin.
 If your face has too much powder on it, you'll look instantly 10 years older. Be stingy with the application.


Dip the point of a large makeup brush into the powder, then shake it. Then simply flick across your face gently, from the centre to the outside of your face.
A good powder will have a slight pink or rose tint to it, to give you back some colour.
 These products don't reflect a lot of light, aging you. Avoid any powder with an orange tint to it.
 Older cheeks hollow out more and are in need of a very light touch of blusher, not a deep brush.
 Maintain a natural expression when applying eyeshadow and brush on lightly. Avoid using vivid colours across the entire eyelid.


Avoid bright or glittering eyeshadow; these have a tendency to highlight wrinkles.
 Trace the eyeline and eyelashes softly, with a gentle, soft colour. Avoid thick mascara or you'll have glued up eyelashes. Keep the darker makeup very light, very minimal or it will age you terribly.
 The bright lipsticks are great on women in their 20s and 30s. In your 40s on, it begins to become overwhelming and your aging complexion will make the contrast too strong.


Keep lip liner extremely discreet.
If your teeth have discoloured, avoid deep colours like browns and burgundy.
Use light colours to reflect light and to help you radiate.

