 You will need some sort of video editing program in order to create this video. This program should allow you to import songs, add backgrounds, and add text. Although the following methods will focus on iMovie and Windows Live Movie Maker, you can apply the outlined techniques to other video editing programs as well.

Consider buying software, or at least downloading a program from a reputable company. Many companies offer free trial versions that expire within 30-90 days, free (simplified) versions, and full versions that cost more money, but allow you to use more features.
Avoid downloading free programs from second-party and questionable websites. The free program that you download may not be worth the loads of free viruses and Trojans that might come with it.;
, Make sure that the song is saved as an audio file onto your computer. If you don't already own the file, download it from a reputable website or copy it from a CD. Make sure to use a file with decent sound quality. If it sounds static-y, scratchy, or fuzzy, try another copy of the song.

Be wary of downloading any free music. Not only is the artist not getting any money, but that free music file might also come with a free virus or Trojan.
 Some programs automatically use a YouTube-compatible aspect ratio, and most allow you to adjust the ratio.

If your video editing program doesn't let you set a YouTube-compatible aspect ratio, try giving your lyric video a black background. This way, the black filler bars will be less noticeable., Consider using a solid color for your background so that the text stands out – especially if the song is fast-paced and wordy. Try to use contrasting colors so that the text is easier to read.

If you want to use an image as your background, try fading the colors. Alternately, use an image for the title screen, and switch to a solid color once the lyrics start.
Consider the song's mood and theme when choosing colors and images. Use darker colors for a sad song, and brighter colors for a happy song. If the song is about loneliness, consider using images that feel lonely, such as empty parks or fields.
If your background is black, use white for the text. If your background is mostly blues, consider using a warm color, such as pink, or a contrasting color such as orange. If you want to use light/dark colors for both your text and background, consider outlining the text in a dark/light color., You want the words to be easy to read. If your text is too fancy or too small, your viewers might not be able to read the lyrics. Try using a simple font like Ariel or Calibri. Use a large font size so that the words fill the screen. Stay away from very thin font styles, as well as those with close-knit kerning. This will make them more difficult to read.
Don't be afraid to change your font style throughout the video to reflect the mood of certain parts – but don't go too wild. For the sake of consistency, try to stick to 1-3 fonts: vary the size as needed, or pick a bold font, a plain font, and a fancier font.
 If the song has a very quick tempo, you may want to put an entire stanza on each slide so that people can read all of the words as they're being sung. If it's a slow song, try putting each line on a separate slide to reflect the pacing., The title page gives credit to the original artist, and it confirms that the viewer is watching the video that he/she wants to watch. The title page should include the name of the song and the name of the artist. Consider adding the name of the album, especially if you want this video to become part of a full-album playlist.

Consider adding your own name. If you are doing this for a school project or trying to build the "brand" of your YouTube channel, you may want to credit yourself for making the video. You can use your real name, your YouTube username, or both.
Consider leaving the video silent during the title page by making the video slightly longer than the song track. This might make the transition cleaner.
 Once you have opened iMovie, you can set up your movie by clicking on "File" and then selecting "New Event" from the drop-down menu. Name your event whatever you want, such as a variation of the song title. This is where you will be importing the song and background image that you'll be using in your video., Click on "File" again and select "Import Media" from the drop-down menu. A new window will pop up. From here, click on the song you want to use for your video, and the image you want for your background. Once you have everything you want selected, click on "Import." Your song and image should now be in your Event. You are now ready to start creating your video!, You can start creating a new video by going to the top of the window and clicking on "Create." Choose "Movie" for the project type, and "No Template" for the template. Make sure that the video is being saved in your Event.

You will also be asked to name the video. You can choose whatever name you want, but some variation of the song title might help you find the video later on.
 You can do this by clicking on the image and dragging it over to the project pane. It will be automatically set to 4 seconds, so you will need to extend the length., In order to do this, go back to your project pane and click on the image. At the top of the window, click "Adjust," and then "Clip Information." This will allow you to change the duration of the background from 4 seconds to however long the song is – or however long you want your final video to be.

If you don't do this, the background will appear only for 4 seconds, and then disappear.
Do not leave the adjustment window just yet!

, When you add a background image to an iMovie project, the program will automatically apply a panning-and-zooming motion to the picture. If you like this effect, feel free to leave it – but make sure that you at least know how to get rid of it. In the adjustment window, click "Crop," and then select "Fit." This will clear away any unwanted image motion., First, open the Event Browser. Double-click your song, and drag it to the bottom of the project pane. If you want the song to start right away, place it all the way to the left. If you do not want it to start right away, then leave a bit of space in the beginning.

If you have a "title page," for instance, you might want the viewer to have a chance to read the name of the song and the band before the music begins.
 You can select a font style by going to the bottom left corner of the screen and selecting the Content Library. Click on "Titles." If you can't find the Content Library, click on "Window" and select "Show Libraries." You will see many different titles. Hover your mouse pointer over each one to see what it does. Click on the one you like., Click on Play, and wait until the person starts singing. When the person starts singing, hit Stop. Click on the "title" and drag it to the stopping point on the time line. Then, click on the title again, and select the text in the preview pane. Type out the first line or two of the song., You can do this by playing the song and seeing where the first sung ling (the one you just typed out) ends. Hit Stop and look where the play-head rests. Drag the right border of the title so that it matches with the play-head.

If the lyrics start too late, you can make them appear sooner by dragging the title to the left.
 Once you are happy with the placement and timing of your first line, you can add the next line. Do this by clicking and dragging the play-head to where next set of lyrics begins. Repeat steps 9 and 10. Keep doing this until the song is complete and you have written all of the lyrics., Once the song is complete and you have typed out all of the lyrics, press Play and watch your video. You may find that you have to adjust the timing of the lyrics. If this happens, simply click on the title you want to adjust, and drag it left or right., Once you are satisfied with your video, click "Share," and select "File" from the drop-down menu. You will be asked to name your file and choose a location for it to be saved in. Type in a name for your video and choose a location that you will remember (you will need to access this location later when you are uploading your video to YouTube) then click on "Save."

Make sure to use a YouTube-compatible file type: 3GPP, AVI, .FLV, .MOV, MP4, .MPEG4, .MPEGPS, WebM, or .WMV., If you don't have it, you will have to download it from the Microsoft website. Avoid downloading the program from a second-party website, as it may come with viruses., To add a background to your video, click on the Home tab, and select the button that says "Add videos and photos." Go to the folder where you keep your images and select the one you want. Your player on the left will now contain the background you chose, and the storyboard on the right will contain a thumbnail version of the background., You want your background to last throughout the video, and there are two ways you can achieve this: you can either do it manually by copy-pasting the image or you can let the program do it automatically for you. If one way doesn't work, try the other one.

You can copy-paste the thumbnail image all the way to the right side of the screen, then select the whole line, and copy-paste it several times. This should be enough to cover the whole song.You can also add your song first, and then select the "Project" tab, and click on "Fit to Music." This will cause your background to stretch from the beginning all the way to the end., To add music to your video, click on the Home tab, and select the button that says "Add Music." A new window will pop up. Select the song you want from the list. Once you have added your song, you should see a green bar right above the background thumbnails.

If you do not see your song in the pop-up, go to the folder where you keep your music, and select it from there.
 If you extended the background manually, the green song bar may stop before the background thumbnails do, or it may extend past the thumbnails. If this happens, you may need to extend the background, or shorten it.If the green bar stops before the last thumbnail, your background is longer than your song. Look to see where the green bar stops, and delete any backgrounds after it.
If the green bar extends past the green bar, your background is not long enough. You will need to copy-paste the background thumbnails until the green bar no longer extends past it.
 You can add words to your video by opening the Home tab and selecting "Caption." When you select "Caption," you will be able to start typing words directly into your video screen. You can adjust the length of the Caption by clicking on it in your storyboard, then selecting "Caption" from the "Home" tab. You'll see two places where you can input numbers: start time and text duration. Adjust the "text duration," and type in the number of seconds you want your title page to last.

You can add more Captions by clicking on the next thumbnail.
 Now that you know how to add text to your video, you will need to add the lyrics and time them to the words in the song. You can do this by first clicking on Play in the player, and letting the music start. When you hear the person start singing, press stop. Note what background image it is where the person starts singing. Then, add the lyrics.

Don't write all of the lyrics at once. Instead, write the first line or two, and then add another Caption for the next few lines.
 Once you are satisfied with your video, open up the File menu (or click on the very first tab) and click on "Save As." You will be asked to choose a name and file type for your video. You can select a location for your document to be saved in from the menu on the left. Choose a name, file type, and location for your video. Then, click "Save."

Be sure to save the video in a file format that's accepted by YouTube: 3GPP, AVI, .FLV, .MOV, MP4, .MPEG4, .MPEGPS, WebM, or .WMV.
 Open https://www.youtube.com/. If you are already signed into your account, click "Upload" in the upper right-hand corner. Drag the video file into the "Upload" box in the center of the next screen, and your lyric video will automatically upload.

If you don't have an account yet, click the red "Create an Account" button in the upper right-hand corner of the page. Follow the instructions to create a YouTube account.If you want anyone to be able to watch your lyric video, make sure that the "Public" option is selected, rather than "Private" or "Unlisted." Choose "Public" from the drop-down menu directly beneath the large grey arrow.
 When you upload your video to YouTube, you will be asked to add a description, title, and tags. Fill out all three options before publishing your video. Once you have chosen a name and description for your video, and added some tags: click on "Publish."

The video description should include the name of the song, the artist or band, and the album. You can also include who is doing the vocals and instrumentals. Be sure to mention that you made the video!
The title of your video should include the name of the song and the artist. Consider including "with lyrics" in your title so that people will know that this is a lyric video.
The tags should include the name of the song, artist, band, and genre. Consider using the "lyrics" tag.
 Once you've uploaded your video to YouTube, watch it through to make sure that you're satisfied. If something isn't right, you can always take the video down, tweak it, and re-upload it.