 Do not put a lot of lights in your haunted house, or people will be too relaxed. They will also be able to tell where your spooky friends are hiding. If it's dark, they will be tense and have a better time. Just make sure your guests have enough light to get through the house safely. Here are some ways to use the lighting to create a haunted effect:


Consider putting your guests in a very dark room and giving them flashlights to try to find the way out.
Replace your lamps with green bulbs and light then dimly around the house.
If you choose to use any traditional lamps, drape them with cobwebs and tape rubber bats to the insides.
Have a room or hallway where the guests have to wear blindfolds to make it through. Make sure the guests are comfortable with this.
Light a spotlight under a spiderweb or fake creepy insect to create a spooky shadow.
Drape black plastic bags around the furniture to catch a little bit of light in an eerie way.
 Try mirrors, black lights, and smoke to confuse the visitors. The special effects will make your visitors feel more shocked and spooked at every turn. Here are a few special effects you can add to your haunted home:


Fog machines are your friend! You can find fog machines for around $30, and they are a must-have for your haunted house. Fog makes it harder for the visitors of the haunted house to see and will make their hearts beat faster too.
Put strobe lights in one room to create a dramatic, slow-motion effect to the madness.
If you're using a black light in your haunted house, you can put scary things on the walls with neon spray paint, and the paint will glow like crazy. You can write "HELP!" or "R.I.P." or use a thick line of spray paint so it leaks and looks like blood!

Just make sure to spray paint cardboard or something that you can throw out.


Use spray bottles filled with water to create mists that your guests have to walk through.
 The sounds in the haunted house will scare your visitors and will keep them on their toes. The trick to having spooky noises is to time them perfectly and not use them too often, or your guests won't be surprised. Here are some tricks to creating some scary sounds:


Put a few coins in an empty soda can and tie it to a string. Have your volunteers shake the can from time to time.
Have a recording of a different spooky sound in every room. One room can have the sound of a chainsaw, while another can have the sound of a woman screaming.
Your volunteers can scamper from one side of an empty room to another to create a scary sound.
Use silence to your advantage. Pick some key moments to keep the house silent so your guests will be even more startled by the next sound.

