 If you want to use the glaze on a cake, you'll need to bake, assemble, and frost the cake. Same goes for cupcakes. If you want to glaze cookies, follow your recipe and allow them to cool before attempting to glaze.


If you are using the glaze on frosting, it is important the frosting is cold and firm to the touch. The glaze can soften or make the frosting watery if it is not hard., Though you can experiment with other flavors and colors, green (lime) Jell-O is the most effective and will give off the strongest glow.Whisk the powder for about one minute, or until thoroughly combined with the boiling water.
 Tonic water contains and ingredient called quinine, which is what gives it that bitter taste. The quinine responds to UV lights and will have a blue-white appearance.For extra glow-power, you could incorporate tonic water into your baked goods recipe. Try stirring five tablespoons into your frosting before using it on your cake or cupcakes., The mixture shouldn't be hot to the touch, or it will melt your frosting, but it shouldn't be so cold that it begins to solidify. Wait until you can safely touch the mixture before you start glazing.You can use an ice bath to hasten the process, just make sure you don't cool the mixture so much that it begins to set., Use a pastry brush to brush the mixture onto your cake or cupcakes. If your frosting is frozen in place, you can even hold the cupcakes upside-down and dip them into the bowl.


Try not to drip any of the glaze on the cake or pastry part of your baked goods, focusing only on the icing. Allow any excess glaze to drip off., To keep the frosting stiff, you need to put your cake or cupcakes back in the freezer to ensure it won't soften or melt.Six coats of glaze should give you total coverage (no missed spots) and be enough to get the desired glowing effect.Once all six coats have been applied, place your baked goods in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes so the glaze can set., To really emphasize the effect, you may want to use several blacklights and place your baked goods as close to the lamps as possible. The green glaze may give your baked goods a slight green tint (especially if you used white frosting).


Your frosting may have the slight taste of lime or tonic. Add a little flavoring to the frosting, like vanilla or almond, to cover the flavor if desired.

