 Electrical patch treatment is also known as trigeminal nerve stimulation (TNS). TNS treats PTSD by pulsing the trigeminal nerve in the brain with electrical energy while you sleep. This can help to reset the electrical network in your brain and help relieve your PTSD symptomsThe treatment uses a 9-volt battery, similar to the ones found in your television remote, to create a low-level current that zaps your brain through a forehead patch. The current targets your trigeminal nerve and other brain regions that regulate your mood, behavior, and thought.
In a recent test trial, one vet with PTSD noted that the first two weeks of treatment were a bit uncomfortable as the forehead patch would shock him with a sharp electrical pulse if he moved his head a certain way. But after two weeks, the vet’s sleep patterns improved significantly. He experienced less nightmares, and he had more energy and motivation overall. The positive effects seemed to continue even after his eight week trial. This indicates that TNS could have long-term positive effects on PTSD symptoms.;
, Most PTSD treatments involve medication, therapy, and coping techniques. Even some of the best PTSD treatments can leave patients with residual symptoms, such as anxiety, irritability, an inability to sleep, anger issues, and depression. However, in recent studies, TNS was shown to have very minimal side effects.In a recent test trial done by UCLA, 12 patients with PTSD between the ages of 18 and 75 underwent TNS treatment for eight hours a night for eight weeks. The patients all described mood improvements, an easier time getting to sleep, and less anxiety. Most patients noted their PTSD symptoms dropped by more than 30 percent and their depression severity fell by more than 50 percent. They also did not experience any side effects due to TNS besides skin irritation on their forehead due to the patch., TNS treatment for PTSD is still in testing phase, and is considered an investigational therapy. It is not yet commercially available or certified for commercial use.A follow-up trial to the UCLA test study is underway and may take two to three years to complete. The trial involves 74 veterans with PTSD and will look at how viable TNS is for veterans with PTSD., Your doctor may be able to offer more information on the ongoing test trials for TNS and give you more information on how TNS can ease your PTSD symptoms.


If you are on any medication for PTSD, your doctor may also be able to tell you how TNS might interact with your current medication.
You may want to speak to a doctor who specializes in PTSD or get a referral to a therapist who is trained in treating PTSD symptoms.
 Researchers focused on TNS treatment for PTSD are planning to recruit military veterans for the next phase of their study.If you are a vet with PTSD, you may want to ask your doctor if you can be a voluntary test subject for the TNS test trials. This would allow you to experience TNS in a highly regulated environment and be a part of a potentially life altering treatment.
You can also look online to see if the clinical trials for TNS are still recruiting applicants., If you are interested in using TNS for your PTSD symptoms, you may want to keep your eye on the results of the latest test trials for TNS. Do an online search every few weeks to see if the results of the test trials have been published or are available to the public. You can also have an ongoing conversation with your doctor around TNS to stay updated on when the treatment may be available commercially for individuals with PTSD.
 Cognitive therapy is guided by a therapist who helps you understand your trauma and its aftermath. The goal is to identify how certain thoughts about your trauma can cause stress and make your PTSD symptoms worse. The therapist will help you replace fearful or angry thoughts with more accurate and less disturbing thoughts. You will also learn about ways to process your feelings of anger, guilt, or fear.Your doctor may be able to refer you to a therapist that is trained in cognitive therapy. You can also talk to your local mental health clinic or a counseling center for a referral., Exposure therapy is when you talk to a therapist repeatedly about the trauma as a way to learn to control your thoughts and feelings around the trauma. It may be difficult or uncomfortable to do this at first, as you will need to confront your memories of the trauma. Over time, you will feel less overwhelmed by the trauma and learn how to react to these stressful memories.The therapist may have you start by focusing on memories that are less upsetting and then gradually move to memories that are more upsetting. This technique is known as "desensitization", and allows you to process bad memories a little bit at a time. The therapist may also suggest that you try to remember a lot of bad memories at once, a process called "flooding". This can help you to learn how to be less overwhelmed by stressful memories.
 Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) involves stimulating your eyes, and using hand taps and other sounds to help you process your trauma. Your doctor can refer you to an EMDR therapist. The therapist may move her hand and have you follow the movement with your eyes as you talk about the trauma.Though there is not a universal agreement by professionals that eye movement can help treat PTSD, the eye movements can help to "unfreeze" your brain's information processing system. This system can often get overwhelmed or disturbed by extreme stress., Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are a type of antidepressant medication that can help you feel less sad and stressed out by your trauma. SSRIs bring up the level of serotonin in your brain, which can then help the chemicals in your brain balance out. SSRIs come in several forms, including citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (such as Prozac), paroxetine (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft).There are also other prescriptions medications that can be used to treat PTSD. Ask your doctor for more information about these medications.
 Doing group therapy can also help you to process your PTSD, whether this is in the form of a PSTD support group or a therapy group that focuses on certain types of PTSD, such as veterans with PTSD. It can be highly therapeutic to share your experiences with other individuals who can empathize and understand them. Sharing with a group can also allow you to process feelings of guilt, anger, and shame in a healthy way.Find more information on PTSD support groups in your area by talking to your doctor or another health care professional.

