 In this digital age, many people spend several hours a day in front of the computer or looking at a smartphone. This can cause serious damage to your eyesight. For details on how best to avoid and treat digital-related eyesight problems, see Protect Your Eyes when Using a Computer.
 Sticking to a good diet won't only help improve your eyes with nutrients. A balanced diet will also help you avoid weight-related diseases like diabetes, which is the leading cause of blindness in adults. Talk to your doctor to find out what your ideal weight is, then use diet and exercise to stick as close to that as you can., Smoking can lead to numerous eye problems like cataracts, macular degeneration, and optic nerve damage. It can also cause diabetes, which damages the eyes. If you smoke you should quit, and if you don't smoke you shouldn't start., UV radiation from the sun can increase your risk of cataracts and macular degeneration. Buy a good pair of sunglasses that blocks out 99-100% of UV rays and wear them whenever you're in the sun. Look for an "ANSI" sticker on sunglasses to ensure that they meet American National Standards Institute guidelines and screen out the required amount of UV rays., Dirty contact lenses can damage your eyes and even lead to vision-threatening infections. By properly caring for your lenses you can protect your eyes from damage.Wash your lenses after every use with the cleaning solution your eye care professional recommended.
Wash your hands before handling your contacts. This ensures that you won't transfer any bacteria from your hands to your lenses. Also wash with a mild, fragrance-free soap. You could also transfer chemicals and fragrances onto your lenses and cause eye irritation.
Apply makeup after your lenses are already in, and remove your makeup after your contacts are out.
Never sleep with your contacts in, unless they are specially designed for extended use.
 Small objects can do a lot of damage if lodged in the eye. You should always wear appropriate eye protection during any activity where foreign objects or chemicals could enter your eyes. This will ensure that your eyes stay safe and healthy.Make sure that your goggles wrap around your head to protect the sides of your eyes as well.
 A solid 8 hours will rest your eyes properly and re-lubricate them. That way you'll wake up with refreshed eyes ready for the day.