 Regular exercise can have minor antidepressant effects; exercise can also relieve stress, key ingredients to having a better life. Exercise has these benefits in part because it releases endorphins, one of the brain's "feel good" hormones.When you exercise, put on some tunes that motivate you to workout harder. That said, be sure to listen to your body and don’t overdo it!

, When you eat unhealthy it can make you feel negative. Therefore, it is important to eat healthy foods if you want to improve your life.Eat things like lean meats, nuts, fruits, and vegetables for the best effect and remember to have a balanced diet (i.e., all things in moderation)., A lack of sleep can contribute to lower well-being by causing feelings of fatigue, sadness, and anxiety.If you are having trouble falling asleep, try making your room darker. Also try getting rid of sources of noise and/or wear earplugs. Do your best to stick to a sleep routine every night. Take note of how many hours of sleep you need per night to feel rested upon waking; try to get that many hours each night., Caffeine can make you feel anxious, which can contribute to feelings of stress and anxiety. If your definition of a better life means less stress and anxiety, try cutting back on caffeine.Keep in mind the trade-offs. If you notice that you are more productive on a certain amount of caffeine and value your productivity more than some feelings of anxiousness, then perhaps cutting back on caffeine isn’t the best option for you. Experiment with different amounts and get a sense of how doing so changes how happy you feel about your life.
 Counseling or psychotherapy can help people not only deal with problems, but also to thrive and have better lives.To find a psychotherapist or counsellor, visit: http://locator.apa.org/


, Quit just doing your same old habits and routines. Instead, seek out a zone of "optimal anxiety." Studies have shown that having some anxiety/arousal actually facilitates brain functioning and performance on a variety of tasks.Ways to get out of your comfort zone include trying a new hobby, making new friends, or setting slightly tougher to achieve goals for yourself than normal.
Keep in mind your values and your personality here though. If your definition of a better life involves primarily having time to yourself to self-reflect and you find yourself to be quite introverted, then perhaps getting out of your comfort zone isn't as important for you.
That said, you may not know until you give it a try!

, Give some of your time to help others out and you may find that both your physical and mental well-being increases. There are a number of ways you could volunteer your time. You could, fore example:Volunteer in a food kitchen for the homeless.
Call up any cause you care about and ask them if you can volunteer your time to help.
Get in touch with your local library and ask if they need tutors in an area in which you are skilled.
Get in touch with your local political representative and ask about helping with campaign work for causes you care about.

