 Use a soft towel, a microfiber towel, or a t-shirt to gently blot the extra water out of your hair. These soft materials will help keep your hair softer and less frizzy than terry cloth. Designate towels specifically for drying your hair., If you have straight hair, you can use a large tooth comb to gently detangle your hair. If you have curly hair, be careful not to over comb your hair because you want to retain your curl. If you are trying to get wavy hair, you may want to skip this step, or gently untangle your hair into clumps of curls with your fingers., Grab your hair and place it so it is lying on your back. This method is a good alternative if you get headaches from wrapping your hair on your head.
 Put the towel on your head so that it rests on the front of your hairline. The long ends of the towel should dangle past your shoulders. Make sure the towel length is even on both sides before you start wrapping. If the towel isn’t even, it will be more difficult for your wrap to stay at the end.
 Take both sides of your towel and bring them around the nape of your neck so the towel is snug around your head. Tuck your towel behind your ears so that your ears are free of the towel. Hold the sides of your towel ends secure at the nape of your neck. Don’t hold it so tight that it damages your hair.
 At the nape of your neck, hold both sides of the towel firmly together. At one side of your head, start wrapping your hair in one direction. Keep wrapping your hair until you get to the bottom of your towel. Be careful not to twist the towel too tightly around your hair.
 Take the long wrap from behind your head, and carefully move it over your shoulder. Place it so that it is lying on one collarbone in front of you. You can use a clip to secure the end of the towel, or you can hold the end with one hand.
 If you have thick hair that still needs to be dried more after 60 minutes, use another hair wrap towel to replace the damp towel. Keep the second wrap on on until the hair is damp dry enough to let air or blow dry.

