 Go to a jewelry store or to any store that sells jewelry and purchase clip-on earring cushions. Some of the cushions use adhesive to stick to the clips. Other cushions slide over the clips to create some extra padding for your ears. If using adhesive pads, the foam should be placed on the part of the clip that touches the back of your ear lobe.Most of these cushions are reusable.
You can also use adhesive backed foam pads from the hardware or craft store. Cut the pads to whatever size you need.
 The most common types of clip on converters are paddle-back clip-ons. These clip-ons have a metal tongue that makes your clip-ons fit nice and tight. If your ears are hurting, use a pair of tweezers, a thin screw driver, or a clip-on comfort key to gently lift the tongue. Lift the tongue a little bit and then try your earrings on to see how they feel. Continue to do this until you find a fit that is snug yet comfortable .If you loosen the tongue too much, your earrings will not stay on your ear.
Lifting the tongue too quickly can cause the tongue to break off.
A comfort key is a special tool used for adjusting clip-on earrings. You should be able to find one wherever you bought your other supplies.
 If cushions and/or loosening the tongue does not help, you may need to limit the amount of time you wear your earrings. Your earrings may feel fine for the first few hours that you wear them and begin to hurt later. Also, you may be able to wear some earrings all day and others for only a few hours.


It may be helpful to wear your clips-ons around the house first to see how your ears feel over time. Then you will know your limits for each pair of earrings that you have.
 To clean your earrings, mix one drop of baby shampoo with water and use a Q-Tip or soft toothbrush to clean. Quickly rinse with cool water and use a hairdryer on cool setting or a soft hand towel to dry. There is no hard and fast rule for cleaning earrings, but the earrings you wear more should be cleaned more frequently.Avoid using anything acidic like vinegar or baking soda to clean.
If you notice any green stuff on your earrings, use a toothpick, soft toothbrush, or Q-Tip to remove it.
Put rubbing alcohol on a cotton ball or pad to clean your ears. This will remove any germs.

