 RAM comes in a variety of models and speeds. The type of RAM you can get is dependent on your computer’s motherboard. Check your motherboard or computer’s documentation, or check the manufacturer’s website for the RAM specifications that are compatible with your hardware.


RAM is available as DDR (double data rate), DDR2, DDR3, and DDR4. Most newer computers use DDR3 or 4. You must get the type that matches what your motherboard supports
RAM is identified by two different speed numbers: the PC/PC2/PC3 number and the MHz speed. Make sure that both match your motherboard’s specifications.

The PC number (ex. PC3 12800) refers to the maximum bandwidth (ex. 12800 = 12.8 GB maximum bandwidth).
The speed of the RAM is signified by the number after the DDR specification (ex. DDR3 1600 = 1600 MHz).

;
, Your motherboard has a limit to the number of RAM sticks you can install. Some motherboards support only two, while others support four, six, or even more.


Most motherboards have a limit to the amount of memory that they support, regardless of the number of slots.
iMacs use notebook memory, so refer to the next section for instructions on how to install it.
 You can find RAM from a variety of different manufacturers, and for a wide variety of prices. Manufacturers vary in quality, and a large percentage of RAM ships dead on arrival. Some of the most reliable companies include:


Corsair
Kingston
Crucial
G. Skill
OCZ
Patriot
Mushkin
A-Data

, Once you’ve decided on a manufacturer, you can pick your RAM. When buying desktop RAM, be sure to buy SDRAM. RAM is best installed in matching pairs, so you may need to buy two or four sticks to get the amount of RAM that you want.


For example, to get 8 GB or RAM you might install two 4 GB sticks or four 2 GB sticks. Make sure that what you get can fit in your motherboard. Try to install RAM in pairs such a if you want 4 GB, then install 2 GB and 2GB. Never install them in different pairs such as one is 2 GB and the other one is 1 GB etc., it might decrease your RAM performance.
All of the RAM you have installed should have matching speed and bandwidth. If they don’t match, your system will be clocked down to the slowest stick, reducing performance.
Double check what your motherboard supports before committing to the purchase.
 Unplug the computer and any peripherals connected to the computer, such monitors, keyboards, and mice.
 Lay your computer tower on its side, so that you can access the motherboard when the side panel is removed. You may need a Phillips-head screwdriver to remove the panel, or you may be able to unscrew it by hand.
 Ensure that you do not have static build-up on your body. Static can damage computer parts, and can be imperceptible to a human. Ground yourself before starting, or use an antistatic wrist strap.


You can ground yourself by touching a metal part on your computer case while it is unplugged from the wall. Simply being turned off does not remove any standby voltages, so make sure it's unplugged.
Don’t stand on carpet while working on the interior of the computer.
 Most motherboards have 2 or 4 RAM slots. RAM sockets are typically located near the CPU, though their location may vary depending on the manufacturer or model. Refer to your motherboard’s layout diagram in your documentation if you are having difficulty locating the sockets.
 If you are replacing old RAM, remove it by releasing the clamps on each side of the socket. The RAM will be released from the socket, and you’ll be able to lift it straight out of the motherboard with little to no effort.
 Carefully remove the Ram from the shielded packaging. Grip it from the sides to avoid touching the contacts on the bottom or the circuitry on the board.
 Line up the notch in the stick of RAM to the break in the slot. Set the stick into the slot and then apply equal pressure onto the stick until the clamps on the side click and lock the RAM in. You may have to apply a fair amount of pressure, but never force it in.


Make sure matching pairs are inserted into their matching sockets. Most are labeled on the board or by color, though you may need to refer to your motherboard layout diagram. Make sure that they are facing the same way.
Repeat the process for each stick of RAM you want to install.
 While you have the computer open, this can be a quick fix for general overheating and performance issues. Compressed air cans are available at any office supply store. Do not blow air too closely at the computer.
 Once you’ve finished inserting your RAM sticks, you can put the panel back on and screw it back in. Avoid running your computer while the panel is off, as this will actually reduce the cooling power of your fans. Plug your peripherals and monitor back in.
 Your computer should start normally. If your computer displays the self-test during the startup, then you can verify that the RAM has been installed correctly. If not, you can verify that the RAM was installed once Windows starts.
 Press The Windows key + Pause/Break to open the System Properties. You can also click the Start menu, right click on Computer/My Computer and click Properties. Your RAM will be listed in the System section or at the bottom of the window.


Operating systems calculate memory differently and some computers dedicate a certain amount of RAM to specific functions (e.g., video), decreasing the amount available. For example, you may have purchased 1 gigabyte of RAM. The operating system may only display 0.99 gigabytes.
 If you still aren’t sure that your memory was installed correctly, or that it may not be functioning properly, you can run the free Memtest program to check the memory sticks. The test may take a while to run, but will discover any errors and display how much is installed.