


Check whether your employer was subject to unemployment insurance laws. If so, you participated in "covered employment." If you worked as a contract or seasonal employee, you might not have been covered. If your employer is registered with the Alaska Department of Labor, you are likely covered.
Do some simple math to ensure you earned at least $2,500 in the last 2 quarters (6 months) of your regular working period.
Remain available and willing to to seek and accept full time work. This is a requirement for your unemployment eligibility to continue week by week.;
, This is the 2012 range for the state of Alaska.
 Senate Bill 120 ensurers earners at or beyond that salary level will get the full unemployment benefit.


Find out if you are eligible for any additional unemployment benefits. If you have dependant children living with you, you may be entitled to an additional $24 per week, per child. The maximum weekly addition is $72, for 3 children under 18 years of age.
 You can find this on the DOLWD site (www.labor.alaska.gov) or on a private nonprofit site such as Unemployment-Benefits.org.


Enter the amount of wages you earned for each quarter of the last year. Next to each quarter, choose a rounded amount from the drop-down box. For example, if you earned $5,004 from July 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011, enter $5,000.
 The office can be reached at (907) 465-5552.
 Alaska uses a system called ALEXsys. Once you fill out your application online or over the phone, you will receive a monetary determination by mail.


Provide your identifying information such as name, date of birth and social security number as well as the name of your employer and dates of employment.
Answer questions about your reason for leaving and the amount of money you earned in your last week at work.
 Extended benefits may also be available during times of high unemployment in Alaska.
 Whether you receive $56 per week or $370, you will receive a debit card that is directly deposited every two weeks.

