 Take each signature and open it so that you can see the center fold of the group of papers. Use an awl to punch holes down the side, or use an embroidery needle with the eye stuck in a cork if you don’t have an awl. Make your first hole directly along the crease in the exact center of the fold. Then measure 2½ inches up and down from this hole to make your other two points (making a total of three holes).
 Cut a piece of wax thread to a length of about 2.5 feet (0.8 m), and thread your bookbinding needle. Insert the needle and thread through the center hole, coming from behind. Leave a few inches of the string on the outside so that you can tie a knot with it later.









Thread the needle through the bottom hole, so that the thread is on the outside of the book. Pull this thread tight.
Re-enter the thread through the topmost hole from the back. Then take the thread and pull it through the center hole, this time coming from the inside of the paper. Then tie the excess thread in the back in a secure knot and cut any extra string.
 Use one foot of thread for each signature you intend to sew. Start by sewing two signatures together first, and then add on additional signatures once the first two are combined. Line up two signatures together, and insert the needle through the outside of the top hole of one of the signatures. Have a knot tied with a few inches of space on the end, to keep the thread from sliding through.









When you pull the thread through the top hole, thread it from the inside into the center hole. When you pull the thread through, insert it into the second hold of the second signature.
Take the thread from the second hole on the inside of the second signature, and insert it it into the third hole. Pull the thread through so that it is on the outside of the third hole on the second signature.
Add additional signatures by take the thread from the third hole of the second signature, and inserting it into the third hole of a third signature. use the same process to work your way back up the spine of the third signature.
When you finish adding signatures, tie the end of your sewing thread with the tail end of the first knot, and cut off the excess string.
 When you’ve sewn all your signatures together, use a bit of glue to make sure that they won’t fall apart along the spine. Brush on any glue (ideally bookbinding glue) along the length of the spine. Place several heavy textbooks over the top of the book to keep them in place while the glue dries.







