 Before getting out there as a model, you should research available photographers in your area. It is best to find a photographer that does headshots and can handle makeup. You will need to have a mild layer of makeup applied for your headshot.


Look online for photographers who meet this criteria.
You might also have luck finding a good photographer through an agency you’re in contact with.;
, Yes, you will need to pay for a good photographer to do your headshots. It is a vulnerable part of the process, but being a model is a vulnerable job. You want the highest quality you can afford. It is best if your photographer or agency can do make up.


A good photographer will take several photos, sometimes up to a hundred. Then they'll communicate to you which one you'd like to use.
Some headshots are taken outside, and others are shot indoors at a studio. Both of these can be effective, if done by the right photographer.
 Talk to friends in the modeling world to find out if they have any connections to a modeling agency. If not, go online and research nearby modeling agency. It is better to pick an agency that is close to you as opposed to commuting over an hour.


If the closest modeling agency is an hour or two away, consider if this is what you truly want for yourself. If you do, then go for it. Distance cannot stop dreams.Many times your photographer will have contacts with a modeling agency. Some agencies will even look through your photographer's headshot portfolio if they need someone urgently.
 Go into the modeling agency if it is convenient. It is best to make physical contact with a modeling agency. Go into their office with your headshot in hand. Be confident, but open for what type of advice they may give you. Send a few emails as well to agencies you think might sign you to do a few gigs.


Seek out an agency that is known for parts modeling or other types of modeling that are more open to different body types.
Be professional when contact the agency. If you are drafting an email, be sure to include an attachment of your headshot.
Include any relevant information about previous jobs or something associated with acting/theater.
It doesn’t hurt to contact multiple agencies.
 There several websites that act as databases for models and businesses looking for models. You can join one of these websites, usually for free. All you need to provide is some basic information about what your modeling goals are and physical descriptors. Be honest about your height and proportions when creating a profile.


You might feel as though you are limiting yourself by including information about your height, but this agencies will appreciate your honesty. There is always work to be done for a variety of body types.
Check out http://www.modelmanagement.com/ for a good interface and an abundance of resources.
 While it might not be convenient, big cities are the epicenters of the modeling world. This is where you will have your “big chance,” if you will have one. You don’t have to move to L.A. or New York to become a model, although it doesn’t hurt. If you live in a small or rural town, research the nearest city.


For example if you live in Carbondale, Illinois, you could move to St. Louis or Chicago.
 While you’re first starting out, it is important to take modeling jobs to add to your portfolio. Unless the job offends your moral outlook on life, you should take the job. Having modeling experience will also show future employers that you know what it means to be a model.


It might be easiest for you to start as a parts model. Parts modelling focuses on a zoom in of a part of your body like your hands.
Another popular form of modeling that is open for different models is catalog work. Catalog modeling is becoming more popular to represent multiple body sizes to represent the common person flipping through a clothing catalog.

