 As a general rule, if you suspect your pet has ringworm, take it to the vet to get checked out. Your veterinarian can confirm the presence of ringworm by a variety of methods and then treat.
 The Wood's Lamp is a special lamp fitted with ultraviolet bulbs and a magnifying lens. The lamp is switched on and the bulbs allowed to warm for 10 minutes. In a dark room, the animal is examined by shining the Woods Lamp onto the suspect areas and examining the response via the magnifying lens.Certain species of ringworm glow a fluorescent apple green in the presence of ultraviolet light. If this happens then ringworm is present.
Your veterinarian may then wish to double check his or her findings by sending a sample away to a lab for species identification.
Be aware that only about 50% of ringworm species fluoresce in this way. So, in other words, a negative on the Wood's Lamp does NOT mean the animal is clear. This is a useful way to get a quick positive, but not a conclusive negative.
 Another way to get a quick result is for the veterinarian to pluck hairs from the edge of the affected area and examine them under the microscope. Under high magnification it can be possible to see the fungal spores entwined around the hair shaft, which gives positive confirmation of ringworm., A fungal culture will give you a definitive answer. To do this the veterinarian uses a sterile brush (such as a sterilized tooth brush) and rubs it over the affected area. The head of the brush is then pressed against a fungal culture medium, the medium container is then sealed, and set aside to see if fungus grows.Many vets use an "in house" test where the fungal culture medium changes color if fungus grows. This gives a clear indication that ringworm is present.
It takes an average of 4 - 5 days for the fungus to grow and cause a color change, although the test is not considered negative until a full 2 weeks have passed with a color change.
 If your dog is found to have ringworm your vet will likely prescribe an anti fungal medication. While being treated, keep your dog isolated, as the infection could still spread to other animals and even to humans.To make sure that your dog cannot ingest any topical medication, put a wide cone collar (also known as an Elizabethan Collar) on it during treatment.

