 Many deaf and hard of hearing rehabilitation programs offer job training that will help you get a job and better adapt to the workplace. These training opportunities may include communication and problem-solving skills so you can succeed at your job.These services may also cover job-specific skills after assessing what your interests and abilities are.
You may also receive training for assistive technology that you can use in a workplace.
 Learning to read lips and visual clues may help you get a job if you are deaf or hard of hearing. These classes not only help you read lips, but also learn to use the cheeks, tongue, throat, and facial expressions to interpret what people are saying.You may find speechreading classes in your community. Talk to your audiologist or a local speech and language center to find where you can take classes. You can also search online for speechreading classes in your area.
There are some websites and books you can check out that may help give you some information about speechreading.
 If you are having trouble finding a job, you may benefit from going back to school. Getting degrees in a specific area or learning a trade at a technical school may help you find employment opportunities.Many schools offer internships, where you can learn on-the-job experience and meet people who can help you find jobs in the future.
 You can contact a vocational rehabilitation office and find out more about their services for job site assessment. This is especially helpful when you are hard of hearing or late deafened. You can get a communication specialist to come to your workplace and assess your technology needs and perform task analysis.For example, they may determine if you need assistive listening devices or other technology to aid you in your job. They can also provide training for you and your workplace.
A communication specialist may be able to provide training for you and your colleagues in communication strategies, support services, and preparation.

