 Some games will have optional settings that allow some of the controls to be handled automatically or partially guided by the computer. Turning them on will help simplify gameplay and allow you to focus on other aspects of the race. A few example options are automatic transmission, traction control, auto braking, or steering assist.


Automatic transmission mean you won’t have to worry about switching gears.
Traction control and auto-braking
Steering assist will make handling more forgiving and work against things like over-correction in turns.;
, A game’s physics will determine how cars handle and what kind of adjustments you will need to make in how you play. Experiment with a variety of tracks and cars to improve your understanding of how the game treats its driving physics.


Most racing games can be classified as one of two types: simulator, which tries to emulate real driving as much as possible, and arcade, which favors exciting, simpler, or flashy play over realism., A car with a good top speed won’t do as well as one with tighter handling on a track with lots of sharp turns. Picking the right tool for the job will give you an edge over other drivers.


Some games allow you to upgrade and customize cars. This can help you further tune a car towards your driving style or to a particular track.
 The more your know about the track, the more you can prepare for turns and straightaways to optimize your driving.
 Some racing games differentiate between dirt and paved roads or put courses in rain and snow. These conditions will affect how your car handles and you will need to adjust how you drive to compensate. Usually this means braking and turning with more care to avoid losing control.
 Try to avoid mashing the brake button or pulling the analog stick all the way to the side when turning. Gamepads and steering wheel controllers have pressure sensitive inputs that can measure precise movements, meaning partial presses and smaller movements will make less drastic changes when driving.


Keyboards do not have pressure sensitive inputs, but you can try techniques like tapping the brakes through turns to avoid losing all of your speed.
 Depending on the sharpness or the turn, braking or releasing the acceleration button will give you better tire traction through the turn and let you accelerate quickly on your way out. If you are playing with manual transmission, shifting inside of a turn will also hurt traction.
 Manual gear shifting and drifting through turns are examples useful maneuvers that take time to master, but will improve your play.


Shift to a lower gear when going through corners and higher when accelerating. Timing the shift is key! You can use the sound of the engine and the car’s tachometer to help you gauge when to shift upwards.
The general concept of drifting is: go through a sharp turn while accelerating enough so that tire traction is lost and the rear of the car moves opposite to your turn. Turn the wheel to match the direction of the rear and release the accelerator. As soon as you start to gain traction straighten out the wheels to the direction you want to go.
 Using a practice mode let’s you experiment with techniques and learn cars/tracks in a non-competitive environment,

, If you can’t match your opponent’s top speed, then don’t try to pass in straightaways. Look for small advantages in turns or hills. Small bursts of speed can add up.
 Depending on the physics of the game you play, it may be advantageous to try and force your opponent to lose control of their car. Be careful when nudging, or you may lose control of your car as well. Typically you want aim for the rear sides of your opponent for the best results.
 Try switching up your driving style to confuse your opponent. If you’re normally a conservative driver, get aggressive, and vice versa. Make sure you don’t sacrifice control of your car in your efforts to psyche them out!


If you are playing in the same room as your opponent, a bit of distracting banter can go a long way.

