 Turn your computer on. Click the start button in the lower left corner of your desktop or press the ⊞ Win button on your keyboard. This should bring up a search box. Type in “Disk Cleanup” and select this option from the list provided., When you select the “Disk Cleanup” function, a dialogue box will appear. In some cases there may be a drop-down box, in others there may be a list of drives you can select for cleanup. Select the C: drive from the drop-down box or list and select OK.The C: drive is another name for the startup disk for most computers. Some computers may have other drives for backup purposes or other reasons. Disk cleanup can be used on any drive.Once you select a drive to clean up, your computer should analyze the drive. This process may take several minutes or longer., When the Disk Cleanup has finished analyzing the drive, a new dialogue box should appear. This should list the suspected files that can be deleted without harming your computer. Select the boxes for file types (like Temporary Internet Files) that you’d like removed and press Clean up System Files or OK.Some of the most typically wasteful file types include Temporary Internet Files, Temporary Files, Recycle Bin files, and Previous Windows Installations., After pressing Clean up System Files or OK, you should receive a message verifying if you want to delete the files. Select Delete Files or OK to remove the files and clean the drive.If your computer is in need of a severe cleaning, this process might take up to 10 minutes or longer.
 Open iTunes on your computer. In the top menu bar, click "Edit" and select "Preferences" from the drop-down menu. Click the "Devices" tab in the resulting menu. This tab will display backups. Highlight all backups but the most recent and click Delete Backup.


In some versions of iTunes, you may need to hold Alt to bring up the top menu bar to access the "Edit" drop-down menu.
Music libraries are usually quite large. Every unnecessary backup will decrease the memory available on your computer, slowing it down.