 Brown the carcass all over while breaking it up with a wooden spoon. The browner you cook it, the browner the stock. Alternatively roast the carcass or chicken pieces until richly golden brown and add to the stock pot.


Note: The leftover roast carcass removed of most meat is good to make a basic stock if you are economically minded and intend to make a chicken soup for the next day, as you can add the leftover roast meat to the soup at the last minute.
This is not ideal for making basic stock as you would have to be very mindful of other flavours added to the chicken before roasting (such as sage and onion, garlic, lemon, spices etc) that will come through into the stock that may be undesirable in other dishes.;
, Simmer very gently for 30 minutes to 1 hour, although if you desire a nice clear stock it is best to cook at a lower 80-85C / 175-185F.
A pressure cooker is a very useful way to make stocks quickly when you don't need the stock to be clear. A slow cooker can also work quietly in the background while you do other jobs.
Other additions may be 100ml of white wine, 3 small mushrooms (halved) or 1 tomato, in quarters.
 It can be stored in the fridge in a large jar with lid, or frozen in snap lock bags or in containers for easy portion use. Alternatively, strain and allow it to sediment to collect the clear stock for Consommé soups. (see tips)

, Transfer the pan into a preheated moderate oven and roast until well browned.
 Scrape the roasting pan clean with a wooden spoon to incorporate all the extra flavour into the water and pour this into the stock pot, add another 3 cups of water to the roasting pan to ensure all flavour and juices are collected and add this to the stockpot.

To make a make a sauce stock, boil the stock until reduced to 1/3 of its volume and use to enrich gravies and other sauces.
To make a sauce base, boil to reduce to 1/4 volume to a rich syrup and add other flavourings to taste such as sautéed mushrooms or red shallots, mustard, red wine, crushed peppercorns or sautéed ginger or garlic.
 However, for light beef stock, you don't need to roast the portions but add them raw to the pan with cold water and vegetables.


Light beef stock has a very delicate flavour so is good for light soups.
 Alternately, cut the vegetables into large chunks and roast until golden. Add the water to cover and bouquet garni and simmer gently for 30 minutes.


Other additions like chicken stock may be 100ml of white wine, 3 small mushrooms (halved) or 1 tomato, in quarters.
 Cook over low heat and add water, vegetables and bouquet. Simmer very gently no more than 20 minutes.


50mls of white wine may be added to fish stocks. This stock needs minimal cooking as prolonged cooking will make the stock turn grey and bitter.

