 If you make your own ricotta, you'll need to drain the liquid away once the hot ricotta has sat for fifteen minutes.You may also use this method to transform moist, cream-cheese consistency ricotta into a ricotta with firmer curds for use in cooking.;
, A fine mesh strainer may do the best job of draining thoroughly, but a colander will also work.Line the entire inside surface with cheesecloth, or another fine mesh cloth. Some people have even reported success with two layers of sturdy paper towels., You'll need a bowl to catch the draining moisture from the ricotta. Find a bowl or soup plate that the strainer can stand on, or rest the strainer on the lip of a tall bowl.


Don't use a setup where the strainer mesh is touching the base of the bowl, since this will keep the ricotta sitting in its own moisture.
 Resist the temptation to pour or drop the ricotta in, since this will include all the liquid. Instead, spoon it in bit by bit, abandoning excess liquid at the bottom of the previous container.
 Use any clean cloth or paper towel to cover the ricotta, or a plate that fits inside the strainer. Don't use a plate that rests on the strainer's lip, since the ricotta will need to be compressed as described below.
 Compress the ricotta to help it drain by placing a heavy object on top of the cloth or plate resting on the ricotta. This could be a large can of food, a bag of stones, or any other reasonably clean object.


If you cannot find anything suitable, press the ricotta down with a spoon for a minute or two instead.
 Common ricotta draining times used in recipes vary from one to eight hours. Instead of following a single recipe's instructions every time, use these suggestions to get ricotta of various consistencies depending on your preference and intended use.Keep in mind that the following times are guidelines only, and will vary with each batch of ricotta and with the size of the cheesecloth's mesh:


If eating plain, drain for five minutes to get a moist, spreadable ricotta, or until you reach a consistency you enjoy more.
If cooking in moist, savory dishes, approximately twenty minutes should achieve a cottage cheese consistency, with small, moist curds. Lasagna, ravioli filling, or dips can be made with this ricotta. Ricotta for cannoli may require an additional ten minutes or more, to prevent the shells from becoming soggy.
For most other purposes, drain from two to eight hours in the refrigerator. Pastries and baked goods in particularly use dry, crumbly ricotta to avoid ruining the texture of the dessert.
 Some batches of ricotta may be slow to drain due to variables in the cooking process. Speed these up by occasionally scraping the ricotta from the sides of the cheesecloth, allowing water to run through.