 The person challenging the will for fraud will file a “petition” or a “complaint” with the probate court.This person is called the “contestant.” After the contestant files the petition, the court should notify the estate’s executor and all other interested parties that the will is being challenged.


You should be given a copy of the petition. If not, you can get a copy by visiting the probate court where the petition was filed.
The contestant might also file an “affidavit of objections,” depending on your court. In this document, the contestant will spell out in more detail the alleged fraud.;
, Read the petition or the affidavit of objections closely. These documents should identify the alleged fraud. Fraud can take many different forms. For example:Someone forged the deceased’s signature.
Someone inserted pages into a will that were not there when the will was executed.
The deceased was tricked into signing the will believing that it was something else.
The deceased was given misinformation which caused him or her to draft the will a certain way.
 A carefully executed will should have the deceased’s initials on every page.If the initials are on every page, then it is unlikely that someone slipped sheets into the will.


Also analyze the signature. You might need to engage a handwriting expert to compare the deceased’s signature on the will with his or her signature on other documents. If the signatures are the same, then you can defeat any claim that the will was forged.
 Every will should have at least two people who witness the execution of the will.You should find them and interview them. They could have helpful information for your defense:


The witnesses might have watched the deceased go through the will, page by page, before signing. This evidence can disprove that someone snuck pages into the will or that the deceased didn’t know what he or she was signing.
The witnesses might also have listened to the deceased state why he or she made certain gifts to particular people. This evidence would help show that the deceased wasn’t operating under any misinformation when they signed the will.
 Generally, an attorney cannot reveal their client’s confidences. However, in a will contest, an attorney can testify to the deceased’s intent and motivations.You should meet with the attorney and discuss why the deceased drafted the will a certain way.


For example, the contestant might be a child who was cut out of the will. He or she could be arguing that they were cut out because someone lied to the deceased and told them that their child was dead. The lawyer who drafted the will should know whether or not the deceased was operating under this misimpression.
Some attorneys might not want to meet with you. Instead, you might have to wait for the “discovery” phase of your lawsuit before requesting that the attorney sit and answer questions in a deposition.
 You should also meet with a lawyer to discuss how to defend against the fraud charge. A lawyer can provide advice about what additional evidence would be helpful for your defense.


If you are the executor, then you might already have obtained a lawyer to help you administer the estate. Set up a meeting and show your lawyer the copy of the complaint.
If you are a beneficiary of the will, then you should get a referral to a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.Also give serious thought to hiring the lawyer to represent you throughout the dispute. Probate court has complicated rules, and it could be difficult for you to learn all of them on your own. One mistake and you could lose the case. Accordingly, you should ask the lawyer how much it would cost to represent you.
 You only have a limited amount of time to respond to the petition. Check your court’s rules as well as the copy of the petition. Generally, you have 30 days, but it could be shorter in your court.
 Depending on the court, you will file an answer, response, objection, or other document.You should talk with your attorney about what you will file. Your attorney can draft the document for you or give you a sample of what to draft.


In your response, you generally need to respond to each allegation made by the contestant. You should deny that fraud was used to obtain the will.
 Ideally, you can also raise an affirmative defense in your response. With an affirmative defense, you can get the case dismissed even if the contestant’s fraud allegations were true. For example, you could argue:


The contestant doesn’t have standing to bring the challenge. Your state law should identify who may challenge a will. For example, in many states, you can only challenge a will if you are an heir (such as a child) or the beneficiary under a prior or subsequent will.If the contestant doesn’t qualify, then you can get the petition dismissed.
The contestant waited too long to challenge the will. States set strict deadlines for bringing challenges. In some states, such as Illinois, you have only six months from the date the will has been admitted into probate., Make several copies of your response and file it with the court. You probably don’t have to pay a filing fee in order to file your papers. Ask the court clerk to stamp your copies with the filing date.
 You probably have to give the contestant and other interested parties a copy of your response.You should read your probate rules to check who you must give a copy to.


Generally, you can have the copy served by mailing it first class mail or having someone hand deliver the copies. You can’t deliver them yourself; however, you can typically have anyone 18 or older who is not a party to the case make delivery.
 You can supplement the evidence you have during “discovery.” For example, you can request helpful documents or other information:With “interrogatories,” you ask the other side questions and they answer them under oath. You can use your interrogatories to ask the contestant for the names of witnesses with relevant information about the case.
With a Request for Production, you can get copies of written documents. You should ask the contestant to hand over copies of any written document that shows fraud. By requesting this information, you can see ahead of time what proof the contestant has that fraud was committed.
With a “deposition,” you ask witnesses questions in person and they answer them under oath. One person you should depose is the attorney who drafted the will. If the attorney doesn’t willingly talk to you, then you should schedule a deposition.
 After discovery, you can file a Motion for Summary Judgment. If you win the motion, then you win the case. In the motion, you argue that there are no genuine factual disputes and you are entitled to win based on the law.Before bringing this motion, you should review all of your discovery. It might be difficult to win a case involving fraud on summary judgment. However, if there is no evidence that the will was tampered with, then you should consider bringing one.
See File a Motion for Summary Judgment for more information.
 You should prepare for trial by going over your discovery and finding evidence that is helpful to your case. Look for witnesses who can testify that the deceased was not misled into signing the will or was not misled as to certain facts that influenced how the will was written.


Serve subpoenas on your witnesses to make sure that they show up to testify. A subpoena is a legal request to show up to court and testify on a certain date. You can get blank forms from your court clerk.Also create exhibits. You can introduce helpful documents into evidence. Go through your papers. For example, the lawyer’s notes might contain important information showing the deceased was not operating under any false information when they created their will. You can create an exhibit by attaching an exhibit sticker to the document.
 The contestant will introduce witnesses to testify about fraud. You should have prepared for these witnesses. If you deposed them, then you should know what they will say. Your attorney can handle cross-examination, but if you don’t have an attorney then you should handle the questioning yourself.


Think about what you want from each witness. If the witness has information that is helpful for your defense, then you might not ask any really hard questions.
However, if the witness claims that someone lied to the deceased or otherwise tampered with the will, then you will want to “impeach” their credibility.
You can impeach a witness by pointing out contradictions in his or her testimony or by showing bias.See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for more information.
 You should also call witnesses to testify. These witnesses should bolster your claim that the will is not fraudulent and that the deceased did not draft the will because he or she had been lied to.
 The contestant bears the burden of proving by “clear and convincing” evidence that the will was fraudulent.You should remind the judge or jury of this standard. Generally, you can win so long as you raise meaningful doubts about the existence of fraud.


Remind the judge or jury of specific pieces of evidence, and remind them of key witnesses. For example, you could say, “You heard from Esther Jones, who was the deceased’s attorney. She drafted the will and executed it. As she testified on the stand, the deceased understood that she was cutting her eldest son out of the will. No one had lied to her and told her that her son was dead. Instead, she knew he was alive but didn’t want to leave him any money.”

, The judge or jury should return a verdict after closing argument. If you win, then the will should be upheld. However, if the will is invalidated, then a prior will might come into effect or the estate will have to pass without a will.If you lose, you should think about appealing. You won’t have much time to file your Notice of Appeal, so talk with your attorney about the pros and cons of bringing an appeal.

