 The following are generally the reasons for member's meetings: annual member's meetings, election meetings, amendment meetings, meetings to waive reserves, meetings to waive audit requirements, some special assessment meetings, recall of directors, some meetings which require special expenditures and for any other purpose whereby the membership is required to vote or ratify an action taken by the Board of Directors. In many instances, many of the above mentioned purposes of a members meeting may be incorporated into one single meeting. The requirement for separate meetings is unnecessary.;
, In a homeowners association, the quorum requirement was lowered by statute to 30% of the total voting interests, unless the By-Laws allow for a lesser amount. This was instituted in order to increase the possibility of achieving a quorum at a members meeting. In condominium and cooperative associations a majority of the total voting interests is required to have a quorum.
 This meeting is usually the Annual Meeting for the association. The membership will elect the Directors for the coming year and address any other business that may be considered at this meeting. The annual meeting is usually a meeting at which the members will hear of the association's accomplishments for the past year and the anticipated challenges and projects for the coming year through officers and committee reports. It is a time and place whereby the members will be able to ask questions and participate in the meeting. In addition to the election of officers, the membership may also be considering amendments to the documents and other matters that require membership approval.
 These are usually quarterly or semi annual meetings, which are generally used to keep the membership apprised of the operations and management of the association. Other member's meetings that may be called from to time would be: a special member's meeting to consider a special assessment, an amendment to the documents, to expend funds over a certain amount as required by the documents, or as prescribed by the documents and by the state statues. The By-Laws will indicate who may call the special meeting. In some cases, the membership may be able to call a special meeting of the membership by petitioning the membership and then presenting the petition to the Board of Directors, The Board of Directors will then be required to hold the meeting. The special members meeting may be for the purpose of reconsidering a budget, an amendment to the documents, a recall of a Board Member or for any other matter that may addressed in the documents. The documents may contain special procedures for the special meeting. The condominium and cooperative statutes provides for certain procedures to be followed, in order for the special meeting to be valid. In all cases, the special members meeting allows for the membership to be involved in the discussions and decision (voting) making process.
 Also, the meeting notice, agenda and proxy form will all be for the same purpose. Any other purpose, business or motion that come before the membership would not be valid, as they were not for the stated purpose of that special meeting. The following is a suggested list of materials and supplies that would be required for an annual members meeting:

,,,,,,,,, Resolution Card

,,,, Also, meet with your association's attorney to review your agenda, notice and meeting procedures.
 Begin to recruit volunteers to help with running the meeting now.
