 According to the American Heart Association, repeated use of the affected side of the body such as the arm, hand and fingers opens up new pathways of communication between the brain and the affected area.Movement and physical therapy help stroke patients to retrain the brain to use his or her fine motor skills. The exercises for your shoulders are as follows:



Shoulder flexion. Holding a weight in your hand, maintain a straight elbow and raise the arm overhead and back down. Repeat the procedure 10 times. Switch the weight into the other arm and then repeat the same exercise. Perform this at least once a day.

Shoulder abduction. Hold a weight in one hand keeping the arm straight. Then lift the arm to your side at shoulder height. Return the arm to your side. Repeat 10 times and then switch to the other arm. Repeat the procedure at least once a day as well.;
, Here are two exercises you can do to strengthen your elbows, lower arms, and hands:



Elbow extension. Lean slightly forward and hold your elbow behind you. Lift the weight behind you maintaining a straight elbow and then bend the elbow. Repeat 10 times and then switch arms and repeat on the other side.

Elbow flexion. Hold a weight in one hand. Then, bend your arm at the elbow and subsequently straighten it. Repeat 10 times. Switch to the other side and repeat or you can do both elbows at the same time.
 To strengthen your arms, hands, and fingers and get the muscle building, you can do rotations in addition to flexion and extension exercises. Here are two types of rotation exercises that can strengthen your muscles:



External rotations. Hold an elastic rubber band in your hands. Start the exercise with the elbows bent at 90 degrees against the body. Rotate the arms out moving the hands out to the side. Repeat 10 times. Perform this at least once a day.

Internal rotations. Tie the other end of the rubber band to a doorknob. Then, keeping the elbow at 90 degrees pull the other end of the band towards the abdomen. Perform this exercise at least once a day as well.
 Wrist exercises through the use of weights are considered weight-bearing exercises. Weight-bearing physical activity causes new bone tissue to form and this makes bones stronger.Together with the increased blood flow caused by exercise, muscle mass and strength also increases. The following can be performed:


Hold weights in both hands with your elbows bent to 90 degrees. Turn palms up and down 10 times. Perform this exercise at least once a day.
With palms facing downward, hold one weight in each hand and bend up to 90 degrees. Lift your wrists up and down while keeping the elbows still. Repeat 10 times. As usual, perform this at least once a day.
 Exercises such as shoulder flexion and abduction, elbow flexion and extension, external and internal rotations work out the muscles of the hands, elbows, wrists, and shoulders. Exercising the affected body part through pulling, pushing or lifting stimulates growth of the muscles and increases their efficiency. Regular exercise increases the number of myofibrils (muscle fibers) in each cell that accounts for 20 to 30% of muscle growth.Because of the increased blood flow, the muscle fibers are being supplied with more oxygen and nutrients leading to an increase in muscle mass. An increase in muscle mass also increases muscle strength. When the muscle gets worked, they develop more mitochondria, the little powerhouses that convert chemical energy into energy the cells can use.
 This medication acts on the central nervous system by blocking the nerve impulses in the brain that make muscles contract. It relaxes muscles by decreasing muscle spasms, tightness, pain and improves range of motion. For adults, the maintenance dose of Baclofen is 40-80 mg/day in 4 divided doses.A similar medication to baclofen is dantrolene sodium (Dantrium). The recommended dose ranges from 25 mg to a maximum dosage of 100 mg 3 times a day.
 This medication also blocks the nerve impulses in the brain that make muscles contract. The ideal starting dose is 4 mg every 6 to 8 hours. The maintenance dose is 8 mg every 6 to 8 hours.


However, the effectiveness of the medication lasts only for a short period of time, so it is advisable to use it when needed for relief of the discomfort and to be able to complete certain activities.
 This type of medication acts on the central nervous system, thus relaxing the muscles and decreasing spasticity for a short period of time.


The oral dosage varies as benzodiazepines come in many generic names (in other words, there are different medical names of the drug). Consult with your doctor for the proper prescription.
 A botox injection attaches to the nerve endings and blocks the release of chemical transmitters which signals the brain to activate muscle contraction. Essentially, the medication prevents muscle spasm.


The maximum dosage of a botox injection is less than 500 units per visit. Botox is only given by injection directly into the affected muscles., Phenol destroys the nerve conduction that is causing spasticity. It is given by injection directly into the affected muscles or into the spine. The dosage may vary according to the manufacturer.


Consult with your doctor about whether or not this is the right course of action for you. Phenol injections are not suitable for all stroke patients.
 This therapy is a way to stimulate the affected nerves in the brain to make the muscles contract. Electrical stimulation therapy helps regain movement and control of hands and arms, improves muscle tone and decreases the pain experienced by the stroke patient. It also increases blood flow to the brain to speed up healing and reduce swelling, improves the medication flow into the skin and reduces muscle spasticity.Again, EST is not for everyone. Your doctor will know whether this treatment is appropriate for you or not.
 There are two types of muscle rehabilitation you may wish to consider:



Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy. To increase the brain’s ability to repair itself and for the affected hand to regain its function, this therapy is often performed during rehabilitation. The unaffected arm is restrained using a device to allow usage of the affected arm in doing activities as much as possible.

Occupational Therapy. The occupational therapist (OT) helps the stroke patient relearn his daily activities he had before the stroke. It will speed up recovery as you learn to live and function with disabilities. The therapist will help you arrange your home for safer and easier movement inside the house.
 Getting strength back in your hands does not mean you rely solely on one medication or process of treatment. During stroke rehabilitation,you and a stroke rehab team will work together to determine which medication works well and what improves the stiffness in your hands after the stroke.


Medications are not a cure for stroke – they only relieve the symptoms of spasticity that make a muscle too tight. Spasticity of a muscle causes pain, abnormality in posture, and uncontrollable movements. The hands can start to regain their normal strength and range of motion if the medications given to the patient relieve spasticity.
 When the blood supply to an area of the brain is obstructed, it causes the development of a stroke. The brain cells that are not supplied with blood die due to lack of oxygen. In a matter of minutes and without warning, a stroke can happen and affect any individual. There are two types of stroke:



Ischemic stroke. This is the most common kind of stroke. About 87% of stroke patients suffer from this condition. It develops due to a blood clot in the blood vessel that causes the interruption of the blood flow to the brain. It can also be caused by an embolus or a blood clot that travels to other parts of the body.

Hemorrhagic stroke. A ruptured blood vessel on the surface of the brain that fills the space between the skull and the brain leads to hemorrhagic stroke. A hemorrhagic stroke can also be caused by an explosion of an artery in the brain that causes bleeding to the surrounding tissues.
 Stroke patients can experience weakness on one side of the body, the arm or leg or both can be affected. There are also speech abnormalities, vision problems, memory and intellectual difficulties, difficulty swallowing, incontinence and bladder problems that may occur. For serious cases of stroke, paralysis or death can happen.


Arms and hands can be particularly affected after a stroke. The stroke patient shows an incident of spasticity, uncontrolled muscle tightness and stiffness that causes difficulty in moving the hands or arms. The affected arm or leg is the opposite side of the body where the stroke happened in the brain.
 The factors that increase the risk of an individual having a stroke include:Age
Family history of stroke
Gender
Race or ethnicity
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Diabetes
Heart disease
Smoking
High blood cholesterol levels
Drug abuse (use of marijuana)
Obesity

, Restoration of normal movement and improvement in coordination, strength and endurance is the main focus of physical rehabilitation for stroke patients. About 80% of stroke patients are unable to walk alone right after a stroke – with the help of physical rehabilitation and natural management the incidence is decreased to less than 20%.A stroke patient can utilize a walker or cane in the initial step of the physical rehabilitation. Then, gradual progress to the movement of the legs until the patient is able to walk independently will be implemented. Walking requires coordinated movement between the healthy and impaired legs.
Some rehabilitation centers have a good facility that uses a harness to support a patient during treadmill exercises. It gives the patient the support and balance needed to regain his normal walk.

