 You need one wire hanger to make a bunny wreath. Use your hands to bend the hanger into a circular shape. Leave the hanger part of the wire untouched. Later, you will use this to hang up your wreath.Strive to get as round of a circle as possible. However, you will be covering your wreath in plastic bags. Parts that are slightly bent or crooked will not be noticeable as long as you have a roughly circular shape.
 Take a plastic sandwich bag without a Ziploc top. Poke your fingers through the bottom of the bag. Then, pull apart the bottom and stretch out the bag until you have a circle-shaped loop of plastic., Take the circular loop you made. Flatten it together into a single line. Then, tie it around the wreath using one knot. When you're done, there should be two looped semi-circles of plastic bag sticking out from either side of the knot., Make loops with more paper bags. Then, tie them to the hanger like you did with the first loop. Use as many plastic bags as necessary to cover the entire circle with looped knots. Push the loops together as you go so you have a very thick ring of plastic., Use a pair of scissors to cut open each loop surrounding your wreath. When you're done, the paper bags will create a fuzzy effect that resembles bunny fur. You should be left with a fuzzy, white circle., Use fuzzy bunny ears on a headband, which you can buy in most department stores and craft shops around easter. Cut off each ear with a pair of scissors. Then, hot glue them to the top of your circle. Place them on either side of the hanger coming out of the top of your wreath.You can glue the ears as close together or as far apart as you want. It comes down to personal preference.
 Take a plastic egg. Hot glue it on the bottom of the wreath, at roughly the opposite side of the hanger. Then, hot glue three pipe cleaners on each side of the egg. This will create what looks like a nose and whiskers.You can choose any color of egg and pipe cleaners you want. Pastel colors work great for easter.

