 For everyday dirt, grime, and food residue, wet a sponge or soft cloth. Squeeze out a small circle of dish soap onto the sponge, and rub the soap into the sponge to get a soapy lather. Wipe down your entire countertop with the sponge. Rinse the soap off the counters with a damp sponge., Once the counters are clean, completely dry the surface. This helps prevent the formation of hard water marks and streaks. It also makes your countertops look slightly glossy. This routine cleaning method is the best way to maintain your countertops., If you take care of liquid spills as soon as they happen, you should be able to prevent the majority of hard water marks and stains. Take care of these spills by using soapy water, rinsing, and drying the spot., Many all-purpose kitchen cleaners contain ammonia. Be sure to check the label to ensure the cleaner contains this material. Spray the countertops down with the cleaner, rinse with a wet rag, and dry with a soft cloth.


Do not use window or glass cleaners on the countertops. While many of these cleaners contain ammonia, they’ll leave streaks on your Corian.If you prefer to avoid chemical cleaners, you can explore plant-based cleaning options. Many natural cleaning lines carry products specifically made to clean granite, quartz, and Corian countertops.
 It’s a good idea to disinfect your kitchen countertops at least once, and possibly twice, per week. This helps prevent the spread of bacteria. Make a diluted mixture of bleach and water by mixing one tablespoon (14.78 mL) of bleach with one gallon (3.78 L) of water. Wet a cloth with the solution and rub it over the entire surface by using small circular motions. Be sure to protect your eyes and skin from bleach while cleaning. Wear a pair of rubber gloves while you perform your disinfecting.
If you prefer to avoid bleach, use natural disinfectant sprays and wipes instead.
 Give the solution time to do the work of disinfecting. For maximum disinfecting, it’s best to let the solution simply air dry on the countertops. If you prefer, you can wait a few minutes and then use a soft cloth to dry the countertops., Corian countertops come with matte, semi-gloss, and high-gloss finishes. While no Corian countertop will give off the same shiny look as granite, you can buff and enhance the look of countertops with glossy finishes. Simply spray on the polish and buff with a dry, soft cloth.