

The first step in becoming a licensed mental health counselor is to obtain your bachelor’s degree.Most likely your degree would be a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or Bachelor of Science (BS) in psychology or a related field.

Once accepted and in school, take opportunities to join student organizations and do research. These activities can give valuable experience and allow you to meet people for future networking and professional growth.
As part of the four year BA or BS program of study, you'll need to take upper-division credit hours in social sciences (psychology and sociology). Research methods and statistics can be helpful too, and may be required.
Do your best to keep your GPA up. Making good grades will make it much easier to get into graduate school.
Look into internships that you can do during your BA program as well. This can help you to figure out what you might like to specialize in later on or if you actually want to pursue a career as a counselor. For example, you might intern at a women’s shelter or for a crisis line.;
,

Obtaining a Master of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MS) or equivalent degree is the next step in becoming a licensed mental health counselor.Some states require that the degree program is accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs.Check with your state licensing board to determine what their requirements are.

Take the Graduate Record Exam. This test measures your critical thinking skills and is required in order to be admitted into graduate school.Study for it well in advance, but don’t worry if you have to take it more than once. Many people do.Many programs have a multi-part application process. It often includes submitting essays, undergraduate records, letters of recommendation, and an interview process. Begin the process early so you have enough time to complete the process and meet all deadlines.
Make the most of opportunities to participate in research and in student and national organizations in the field of mental health counseling like the American Mental Health Counselors Association.,

Some licensed mental health counselors go on to earn their PhD in order to make themselves more marketable and to gain more experience and knowledge.However, this is optional. You need a Master's degree to be a licensed counselor, but you do not need a PhD.

Use resources like the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics to determine if the additional years of school are worth the increase in income.

