 Different sized rabbits need different sized cages. Make sure the cage you choose is spacious enough for your particular rabbit.Cages should be at least fourteen inches in height or enough height so the rabbit is able to sit upright without banging her head.
Have roughly five square feet of space in the cage for your rabbit. For smaller rabbits, you may need less, but they should have plenty of space to run around.
Provide enough extra space for your rabbit's toys, litter box, food, and water. These should not count towards the five square feet of space needed for your rabbit to run around.;
, Indoor rabbit cages can often be restrictive for your rabbit. Make sure you have enough space in the cage for your rabbit. You should also be able to leave the cage open so he can get plenty of exercise.Give your rabbit enough space in his cage. There needs to be enough room for him to move around in the cage and lie down. The minimum size is three hops long and two hops wide. Of course, the bigger the cage, the better it will be for your rabbit.
Make sure your rabbit has space for food, water, a litter box, and toys. He will need things to do and to eat and drink in his cage.
Try a cage with a front door for your rabbit. Purchase a cage that opens either from the inside and/or outside. Cages with doors that open out enable your rabbit to come and go when he wants, whereas doors that only push in mean you have to get the rabbit out of the cage yourself.
Make sure your cage has protection for the rabbit’s feet. Cage flooring can injure the rabbit’s feet, so provide soft material that can cover the cage flooring, such as an old blanket or towel., Bunny condos are bigger cages that give your rabbit space to run around. You can make a bunny condo out of a variety of materials, including wood, metal, or old furniture.


Think about what potential materials you may have already around the house. You can make a bunny condo from a variety of used materials.
Use wire storage cubes, which are available at most retailers. This can be an inexpensive way to build a bunny condo, though it may take some time to complete.Avoid chicken wire, since rabbits can chew the wire. If they chew chicken wire, rabbits can hurt themselves.
Keep metal slats close together so your rabbit will not get stuck. She may put her head through and not be able to escape, leading to to injury or possible strangulation.
 Puppy pens are fences that give your rabbits a wide range to run around. They provide your rabbit space inside and allow him to move around wherever he wishes.A puppy pen can be good to give your rabbit more space. It's more open than a regular cage and less work to make than a bunny condo.
Puppy pens are available at most pet stores. They do not usually have a top, but enable your rabbit to roam around inside the pen.
Get a puppy pen that is high enough so your rabbit cannot leap over the top. Over 36 inches (91.4 cm) is ideal to keep your rabbit from hopping away.
Using a puppy pen can be good if you’re trying to get your rabbit used to being in open spaces before giving him free range. This will reduce his stress and make sure he is not overwhelmed by too much space.
 Free range rabbits can roam around the home and have plenty of space to exercise. Make sure your home is safe for rabbits by bunny-proofing your home.Bunny-proof your home. Conceal any drapes, rugs, or electrical cords that rabbits could choke on or hurt themselves with. If you can’t bunny-proof the entire home, consider keeping your rabbit only in one room that you can bunny-proof.
Put electrical cords in vinyl tubing to make sure your free range rabbit will not hurt herself on electrical cords.
Introduce your free range rabbit slowly to other pets. They should get along (if the bunny doesn't consider it as a predator), but be sure to supervise at first.

