 Contact a flood damage repair company immediately. Search for someone that provides 24/7 support and is able to send a technician to your home right away. Ask them to also bring official documentation to reassure you that you are dealing with someone reputable.;
, Electricity and water don’t mix. Even if you feel the area is safe, it is better to err on the side of caution until a professional has time to evaluate the situation.
 If at all possible attempt to stop more water from entering the home. Place barriers between gaps in your home and the external water sources, such as boards, mats, and other water stopping items.
 Remove furniture, equipment and other items away from the water and moisture. If you are unable to remove furniture yourself, then contact a storage company and have it relocated until the water is extracted and the home is dried. If the furniture is already really water-damaged though, it won't be able to be stored as it will be a source of mildew and mold growth, so only select the furniture that is dry or barely damaged.


Some flood damage repair companies are able to provide removal of furniture and belongings as part of their complete package of services. Ask about this at the time of booking.
Ask friends, family, and neighbors to help you. In turn, help neighbors who have also been affected by the flooding.
 Have all the water and humidity professionally extracted from the home including carpets, furniture, drywall and other impacted areas.
 Some items may not be salvageable and will require appropriate disposal. If you aren’t sure, consult with a professional flood damage repair provider who will be able to assist in determining what is able to be fixed and what could be a potential health hazard.
 Flooding causes damage to many areas that will require repairs; cabinets, walls, floors and furniture frequently need extensive remediation after flood related damage takes place.
 Take pictures and record notes on all activity related to the flood damage. It will assist in submitting a claim to your insurance provider as well as help in repairs and restoration.
 Extensive water related damage can cause health related issues ranging from infections to allergic reactions. In some cases, waterborne disease may also be an issue where livestock and corpses are in the water and vicinity of the floods. Lock up and leave the home rather than risk an injury or illness related to flood damage if your home has extensive water damage.
 Your insurance agent will be able to assist in submitting a claim but be sure to work with a reputable flood damage repair and water damage repair provider. Be sure to use someone who is recognized by your insurance provider; failure to use a qualified provider often leads to rejection of claims resulting in costly fees and out of pocket expenses.

