 If you need help figuring out whether to seek involuntary dismissal, then you should schedule a consultation with a qualified attorney. You can get a referral by contacting your state or local bar association.Call up the attorney and ask how much he or she charges for a consultation. At the consultation, you can explain your case.
Think about hiring the attorney. Money might be tight, but having an experienced attorney represent you would make the process of getting an involuntary dismissal go easier.
If you can’t afford to hire the attorney, then ask whether the attorney offers “unbundled legal services” (also called “discrete task representation”). Under this arrangement, the attorney agrees to do only the work you give him or her, or agrees to coach you as you represent yourself.;
, This article provides general information about seeking involuntary dismissal. However, you should read the relevant Rules of Civil Procedure for your court. These rules will identify all of the reasons you can seek an involuntary dismissal.


If you are in federal court, then you will need the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. In particular, you should read Rules 12 and 41. They are available online.If you are in state court, then you will need to read your state’s Rules of Civil Procedure. You can often find these online.If not, then visit your nearest law library, which could be in your courthouse or at a nearby law school.
 You can seek involuntary dismissal if the plaintiff didn’t notify you of the lawsuit properly.You should read your relevant rules of civil procedure to determine what is acceptable service of process.


For example, if you never received the petition or complaint, then you can claim inadequate service.
Furthermore, your state may have detailed requirements that must be followed. In New York, for example, the plaintiff cannot leave a copy of the complaint and summons with your neighbor.
 Courts have the power to hear only certain cases. This power is called “jurisdiction.”You can get a case involuntarily dismissed if it was filed in the wrong court:


The court doesn’t have jurisdiction over the subject matter. You can’t bring certain lawsuits in some courts. For example, you can’t file for divorce in federal court.Also, you must bring some disputes only in federal court: e.g., copyright disputes.If the plaintiff filed the lawsuit in the wrong court, then you can get the case dismissed for subject matter jurisdiction.
The court doesn’t have jurisdiction over you as the defendant. A court only has power over you in certain situations. For example, you could consent to jurisdiction, or you could be served with the lawsuit while you were in the state. You may also do business in the state or be domiciled there.However, if you never visit the state, then you might be able to get an involuntary dismissal for lack of personal jurisdiction.
The venue is improper. Even if a state has power over you, the lawsuit must be heard in an appropriate county, which is the “venue.” A proper venue is one where you live, do business, or signed or broke a contract., You can get the case dismissed if there is an indispensable party who cannot be joined to the lawsuit.An indispensable party is someone who must be joined to the lawsuit in order to provide complete justice but who cannot be joined for some reason.


For example, you might have signed a contract to do work for two people. However, one of them decides to sue you for breaking the contract. The third person who was a party to the contract is a necessary party.
Generally, a party can’t be joined because the federal court would lose its jurisdiction over the case. Federal courts generally cannot hear state law claims unless the plaintiffs are from different states than all of the defendants. Continuing with the contract example: you might be from Maine and the person suing you is from New Hampshire. However, if the other person you made the contract with is also from Maine, then joining her to the lawsuit destroys jurisdiction. You can get the case involuntarily dismissed.
 You can also seek dismissal if the plaintiff is suing you for invalid claims.You can determine whether a claim is valid by doing some legal research and looking at the complaint filed.


For example, the plaintiff might sue you for misrepresenting them in a “false light.” However, not every state allows a person to sue another person for this claim. If the claim isn’t valid in your state, you can get the lawsuit dismissed.
In other situations, the claim may be valid but the plaintiff didn’t allege every element. For example, negligence has four elements: (1) you owed the plaintiff a duty of reasonable care; (2) you breached that duty by failing to exercise reasonable care; (3) your breach caused the plaintiff injury; (4) the plaintiff suffered damages. If the plaintiff fails to allege one of these elements—say, duty—then you can get the case dismissed.
To check whether the plaintiff has alleged all elements, you should find the jury instructions for your state online. For example, search “your state” and “negligence jury instructions.” The instructions should lay out each element. Check to make sure the plaintiff alleged each element for a cause of action.
 Many courts allow defendants to seek involuntary dismissal if the plaintiff is not following the court’s rules or if the plaintiff ignores the court’s orders.For example, the plaintiff could have ignored the court’s order to turn over documents as part of the discovery process.The plaintiff also fails to comply with the court rules when he or she repeatedly fails to show up to court hearings.
 Judges don’t want cases sitting on the docket for years. Instead, they want to see the case moving forward. As a defendant, you can seek a motion to dismiss if the plaintiff is not diligently prosecuting the case.There is no magic timetable for how fast the plaintiff must prosecute the case. However, if the plaintiff constantly changes attorneys or fails to show up on the day of trial, then you could ask for an involuntary dismissal., You may be limited as to when you file your motion for involuntary dismissal. The deadline will depend on why you are seeking dismissal.


For example, you must bring a motion to dismiss for improper service, lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue, and failure to state a claim before you answer the complaint.You should also file a motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction before answering. However, the court is always responsible for dismissing the case whenever it realizes that it lacks this form of jurisdiction.
You can bring a motion to dismiss for failure to prosecute or failure to comply at any point before the case is submitted to the jury.
 A judge can dismiss a case “with prejudice” or “without prejudice.” When a case is dismissed “without prejudice,” the plaintiff can then refile it, provided the statute of limitations hasn’t expired. However, if a case is dismissed “with prejudice,” then the plaintiff cannot refile. Generally, dismissing the case for the following reasons results in the following dismissal:Insufficient service of process (without prejudice)
Subject matter jurisdiction (without prejudice)
Personal jurisdiction (without prejudice)
Venue (without prejudice)
Failure to state a claim (without prejudice)
Failure to prosecute (with prejudice)
Failure to comply with court’s rules or orders (with prejudice)

, You need to file a “motion” asking the court to dismiss the case. Your court might print a fill-in-the-blank motion form you could use. Alternately, the judge might publish a sample you could use as a guide.Check with your court clerk.
 If there is no form, then you will need to create your own motion. You can begin by opening a word processing document and setting the font to Times New Roman or Arial 14 point.Put at least one-inch margins on each side.
Also check your court’s local rules to see if there are other formatting requirements. You can get a copy of the local rules by looking on the court’s website or by contacting the judge’s chambers.
 At the top of the page, you should insert the caption. You can get this information by looking at the complaint the plaintiff filed in the case. The caption includes:the name of the court
the names of the parties
the case number

, You should title the motion “Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s Complaint” or something similar.If you are moving to dismiss only one cause of action (for example, the second), then title the motion “Motion to Dismiss Count Two of Plaintiff’s Complaint.”

, You should introduce yourself and identify the motion you are bringing. You should also identify the Rule of Civil Procedure that gives you a right to bring a motion to dismiss.


Sample language could read: “Come Now Defendant Ashton Leigh, who moves to dismiss the Plaintiff’s Complaint for failure to state a claim pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(6).”Check your local rules to see if you have to contact the other side before filing the motion. If so, then you should certify that you contacted the Plaintiff but couldn’t reach a resolution.
 There may not be many relevant facts when you file a motion to dismiss. For example, if you file the motion after receiving the complaint, then there is really no information to talk about other than what causes of action the plaintiff has brought.


However, you might bring a motion to dismiss if the plaintiff has failed to prosecute the case, or if they have ignored the court’s rules. In these situations, you should explain in detail how the plaintiff has ignored the court’s rulings or failed to attend hearings.
 You should explain to the court why you are entitled to a motion to dismiss. This is your chance to make your legal argument. A proper legal argument has two parts:


First, you state what the law is. For example, if the plaintiff has sued you for negligence, you should state what elements the plaintiff must allege.
Second, you state how the plaintiff failed to follow the law. For example, you could point out how the plaintiff failed to allege certain elements so that they have not alleged a valid legal claim., In your conclusion, you can briefly request that the court grant your motion to dismiss: “For the foregoing reasons, the Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss should be granted.”Insert a signature block underneath the words “Respectfully submitted” and also include a line for the date.
 You need to tell the court how you gave the plaintiff notice of your motion. You will provide notice by serving a copy of the motion. You should attach a certificate of service to your motion.


On a separate sheet of paper, type “Certificate of Service” at the top of the page.
Sample language for the certificate could read: “I do hereby certify that a copy of this Motion to Dismiss was sent by First Class Mail, postage pre-paid, on this 25th day of June, 2016 to the following person: .” Then add a signature line and sign., As the person bringing the motion, you are responsible for getting a hearing date. Each court schedules hearings a little differently. In some courts you need to go on the judge’s calendar online and pick a day for the hearing. In other courts, the clerk will help you schedule the hearing date.


Remember not to schedule the hearing too soon. Read your Rules of Civil Procedure to see how many days must pass between the hearing and the date you filed the motion.
You may also have to fill out a Notice of Hearing or other form. You write the date and time of the hearing and send it along with a copy of your motion to the plaintiff.
 Once you have completed all forms, you should make multiple copies of the motion and file the original with the court clerk.The clerk can stamp your copies with the date. Remember to keep one copy for your records.


You may have to pay a filing fee, which will differ by court.
 Make service on the plaintiff using the method mentioned in your certificate of service. For example, you can have someone (not you) mail a copy of the motion and a Notice of Hearing using first class mail.


Remember that if the plaintiff has a lawyer, then serve the lawyer instead of the plaintiff., The judge might decide the issue without holding a hearing. Call the clerk the day before your hearing to see if the hearing is still scheduled. Otherwise, you should prepare for the hearing by doing the following:


Rereading your motion. Make sure you remember what you have written.
Read the plaintiff’s response. The plaintiff might draft a motion in response. You should read it closely so that you understand the arguments the plaintiff has made.
Outline your argument. Having read your motion and the plaintiff’s, identify the areas of disagreement. Then sit down and create bullet points of the main points you want to make.
Sit in on a motion hearing, if possible. Courtrooms are generally open to the public, and you could benefit by sitting in on the judge’s motion hearings.Pay attention to how much time the judge gives each side to talk and what kinds of questions are asked.
 You can ask for dismissal of the case during your trial. This is not the hearing on the motion to dismiss, but the actual trial for the original lawsuit. In Massachusetts, for example, you can ask for dismissal in a trial without a jury after the plaintiff has presented their case.However, you must wait until the plaintiff has finished presenting their case. Accordingly, you or your attorney will cross-examine the plaintiff’s witnesses.
 After the plaintiff rests, the judge will turn to you. At this point, you may stand and ask the judge to dismiss the lawsuit. If you lose the motion, you will still be able to put on a defense. However, you give the judge a chance to throw out the case if the plaintiff hasn’t proved their claim.


You should stand and say, “Your Honor, the Defense moves this court for a motion to dismiss” and then cite the rule of civil procedure that gives the judge the power to dismiss the case. Also state that the plaintiff hasn’t proven the case by a “preponderance of evidence,” which is the standard in most civil cases.
If the judge grants the motion, the case is over and you win.However, the judge probably will deny the motion or will wait to rule until you finish presenting your defense.
 The judge might deny your motion. In this situation, you would simply go ahead with your defense. You would call your witnesses and introduce helpful documents into evidence., After all evidence has been presented, you can ask the judge to reconsider the motion to dismiss by “renewing” it. The judge has the power to grant the motion to dismiss after hearing all of the evidence.


After all evidence is in, the judge will ask you and the plaintiff if there is anything else. You can say, “Your Honor, the Defendant would like to renew the motion to dismiss.”

