 Either way, the most important thing for your doctor to assess is: how is the damage to your aortic valve affecting your overall heart function, and your ability to manage in day-to-day life? Things that your doctor will ask you about, to help characterize the severity of your aortic regurgitation, include:


How is your energy level?
How is your ability to tolerate exercise?
Do you find you are getting short of breath easily?
Are you experiencing chest pain?
Have you been feeling faint or lightheaded?;
,"If your aortic regurgitation is not causing you significant problems at the moment, your doctor may advise one of two things. He or she may advise a period of "watchful waiting," with no immediate treatment (but continual check-ups to evaluate the state of your aortic valve). Or, he or she may begin you on a trial of medical therapy (medications that can help to reduce symptoms and/or to slow the progression of the disease).


If your aortic regurgitation is severe, however, and causing damage to your heart and/or significantly compromising your quality of life, you will most likely be advised to proceed with surgery as soon as possible.
 The best way to directly assess your aortic valve, and the flow of blood out of your heart (as well as the backflow of blood back into your heart) is by receiving periodic Doppler echocardiograms.An echocardiogram is a type of ultrasound that directly looks at your heart.


The Doppler component allows blood flow to be visualized, which gives your doctor a better idea of how well your aortic valve is functioning.The Doppler echocardiogram can also provide valuable information about the state of health (or disease) of your heart.
It can show things like "left ventricular hypertrophy" (damage to the left ventricle of your heart caused by the backflow of blood), among other things.
 There are some conditions that may cause damage to your heart valves and this can lead to developing aortic valve regurgitation. These conditions include:Congenital heart valve disease.
Endocarditis.
Rheumatic fever.
Any disease that can enlarge the aortic valve, such as Marfan syndrome.
A traumatic injury to the chest or to one of your heart valves.
 Minimizing undue stress and strain on your heart by taking medications as needed is an important part of treatment. Some options to discuss with your doctor include:


A statin medication (such as Lipitor, or Atorvastatin) if you have elevated cholesterol levels (this is a risk factor for worsening heart disease).
A blood sugar medication (such as Metformin, or Insulin) if your sugars are in the pre-diabetic or diabetic range, as this is also a risk factor for worsening heart disease.
Blood pressure medications to lower your blood pressure if it is elevated; this is another cardiovascular risk factor.
 A vasodilator widens your blood vessels, reduces blood pressure, and reduces the stress from the backflow of blood on your heart. As such, it can help in the long-term management of chronic aortic regurgitation. An example of a vasodilator is Nifedipine (Procardia)., If the infection is confirmed (or suspected strongly enough), you will likely need to proceed with surgery without waiting any longer.
 Helpful changes may include:


Eating a lower salt diet (which can help with lowering blood pressure)
Eating a balanced diet low in fat (your doctor can provide you with further guidance around a "heart-healthy diet")
Exercising, as tolerated (depending upon the severity of your condition)
Quitting smoking

, When are you a candidate for surgery to treat your aortic regurgitation? The following are all things that your doctor will consider when he or she advises you about the possibility of surgery:


If aortic regurgitation is causing significant symptomatic problems - such as chest pain, shortness of breath, fainting, or even the symptoms of heart failure - your doctor will advise that you proceed with surgery.
When aortic regurgitation is causing significant enough backflow of blood to compromise your heart function (and to potentially cause permanent damage to other areas of your heart), you will definitely be advised to proceed with surgery.
Finally, if you have an infection on your heart valve (called "endocarditis"), you will need surgical treatment.
 There are different "new valves" that you can opt for. These include:


A mechanical heart valve, typically made of carbon or titanium.
A biological heart valve, made of human or animal tissue (such as from a pig).
Make sure that you discuss the different valve options with your surgeon. There are pros and cons to each type., You will not feel any pain, and you will not even be aware that the surgery is taking place.


You will also be put on a "cardiopulmonary bypass machine" for the duration of the surgery.
This occurs after the anesthetic has kicked in, so you will not be aware of it.
A cardiopulmonary bypass machine is basically a "heart-lung machine" that performs the functions that your heart and lungs normally do, for the duration of time that you are on the operating table.
 Most often, you will receive open heart surgery where an incision is made in your breastbone, the replacement of the valve is performed, and you are then sewn back up. You will need to stay in hospital for a few nights following the procedure to ensure a proper recovery.
 Your doctor will be able to guide you about the duration you will need to take them for.


An example of an anticoagulant (anti-clotting) medication is Warfarin (Coumadin).

