 Assume the best, but get into action quickly. In many cases, it's probable that your child has wandered off or is playing hide and seek somewhere. Staying calm will help you to quickly assess what has happened, to canvass the options and to act with clarity.
 Children have really playful natures and malls offer lots of opportunities to have some fun. Have a look around the immediate vicinity, calling the child's name. He or she may just be around the corner playing with whatever they could get their hands on. Sometimes they may even hide from you for fun.;
, Your child may have just wandered to a near by candy or toy shop so always check there. If you check stores, tell the employees their about the missing child so they can keep an eye out.
 Look behind clothing racks, shelving, the back of displays, under chairs and behind things. Many children love hiding, while others are attracted to fascinating displays and try to "get inside" them or play with them.
 Sometimes, pretending to go home and saying "bye bye" can do the trick for the very young, causing them to come running out screaming not to be left behind.
 Once you find your kid, remember to tell him or her to not run off like that again, and to always stay within your view. He/she may even listen if you reward him afterwards.


Don't make a scene. You may be understandably upset but yelling and screaming at your child will terrify, not teach them. Keep calm and stay close with your child until you are able to speak calmly.
 After doing a quick look around (see Part 1) and not spotting your child, assume that quick action is needed. The first three hours after a child goes missing are vital in finding a child should anything untoward have occurred., Someone at the information kiosk or central management can speak on the loudspeaker to get your child's attention. Be prepared to provide a description of the child's clothing, hair color, eye color and anything else. Give the child's name, and any nickname that he or she prefers to be called by; this may not be called out to protect the child but it will be helpful to those in the actual search. The child's age will also be needed.


Show a photograph of your child on your cellphone or a real photograph from your purse or wallet.
 Go back to any places where you remember your child talking to someone or seeming very interested in what a person was doing. For example, if your child was fascinated by people putting up a window display or showing a smartphone to customers, these might be the stores to go back to and check again.


Ask the mall security staff to check all of the toilet facilities in the mall.
 They will need to know how to reach you (cell phone number) and that you aren't missing too. If they ask you to stay put, heed their advice. They are not obstructing you; they're trained in what to do and it may be best that you're available for questions and to be there when they bring back your child to you.
 While few people resent stopping to help find a lost child, it shows respect and appreciation to thank them for their help.
 Ask the mall staff to assist if needed; they will likely need to talk to the police anyway and many malls likely have a police alerting protocol in place after a set period of time searching.


Contact your spouse and any relevant caregivers to assist at this stage. You will need support and may not be in a fit psychological state to be left alone.
 They are never too young to learn how to stay safe.
 A child who knows and has practiced what to do upon getting lost. This involves making a plan together, choosing go-to spots in the event of getting split up and teaching your child to stay put at such a location. It isn't enough to talk this through; also act it through at least once every few months, to be sure that your child knows what to do and where to go.


In a mall, this might be a particular store, where a security guard is stationed, or the information kiosk. Only send your child to a location where you know you can trust the staff.
 You may even purchase or make safety helpers, such as:


Child-safe leashes to put around children's hands.
Temporary tattoos with phone number, contact details of parents or caregivers, placed on the child's arm. These are great for crowded places such as malls, Disney locations, game stadiums, theme parks, etc.
Pinning contact details to the child's clothing. Or, simply write the contact details on your child's hand with a safe marker.
Using digital technology, such as a tracking tag (worn like a watch) or similar device.
Dress your child in bright clothing for ease of spotting.

