 Look at the stats and moves of each Pokémon to determine whether it's a good fit for a given role. Consider the following formula:

Physical Sweeper (Pokémon with high Attack stat)
Special Sweeper (Pokémon with high Special Attack stat)
Physical Wall (Pokémon with high Defense, who can soak up damage)
Special Wall (Same as Physical Wall, but for Special Defense)
Lead (Pokémon who sets up entry hazards or field conditions early in the game.)
Crippler (Pokémon who inflicts status conditions, then switches out to a Sweeper)

, Be sure that the moves that you're assigning them are compatible. Except in some circumstances, do not have two moves of the same type on one Pokémon, such as Surf and Hydro Pump. This is because you will want to ensure that your Pokémon can defeat as many types of Pokémon as possible. Stat boosters and restoration moves are OK (Synthesis, Aromatherapy, Growth and Petal Dance are all Grass-type moves, but only one is used for attacking), as are moves like Flamethrower and Overheat, which can be used in different circumstances.

An attacking Pokémon should have a strong move/moves of its own type, as it will get a boost to this move's power (called STAB). It should also have coverage moves that can hit different types than your main attack, otherwise your Pokémon will be walled by certain types. Some attackers can use a set-up move which can bring its power up to ridiculous amounts, others might use some support move, healing, or switching moves like U-Turn. Priority is also a good idea, because moves of a higher priority will always go before moves of a lower priority.
Your team's tank is a hardy Pokémon with high HP that can take a lot of damage while you heal and manage your other Pokémon. Tanks should have moves like healing, Taunt, Protect or Substitute, or status. Moves like Aromatherapy or Wish that help your teammates are good too.
Support Pokémon use status moves to cripple opposing Pokémon, get rid of threats like set-up sweepers, get rid of entry hazards, or help your team.
 This is the one that you usually send out first. They are usually either fast, so that they can put out delayed moves and other hazards before your opponent can do anything. Sometimes, leads are bulky so that they can set up hazards multiple times throughout the match. They can carry an entry hazard, like Stealth Rock, Sticky Web, Spikes, or Toxic Spikes, set up a beneficial field condition, like weather, Reflect and Light Screen, or Trick Room, or Baton Pass boosts to another teammate. They also usually have moves to disrupt your opponent, status, or phasing, as well as an attack so they will not be completely useless once hit with Taunt., Remember that competitive battling isn't just about wiping out your opponent; it's about strategy and prediction, too. Be sure that you can lay traps (e.g. Stealth Rock, Spikes, Toxic Spikes). Have stat boosters such as Swords Dance. It may not look like much, as you may just want to attack as soon as possible, but Swords Dance doubles your Pokémon's Attack power. Even if it just adds 50%, try it anyway. Use moves with added effects, such as Flamethrower and Blizzard, which respectively have a chance of burning and freezing the target. Make sure that the moves you use are complemented by the Pokémon's stats.

For example, using Flamethrower and Blizzard with a Pokémon that has a low special attack stat would be a bad idea.
Keep in mind that many Pokémon aren't offensively inclined. These Pokémon would likely be most effective with status moves that cause these effects, as they wouldn't do much damage with physical or special attacks.
 If you see that half of the Pokémon have a weakness to one type, then switch out at least one Pokémon. Simply giving your Pokémon a Water move will not protect it from a Gallade's Fire Punch, so don't try to simply change the move set. You'll end up wasting a move slot and not fixing the problem.