 One way to find an ADHD coach is to ask your doctor or psychologist to refer you to a reputable coach in the area. You can also approach your local chapter of Children and Adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD) and ask if they know of any ADHD coaches in the area, or who will coach online or over the phone., If you have a friend, family member, or colleague who has used ADHD coaching, then this can also be a good way to get a referral. Just be sure that you feel comfortable asking the person and that they will likely be receptive to you asking.

For example, if the person has talked openly with you about seeing an ADHD coach, then they will probably be willing to share. However, if you heard from someone else that the person sees an ADHD coach and the person is not open about it, then you might not want to ask them.
If you decide to ask, try saying something like, “I am looking for an ADHD coach and I remember you talking about seeing one. Would you recommend your coach?”

, You can also search online for an ADHD coach. Organizations that certify coaches such as the ADHC Coach Institute (IAAC) and the International Coach Federation (ICF) will provide online directories of certified coaches. Search through the directory and read up on the education and specializations of each coach.You should also determine if you want a coach that specializes in ADHD coaching or just a general life coach. A specialized ADHD coach is not necessary, but they may have a better understanding of your situation.
The most important thing about choosing a coach is finding someone who fits with your personality.
 Once you have searched through the directory of coaches or received a few referrals, you will want to narrow down the search. Read through online testimonials. This will help you get a better understanding of the coaching style and how they interact with clients. You can also ask yourself the following questions to help you decide on a coach:Are in-person coaching sessions important to me? If yes, then you will want to find a coach who is geographically close and offers regular in-person sessions.
Do I want a coach that specializes in certain areas? Aside from having a working knowledge of ADHD, you may want a coach that focuses on helping with time management, organization, parenting, work, family life, etc.
Do I want a coach with a lot of energy or someone who is more subdued?
What hours am I available to meet with or visit with a coach? Do I need daily direction, or are weekly visits easier for my schedule?

, Once you have narrowed down your list to approximately 3 to 5 potential coaches, you should interview the candidates to see if any of them are a fit for you. Most coaches will offer 15-30 minutes of their time, free of charge, to allow you to get to know them. If any of the coaches on the list will not allow an interview, you should probably cross them off the list. Here are a few questions to ask while interviewing potential ADHD coaches:What is your educational and certification background?
How many clients with ADHD have you coached?
Explain the type of coaching that you are looking for (i.e. time management) and ask "Have you have ever coached someone with that specific issue?"
How long are coaching sessions?
What is the cost and payment structure?
How do you approach coaching?

, Coaching is typically not covered by insurance policies. As a result, you will need to consider the cost when you are deciding on an ADHD coach. Coaching sessions can range in price from pro bono sessions all the way to $1,500 per month. Most coaches cost around $300-$600 a month.Some coaches may expect you to sign up and pay for a minimum number of sessions up front. This is because some patients may lose interest after the first few sessions and discontinue the treatment.
If you pay for the treatment in advance, you are more likely to follow through with the coaching sessions.
If you are in great need of coaching, then take a close look at your budget to see what you can eliminate from it to free up some money for coaching. You may even consider taking a part-time job or asking for more hours at your current job to pay for coaching.

