 Bedsprings are fairly hard to come by, but the easiest way to secure one is to take apart an old mattress. The mattress can be any age or condition; the only requirement is that you're done using it as a mattress, as it will need to be completely disassembled.If you don’t have access to an old mattress, you may be able to find bedsprings online or at flea markets, garage sales or antique shops.
Ebay and Craigslist are also great resources for hunting down old bedsprings.;
, To do this, you will need first to cut through all the fabric and padding; you can achieve this by cutting around the perimeter of the mattress using a knife. When you reach the metal part of the box spring, you should be able to remove the bedsprings by cutting the connector wires with a set of pliers.Take as many springs as you think you’ll need. When you’re finished, you can dispose of the rest of your mattress.
Since bedsprings are at a premium, you can also try selling extra bedsprings online or at yard sales to make a profit.
 Start by cleaning your bedspring off with soap and water. If any grease remains from the box spring, use a degreaser to remove it. Use medium sandpaper to rough up your bedspring slightly.If you plan to incorporate your bedspring vase into your garden, you can skip this step and leave your bedspring as is.
Do not strip the outer layer of your bedspring entirely; just rough the spring up enough so that paint will be able to stick to the spring.
 Depending on the style of your bedspring and the look you’re going for, you may want to paint your bedspring. Select your color of choice, then spray paint your bedspring. Apply two coats of paint, allowing your spring to dry completely between coats.Spray paint your bedspring outside or in a well-ventilated area.
Hold your spray paint can a few feet away from your bedspring and apply even pressure as you mist your bedspring.
For a more neutral bedspring vase, paint your bedspring gold or black. For an added pop of color, paint your bedspring royal blue or hot pink.
 After your bedspring has dried, stand it upright and stick a test tube inside the cone. You can fill your test tube with water and use it to hold fresh flowers, or leave the test tube dry and use it to store fake flowers.Test tubes can be purchased online or in most craft stores.
If you don’t have a test tube, you can also use a thin vase or glass bottle to accomplish the same thing.
You can also swap your test tube out for a candle stick. Make two bedspring candlesticks and use them as centerpieces for your dining room table.

