 Communicate respect for your stepchildren by remaining calm and being honest with them, especially about your relationship with their biological parent.Understand that stepchildren may be frustrated that their biological parents are not still together.
Accept that you cannot control what your stepchild thinks. Avoid getting defensive about any unfair accusations – such as blame for splitting up a child’s biological parents.
If they express frustrations with your presence in their life, thank them for their honesty. Say things like. “I’m really glad to you told me that. It means a lot that we’re able to be open and honest with each other.”
Respond by clearly stating that your relationship with one of their parents has nothing to do with the relationship between their biological parents, and that all three of you are adults who make your own decisions.
Follow up by saying something along the lines of: “I’m glad to be a part of your life, and I hope we end up getting along.”

, Relationships between stepparents and stepchildren can be particularly complex, and at times, especially challenging. Don’t complicate this by becoming frustrated or irritated with what you may perceive to be a lack of interest on their part.Model respectful behavior whenever possible. Be respectful even when a stepchild openly disrespects you. Indicating your respect and interest in your stepchildren will encourage them to develop the same for you.
While older stepchildren may have less interest in getting along with you, and may even be vocal about that lack of interest, do not take this personally.
Offer to spend time with an older stepchild if and when they would like to do so, but don’t push it.
 Even if an older stepchild, or a stepchild who is not often at your home, does not initially welcome your presence, you can still clearly state your expectations about their behavior.Rely on “I” statements such as: “I expect all of us to treat each other with love and respect.”
Explain specific reasons why you might see something different than your stepchildren. This is always based on context, but be clear when you put your foot down about why you’re doing so.
 With older children, especially those for whom parenting responsibilities may be split more so between the biological parents than between you and your partner, discuss your role.For instance, clearly establish boundaries regarding who should be disciplining children – and how.
Understand that your role in parenting older stepchildren may be more “hands-off” than you might expect or want.
Avoid conflict and unnecessary tension with older stepchildren by taking care not to overstep agreed upon boundaries.
If you’re struggling to get along with a stepchild who may resist your presence in their lives, ask your partner to speak with the child about it privately.
 If possible, ask a stepchild’s other biological parent for help. This will indicate that you trust them, and that you’re taking your involvement – in whatever capacity – with the child seriously.Be willing and ready to express concerns, and to listen to theirs.
Consider initiating or attending events where everyone will be in attendance. A great option may be an extracurricular event in which the child is involved, such as an athletic match or school play.
If the other biological parent is unwilling to speak with you, do not let this affect how you interact with a stepchild.
Never criticize either of a stepchild’s biological parents in front of the stepchild.
 Never feel threatened by a child’s desire to spend time with their other biological parent. Whatever the context, be supportive of a child’s interest in and love for their other parents.Say things like, “I’m glad you were able to spend time with _____.” This will indicate that parenting is not a competitive endeavor and should not be treated as such, which is a good reminder for everyone.
More importantly, encouraging your stepchild to have positive relationships with all of their parents indicates that you truly care about their happiness, and are glad to take part in their lives in whatever capacity they are comfortable with.

