 When you do not appreciate another group of people, it’s very easy to forget that regardless of belief, everyone shares a commonality in having emotions and desires. Don’t dehumanize another group of people, and if they are suffering, have compassion for them just as you would a family member or friend.


People of other religions also have families and friends and want the best for them. They might enjoy sports, or love the family dog, or get irritated with Grandma sometimes. Each person has many facets, and religion is just one side of who they are.
Recognizing that you, too, are much more than your religion may help you to think larger and apply that same concept to other individuals who may have a different religion.
All humans, regardless of race or religion share the same set of genes.There are aspects of human psychology that transcend cultural, regional, and religious differences as well., Our society is becoming increasingly polarized, so it’s easy to feel like you are constantly at war with another group of people.While you may not embrace another person’s religion, it doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy the same hobbies, sports, or entertainment. Try to find common ground with those people you interact with on a daily basis.


Instead of focusing on cultural and religious differences, talk about things that you both enjoy — sports, film, art, good food, literature, etc.
You may find a life-long friend in someone that you would not expect.
 Most belief systems educate their followers to treat other people well, regardless of the differences in religion. Keep this in the forefront of your mind when you are being judgemental or critical on others.


In Islam, Allah said, "Allah commands you to uphold justice and to do good to others and to give to the relatives." (16:90)In Judaism, it is a main tenant to treat others with kindness.
Buddhism teaches you to treat everyone just as you would treat those that are close to you, like family or friends.The Bible teaches to “Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.”, We are shaping the world everyday, and our actions have reverberating effects. Think about the legacy that you are leaving behind, and whether it will be filled with hate and prejudice, or love and acceptance, and how that will affect the world after you’re gone.


Many of your beliefs will influence your children, so it’s especially important to try to achieve acceptance before their belief systems are fully formed.