 You'll need to chill 1/3 of a cup (75 g) of butter and cut it into chunks. Set it aside along with 3/4 cup (145 g) of vegetable shortening. You should also set out one cup (240 ml) of ice water (although you may end up using less). Mix together the dry ingredients in a large bowl. You'll need:3 3/4 cups (468 g) of all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons of granulated sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons of salt;
, Add the chilled, cubed butter and shortening to the bowl with the dry ingredients. Use a pastry blender or fork to mix the butter and shortening into the dry mixture. The ingredients should begin to clump together and look like coarse breadcrumbs.Don't worry about overmixing the ingredients at this point. Cutting in the butter and shortening just ensures that the pastry will be evenly flaky and tender.
 Add 1 tablespoon of the ice water to the pastry ingredients and toss it together with a fork. Keep adding and stirring in the water, one tablespoon at a time until the ingredients around the sides and bottom of the bowl are moist. You should be able to form the dough into a ball without it falling apart.Avoid adding more water than you need. Too much water in the pastry dough will make it sticky and tough to roll out.
 Divide the ball of dough of dough into two balls. Use 2/3 of the dough for one ball and the remaining 1/3 for the second ball. Form each ball into disks about 1-inch thick and wrap them tightly in plastic wrap. Refrigerate the dough while you make the filling.You can refrigerate the dough a few days before making the slab pie or freeze it for up to three months. Just thaw the dough in the fridge the day before you plan to roll it out.
 While fresh berries are best, you can use frozen berries in a pinch. Don't bother defrosting them. You'll need 7 cups of berries to make one slab pie. Choose a mixture of blackberries, blueberries, raspberries, or strawberries.


You can also add other fruits in place of some of the berries. For example, you could make strawberry-rhubarb, peach-raspberry, or nectarine-blueberry filling.
 Place all of your mixed berry filling ingredients in a large mixing bowl and stir them until the sugar, cornstarch, and lemon juice coat all of the berries. You'll need:7 cups (1.22 kg) of fresh mixed berries
1 1/4 cup (250 g) of granulated sugar
1/4 cup (27.5 g) of cornstarch
1 tablespoon of lemon juice

, If you'd like to add a unique flavor to the mixed berry slab pie, consider adding chocolate, amaretto, or lemon-lavender. Avoid using more than one of these additions or you could overwhelm the flavor of the mixed berries. Try one of the following flavor additions:


Scatter 1 1/2 cups (250 g) of chocolate chips over the bottom layer of pastry before you spread the mixed berries on top.Add 1/4 cup (60 ml) of amaretto liqueur to the filling for a slight almond flavor.Mix the zest of one lemon with 1/4 cup (50 g)of sugar and 1 tablespoon of dried lavender. Grind this together and sprinkle it over the top layer of pastry., Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C) and get out a 10x15-inch jelly roll pan. Sprinkle some flour over your work surface and place the large ball of pastry dough on the surface. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a 12x17-inch rectangle. Place the dough in the bottom of your jelly roll pan and press the sides against the edges of the pan.To make rolling the dough easier, you could lay down a piece of wax paper. Place the dough on the wax paper and set another piece of wax paper over the dough. Roll it out between the two sheets and lift them up to fit the dough into the pan.
 Scoop the mixed berry filling onto the pastry in the jelly roll pan. Use a spatula or spoon to spread the filling evenly over the pastry. Roll out the smaller ball of dough to make an 11x16-inch rectangle. Lay the pastry dough over the filling and crimp the edges to seal the dough.Instead of laying the pastry directly over the filling, you could use cookie cutters to stamp out pieces of pastry. Lay the pastry cutouts on top of the filling so that they overlap slightly.
 Place one egg white and 1 tablespoon of water in a small bowl. Whisk the egg with the water to make an egg wash. Dip a pastry brush in the wash and spread it over the top of the slab pie. Cut a few slits in the top of the pastry. Bake the slab pie for 45 minutes in the preheated oven. It should turn golden brown and the filling may bubble out of the slits.For a slight crunch, you could sprinkle a few tablespoons of coarse sugar over the pastry before baking.
