 Until now, we've discussed guitar tunings that are useful for people playing guitar with a pick or their fingers. However, these aren't the only ways to play a guitar. For instance, many blues songs make use of a special tool called a slide which is essentially a short glass or metal tube that fits over the guitarist's index finger on his fretting hand. The slide allows the guitarist to glide effortlessly between notes on the fretboard for a characteristic "fluid" sound (a good example of this is the opening lead melody of the famous Lynyrd Skynyrd song "Free Bird"). Though it's possible to play with a slide in any tuning, because of the slide's rigidness, tuning to a style where the strings make a chord when strummed in the open position makes it much easier to play with a slide. In this section, we'll tune our guitar to open D, one of the most common of such tunings for slide guitar.









For great examples of slide guitar playing in open tuning, check out "Goin' Down to the River" by Mississippi Fred McDowell or "Catch Hell Blues" by the White Stripes (the latter is in open A, rather than open D tuning).
 As noted above, you can use a variety of options here — pianos, tuners, pitch pipes, and online tools all work well.
 Tune the A string to the tone made by the 7th fret of the low E string and, after that, tune the D string to the that of the 5th fret of the A string. This will tune the top three strings of your guitar to D, A, and the D one octave above the first D, respectively.









You may have noticed that this tuning preserves your ability to play easy power chords on the first three strings. While this is true, power chords aren't necessarily things that are common in traditional slide guitar music.
 For the last three strings, open D tuning begins to differ from drop D tuning. Tune the G string to the 4th fret of D, rather than the 5th, as is customary. By doing this, you tune the G string to the note F#.









As a reminder, tunings for slide guitar tend to form chords when all six strings are strummed together in the open position. The notes in the D major arpeggio are D, A, and F#. By tuning the G string from a G to an F#, this ensures that all of the strings will sound a chord when strummed together.
 Next, we'll do something that we haven't had to do so far: tune a string to the third fret. As noted above, we want all of the notes in our open D tuning to belong to the D major chord, whose notes are D, A, and F#. By tuning the B string to the 3rd fret of the G string (which is now tuned to F#), we make it an A, which is a note that is in the D major chord.
 Finally, finish tuning to open D by tuning the last string as you always have so far. Strum the 5th fret of the B string, then strum the open E string and tune it so that it matches the tone perfectly. Though we're tuning it exactly the same as before, because the B string is now tuned to A, we're actually tuning the high E string to D, rather than E. This is a good thing because, as explained above, the note D is in the D major chord.
 You're all finished! All that is left is to test your handiwork by playing your guitar, preferably with a slide to take advantage of the open tuning (though this isn't absolutely necessary). Slip the slide onto the index finger of your left hand and strum all six strings in the open position with your right hand. Gently press the slide against the strings and strum again. Ideally, if your guitar is in tune, you should hear a major chord that's in tune with itself. Let the notes ring and move the slide up and down the neck. The chord should smoothly shift in pitch as you move the slide. It may take some practice, but eventually you should get the hang of playing in open tuning with a slide.









If you don't own a slide, you can usually get away with playing with any similarly smooth, round object. For instance, the neck of an empty glass bottle works well.

