 If you are travelling with a black suitcase, this will be hard to find as you are searching for it in the baggage claim. Mark your bag with a brightly colored ribbon or an eye-catching nametag. Ask for assistance from other passengers or airline officials if you need help getting your bag.If you are completely blind, you can tell another passenger that your bag is the one with the bright pink ribbon and with a name tag with your info on it. They will likely assist you in retrieving it.;
, Though you may be travelling for an extended period of time and need more clothing than you can fit in a carry on, you should still keep the essentials on your person. Pack any items that you will absolutely need in your carry-on bag. This might include medication, a change of clothes, laptop, spare glasses, travel information or documentation.If possible, consider only bringing a carry-on bag and not checking a bag.
 If you have a seeing eye dog, be sure that you pack for them as well. Bring some doggie treats with you on the plane. Pack a folding dog dish, wet wipes, and paper towels. You can put these things in a fanny pack or small bag that you can keep with you on a plane or train.You can also consider mailing some items to your destination like dog food.
 A white cane often signifies that someone is blind or visually impaired. Bring a white cane with you to signal this to others and to better navigate your surroundings. In some places, you may be able to secure special services or discounts that will help make your stay more enjoyable., As you are packing your clothing, place it in bundles in your bag. Take the pants that go with a particular outfit and fold or roll the shirt together with it. Pack shoes that will go with all of your outfits or that are discernible by touch.Pack a separate plastic bag to put your dirty clothing in so that you don’t get confused.
 During your trip, a laptop or smartphone with a screen reader will make it much easier for you as you travel. If you want to look something up while en route to your destination or while in your hotel, a laptop will allow you to do so without you having to ask for help., Most airlines, train services or buses have special services that they can provide to those with visual impairments. Airlines offer pre-boarding, a guided tour of the aircraft, and large print or braille menus. Train staff can provide you assistance in boarding and finding your seat. For bus transportation, staff can assist you in boarding and in announcing your stop.Call all services that you will be utilizing beforehand so that they can better prepare for your travel.
 Many places offer group tours for the visually impaired. Search for group tours in the area that you are travelling to. Call and see if they offer accommodations for the blind., Before you book a hotel, be sure that they will allow service animals if you have one. Find out what accommodations they can offer to you during your stay. They may be able to offer you some materials in braille or a concierge who will pay special attention to you.Find out about vaccination requirements in the destination you will travel to if you have a service animal.
See if they can place a sticker or braille marking on your door so that you know which room is yours.
 When travelling, never hesitate to ask for help if you need it. You will find that people are often very willing to help. If travelling to a country where the standard language is not your own, learn a few phrases so that you can communicate any necessary information.Try to avoid asking random people for help unless necessary or unless you are in a public place. Ask waiters, cab drivers or hotel staff instead.
Some phrases you might want to learn are “Do you speak English?” or “I am blind. Can you help me find a restroom?”

, In selecting a hotel for your stay, try to pick a place that has many attractions nearby so that you can walk or take a cab there quickly. Many resorts offer shuttle services to different locations around town or to and from the airport.Use Google Maps to search the distance from the attractions you want to see from hotels in your price range.
 Find out what form of money is used in the place where you will be travelling to and get some of your own converted to that currency. Find out if they can be identified by touch. If not, before you travel, separate the different bills into discernible piles so that you do not get tricked out of any money while travelling.You can also use a credit card in most places if you are abroad.
 Keep your hotel location written down somewhere so that you can easily show it to your cab driver. Write down the directions for any other places that you will need to go during your stay so that you can show it to a concierge or waiter who would like to help., Download apps like Yelp to help you find local eateries. You can also download Maps on your phone as well to help you navigate your surroundings. Another app to utilize is Blind Square, an app for the visually impaired to assist in navigating your surrounding indoors and outdoors..Use Uber and Lyft. You may find it difficult to flag down and see a cab with your visual impairment, but Uber and Lyft can make it very convenient for you as you travel.

