 Before you select your yarn think about whether you want a particular color scheme. If you want to do something like Christmas colors, you could make pom-poms in shades of red, green, silver, and gold. However, there is no strict color scheme for a pom-pom wreath. You can also simply select colors you like that go well together., Once you've chosen your colors, take one ball of yarn. Loop one end around the empty toilet paper roll. Loop it about an inch from one end of the roll. You do not need to tie the yarn in place. Just wrap it loosely around the roll., Place the other roll against the first roll, lengthwise. Loop the yarn around the toilet paper rolls again and again, moving across the rolls. Stop when you're about half an inch from the other end of the roll.Make thick, overlapping loops. You want your pom-pom to look solid when you're done. Go over the same parts of the toilet paper rolls a few times, when necessary, so you can't see any of the cardboard when you're done.
 Cut the yarn from the main ball. Take the other end of yarn. Turn your toilet paper rolls sideways and make a vertical knot at the space where the yarn meets in-between each roll.You should have two toilet paper rolls connected with yarn. There should be a vertical line, made up of the ends of the yarn, separating the yarn wrapping the rolls into two roughly even sides.
 Gently slip your yarn off of the toilet paper rolls. Go slowly to avoid having your yarn come undone. Once the yarn slides off, tie your knot tighter. Then, secure it in place by double knotting.You should now have what looks like a small ball made of yarn, with looped strings of yarn on either end of your knot in the middle.
 Cut through the loops on either end of the ball. You do not want any bits of yarn to still have loops when you're done. Once you've sliced through all the loops, trim the yarn until all the edges are roughly equal.Fluff your ball as necessary to give it an even, pom-pom look.
You should now have a small pom-pom ball that's ready to go on your wreath.
 How many pom-poms you need depends on the size of your wreath. Keep making pom-poms until you have enough for your project.

A 16 inch wreath generally needs around 45 pom-poms., As a Styrofoam wreath has a white color underneath, you want to paint it in case anything shines through. Choose a color paint that matches with the color scheme you're using with your pom-poms. For example, if you're doing a Christmas theme, you could paint your wreath red or green.Use a small paint brush to make small strokes until you've covered the full wreath.
Set the wreath aside to dry before continuing. Drying times will vary. Check your paint's label for precise times.
 Before you glue anything down, experiment with the pom-poms a little. Place them along your wreath in a variety of patterns to find one you like.Some people prefer uniform lines of pom-poms. Other people prefer pom-poms that overlap.
Get a sense of the shape you're trying to create. When you're gluing the pom-poms down, this is something to keep in mind.
 You can now secure your pom-poms one at a time to your wreath. Dab some hot glue onto the spot where you want to place your pom-pom. Gently press your pom-pom in place. Then, glue down the next pom-pom.Make sure you press your pom-pom onto the wreath as soon as applying the glue. You don't want the glue to dry.
 After you've applied one layer of pom-poms, see if there's any more space you have to fill. Some people like filling in the sides of their wreath more, or adding smaller pom-poms in bare sections.You may have to make more pom-poms here, of a smaller size. You can do so by not covering as much of your toilet paper rolls with yarn.
 Once you're satisfied with how your wreath looks, you can add a bow you bought at a craft store. Place it on a portion of the wreath where you feel it would look good and then secure it with glue., Allow the wreath a few hours to dry completely. Once it's dry, you can display it anywhere in your home for a festive Christmas decoration.