 Sunless tanning products work on the top layer of skin which are the dead skin cells you rub off during exfoliation. The dihydroxyacetone (DHA) in the fake tan products reacts with the amino acids in the dead skin cells to produce melanoids, which result in increased pigmentation in that top layer. This means that a sunless tan only goes as deep as the top layer of your skin, and does not extend any further.To create a good fake tan, you have to start with an even top layer of skin.
 Total body exfoliation and moisturizing are a must for even fake tan results. Shave your legs, exfoliate your body and face, and moisturize everywhere you apply the fake tan. Start exfoliating a few days before you self-tan, and avoid over-moisturizing immediately before you apply the product.


When you do apply the tanner, do it slowly and be sure to rub it in completely, paying extra attention to the knees, elbows, feet, and neck, all parts of the body that will absorb the tanner more readily.
 You need to let the tanner set for the recommended length of time before you get your skin wet. If the fake tan has not completely set and dried on your skin, water will create streaky lines. When you have waited long enough and you are ready to shower, do not use body wash or a luffa to scrub your skin immediately after. This will tamper with the tone of your tan. Simply wash your body with your hand and warm water.


When you dry off, make sure you are pat dry dry instead of rub dry with a towel. Rubbing will remove your tan because your skin will be wet and soft.
After your shower, be sure to moisturize your entire body.
 These fake tanners are most fool-proof because you can see the distribution of the sunless tanner before it develops. Using tinted products usually produce better results. Opt for a lotion instead of a quick-drying foam, for a better window of opportunity to correct any uneven spots before the DHA starts reacting with your skin and sets., When trying out a new brand of self-tanner, always start with a light to medium shade, rather than a dark one at first. You can always go back and apply the darker shade, but it is difficult to undo the damage once you've turned bright orange. For the first time using a fake tan, you can even try diluting your self tanner by mixing it with equal parts lotion.


If you do decide to dilute the fake tan, make sure you mix them completely together so you don't end up with streaks and spots.
 Since you can exfoliate to fade an uneven tan, you can also exfoliate away a perfect tan. To keep your beautiful glow around as long as possible, avoid shaving your legs for 48 hours after you've applied the product. Also, for the first few days after application, don't take long baths or go in chlorine-filled pools, because they will rub off the top layer of skin and interfere with the DHA reaction., Nothing says faux tan like orange palms and feet. To make sure this does not happen, apply the tanning lotion or cream with latex or plastic gloves. However, it can be slightly more challenging to apply the tanner with gloves on, so if you think it will cause more harm than good, skip the gloves and just make sure you wash your hands many times during the application process.


Work on one body part at a time, and wash your hands before moving on to the next area.
 You don't want to smear your tan or stain your clothes by getting dressed too soon after your application. Wait at least 15 minutes after you've finished applying it to get dressed. To ensure that the self-tanner has set, dry your skin with a blow-dryer on a cool setting. Be sure to stop blowing if you start to sweat because that could create streaks on your skin.


When you are ready to dress, don't wear tight clothes or thick fabrics. Instead, put on cotton so your skin can breath. The best thing to wear would be a cotton bath robe for a couple hours.

