 Typically, just a few days is best. If you do not think you can tolerate that long, try just a 24 hour period to start. If at the end of that 24 hours you feel as if you can continue, feel free to do so.Remember that this is a temporary way to try and lose weight quickly. If you cannot follow-through with the entire fast, it is fine to stop and resume normal eating habits.
Do the fast intermittently. Do a short fast, and then try it again in a few weeks or a month.
 You do not want to do this fast if you have any dietary or health restrictions that will jeopardize your well-being. It is not worth it. Think of other ways to lose weight if you cannot fast.If you cannot do a full fast, try replacing one or two meals with just water and having a low-calorie dinner as a means to jumpstart weight loss.

Never attempt a water fast if you have diabetes, or while pregnant or breastfeeding.
Be warned that this diet might have some lingering effects due to a lack of protein and fiber during the diet. This could lead to low energy levels and poor bowel health. Consider this before starting your fast., Up your water intake, eat an increased amount of fruits and vegetables, only lean meats, and brown rice.Avoid adding salt to your food, as these help the body to retain water versus passing it, which is what you would want.
 Even though you want to lose weight and exercising is great way to aid in this, avoid it during this time. It would be too strenuous on your body for you to exert this energy and lose fluids through sweating.
 Drink only water for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and throughout the day when you feel hungry. Pay attention to your body during this time. Note any hunger triggers. If you find yourself feeling dizzy, sip some tea or seltzer water to help calm your system and get you back on track.


Fifteen minutes of meditation can also be utilized during this fast. Focus on your emotional well-being and clear your head of any unwanted thoughts and feelings. Check out this link for more tips on meditation https://www.wikihow.com/Meditate.
Consider taking herbal supplements or finding a safe water additive to balance electrolytes. Although the water fast does not permit sweeteners or solid food during the fast, it often recommends prune supplements or natural salts to prevent water intoxication.
 Try and eat like you did before the fast to build back up your body gradually. Have raw fruits and vegetables, lean meats, brown rice, and keep up your water intake.



Gaining a few pounds back after a water fast is normal, due to rebuilding lost muscle mass.
Even if you gain back the weight, do not be discouraged and feel as if your fast had no results. Keep up other healthy habits like better dieting and regular exercise to maintain weight loss.

