 A secured loan is one that's backed up with collateral (a home, car or property, for example.) On the other hand, an unsecured loan does not have any collateral behind it, so they're riskier for lenders to make and therefore come with higher interest rates. Also known as personal loans, unsecured loans are primarily small amount loans used to cover home improvements, small purchases (computers, riding lawn mowers, security systems) or to cover unexpected expenses.Be clear on the terms. In some cases, a loan has a fixed interest rate and a specified payment term. In other cases, the loan may work like a revolving line of credit and come with a variable interest rate.
Calculate tax-time savings. You can deduct the interest on secured loans such as mortgages or student loans. The interest on an unsecured loan is not tax deductible.;
, Payday loans are short-term, small-amount loans that are meant to tide you over when you are low on cash. You write a check for the amount you borrow along with a fee for the loan and leave it with the lender, who will then cash the check when you have the funds to pay. If you don't pay on time, you can roll the loan over, but that means additional fees that can really add up.


Banks, chains and private storefront operations all offer payday loans that come with interest rates as high as 500% or more. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, the average interest charges for these loans are 225% to 300%.Think twice before borrowing on your credit card. Credit card cash advances are expensive—interest rates fall between 30% to 40% once you factor in fees.
Figure out what you can afford. Just because a lender will loan you money doesn’t mean that you can afford it. While banks take into consideration your ability to repay,secondary lenders who do high-risk loans don’t take this step.It is up to you to determine whether or not you can afford the loan.
 The price you pay for less-than-stellar credit comes in the form of higher closing costs, origination fees, and interest rates. A borrower with excellent credit may have closing costs that are .5% of the loan amount. A buyer with a low score may be charged between 1-4% of the loan amount simply because it's a riskier loan, and lenders do not make as much money on them.

