 Demonstrate your self-awareness, and your ability to take ownership, by admitting your error.More than likely, pretending that it didn’t happen—or wishing you would disappear—won’t rectify the situation.


Be straightforward and exact about calling out your verbal blunder. Say something like “Well, that was insensitive,” or “There goes me and my mouth.” to let others know that you are owning up to your inappropriate statement or question.;
, The worse possible way you can handle a foot-in-mouth moment is by trying to act like you’re the victim in the situation. By excusing your words, you’re letting yourself off the hook and deflecting the blame to someone or something else. It shows those around you that you are not willing to take responsibility.


For example, it won't help the situation if you attempt to attach your "apology" to an excuse like "I'm sorry. I had a really bad night and didn't get very much sleep." This only serves as a way to try to make your own self the victim. You also don’t want to try to explain yourself, which can take the situation from bad to worse., Although you may stand behind your opinion, you probably didn’t mean for you opinion to hurt or offend someone.


Consider saying something like ”Geez, forgive me for saying that. I don’t know what I was thinking.” This is an adequate enough apology that doesn’t require you to explain yourself, or take back your words (in case you truly meant them)., A little self-deprecation can go a long way in situations when you have spoken without thinking. A good face-saving strategy is to make a joke about yourself that balances the scales and puts you in the hot seat instead of the other person.


Self-deprecating humor may sound like “Goodness! I don’t know what has gotten into me. I’ll take the liberty to slap myself since I know you probably want to.”, Ask the person if there’s something you can do to repair your relationship or damage. In most cases, owning your mistaking and saying “I’m sorry” is enough to save face and remove the sting after a verbal blunder. However, in some cases, you may be able to extend a helping hand to the person you hurt in order to make it up to them.


For example, you accidentally let slip to the guest of honor that a surprise party is being planned. Clearly, an apology won’t rectify the situation, so see if there’s something more you can do. Maybe you can arrive early to help the host prepare for the party., The old saying “Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me” simply isn’t true. Words can have an impact. Try to carefully consider what you say and how it may impact others before the words come out of your mouth. Follow the THINK acronym to decide what you should or should not say:T- is it True?
H- is it Helpful?
I- is it Inspiring?
N- is it Necessary?
K- is it Kind?

, Unless you get paid to share your opinions on controversial issues, or you are among your closest and most forgiving friends, keep potentially hurt viewpoints to yourself. This isn’t saying that you should never express opinions that differ from others’. You should, however, carefully tailor the manner in which you express these opinions or filter your statements altogether. For instance, an admirable and tactful statement may sound like “You know I don’t agree with abortion, but I’m more than willing to listen to the perspective of someone who does. What experiences or beliefs are influencing your support of this issue?”

, One of the best methods to prevent social gaffes and always keep your foot out of your mouth is by practicing active listening. Naturally, if you are listening to understand rather than listening to reply, you are more likely to censor impulsive statements. Taking the extra time to completely hear someone else out may change your opinion or help you see their perspective better. Consider the following active listening principles:Remove distractions. Make occasional eye contact with the speaker. Turn to face their direction.
Demonstrate your attentiveness by nodding or making appropriate facial expressions.
Ensure that you understand the message by summarizing what you heard, paraphrasing to verify the message (e.g. “Ok, so this is what I heard…”) and clarifying your understanding with questions (e.g. “Is this what you mean?).
Defer judgments or interruptions. Allow the person to get their entire message across before responding with your own comments.
 Although it can suck to be the person who says something offensive, it happens to everyone. Don’t go on and on apologizing to the person excessively—this can make the victim feel awkward like he or she has to take care of you instead of the other way around.Point out your mistake, apologize then and there, and move on.


For example, it would be awkward if you went on like "My bad, I am always saying all the wrong things. I can never string my words together properly. Now I understand why people don't want to be around me." Going this route will almost certainly guarantee that people keep their distance. No one wants to get criticized or offended and then have to care for the person who did it.
 Refrain from making one encounter set the tone for every interaction you share with that person or group in the future. You’re not alone. At some point, everyone says something they wish they could take back. Chances are, once you take responsibility for putting your foot in your mouth and apologize, the other person will graciously forgive you and move on.


Don’t exclude yourself from building great relationships with others simply because you said something you shouldn’t have. It shows your maturity and willingness to rectify your mistakes by maintaining the relationship even when you are not being seen in the most favorable light.
 Sometimes, showing that you are making amends by modifying your behavior is better than an apology. Plus, learning from your mistakes is the smartest and most practical way to move forward. The same goes for witnessing the verbal blunders of those around you: observe the situation, make a mental note of what happened, and set an intention to avoid similar words or remarks in the future.


When you experience the negative consequences of your mistake (e.g. upsetting a friend or coworker or becoming temporarily estranged from a sibling) you have a better understanding about behaviors and traits that are not working in your favor. Only through this process of trial and error (or by witnessing the process in another) can you truly spot where an issue lies and come up with strategies to improve.For example, you can demonstrate that you have learned from your mistake by sidestepping future awkward encounters. Let's say you run into this person in another setting and someone says "How do you know each other?" You might say "We met through work. In fact, the first time I met Peter here, I totally put my foot in my mouth and kept calling him Patrick. I'm glad we got to meet again so that I can show you I'm not a total idiot--and that I can remember people's names." Saying something like this while using light humor sets just the right tone that you are aware of your blunder and would like to move forward from it.
 It is easy to beat yourself up and dwell on an awkward situation. However, if you sincerely apologized, pointed out your mistake, tried to make amends, and reflected on the situation to help you learn for the future, then it is time to put the foot-in-mouth moment behind you and move on with your life. Having a short memory about such moments helps you to keep positivity, confidence, and poise for the future social situations.