 Perhaps a beautiful tree you admire or a bed of flowers. If you're creative, this may inspire a work of art, a poem or a story. Or simply admire the beauty for what it is and keep it close to your heart as a source of inspiration.;
, Watch the tree as it changes seasons, see the leaves falling down, observe the buds coming out. If you are lucky enough to see local wildlife, watch to see if they are gathering nuts, making nests, hibernating or playing.
 If you need to buy something - like milk or juice, head for a convenience store within walking distance and think about how you are helping to prevent climate change by leaving the car at home. Think about other walks you can do to help protect the climate, rather than taking the car.
 If you see a neighbor gardening, mowing the lawn or having a drink on the porch, stop and admire the neighbor's garden or just say hello. If the person responds, start a conversation by asking for advice. You might ask "Where's the best golf course around here?" Or, "Do you have a favorite place to buy plants?" Or even, "How do you grow such beautiful roses?" Ask if you can have just one to take home to a spouse or a child. Go the same time the next day and tell the neighbor how pleased the recipient reacted when he/she received the flower.
 Animal shelters are full of puppies and dogs that need homes. Walking the dog a couple of times a day will get you out of the house and their pleasure at smelling things and meeting other dogs and their owners will bring you great joy and a lot of entertainment. Suddenly walking becomes not only interesting but a must!

, If there is something bothering you, go walk and think wisely about the problem you have. The exercise will be good for you and will clear your thoughts and problems. As you walk (and you probably won't even notice the walk), think through all the issues, options and action ideas that you were struggling with indoors. Things will start to become clearer.
 Grab the iPod, the MP3 Player, the old Walkman or just plain sing to yourself. Music and walking were born to go together and make the experience very uplifting. Choose music to match your mood. If you're feeling gloomy, choose music that are more uplifting.

