 Aim for 20-30 minutes at a time. Give yourself at least a 10 minute break in between sessions. Studying for long periods of time without breaks can actually breed confusion, so short intervals are the key to retention.It might be helpful to turn on a timer as you start each session. This will ensure that you take your breaks., Procrastination and cramming can backfire when it comes time to take a test. Instead, spread out your studying over days or even weeks, if possible. Look at your exam schedule or paper deadlines and plan accordingly. Even a few minutes a day is better than none at all., In the period immediately before a test, keep your cards close to you and study them whenever possible. Look for a few minutes here or there in your everyday routine. If you are watching TV, study during the commercials. Repetition and exposure to the information will make the difference in retention.


Get creative and use clips to hang your notecards around the room. This allows you to study while cleaning up.Or, punch a hole in the corner of your card set and put them on a key ring for easy carrying., Your mind will become bored if you go through your cards in the same order over and over again. Shuffle your cards, throw them on a table and mix them up, or put them in a jar and pull one out at a time. The card that you see each time should be unpredictable, just as a question will be on a test.
 Once you feel comfortable with the information on a particular card, place it in a new stack with others like it. This will allow you to spend more time working with the topics or terms that you’ve yet to master. However, don’t forget this ‘known’ stack entirely, be sure to look it over too, just less frequently., Get together with a group of your classmates and go through your cards together. You may find that other people covered areas that you missed and vice versa. Try to teach each other the material to test your knowledge level. Quiz each other using the cards as a question bank.