 Whooping cough is characterized by fits of uncontrolled violent coughs which make it very hard to breathe. When you finally do feel like you can breathe, the breath often sounds like a "whoop." Whooping cough is caused by a bacterium and is more common now because of decreased immunization rates, effectiveness of newer vaccines, and new bacterial strains of the disease.


It's important to treat whooping cough early because it's highly contagious.
If you're unsure what whooping cough sounds like, you can easily search for a recording of the "whoop."However, sometimes whopping cough is just a cough that lasts for a few weeks.
Talk to your doctor right away if you think that you or your child might have whooping cough.
 If you or your child have any of the following symptoms, call your doctor for an appointment or advice:


Coughing up thick and/or greenish-yellow phlegm (which is a sign of infection)
Wheezing or a whistling sound at the beginning or end of the breath (sign of inefficient lung function)
Any odd sounding cough and difficulty breathing at the end of a cough
Fever of more than 100.4 for more than two to three days
Any shortness of breath or chest pain
Coughing up bloodHaving a wet cough for more than one to two weeks or a dry cough for more than three weeks

, Coughs are caused by a variety of conditions. You might have an upper-respiratory infection which can irritate your nose or sinuses, causing cough. This also makes it likely that increased mucus can drip down the back of your throat and irritate it, causing coughing. This is called post-nasal drip. If the infection gets into your lungs, it can cause pneumonia, which can be more serious. You might cough if you breathe in an allergy or asthma trigger like allergens or dust. Or, you might cough if you inhale a foreign object.Keep in mind that some medications, especially some blood pressure drugs, can cause cough.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may cause you to cough when stomach acid flows back into and irritates your esophagus.
Chronic bronchitis is another main cause of coughing that is commonly caused by smoking. The network of tubes (bronchioles) are inflamed and irritated.
If you have a dry, deep and persistent cough, it may be caused by congestive heart failure or rarely, lung cancer.
 If you try treating your cough at home or take prescribed medications like antibiotics or antifungal treatments, pay attention to how your cough progresses. You should notice gradual relief. If you don't notice any improvements within five to seven days or if the cough is getting worse, contact your doctor.


If you don't respond to treatment, you may be dealing with a more complicated health situation. It's important to get individualized medical care.

