 If you have tried making changes to your lifestyle, and you are still struggling to maintain an erection, make an appointment with your healthcare provider. ED can be caused by type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, certain prescription medications, stress, and even excess body weight.


Your doctor will check your blood flow circulation, examine your penis and rectum, examine your nervous system, and ask you questions about your medical history, such as how long you have had trouble maintaining an erection.
Your doctor will rate your cardiovascular risk factors as mild, moderate, severe, and make sure that your heart is healthy enough for sex.
Your doctor can help recommend the proper course of treatment to resolve ED based on your personal health history. For example, if you have low levels of testosterone, your doctor may recommend a testosterone patch.If you are relatively healthy, then your ED may be classified as psychogenic, which means that there is a mental or emotional barrier preventing you from getting and/or maintaining an erection.
 Your doctor may prescribe you medication that works by increasing the blood flow to your penis, and thus helping you maintain an erection. Medications commonly used to treat ED include Viagra, Cialis, and Levitra.If your doctor prescribes Cialis, your doctor will likely recommend that you take 10 to 20 mg at least 30 minutes before sexual activity. You should not take the medication if you experience severe hyperactivity to the medication or if you are using nitrates, such as nitroglycerin, for chest pain.
If your doctor prescribes Levitra, then you will need to take it with or without food 60 minutes before sex. This medication should not be taken with nitrates either.
 You may also ask your doctor about the use of mechanical aids to help you achieve and maintain an erection. Some men use vacuum devices and constriction rings to aid erections. The vacuum is placed over the penis and pumps out air, drawing blood to the penis and causing an erection.


This is maintained by placing a band or ring at the base of the penis, that keep it erect for up to thirty minutes.
This can, however, be a uncomfortable and awkward way to treat ED., An alternative method that you may be advised on by a doctor is penile injection therapy. For this you will be trained by the doctor how to inject your penis with medicine that relaxes the blood vessels and promotes the blood flow that causes an erection. This treatment has been shown to be effective at treating a range of issues both physical and psychological.


Potential side effects include scarring, and the risk of sustained and painful erections if improperly dosed.
You may experience high blood pressure and dizziness as a result of injection therapy., Your doctor may suggest you try this treatment, which involves placing a suppository into the urethra. The suppository contains alprostadil, which is then absorbed into the blood stream, relaxing blood vessels and improving blood flow into the penis. This treatment is thought to be less effective than the vacuum devices, or injection therapy., If the other treatments have not proven successful, your doctor may recommend a surgical procedure that will involve an inflatable penile prosthesis being implanted into your penis. Typically a pair of inflatable cylinders are inserted into the penis, which can be pumped up and deflated using a connected device that is inserted into the scrotal sac.


The prosthesis does not change the sensation on the skin, or effect the man’s ability to orgasm and ejaculate.
The surgery involves two small incisions and is not noticeable after healing.