 Turn the Cap counter-clockwise until the screws clear their slots and then lift the Cap off.
 Notice in the photo the heavy carbon-buildup on the glass Chimney Collar...this unit will require maintenance., Grasp the Grill and gently lift while tilting and sliding the assembly forward to clear the Wick Control Knob, the Shut-off Lever, and the Igniter Button., Prior to disengaging the spring case, depress the shut-off lever to insure that the wick assembly (chimney) is fully in the down-position, otherwise there could very well be tension on the spring case which could lead to personal injury or damage to the spring case when it is disengaged. If you are just replacing the wick the spring case can be left on the shaft in the disengaged position, otherwise slide the Spring Case off the shaft.

The wick-controlling spring case serves as a spring-tensioner against the wick assembly when the it is in the raised (up) position. This allows spring-action to rapidly lower the wick when either the shut-off lever depressed (without controlling the spin on the wick control knob), or in the event the heater is tilted or jilted enough to the point where the emergency shut-off device (also known as the wick control assembly) is tripped and the heater is automatically shutdown.
, Prior to lifting off the plates, be aware that:

The plates themselves are two-halves joined together by interlocking tabs (we are removing these as a single assembly), and
The Ignition Device Assembly is still attached to the Battery Holder by its two electrical wires. If just replacing the wick, the plates can be gently lifted straight up off the mounting studs and placed safely off to one side to allow further work.
 Grasp the gear-shaft and pull outwards until it cannot go any further. This will disengage the raise/lower control gear on the end of the wick control gear shaft from the wick assembly.,, The actual wick itself is held inside the wick Holder by a number sharp metal "spikes" that pierce the wick material to hold it in place. Remove the old wick by compressing it off the "spikes" and properly dispose of it. To install the new wick, refer to the manufacturers instructions and follow accordingly (see the photo for an example). Once the wick is properly positioned inside the holder, simply press the wick against the spikes until they pierce the outer material and the wick is firmly impaled and cannot slide up and down inside the holder., At this point, should the user only be replacing the wick, no further disassembly is necessary. Reassembly of the heater is essentially the reverse of those prior steps that apply only to the wick replacement objective with a few minor precautions discussed in subsequent steps below. Recommendation to the user is to review these precautions to insure a smooth and trouble-free reassembly.