 Boiling vegetables is a quick and easy way to cook veggies, but it’s important to remember that boiling removes a lot of nutrients and vitamins from food. To preserve as many of those nutrients as possible, you should:


Boil vegetables at a simmer, rather than a full boil
Save the water you boil the veggies in and use it for other things, such as making rice or soups, Microwaving vegetables is actually a great way to cook them and preserve a lot of the nutrients, because microwaving cooks food so quickly. To cook veggies in the microwave:


Rinse your veggies under running water and scrub tougher ones with a vegetable brush. Top and tail vegetables with stems or tips.
Cut the vegetables into bite-sized pieces, or one-inch (2.5-cm) cubes. Place the veggies into a microwave safe dish, such as a glass bowl.
Cover the bowl tightly with a lid or plastic wrap. Place the veggies on the rotating plate and microwave on high for between 4.5 minutes (for one pound of veggies) and 9 minutes (for two pounds).
Remove one corner of the lid or puncture a few holes in the plastic to allow steam to escape before serving., Sautéing is a versatile cooking technique that you can use for lots of different ingredients, and you can make a stir fry using just about any combination of vegetables and proteins you like.


When you stir fry vegetables, you can use a wide variety of oils (such as peanut, sesame, or canola), and you can add fresh herbs, dried spices, or different sauces to change the look and taste of the dish., After you clean your vegetables, place them in your bowl and drizzle them with olive oil and any desired seasoning like salt or onion or garlic powder. Lightly toss to mix. Place the vegetables in a single layer in your shallow baking dish. Cook in a 350 F (177 C) oven until the vegetables are tender. Roasting works best with whole vegetables or large chunks and thick slices.
 Braising is a cooking method that combines both steaming and boiling, so you end up with perfectly cooked food that hasn’t lost as many nutrients as it does when it’s boiled.


They key to braising is cooking with a lid on, so that the steam from the water cooks the vegetables instead of escaping into the air.
To add flavor when braising, you can add herbs, spices, citrus, or other flavors to the pan as well., Deep frying food may not be the healthiest cooking method because of the amount of oil used, but deep fried veggies are still a wonderful treat from time to time.


If you don’t want to deep fry your veggies, only add enough oil to the pan to have a half-inch (1.25 cm) of oil in the pan. Make sure you flip the veggies at least once to cook both sides.

