 If you are lonely or have been single for a long time, it might be easy to settle or get desperate for anyone that shows interest. However, this could lead to a disastrous and unsatisfactory relationship. Maintain your personal standards by doing the following:


Look for a partner who will respect you and your interests. Being with someone who does not respect you shows desperation to be with anyone that shows interest. Look for someone you can talk to about your interests and who will not belittle you.
Find a partner who enjoys spending time with you. If you are in a relationship with someone who you only see when it is convenient for them, then you may just be desperate for any company rather than good company.
Look for a partner who shares the same values or goals as you. You do not want someone who will disrespect you and your core beliefs.
 Although it is easy to identify desperate actions when looking for a relationship, desperation can manifest in ongoing relationships. Do not desperately hold onto a relationship that is no longer working. Consider ending a relationship if:


Your significant other is emotionally or physically abusive. This is not only dangerous to your emotional and physical health, but also something you do not have to live with.
Your partner does not respect you, your friends, or your family. Do not be desperate to please others in your relationship; do not be desperate to get a guy that your mother would approve of. It is important to be in a relationship for reasons that work for you, not to desperately be in a relationship for the sake of not being single.
Your partner is a negative presence in your life. Do not desperately make excuses for your partner in hopes that s/he will change. Supporting your partner is one thing, but making continual excuses is another.
 This will cultivate a negative body image and negative thoughts. Instead, list what your strengths and what makes you unique.


Identify what aspects of your life you compare yourself with others. Is it your looks? Your intelligence? Once you pinpoint these feelings, it is easier to get rid of them.
Understand that you are in control of your actions and feelings. It easy to think that society should tell us how to look and feel; but, you are the only person who can make decisions for how you think and act.
Try and replace negative thoughts with positive ones. This will help create a good habit that will build self-confidence and happiness.
 It is easier to build a good habit when you have people cheering you on! Do not isolate yourself; instead, surround yourself with positive people who will help you make good decisions about your life.

