 This group of personality disorders is characterized by dramatic, impulsive, highly emotional behaviors. People with these disorders often have difficulty in their personal relationships and struggle to form healthy, trusting bonds with others. Antisocial personality disorder, borderline personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, and narcissistic personality disorder all belong to this cluster.The Cluster B disorders are the most common group of personality disorders.
 Someone who seems unable to empathize with others may have antisocial personality disorder. In its milder form, this disorder might cause someone to act manipulative, callous, or aggressive. Someone with severe antisocial personality disorder might commit crimes or hurt others.Abuse is a risk in relationships where one person has antisocial personality disorder. The person with the disorder may try to take out their anger on their partner.
 Does your partner act inconsistent and have frequent mood swings? They might have borderline personality disorder. Reckless behavior and emotional dependence are other hallmarks of this disorder.If your partner seems to love you one day and hate you the next without any real reason for the change, they might be suffering from borderline personality disorder.
Borderline personality disorder is one of the most commonly diagnosed personality disorders.
 If your partner frequently acts out and tries to become the center of attention, they might have histrionic personality disorder. People with this disorder can be very emotional. They may act inappropriately sexual to get people to pay attention to them.Craving a lot of stimulation and novelty is another sign of histrionic personality disorder.
 If your partner refuses to take responsibility for their mistakes, seems unable to recognize the feelings of others, and tries to make themselves the center of everything, they might have narcissistic personality disorder. Someone with this disorder may be manipulative or jealous. They are usually concerned with maintaining their own image regardless of other people’s feelings or needs.Consider whether your partner expresses that they are superior to others. Narcissists tend to believe they are special and different.
A narcissistic partner might act caring towards you or others because they want to project the image of being a caring person. However, they are probably not acting out of genuine empathy.
Narcissists also do not like to be criticized and do not take criticism well.

