 Add 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 cup (125 g) of powdered sugar, ½ cup (50 g) of unsweetened cocoa, 1 ½ teaspoons (7 ½ g) of baking powder, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of baking soda, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) salt to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together to ensure that they’re well mixed.It’s a good idea to sift the dry ingredients before you mix them.;
, Add 1 ½ cups (355 ml) of buttermilk, 2 large eggs, ½ cup (100 g) of granulated sugar, and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of red liquid food coloring to a separate large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully combined.If you don’t have buttermilk on hand, mix 1 ½ cups (355 ml) of whole or 2% milk or heavy cream with 1 ½ tablespoons (22 ½ ml) of lemon juice or white vinegar. Allow the mixture to sit for 5 to 10 minutes until it thickens slightly before mixing it with the other ingredients., After the buttermilk mixture is fully combined, gradually pour it into the flour mixture. Stir until the dry and wet ingredients are just combined.Be careful not to overmix the pancake batter, or you may wind up with tough, chewy pancakes. It’s normal for the batter to have some lumps.
 To cook the pancakes, you’ll need a large, nonstick skillet. Preheat the pan on the stovetop over medium heat for approximately 5 to 7 minutes.If you prefer, you can use a griddle to cook the pancakes.
 While the skillet is heating, it’s important to grease it so the pancakes won’t stick. Lightly brush the interior of the pan with melted butter to grease it.Be careful not to use too much butter on the skillet, or you may end up with greasy pancakes.
 Once the skillet is lightly greased and heated, pour the pancake batter into the pan. For each pancake, use approximately ¼ cup (60 ml) of the batter, spacing them evenly apart in the pan.Using ¼ cup (60 ml) of the batter will give you average side pancakes. If you want to make silver dollar pancakes, use ⅛ cup (30 ml) or less.
 After you’ve poured the batter into the pan, allow each pancake to cook for 3 to 4 minutes on the first side. You’ll know that they’re ready to turn when there are bubbles on the tops and the edges are dry and firm.Keep an eye on the pancakes as they’re cooking because they can burn easily.
 When the pancakes are finished cooking on the first side, use a large, wide spatula to carefully turn them over. Let them cook on the other side for another 1 to 2 minutes, or until the bottoms are set and the pancakes are completely cooked through.Repeat the process of adding the batter and cooking the pancakes until you’ve used up all of the batter.
If you want keep the pancakes warm as you finish preparing breakfast, place the cooked pancakes in a single layer on a baking sheet. Set the oven to 200 degrees Fahrenheit (95 degrees Celsius), and leave the pancakes inside for up to 30 minutes.
 To make the cream cheese topping for the pancakes, add 4 ounces (115 g) of softened cream cheese and ½ cup (75 g) of powdered sugar to a small bowl. Blend the two together until they are well mixed., After you’ve mixed the cream cheese and powdered sugar, gradually mix in 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of milk. Stir well so the mixture is completely smooth.For the creamiest topping, use whole milk.
 Once the cream cheese mixture is well blended and smooth, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract. Mix the topping well to ensure that the vanilla is fully incorporated.If you prefer, you can omit the vanilla.
 Once you’ve finished mixing the cream cheese topping, transfer it to a piping bag with a round tip. Set a serving of pancakes on a plate and drizzle the topping over the pancakes before serving.If you don’t have a piping bag, put the cream cheese topping in a sealable plastic bag. Squeeze out all of the air, seal it, and cut off one of the corners, so you can use the bag to drizzle the topping over the pancakes.
If you’d like extra garnish for your pancakes, consider sprinkling them with chopped nuts, such as pecans or walnuts, and powdered sugar.

