 Understand your stress levels and what stressors affect you the most. Keep a journal of the things that frustrate or stress you out the most. As you come to understand your triggers, you can better control your stress. Having your stress under control will allow you to focus on being a more patient person. Common stressors are things like:Traffic
Long lines
Excessive phone calls
Deadlines

, Most situations can be looked at in a positive and negative light. How patient you are in a given circumstance will depend on how positive or negative your outlook is. If you focus on the positive aspects of a situation, you will be much more patient.For example, if you view time spent sitting in traffic as time wasted, you will be frustrated and impatient. If you view that same time as a chance to have a conversation with your significant other, the experience is more positive and you will both be more patient.
 Being caught off guard is stressful, regardless of the situation. You can be more patient if you prepare yourself for difficult situations. One of the best ways to prepare for a situation is to visualize yourself dealing with it before it happens. Close your eyes and think about how the situation will play out, and how you will react to it.For example, if you get irritated when your significant other sleeps in on the weekend, visualize yourself doing something you enjoy in the morning. Include in the visualization how you will greet your significant other warmly when they wake up.
 Exercise and a healthy diet can keep your body healthy. This will make you feel better, raise your self confidence, and help to balance your hormones and neurotransmitters (the chemicals that send messages throughout your brain and body). All of these things will reduce your stress level and help you to be more patient., Physical health is not the only factor to remaining happy and stable. If you practice good mental hygiene, you will find that you have much more capacity to be patient with yourself and your significant other. Things like yoga, meditation, deep breathing techniques, and talking in support groups can help you relieve built up stress.