 Assume the thumb grip. This will be the most efficient way of minimizing the knife’s rotation in flight. Press the handle of the knife snugly between your thumb and middle finger, but don’t squeeze too tight. During the throw, your wrist and forearm should move as one.With the thumb grip, the blade must be flung with the arm and shoulder using a pushing motion, rather than the snap of the wrist which usually causes the knife to spin.
 Extend your throwing arm with the knife held upright just above and behind your head. The blade should be almost vertical, hovering out at a shallow angle. When using the Russian technique, the knife should point slightly out to your dominant side before it is thrown. Bend your elbow a little so that the blade of the knife is nearly parallel to the ground. Stay loose and ready to time your throw.Holding the knife out further from your body creates additional torque, allowing you to throw the knife with more force.
The Russian technique requires a little more room to move, so be aware of your surroundings before you start waving the knife around.
 Initiate the throwing motion by winding up with your upper body. Turn your hips and shoulders a few inches away from the target in the same direction of your knife hand (right-handed knife throwers will turn clockwise, left-handed throwers should turn counterclockwise). The Russian no-spin throwing technique relies on lateral motion to generate force, which means you’ll be focusing on the movement of your midsection rather than just your arm.Don’t let your knees or feet turn as you twist your upper body. This will throw off your base, as you’ll no longer be facing the target.
 Once you’ve drawn back all the way, reverse the motion suddenly. Rotate your hips and shoulders in the opposite direction. At the same time, sling your arm out at an angle, releasing the knife just before your throwing hand lines up with the target. Follow through with the throw the way you would if you were cracking a whip, keeping your arm extended until the blade makes contact.The trickiest part of the Russian technique is timing your release correctly. It’s more difficult to gauge where the knife will end up as you’re throwing from the side and not centering the blade’s path with your line of sight like with vertical throws.
Despite the somewhat complicated mechanics, the Russian method of no-spin throwing is thought to be more consistently accurate than other techniques.