 The best doormats to use are flat ones with a low pile, but the typical, bristly/coir type of doormat will also work. Keep in mind, however, that the typical coir mats do soak up a lot of paint, and may require multiple layers of paint.

The mat can be any shape or size—it can even be a circular mat!
The doormat does not have to be new. It can be an old one!;
, If the doormat is used, you might want to beat it with a stiff, bristle brush or vacuum it to get rid of any dust or debris. If you don't do this, any dust or dirt might get mixed into the paint and dull it down.


If you see any loose ends on your mat, trim them off with a pair of scissors.
 The best place to work would be outside, but you can also work in a large room as long as there are several windows open. Cover your floor with newspapers, a drop cloth, a plastic tablecloth, or several garbage bags., You can use either spray paint or liquid paint. Spray paint is great for covering large areas. It is also quick and easy to use. Liquid paint needs to be applied with a foam brush, and is better for smaller, more intricate areas.

If you are using spray paint, choose something that is good-quality and that is labeled as being indoor/outdoor. Enamel interior/exterior paint will also work.If you are using liquid paint, make sure that it is meant for outdoors. Porch paint is a good choice because it is durable., You can also do this with a brand new mat as well if you don't want the raw material to show. To make it more durable, use primer first.Let the paint dry completely before applying the stencil.
 You can buy a stencil from the store. If you want a more unique design, you will have to make your own from scratch using contact paper. Keep reading to find out how.

If you are using a store bought stencil, secure it now to the doormat using painter's tape or masking tape. If it is small, and you plan on using spray paint, mask off the rest of the doormat using newspaper to protect it.
 Even if your design is small, it would still be a good idea to do this. This way, you will be able to keep the rest of your mat clean while you paint., If you have a larger design, you may need to print it out onto several sheets of paper. Alternatively, you can also sketch your design onto the back of your contact paper freehanded or using a stencil.


Make sure that your design is big enough to that it is proportionate to the mat.
 If you drew your design directly onto the back of the contact paper, you can skip this step., Place your contact paper onto a cutting mat with the stencil facing upward. Use a craft knife to cut through both the printed paper and contact paper. Remove any pieces of tape and regular paper that might still be stuck to the contact paper stencil when you are done.

If you do not own a cutting mat, you can use a sheet of cardboard instead.
 Contact paper is not very sticky, so it likely won't stick to your doormat very well. In this case, you can secure it with sewing pins. Simply poke the pins straight through the contact paper and into the mat. Focus on the areas that have a lot of detail.Some people find that spraying the back of the contact paper will also help it stick., You can do this using spray paint or acrylic paint. As you are painting, you may notice the material soaking the paint up quickly. Simply wait a few minutes, then go back over those areas. If you wish to add more colors or details, wait for the first coat to dry.


If you are using spray paint: hold the can 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) away from the surface of the mat, and spray straight down. The force of the paint presses down onto the stencil and prevents bleeding.If you are using a foam brush: saturate the brush, then press it against the bristles of the mat. Continue applying the paint using a tapping motion. Don't paint back-and-forth, or you'll risk getting paint under the stencil., It can take up to 24 hours for the paint to dry.You may need up to three coats of paint, especially if you are painting sisal or coir., You can do this while the paint is still wet. Once you are done painting, carefully remove any pins or pieces of tape, then carefully peel the stencil away. Be careful not to touch your design. Even if it looks dry, it might still be wet around the edges., You can speed things up by setting it out in a sunny spot for a few hours. If you are using liquid paint, be sure to read the label carefully; some paints requiring a curing time as well.
 Once the paint is completely dry and cursed, set your doormat down in front of your door. Keep in mind that because the fibers are only painted, the colors may fade over time.