 Take a blanket and fold it in half. Lay it on the floor inside your fort, or on the couch to hide all the crumbs. You can also use a fluffy comforter.


If you do not have any more blankets, you can use pillows instead. Take two or three pillows and lay them down next to each other on the floor inside your fort.
If you are using just blankets, you can stick a pillow or two inside the fort so that you will have something soft to sit on.
 It does not need to have the word "fort" in it. It can be a castle even! Here are some ideas:


Cassie's Castle
Ice cream Palace
Fort Awesome

, Now that you have come up with a name for your fort, you should let everybody know! Take a sheet of paper or a piece of cardboard and write the name of your fort on it. You can use crayons, markers, colored pencils, or even glue and glitter! Here are some more ideas:


Put stickers on your sign. Try to use stickers that match the name of your fort—so if your fort has the word "ice cream" in it, use ice cream-shaped stickers.
Decorate your sign with glitter, sequins, stick-on gems, and rhinestones. This is perfect for a castle!
If you are making a cool fort, use a piece of cardboard, and write the words in a thick red or black marker. You can even add the words "KEEP OUT" beneath the name!

, Punch two holes along the top of your sign and put some string through the holes. Tie the string and hang the sign over one of the chairs. You can also tape the sign to the bed sheet if you cannot find any string.


If you made the sign out of cardboard, you can put it on the floor and lean it against one of the chair legs.
 You can bring snacks such as apples, candy, nuts, juice, or popcorn. If it is around lunch time, ask your mom or dad if you can have your lunch inside your fort.


Make sure that your mom and dad are okay with you taking food out of the kitchen and bringing it into your fort.
 Forts are not just for hiding in! Bring something with you, such as a book, a music player, or a game.
 But not too much! Keep your lighting low, such as a couple of glow sticks, or a flashlight. If you are near an outlet, plug in a nightlight.You can even make a cool fairy lantern using a mason jar, glitter and a glow stick.
 If you will be living in your fort a while, so you might as well make a box to store all of your snacks, games, toys, and treasure. Find a shoe box, and cover it with some construction paper. Decorate the box with some rhinestones, glitter, and stickers. Put your stuff inside the box, and hide it in your fort!

, Sitting in a fort can get lonely, and even the most exciting games and books can get boring after a while. Ask your friend, brother, or sister to come and play with you in your fort!

