 You may not feel comfortable doing this, so it will be a decision you have to make. Ask your friends or family at home if they recommend a confrontation. Make sure to keep the conversation casual so that the jerk doesn't think you’re trying to corner him or her. You also don’t want to violate any workplace regulations. For example, don’t talk to the jerk in private if he or she is not only unfriendly, but also aggressive. You don’t want to put your safety at risk. If this is true, it is probably a sign that you need to get a third party involved.
If he or she simply makes snarky comments that offend you, it is a good idea to let the person know gently, in private.
Make mention of the specific behaviors that are inappropriate. Take this as an opportunity to air out any grievances this person may have about you and vice versa, but don’t let it get too long-winded. He or she may not have realized their actions, and feel immediate remorse.
 The jerk may tell you he or she doesn’t care about your feelings. He or she may simply go on acting the same way no matter what. If the behavior continues, go directly to your supervisor to report any incidents. If there is truly harmful or abusive behavior, the company needs to document and address the problem., You may feel that management is not addressing the issue sufficiently, or that the jerk is becoming abusive. Most companies will not allow such behavior especially if it has racial, age, or sexual undertones. Offenses such as this generally require formal reprimands so as to protect the company from a lawsuit.


Tell the staff, for example, that Bob has made a number of age-related jokes that are increasingly unfriendly. You asked him politely to stop, but he hasn’t.
 If your company is not dealing with the problem, go to management or corporate administration. Your company may have a toll-free line you can call. This is an unfortunate situation, because it can seriously jeopardize your employment if the call is taken the wrong way by your supervisors. However, you don’t need to put up with abusive coworkers because of potential intimidation from your company.
 You may not be able to resolve the problem in-house. This may seem like a drastic step, but remember that workplaces do not exist in a bubble. There are civil laws that can be broken, and if the behavior constitutes abuse or harassment, you can file a suit against your coworker. This is especially important if it is a serious problem that your company refuses to address., If the jerk's behavior is very unpleasant, but doesn’t actually break any rules, you may not be able to change him or her. Don’t put your happiness on the back burner – this is a matter of your mental health. If you are secure enough in your career to move to another company, look around quietly. It may even be an opportunity for you to make a life-change that you have been putting off for years.

