 Dogs love playing together.Together, your dogs will have hours of fun sniffing each other, chasing one another around the house, and cuddling together on the sofa.


Make sure your new pet gets along with your original one. Rescue shelters usually allow you to foster a pet before you adopt it permanently. Treat the fostering period as a trial run.
Ensure your new pet is vaccinated and receives all its shots. If you do not spay or neuter your pets, get a dog which is the same sex as your original dog.
You might also choose to get another house pet, such as a cat or pig. Both can befriend your dog and offer a source of steadfast companionship. Just as you would with another dog, though, make sure your new pet gets all of his or her shots and vaccines.;
, Dogs have excellent vision and are very attentive to moving images.If you have Animal Planet, Nat Geo, or a similar station which features lots of pet and animal programming, your pet will like those best.


Not every breed will be amused by television. But if you have one that is, such as a terrier or bichon frise, your doggy will have hours of amusement ahead of them.
 There are a variety of options, all of which provide many hours of fun for your dog. Which toy you choose depends on your dog's preferences. If one toy fails to keep your pet busy, try another.


Chew toys can offer hours of fun for a good dog. Whether they are a simple rope knotted at the ends or a more complex design of cloth covering a squeaker, chew toys provide dogs with tons of fun.
Rawhide dog bones are also fun for dogs. A dog can easily pass the whole day gnawing on a rawhide bone.
Balls and rolling toys are great fun, and dogs will playfully chase a ball toy for hours.
 This can be a great outlet for your dog’s pent-up energy after he or she waited all day to see you. Choose a soft toy of fleece or soft rope, something which will be both gentle on your hand and the dog’s jaw.While you could just give the toy a gentle wiggle after your dog has grabbed it in its mouth, and pull until either you or the dog let go, it’s best to use the game as a teaching opportunity. After pulling back and forth on the toy for a few moments, make your dog let go of the toy when you tell it to by pulling their face close to yours and intoning the phrase “Drop it” or “Give.”Give him or her a treat after obeying these commands. Initiate a new game of tug to reinforce the lesson.
You can also train your dog to pick the toy back up with a command like “Get it!” and offering the toy to them. As before, utilize treats when your dog correctly obeys you. Having learned this command, do not let your dog pull the toy until you tell him or her to “Get it!”
Repeat the process with a new game to ensure your pet learns this command. Get another round of tug going immediately so your pet doesn’t become bored.
Playing tug of war with your dog simulates a struggle for power/dominance. A pack leader or alpha dog would never play tug of war with another dog in the pack. A dog should therefore surrender the toy to you and wait for you to initiate play.
 You can take this natural tendency and turn it into a great game for your pet.


Hide somewhere accessible like a closet, under the bed, or behind the couch or other large furniture.
Wait for your dog to find you.
You can accelerate the process if you hold a doggy treat while you wait. The scent will provide a clue for the dog and make a good reward when you've been found.
After your dog finds you, start the game again. Hide in a variety of locations so your dog doesn't become bored and always has a challenge.
 It's a timeless classic. With a rag toy, a stick, a Frisbee, or a tennis ball in hand, throw it as far as you can and let your dog run after it. After he or she picks it up and returns it to you, smiling all the while with that silly grin of anticipation, throw it again! A game of fetch can go on and on.Play in an enclosed area such as a dog park or backyard.
Do not play fetch near traffic or busy streets. A mistimed throw or a bad bounce can send the thrown object into traffic, with Fido close behind.
 A simple laser pointer can make a dog go crazy. With the laser in hand, shine it in a spot where the dog can see it. You may need to attract his or her attention by pointing at the laser light and saying excitedly "Hey! What's that?" When the dog sees the light, they will pursue it. When the dog gets close to the point of light, move it to another visible location 3-5 feet away. A dog can easily wile away hours with this simple game.


The laser light excites the dog's natural predator instincts.When they see the zigzagging laser light, they will fixate on it, jumping, clawing, and digging at it until they can "capture" it.
Be sure to have extra batteries on hand.
You can shine the light while lying down, resting, or watching TV.
Laser pointers are readily available at many big box retail stores or online.

