 You don’t necessarily need to eat less to lose weight. Sometimes, in fact, you need to eat more. If you want to see a drastic change in your body, the fastest way to do so is by eating right.


Eat throughout the day. This helps your metabolism speed up. Get on an eating schedule and stick to it. You should be eating 5 times a day instead of 3, so remember to do so in smaller portions than you normally would. Cook (meal prep) healthy snacks. These should be used to eat between meals, because you should eat at least every 4 hours. This will help you avoid snacking on candy bars or anything else available quickly. If you have prepared snacks, you’re more likely to make a better choice.
 Just because you watch your caloric intake doesn’t mean you’re sure to get the results you want. Know what kind of calories you should be consuming throughout the day.


Fill up on protein. Proteins are your best friend. Proteins help you feel fuller longer. Also, it helps to fuel fat burning. This happens because your body burns both fat and muscle when you’re getting super skinny. Therefore, eating protein with help preserve your lean muscle which burns calories. Include vegetables in every meal. Adding vegetables to your meals will help fill you up without burning through the calories you’re allowed while dieting. Most vegetables are primarily water, which is incredibly helpful for weight loss.
Embrace the right carbs. Yes, avoid the sugary, starch filled carbs like white bread and potatoes. But brown rice and sweet potatoes are carbs that will keep your energy level up while you diet. , Eating throughout the day is going to keep your metabolism going. Try to avoid large meals late in the day because you won’t burn them off before you fall asleep. Eating bigger meals in the morning and smaller meals at night is key if you want to get (and stay) skinny.


Have a big breakfast. Breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Eating within an hour of waking up gets your metabolism going and keeps you from mindless snacking before lunch. Here are some ideas for a healthy and big breakfast:


3 scrambled eggs and whole wheat toast
1/2 cup of oatmeal, ½ cup of fresh fruit, 2 hard-boiled eggs
2 baked eggs in ½ avocado and ½ cup grits


Cut out carbs from your last meal. Try to eat your carbs early in the day and pack dinner with protein and vegetables.
Cook every meal at home. When you cook at home, you’re aware of what you’re putting into your meals. “Meal prep” is a necessary part of becoming skinny. Measure out your food depending on your goals and pack your meals ahead of time. Always have healthy options with you to avoid making bad choices.
 Staying hydrated is key to losing weight. Staying hydrated keeps your metabolism going which burns fat, and water acts as a natural appetite suppressant. Always start your day off with a full glass of water. Switch sugary soda drinks to water with meals and keep drinking water throughout the day. Buying an oversized water bottle and marking goals on it by the hour will help keep you hydrated. But how do you figure out these goals?


Find out your body weight in pounds.
Drink between half an ounce and ounce of water per pound each day.
Mark the side of a bottle (put a line for each hour) to help you stay on track through the day.

