 A popular maxim postulates that the Best book to read is the Bible. Reading the Bible will help you to learn more about God. This way, you will be competent with Godliness.;
, Remaining in a spirit of prayer keeps you connected to God. It's the only viable way of communicating with God. Praying for 30 minutes or 1 hour will remind you that you love spending time with Him. This way, you acknowledge that He loves to listen. The intimation below are the steps used in praying.



In Jesus Name. This phrase is cardinally important, as it invokes The Power of Jesus in your prayer. This way, the devil won't interfere with your prayers.

Thanksgiving/Praises. Glorify God for all he has done in your life. Under normal circumstances, you wouldn't approach/talk to a king without bowing, thanking/praising him, more so for the Creator.

Intercession. This is the peak of your prayer. It involves supplications/entreaties. For the course of your prayer, use this step to intercede for others.

Benediction. The closing part of your prayers should invoke blessings from God/affirmation. Thank him for answering your prayers.In Jesus name I pray: Your Prayer was prayed in Jesus name.
 It is the gift of God, knowing you are saved unto doing good works that were foreordained that you should do them.


Make your boast in the Lord.
 Listen to gospel songs that are Spirit filled. Recalling that God is spirit and truth!

, Love covers all things. Without love, it is impossible to please God. Show love to your neighbors, to the world, nature and everything. Do these because God created all things and we are the one body of Christ, united.
 (Luke 14:13,14)

, Oh, that man would praise the Lord for His Goodness and wonderful works. Don't stop praising Him! Sing with your heart; it will delight Him, and He will shower abundant and redundant blessing on you like: Oh!, how I love to praise His name.
, I thank you Lord that your Spirit will never leave us. Let Him be an important part of your everyday life. With God, all things are possible, but without Him, you have nothing (nothing that matters). Choose this day whom you will serve -- God, or the world and its system?


Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption (Ephesians 4:30).
 "4 ...if a person swears thoughtlessly with his lips to do evil (harsh things) or to do good, in whatever matter a man may speak thoughtlessly as with an oath, but it is not done by him, and then he comes to remember it, he will be guilty in one of these. 5 'So it shall be when he becomes guilty in one of these, that he must confess that in which he has sinned' "... and make sacrifices" -- keep the good promise… (Leviticus 5:5)

, Show mercy to the poor and lame: He that is given much/or forgiven much must show mercy.
 Seek not a blessing of your own but for another's well being. When all do that, then all will be greatly blessed. It starts now and here with us. (But recall that you "do not throw pearls to swine lest they turn and tear you into pieces.") Pay your bills and taxes to whom they are due.


He who steals must steal no more; but rather he must labor, performing with his own hands what is good, so that he will have something to share with one who has need (Ephesians 4:28).
 Go tell it on the mountains, over the seas, to every island, and to the whole world. Tell them that "Jesus reigns; He is King -- our only king." Surrender all to Jesus, but not seeking a reward or pleasures of this world. Our King offers us more (and better) than the world ever could offer.
