 Knock on the ends of each line you drew. If the wall sounds solid, you're still on the wood that frames the window, and you can install the rods with screws only. If the wall sounds hollow, you should first install anchors.


You could also use a stud finder to determine if the walls are strong enough to install the rod without anchors. Stud finders can be found at any hardware store.
 Once you are satisfied with the line's placement on the wall, you should mark it. At the end of each line use an awl to punch a starter hole. Awls are common woodworking tools used to mark the beginning of a hole. Don't make the hole too large. It is best to make a smaller hole to help you align the screws later in the process.
 To ensure a secure hold of the curtains use traditional toggle bolts.Screw the metal wall anchor into each hole, if necessary, with a power drill and a phillips head drill bit. It should be an easy installation and only require you to fully thread the anchor into the wall. Skip this step if you're installing directly into the wood.


If your wall sounded hollow and you don't use an anchor, you could damage your walls. Your curtains could fall out of the wall and potentially injure someone.
 Hold a bracket against one of holes you punched. If you installed screw anchors, hold the bracket over one of the anchors you installed. Your brackets probably have two screw holes. Place the bracket's top screw hole over the hole or anchor.


Hold up the bracket. Tape the bracket firmly against the wall with a couple of strips of masking tape. Repeat the process for the other bracket. This will help you attach the brackets to your walls. You can skip this step if you have a friend to help you hold the brackets., Screw the brackets to the wall with their attached hardware. Remove the tape once the rods are firmly attached to the wall. Many find that it is beneficial to attach the curtains to the rod before mounting them to the brackets.


It might be easiest to test the hold of the brackets before thinking about the curtains. Test the hold of the brackets by mounting the rod into the bracket's slot.

