 Unless you discussed the “no-strings-attached” hook-up before you hooked up, you should never disappear on someone just because you’ve finally had sex. This tells people that you were only in it for the hook-up. Like it or not, word of your habits will get around, and it is not only disrespectful, it is hurtful to your partner.


Don’t ignore calls and texts – respond when you can with a genuine, kind answer.
Being available is not being clingy— while you should make an effort to be open and show that you aren’t running away, 1 quick text, call or conversation is enough., There is little more hurtful than seeing a partner, expecting a hello or hug, and getting the cold shoulder in return. If you are ashamed or embarrassed to be with that person after you’ve hooked up with them, you shouldn’t be hooking up with them in the first place.
 Call your partner and meet for drinks, a walk in the park, or dinner and movie. This doesn’t mean you need to dive right into full-on dating. Rather, you should build a relationship outside of sex that shows you care for and respect them, even if you don’t plan on sleeping together again or want a relationship. Avoiding platonic or non-sexual time makes you look shallow and can make someone feel used.
 All relationships, sexual or not, need proper communication to survive. This doesn’t mean you need to talk on the phone for hours. It simply means you need to be open and upfront about what you are looking for. If you want a serious relationship and your partner is under the assumption that you are just hooking up, one of you is going to be in for a rude awakening. Trying to manipulate, coerce, or change someone’s mind will not work. Honest communication, however, will get you far.


What are you looking for in a relationship?
What are they looking for?
How do you both see things moving forward in your relationship?

, Sex is a natural, organic part of a relationship, not a tool to get what you want.You should only be hooking up because you already love your partner, and you want to be intimate with them. Sex is not about fun only, but about union with another soul and about expressing your own true love for another. Making demands, asking for favors, or expecting new treatment cheapens the intimate act between you and can ruin a relationship.
 Everyone has different ideas about what sex “means.” At the end of the day, however, most sex is simply the growth of a relationship and intimacy, even if only for a moment. No matter what you should be kind, available, and respectful, but you should also take things slowly. Many people, websites, and movies will try and tell you the right timeline, rules, and words to say. But every relationship is different, and there is no “perfect playbook” for how to act after sex. So be kind and considerate. Above all, be yourself.

