 Burpees are a good bodyweight exercise. They work muscles in the arms, legs, and core. Burpees are difficult, but they can be modified for every fitness level, and then you can work up to more challenging ones.









To do a burpee, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Lower into a squat, and then bend forward and place your hands on the floor. Kick your legs back so that you end up in a plank position. Next, jump your feet back under you towards your core. Lift yourself back into a squat. Jump as you hold your hands above your head.
Make sure you keep your core engaged throughout the entire movement.
Add a pushup to the burpee for additional bodyweight exercise.
If you are a beginner, instead of jumping, you can slowly straighten your legs behind you into the plank position and then slowly pull them back in one at a time.
 Jump squats are a version of the traditional squat. They add intensity to your workout, along with cardio training. To do a jump squat, start with your hands behind your head as you lower into the squat position. When you get into a squat, jump up by pushing through your hips and driving through your heels in an explosive movement. Try to jump as high as you can. Land with your knees bent and go back into a squat movement.Make sure to maintain your proper squat form. Make sure your knees never get in front of your toes and that you keep your weight in your heels.
You can turn this into a tuck jump by pulling your knees as high as you can when you jump up.
 Mountain climbers work your legs, arms, and core, so it’s a good overall bodyweight exercise. To perform a mountain climber, start in the plank position, drawing your abs in tight. Pull one knee in until it is bent under the hip. Push the knee back with as much power as you can until the leg is straight and your weight in on your toes. Do the same with the other knee. Alternate each leg as you continue the movement for as long as you can.








You can modify this exercise to bring your knee towards your opposite hip, making it a mountain climber with a twist.

