 This utility is only available for Windows computers, but you can use it on Mac if you're running Windows in a virtual machine. You can download it from taig.com/en/.

Some browsers may mark TaiG as malicious software, but this warning can be safely ignored as long as you downloaded TaiG directly from the developers.;
, Use the included USB cable to connect the iPod to your computer., If you keep your iTunes up to date, you may have problems getting the jailbreak tool to work. The TaiG utility requires iTunes 12.1.1, which is a slightly older version. In order to downgrade to this version, you'll need to completely uninstall iTunes on your computer first. Open the Control Panel and select "Programs and Features" or "Uninstall a program". Select iTunes from the list and click Uninstall.

Download and install the correct version of iTunes from support.apple.com/kb/DL1784.
 If your iPod has a passcode to protect it, you'll need to disable it during the jailbreak process. Open the Settings app and select "Passcode". Enter your current passcode, and then toggle the passcode off. You can turn it back on after jailbreaking., If you have this Apple tracking service enabled, you'll need to disable it during the jailbreaking process. Open the Settings app and select "iCloud". Toggle "Find My iPod" off and enter your Apple ID password to confirm. You can turn Find My iPod back on after jailbreaking., Use iTunes to create a backup of your iPod before starting. This will let you easily restore to your previous settings if something goes wrong during the jailbreaking process. Select your iPod in iTunes, select "This computer", and then click the Back Up Now button. This will create a backup of your device on your computer.

Make sure backup encryption is not enabled. Uncheck the "Encrypt iPhone backup" box if it is checked. If your previous backup was encrypted, you'll need to make a new unencrypted one.
 Make sure that iTunes is closed before running TaiG., This is unnecessary software that TaiG tries to add. Make sure to keep the Cydia box checked., This will begin the jailbreaking process, which will take a few minutes to complete. Your device will reboot multiple times during the jailbreak process, and you can monitor the jailbreak progress in the TaiG window. Don't touch your device's screen or disconnect it during the jailbreak process., This is the jailbreak package manager, and can be found on one of your device's Home screens after jailbreaking. When you first launch Cydia, you'll see the "Preparing Filesystem" message. This process may take a few minutes to finish, but is essential for a working jailbreak. Cydia will automatically exit and reboot your device when its finished., Once TaiG is finished and Cydia has built its filesystem, your device will be jailbroken and you can start installing apps and tweaks from Cydia. Click here for tips on getting the most out of your jailbroken iOS device.

After jailbreaking, you can safely re-enable your device's passcode and Find My iPhone.

