 Good natural oils can actually help strip away dirt and other impurities, thereby unblocking previously clogged hair follicles and allowing your hair to grow out more rapidly. Oils can also moisturize your hair. Moisturized hair is less brittle and less likely to break prematurely.


Oils worth considering include coconut oil, olive oil, lavender oil, castor oil, jojoba oil, almond oil, rosemary oil, fish oil, emu oil, tea tree oil, grape seed oil, mustard oil, and avocado oil.
Use the oil at room temperature or warmer. To warm the oil, you can place a small sealed bottle of your chosen oil in a dish of hot (but not simmering) water for a minute or two.
Massage the oil into your scalp and allow it to coat your hair.
Keep the oil in place for 15 to 30 minutes before rinsing with warm water.;
, The protein in eggs can strengthen your hair and add volume, as well as length.


Break an egg into a dish and lightly beat the yolk and white together until mixed.
Consider adding 1 tsp (1 ml) honey or olive oil for a moisturizing effect. Mix well.
Apply the egg mixture to your hair after you shampoo it.
Allow the egg-based moisturizer to sit on your hair for 10 to 20 minutes. If desired, apply a moisturizing conditioner while the product is still in your hair. If not, rinse it from the hair directly using warm water.
 An apple cider vinegar rinse should be done once a week to help strip away any build-up or residue left behind by various hair care products and oils.


Pour up to 1/4 cup (60 ml) apple cider vinegar through your hair. Focus on the roots, but allow the vinegar to make its way through the entire length of your hair.
When done, wash your hair as normal.
 Coconut milk contains a number of proteins, fatty acids, and iron. All of these, when combined, can strengthen your hair and drastically reduce the risk of premature hair breakage.Massage organic coconut milk directly into the hair roots using firm circular motions. Allow it to sit for 15 to 20 minutes before rinsing with warm water and washing with a mild shampoo.
You could also mix 1 Tbsp (15 ml) honey or glycerin into the coconut milk before applying it. The honey enhances its moisturizing effect, transforming coconut milk from a conditioner to a deep conditioner.
 Aloe vera contains fatty acids, zinc, iron, vitamin A, vitamin C, and vitamin E. All of these vitamins and minerals play key parts in promoting hair health and growth. Overall, aloe vera gel blocks sebum from getting onto the hair, which is significant since sebum can attract dirt and bacteria responsible for hair loss.


Mix 2 tsp (10 ml) aloe vera gel with 2 tsp (10 ml) olive oil, 1 tsp (5 ml) honey, and 1 oz (30 ml) warm water. Apply this solution directly to the scalp.
Let the aloe vera solution sit on your scalp for 30 minutes. When ready, rinse with warm water and wash with a mild shampoo.
 While it may seem counter-intuitive, you should get split ends trimmed off the bottom of your hair every four to six weeks.


Technically, trimming your hair does not cause your hair to grow. It does, however, get rid of any dry or damaged ends. If you do not take care of these splits and breakages, they can travel up the length of your locks, causing your hair to become more brittle as it grows out. If you want long hair that is healthy and strong, as well as long, then you need to get rid of these ends regularly.
 A scalp massage can increase the circulation of blood in the skin of your scalp. As a result, the follicles are also stimulated, and hair ends up growing faster.


A scalp massage done with one of the natural oils mentioned in this article is an even better option than a dry massage.
 Stress can make your hair brittle and also slows down the rate at which it grows. Manage your stress by taking part in activities that relax you.


Gentle exercise can be a great way to reduce stress. Take up yoga or go for a 30 minute walk in the park.
Sleep is also an important aspect of reducing stress. Get seven to eight hours of sleep per night whenever possible.
 Heat can draw the moisture out of your hair faster than usual. Dry hair is more likely to burn and break prematurely. Air drying your hair can minimize the risk of heat damage.If you do dry your hair with a hair dryer, use the lowest setting on your dryer and consider first applying a natural oil, like coconut oil, to protect your hair from the heat. The excess oil can burn off instead the water and the hair tissue.
You should also avoid heated styling products, like hair straighteners and curling irons.
In addition to using less heat, you should avoid hot water, as well. Hot water can make your hair brittle, as well, and lukewarm to cool water is a better option if you want to promote better length.
 Shampoo strips the oil from your hair. That oil protects your hair, however, and allows it to grow out without suffering damage from dehydration. To retain enough oil, wash your hair every other day or no more than three times a week.


Note that washing your hair is still important, though, since too much oil can block your hair follicles and ultimately make it more difficult for your hair to grow out.
 Brushing your hair distributes the natural oils on your scalp throughout the length of your hair. These oils can coat each entire strand, keeping them all hydrated and healthy.


Use a natural bristle brush and brush from scalp to ends.
Brushing your hair also stimulates circulation in your scalp.
 Tight ponytails, pigtails, buns, and similar updos can cause your hair to break. When you tie a hair rubber band around your hair, the strands become stressed and may even break. The more often you do this, the weaker your hair will become.Tight hair styles also tend to pull hair from the roots and can cause permanent damage as a result.
If you need to pull your hair back, try to keep the ponytail as loose as possible to avoid damage.
 Pillowcases made from either satin or silk are a luxury your hair will really thank you for. The smooth fabric can prevent your hair from tangling and drying out.


Similarly, you could wrap a satin or silk scarf around your hair before you sleep at night. This can accomplish the same result as a satin pillow.
 Keep your hair protected from any harsh outdoor conditions. It can be as sensitive as your skin, so proper protection is vital.


Wear a hat or similar covering to protect your hair from the sun, especially if you plan on being out in the sun for a prolonged period of time.
When the weather gets colder and drier, you need to protect it from harsh winds by wearing a hat, and you also need to increase any moisturizing routines you follow.
 A large number of commercial hair coloring contains ammonia. This is a bleaching agent that can severely dry out your hair, and dry hair is more likely to break prematurely.


If you want to dye your hair, have it done by a professional stylist and get color treatments as infrequently as possible.
You could also try natural hair dyes, like coffee and cinnamon, which are far more gentle.
 Capsaicin is the chemical responsible for making peppers hot. This chemical also promote hair growth by imitating natural human growth factors, so consuming more of it can result in greater hair growth., Biotin can be consumed through your diet or in supplement form. If you want to get more biotin naturally, eat more tomatoes, carrots, romaine lettuce, or chard.


Biotin increases the production of red blood cells and boosts the level of insulin in your body. As a result, more glucose can be delivered to the hair follicles in your head.
This vitamin also stimulates the keratinocyte cells directly responsible for strengthening your hair.
 If you have a balanced diet, you can likely get all the vitamins your hair needs without taking any special supplements. If you want to focus on increasing your vitamin intake, however, there are a handful of vitamins you should pay special attention to if your primary interest is making your hair stronger and longer.


Vitamin A keeps the hair and scalp hydrated. It also regulates a natural acid utilized by your hair follicles.
Vitamin B3 improves blood circulation, thereby improving circulation to the hair follicles and stimulating additional growth.
Vitamin B12 helps the body produce red blood cells. More red blood cells means that the hair follicles can receive more oxygen.
Vitamin C strengthens your hair, so you are less likely to encounter split ends. It also helps your body produce new tissue and new hair.
Vitamin E is another vitamin responsible for stimulating circulation. It can also boost the immune system, so your hair can remain healthier as a result.
You also need plenty of iron and zinc, which both improve circulation.
 Your body uses protein for many areas of growth, and new hair growth is one such area. You can get more protein from meat, fish, eggs, beans, and nuts, or you can look for dietary supplements that provide protein.


Drink soy milk. In addition to being high in protein, soy milk and other soy products contain isoflavones that are believed to increase and promote hair growth.
 Hydration is vital if you want your hair to grow. Drink an average of eight 8-oz (250-ml) glasses of water daily to dramatically improve the health and length of your hair.

