 Open the Google Play Store and search for the Sixaxis Compatibility Checker. Choose the one made by Dancing Pixel Studios.


Download the app by tapping on the Install button.;
, After installation, tap on "Open," if you didn’t leave the app’s Google Play page.


If you’ve left Google Play, tap on the app’s icon on your home screen or app drawer to launch it.
 This will run a series of operations trying to confirm compatibility. If compatibility is achieved, it should notify you. If compatibility is shown, proceed to the next steps. Take note of whatever address is shown in the notification.


You will need to have root access for your device in order to successfully pair your controller.
 Enter dancingpixelstudios.com in your computer's web browser.
, This should be on the left-hand side.
 This will download the tool to your PC.
 Go to the installer you’ve just downloaded and double-click on it to begin the installation process. Follow the instructions on the screen until installation is complete.
 A window should appear displaying Current Master: Searching.... This indicates that the program is looking for your controller

, Ideally, you should use the USB ports on your motherboard instead of USB hubs or extensions.


The “searching” text should change into a set of characters separated into pairs by ":". This is the Bluetooth address of the controller’s old master (usually your PS3).
 Click on the address and change it to the one stated in the main screen of the Compatibility app. Click Update when finished.
 Confirm that the master address matches both on your device and the controller, then tap "Pair."

,, You should see the LED turn on in the Player 1 spot.
 It should say “Client Connected: 1.”

, Try pressing some buttons on your controller. If the connection is successful, the app should respond to the keys you are pressing. Now you can download the main app!

, Launch Google Play and search for the Sixaxis Controller app. Purchase and install it on your device.
 The app will initiate your device's Bluetooth.
 A prompt should appear telling you to enable the Sixaxis Controller in the Keyboard and Input Method.
 Select "Sixaxis Controller" from the list of available inputs.
 The device will look for the controller. If connection is successful, the console should say “Client 1 Connected .”

, Tap on the top-right icon.


Configure Touch Emulation enables you to use the PS3 controller with touch-based games.
There you have it, you should be able to set your preferences with the main app settings for any game you want. Enjoy your Bluetooth controller on your Android games and emulators!

