 Melt the beeswax half-way in a double-boiler. Stir in the coconut oil and a dash of honey. Let everything melt, then remove the double-boiler from heat. Stir in 2 vitamin E capsules and a few drops of essential oil (if desired). Pour the mixture into empty lip balm containers and let it cool and harden.








1 tablespoon (15 grams) beeswax
1 tablespoon (15 grams) coconut oil
Dash of honey
2 vitamin E capsules
Essential oil (optional)

, Melt the coconut oil and beeswax in a double-boiler. Add the vitamin E oil, honey, and essential oil. Pour the mixture into empty lip balm containers and let it harden.








4 tablespoons (60 grams) coconut oil
1½ tablespoons (22.5 grams) beeswax
2 to 3 vitamin E capsules
¾ tablespoon (11.25 grams) honey
15 drops cinnamon essential oil

, Melt the almond oil and the beeswax in a double-boiler. Stir in the honey and the pumpkin pie spice. Pour the mixture into small, lip balm containers, and let it harden.








2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) sweet almond oil
1 teaspoon beeswax
1 teaspoon honey
¼ teaspoon pumpkin pie spice

, Grind the strawberries or raspberries in a blender or food processor, then set them aside. Melt all of the ingredients in a double-boiler. Stir everything together. Pour the mixture through a fine, mesh strainer into empty lip balm containers, and let it harden, stirring occasionally. Discard anything caught in the strainer.








1 tablespoon (15 grams) beeswax
½ tablespoon (7.5 grams) coconut oil
½ tablespoon (7.5 milliliters) sweet almond oil
⅛ teaspoon vitamin E oil
2 to 4 tablespoons (14 to 28 grams) freeze dried strawberries or raspberries

, Peel the wrapper off of a crayon and break it into pieces. Melt it in a double-boiler along with the coconut oil. Add in some essential oil, if desired. Pour the melted mixture into empty lip balm containers, and let it harden.








2 teaspoons coconut oil
1 high-quality crayon
1 to 2 drops essential oil (optional)

, Melt all of the ingredients in a double-boiler. Stir everything together, then pour the mixture into empty lip balm containers. If you want to leave out the petals, pour the mixture through a fine, mesh strainer. Allow the lip balm to cool and harden before using it.








4 tablespoons (60 grams) beeswax
2 tablespoons (30 grams) coconut oil
2 tablespoons (30 grams) shea butter
1 teaspoon sweet almond oil
1 teaspoon coconut or vanilla extract
¼ cup (56 grams) dried rose petals, crushed

