 You should stop into several banks or credit unions, and look online, to find the best current mortgage rate being offered.For example, you could type “compare mortgage rates” into a search engine and then visit one of the many sites that allows you to compare mortgage rates from several different lenders.


You should also ask each lender for a good faith estimate, which will itemize all of the costs for the loan.;
, You should request multiple quotes from the same lender, using different mortgage rate/cost combinations. For example, if you are offered a 30-year mortgage at 4.75% with $2,500 in closing costs, then you could ask for different combinations.Ask what the mortgage rate would be if the closing costs were lower, or if there were no closing costs at all.
 Look at each one of your quotes. If one quote doesn’t match up with what the loan officer told you in person, then call and ask why. Compare the monthly payments and the total amount you would have to pay under each loan.


Always pay attention to whether the rate offered is “locked.” Between the time you get a quote and the date you sign a loan, the rate could rise. By locking the rate, you are guaranteed that rate when you sign the loan. You generally will pick a “lock term,” which can last from 7 to 90 days, with 15-45 being the most common.Also note if loans are offered with fixed rates. Your monthly payment will generally be higher with a fixed rate than with an adjustable rate.However, adjustable rate mortgages are more risky, as the rate could rise.
Don’t feel rushed as you compare quotes. It takes time to review everything. And the time you spend now finding the best deal will pay off later., You can play two lenders against the other. Find the two lenders who offered you the best rate, and return to the one who gave you the second best deal. Tell this lender that you have another offer that is slightly better but that you would love to work with them. Ask if they can lower their rate slightly below their competitor’s.


If the lender offers a slightly lowered rate, then you should return to the other lender and ask if they can lower their rate slightly. You can play these two against each other until both stop lowering their mortgage.
You should expect lenders to complain that they are “barely breaking even” or not making any money off you. In reality, they need your business more than you need theirs., Even if the bank or mortgage broker doesn’t want to lower its rates, you could still try to negotiate fees. For example, you could ask the broker to waive the application fee.You could save $75-300 on this fee alone., This is another fee that the mortgage broker might be willing to waive. Loan processing fees average around $400., You can also save money at closing if you find a bank that doesn’t escrow real estate taxes and homeowners’ insurance.When you are shopping for quotes, make sure to ask the bank whether or not they escrow these expenses.
 Some fees can’t be negotiated because they are set by government authorities, which have to treat all people equally. Accordingly, you can’t negotiate the following:taxes
recording fees
city and county stamps

, The lender pays for some services from third parties. It is often harder for you to negotiate or waive these fees, because the lender would have to take a loss. For example, lenders purchase the following from third parties:appraisals
credit reports
tax service
flood certification

, You should receive this document within three days of submitting your application. Look at section C on page two. Section C will list costs that you control, which means you can shop around for better deals. You can shop around for the following:Title insurance. In some states, such as Texas, the government regulates title insurance, so you will have to pay the amount set by the state. However, in other states, you can go out and find cheaper title insurance, which will lower your closing costs.
Homeowners’ insurance.
Home inspection.
 You should try to find cheaper title and homeowner’s insurance, as well as a less expensive home inspection. If you can, then you will lower your closing costs. You can search in the following ways:


You can find title companies by visiting the American Land Title Association website and using their “Find a Company” search feature.Once you have a list of title companies in your state, you can get quotes for title insurance.
You can get quotes for homeowners’ insurance by visiting individual company websites directly, or you could use the netquote.com website. At netquote, enter your zip code to start.After providing information about the home and yourself, netquote will provide you with a list of quotes from different insurance companies.
You should contact home inspectors and ask for a quote. You can find them listed in your phone book. Your agent may also be able to recommend some inspectors., You can save on closing costs by closing on the last day of the month instead of at the beginning or in the middle. If you close earlier, you have to pay per diem interest for each day until the end of the month.The closer to the end of the month that you close, the better.
 Many loans allow the seller to contribute up to 6% of the sale price to the buyer in credit for closing costs. This amount is tax deductible and is a nice way for the seller to close the sale.If you are in a tight housing market, then you shouldn’t expect the seller to pay anything. However, you could certainly ask, especially if the market you are buying into has been slow.

