 Oftentimes, headaches that occur during or after flight are due to a sudden change in altitude. The painkiller ibuprofen may effectively prevent altitude related headaches before they begin.


In a recent study, hikers preparing for a high altitude journey were given doses of ibuprofen in the 24 hours prior to their journey. A little over 40% of hikers who took ibuprofen developed altitude-related headaches and nausea. In the control group, where hikers did not take ibuprofen, almost 70% experienced headaches, nausea, and other symptoms.If you're going to be flying, try taking 600 milligrams of ibuprofen sometime during the 24 hours leading up to the flight. Ibuprofen can be purchased at most drug stores and supermarkets and comes under a variety of names, such as Advil or Motrin.;
, Oftentimes, people suffer from headaches in-flight if they regularly suffer from migraines. Changes in altitude, air pressure, and environment in general can be a trigger for a migraine. Take any normal medications you take to control migraines as, for the most part, there are no safety concerns in regards to taking your regular medication while flying., Acetazolamide is a medication primarily used to treat glaucoma, but also sometimes helpful in relieving symptoms of altitude-related sickness. If you believe your headaches are related to changes in altitude, this medication may be a good option for you.You will need a prescription for acetazolamide. Talk to your doctor about your headaches during flying and ask him if he thinks the medication would be safe for you. Acetazolamide is prescribed in different doses with different instructions depending on why you're taking it and your medical history. Follow the instructions on your prescription and do not hesitate to ask a doctor or pharmacists if you have any questions.Acetazolamide can cause nausea, dizziness, and loss of appetite. These are normal side effects that should pass. If you experience more serious side effects, like fever, rash, or blood in urine, cease use and talk to your doctor., As headaches are sometimes triggered by altitude changes, trying to book a non-stop flight may help you avoid headaches.


Altitude changes can prompt changes in your oxygen levels, causing your head's blood vessels to compensate by contracting and expanding. This change in your blood vessels can trigger a migraine.Booking a non-stop flight can be difficult and costly. However, see if you live within driving distance of a location that provides non-stop flights to your end location. It might be worth it to take a road trip to an airport and take a non-stop flight from there if you're migraines or headaches are particularly severe.
 You will be doing a lot of sitting while on the plane and a lot of walking while in the airport. Do not wear constricting clothing or shoes without enough support., Drinking plenty of water in flight can help avoid causes of after flight headaches like jet lag and dehydration.


Aircrafts only have a humidity level of 15%, which is on par with some of the driest climates on earth. Make sure you bring a water bottle on the plane and stay hydrated prior to boarding.
Due to restrictions on liquids, you may have to purchase a water bottle in the airport or bring an empty water bottle through security and fill it up at a water fountain. Remember, drinks are not usually offered on a plane until well after take-off. Bring your own water on board so you won't end up waiting for a drink if you start to feel thirsty.
If you forgot your water bottle and are feeling thirsty as the plane takes off, it's fine to ask the flight attendant for a water bottle before the plane takes off.
 Going for long periods of time without eating can cause the onset of a headache. Food on planes can be expensive, so bring something to eat with you.Purchase high-fiber and high protein snacks, like nuts, dried fruits, and granola bars. Put them in your carry-on bag. Avoid salty or overly sugary snacks, which can worsen dehydration.
 It can be tempting to kill time at the airport bar or have a beer in-flight to reduce boredom. However, alcohol can contribute to after flight headaches.


Alcohol is one of the biggest triggers for migrainesand also contributes to dehydration that can exacerbate jet lag and cause headaches.
Red wine, in particular, is known to cause headaches if drunk in excess. Consuming a glass or two of red wine before or after boarding could lead to a headache after flight.If you really want a preflight alcoholic beverage, stick to white wine as it's less likely to cause headaches., Getting some sleep on the airplane can help you feel rested and refreshed when you land. If your headaches seem to be caused by jet lag, sleeping in flight can help.


Herbal supplements, like melatonin, can be purchased at drug stores and supermarkets. In small doses, they can promote sleep. Many people also take Dramamine while flying as it reduces nausea. It also causes drowsiness and may help you sleep through a long flight.
Test any medications you're trying at home before a fight. If they have any adverse side effects for you, you want to know ahead of time.
Bring an in-flight pillow to avoid straining your neck while flying.
 Headaches can often be caused by stress. Staying calm before and during a flight can reduce their likelihood.


Familiarize yourself with the routines of flying and airplane noises before leaving for the airport. Anxiety is often rooted in the unexpected or unknown, so having as much information as you can beforehand can reduce fear.Keep a picture of your destination on hand. If you start to become anxious during the flight, reminding yourself what you have to look forward to can help ease that anxiety.If your fear of flying is particularly bad, talk to a doctor or therapist about an anti-anxiety medication you can take as needed before flight., While it might take awhile to get through baggage claim and find your way to the proper exit, fresh air or sunlight can help wake you up, alleviating jet lag. Exposure to more natural air is also important. There may be substances in the airport or airplane to which you are mildly allergic. These could trigger your headaches. Lessening exposure can help prevent headaches.
 Regardless of what precautions you took, most people feel a little "off" when exiting an airplane. Allow yourself time to adjust.


It might not be a good idea to drive right away. Take a cab home from the airport or have a trusted friend pick you up.
Do not expose yourself to stimulants that can normally induce headaches. Caffeine, loud music, and alcohol should be avoided in the hours after a flight until you've readjusted.
 If your headaches are frequent or severe, you should make an appointment with your physician. You want to make sure your headache are caused by flying and not related to more serious medical concerns. Your doctor might also be able to recommend medications and lifestyle changes that could help alleviate your after flight headaches.

