 Commitment phobes may seem to respond well to affection when you are together, such as by responding well to compliments and holding your hand. They may even allow themselves to be vulnerable with you, such as by sharing personal things like hopes, fears, and dreams. However, these behaviors are forms of emotional closeness, which can be frightening to someone who has a commitment phobia.


After having a nice date with someone who is afraid of commitment, you might not hear from them for a while. This could be because the person is upset by how close they allowed themselves to get during the time they spent with you.
However, keep in mind that all people crave emotional connection. The reason that the person may have been vulnerable or affectionate with you might have been out of this need. It just might have been too frightening for the person and they may have felt the need to avoid talking to you for a while after.
 Think about conversations you’ve had with the other person where you’ve brought up their behavior or something that upset you. If they turned things around on you and made it your fault, then they are displaying commitment phobic behavior.For example, they may say you are oversensitive if you get upset they won’t let you meet their friends. You may be a drama magnet if you are upset they didn’t show up for your day. You are clingy if you want to spend more time with them.
Watch out for sentences like, "You are so oversensitive" or "You're being ridiculous. You're making something out of nothing" or "You're too clingy. Why are you messing everything up?"

, Commitment phobes have a tendency to start analyzing the person they’re with after they start dating them. This leads to an obsession with negative traits, where they find all the problems with the person and ignore all the positive qualities. They want an ideal partner, which doesn’t exist.Listen for the person to start pointing out your “negative traits” or things they think are wrong with you.
For a commitment phobe, this helps them become unhappy with the relationship and helps to rationalize a break up.
 Commitment phobes are afraid of learning about the serious aspects of your life. That is because it requires a level of commitment between the two of you, which might be too much for them to handle. Pay attention to the conversations you have together. See if they only talk about themselves or superficial topics without a mention of you.They may ask a general “how are you” type question when you first see each other, but there will be no questions about your life, your wellbeing, or interests.
 Commitment phobes are not interested in spending time with your during important events. This is too much of a commitment for them. Because of this impulse, they won’t call or visit during holidays or your birthday.If you have a party, they more than likely won’t show up. If you invite them to a work or social engagement, they will give you an excuse for why they can’t come.
If you've got something important coming up, trying saying, "I have a party next week. I'd love if you'd be my date" or "I have to go to a family dinner. I would appreciate you going with me to help me get through the evening."

