 Many restaurants, especially family restaurants, offer special deals to customers during their birthdays, as long as they sign their names to the appropriate mailing list. Offerings can range from a free dessert to a $30 gift certificate good toward your total purchase.;
, Some restaurants offer punch cards for patrons who dine at their establishment frequently. After eating at a restaurant often enough and acquiring a certain number of punches in your card, you can often receive a discount or a free meal.
 You can find out about these nights by signing up for restaurant e-mail newsletters, or by doing an Internet search on "Kids Eat Free."

, Before a new restaurant opens, it may have a trial night to allow its staff to practice. The selection may be reduced, and the service may be slow, but many restaurants serve trademark dishes for free during these trial nights.
 Pay for your meal with a cash rewards card, or go to a restaurant that participates in a cash back program.
 On occasion, restaurants may offer a discount on the purchase of gift cards, especially during busy shopping seasons. For instance, around Christmas, you may be able to score $50 worth of gift cards for only $40.
 Many online savings clubs offer deals to local restaurants in the form of coupons and discounted certificates. You may have to register with the website before gaining access to these deals, but in many cases, registration is free.
 Look for message boards and e-mail newsletters run by foodies, especially those tailored to individuals in your area. They may be able to offer advice on where and how to eat for a discounted price.
 Many restaurants send out coupons via the mail or through inserts tucked into your local paper. It may take a little time to sort the deals from the junk, but the extra effort can really pay off.
 Some restaurants may offer a free printable coupon or coupon code when you visit, especially if you sign up for a free e-newsletter through their website.
 Some restaurants offer freebies to "fans" and "followers" off their social media accounts.

