 The container should be airtight, waterproof, and sunlight proof so the effectiveness of the materials inside aren't affected. Sunlight can cause iodine and some medicines to lose potency. Heat can cause plastic gloves to become brittle.


You can purchase first aid kits for cats at a veterinary store or in a pet store already assembled. However the contents may or may not be sufficient to carry out one procedure and some items might be missing or not included. Some tools also may be of low quality and fall apart easily.
Take into consideration rather your cat is an indoor or outdoor cat. Remember outdoor cats can be more prone to injury and sickness than indoor cats being outside in the elements. Which means you should probably need a higher quantity of certain things than with an indoor cat.;
, Make a copy of it on a disk or flash drive and/or written and laminated/protected. Keep this list of important numbers and directions to animal health care clinics in case you are unable to take care of your cat, need assistance, or do not know how to handle the situation. This list of numbers will make it quick to contact the appropriate authorities. The vital numbers you should have are those of the veterinarian clinic, emergency clinic, and poison control center.


Keep your pets medical records and insurance (if applicable) safe and secure so you don't have to look and fumble around for it in case of emergency. Also keep specific instructions for a medical instrument, vet instructions or your cats specific medications in this same spot.
 These may or may not be included in a purchases first aid kit. Get to know how to do basic procedures like removing a tick or using the vomit technique in case of toxins being ingested.
 In order to have a valid first aid kit for your cat you should have the following list of needed supplies. You can purchase these items at a medical section in your local department store, a pet store or online at a veterinary supply store.


Equipment for Transporting to the clinic: Muzzle, pet carrier, towel or blanket to keep your cat warm during transport (some pharmacies and camping outlets carry a thermal blanket), cold packs and heat packs (wrap in towel before using).
Tools used to examine: Magnifying glass, penlight/ flashlight, rectal thermometer, lubricant such as mineral oil or lubrication jelly (without spermicide), disposable gloves, thermostats, stethoscope.
Tools for carrying out medical procedures/clean up: Styptic powder sticks (stops bleeding such as Kwik Stop) or cornstarch, cotton swabs, cotton balls, clean towels, cloth and paper (cleaning up fluids and blood), feeding tubes of various sizes if you are trained in how to use them, tweezers, nail clippers and metal nail file, scissors, syringes of various sizes,eye dropper or oral syringe, needle-nose pliers and grease-cutting but mild dish soap.
Bandaging materials: Square gauze of various sizes, some sterile-non stick pads, first aid tape both paper (easily comes off of skin) and adhesive types, bandage rolls, gauze, and vet wrap, bandages (for humans).
Nutritional Support: Rehydrating solution, nutritional supplement etc. Some sites say sports drinks are safe but check with a vet before giving any of these drinks and/or other food/nutrient products to a cat. Extra water and cat food is good to have in case of a natural disaster or major emergency that involved staying locked in your home.
Medicines: Products to discourage licking, wound disinfectant, ophthalmic antibiotic ointment (for eyes), sterile saline, antidiarrheal medicine, cat laxative in paste form, anti-allergic agents for allergic reactions (obtain dose from your veterinarian), cortisone spray or cream, ear cleaning solution, hydrogen peroxide (used to make a cat vomit; use only as directed by a veterinarian), activated charcoal to absorb ingested poisons, (consult your veterinarian before using).
 Make sure children or the pets themselves aren't allowed to get in the case as even medicine can be harmful if used incorrectly. Make sure your cat doesn't nibble on the containers or tools and choke on small parts.


Keep your first aid kit organized. Procedures are easier mentally and physically to complete correctly if the tools and supplies are easy to locate in a kit that is organized and neat.

