 It is very important that you review your state laws regarding charitable gambling events. Typically these events have a number of restrictions on how the event can be run, who can participate in the event, whether you can hire outside vendors, and they types of prizes that can be given. While the laws vary from state to state, most states require that the gambling be for social fundraising purposes, actual money cannot exchange hands, and that there is no real value to the chips with which people gamble.


Some states may require both a gambling and liquor permit for the event.Certain states restrict the types of games that you can have at a charitable gambling event.Some states do not allow charitable organizations to hire experienced card dealers for the event.You can locate state gaming laws related to charities by conducting an online search for the state name and “charitable gaming.”
There are also gambling specific websites that provide state-by-state links for state charitable gaming laws.;
, In addition to reviewing state laws, it is important that you identify the correct local or state government office that handles issues related to charitable gaming. States vary in which agencies are assigned the responsibility for regulating charitable gaming. For example in Texas, the responsibility is divided among several agencies and the state attorney general; whereas in Wisconsin the Division of Gaming falls within the responsibilities of the Department of Administration.


It may be useful for you to contact your local municipality or city hall and ask what agency locally is responsible for charitable gaming. This may be the most direct way to get the information.
You can also ask what state agency is also responsible.
You may be able to locate the proper agency by conducting an internet search for the name of your state and “charitable gaming” or contact the state gaming agency., When reviewing state laws regarding gaming, it is important to check whether your organization qualifies as a charitable organization under state and federal laws for the purpose of hosting a gambling event. Typically, the state law outlining the parameters for a gambling event will set forth the requirements for a charitable organization. Additionally, the IRS has specific tax rules regarding charitable gaming and tax-exempt organizations, such as religious, charitable, scientific, literary or educational organizations qualified under the 501(c)(3) designation., You should also determine what restrictions there are to providing alcohol at a charitable gaming event. Many organizations choose to have a bar or other alcohol at their gaming event but it must meet state and local regulations. When determining whether alcohol would be allowed at your event, consider the following:


Some states require a permit from its Alcohol and Tobacco agency, even when the event is being hosted at a bar or restaurant that has a liquor license.Some states require that the Liquor Control Board be notified if alcohol is given as a prize at the event.You should also determine whether there are regulations on who can sell or serve alcohol.
 Once you have thoroughly researched the state and local requirements regarding charitable gaming events, you should begin to plan your event in accordance with those laws. There are a variety of gambling events that you can host and it is important to choose an event that you think will be popular in your area but also meets legal requirements.
 A casino or Las Vegas night fundraiser would incorporate a number of gaming options, including card games, such as poker or blackjack, and table games, such as roulette or craps. Generally, a person’s ticket to the fundraiser, which is considered a donation, would include chips to use at the games and no actual money would be used at the gaming tables.


Guests could also make additional donations and receive chips that have no monetary value but can be used to play at the tables.
At the end of the evening, individuals can “cash” in their chips for a chance at a raffle or other non-cash prize. Prizes are discussed in more detail below., Rather than have a variety of gaming options, the organization could host a poker tournament, using a popular poker game such as Texas Hold ‘Em. Similar to the casino night, players would make a donation or purchase a ticket and would receive a number of chips that cannot be traded in for cash value.


In a poker event, each player should receive the same number of chips to participate in the tournament.
You can offer the option of making an additional donation for more chips but it should not be a 1 to 1 ratio between chips to donations. For example, $20 should not buy 20 chips but rather 50 or 100 chips.
Players would compete in the tournament until only one table of players is left.
The final players could be awarded non-cash prizes and the overall victor could be awarded a grand prize, which is also a non cash prize.
 While it may be more work, you could offer a mixed casino night where you run a poker tournament and casino night simultaneously. You would have some non-tournament poker tables for those who want to play a few hands of poker as well as other gaming tables. For those who are more inclined to play poker all evening, you can have the poker tournament. If you are concerned that some players will not rotate among events, a mini poker tournament may help you by setting off certain table for tournament only players but still providing a variety of gaming events for attendees not interested in poker., When you meet to discuss a charitable fundraising event it is important to identify the organization’s fundraising goals. Are you hosting the event to raise money for a specific purpose such as a new roof or are you looking to expand the organization’s ability to provide additional services or programs? No matter why you are hosting the event, you need to set a specific fundraising goal amount so that you can determine how much to charge for tickets, approximately how many people you want to attend the event, and how much money you have to spend for expenses for the event., Once you have established your fundraising goal, you want to consider what the best options are to raise money through your event. Do not limit yourself to ticket sales only. You want to think about how you can bring in other types of donations and increase the size and visibility of your event. When deciding how you want to raise money, consider the following options:


Ticket sales.
Sponsorship of gaming tables.
Drink or food sales.
Auctions of donated goods or services.
Donations for additional playing chips., You should ask as many members of the organization as possible to sell tickets. This offers the broadest reach for promoting the event. You may ask each member to sell a certain number of tickets so that you can better estimate how many people will be attending the event and to ensure that you meet your fundraising goal. Generally, ticket sales are the main source of revenue for the event so you want to have as many people as possible participate in this activity., One great way to raise additional revenue is to seek sponsorship for gaming tables from a local business. For a donation, a local business could have its name or contact information printed on the gaming table or the dealer could wear the company’s logo on his or her clothing.


Sponsorship of a gaming table should cover at least the cost of the table and potentially the dealer.
This allows you to cover your expenses without eating into the fundraiser’s revenues.
You could also suggest that the sponsor give away a token gift such as a magnet with their business information on it., Depending on the amount you charge for ticket sales, some organizations either include an open bar or a certain amount of drinks for the event. In order to manage the cost of the bar, you may want to consider limiting the available drinks to beer, wine, and soda. This may reduce your bar bill. Similarly, the price of the ticket will generally determine the type of food that will be provided. With an expensive ticket, attendees may expect higher quality food or even a sit down meal. It is important to make sure that attendees do not feel shortchanged based on the amount they paid for their ticket and what they received for that purchase.


You can also allow attendees to purchase additional drink tickets throughout the evening., Another way to generate revenue is to host a live and/or silent auction. Individuals would bid on donated prizes and all of the proceeds would go to the organization. If hosting a live auction, limit the auction to no more than 30 minutes. You want to make sure that people have enough time to eat, enjoy the gaming and bid on certain prizes., Since the purpose of the event is to raise money for the organization, you want to be mindful about how much money you are spending to run the event versus the amount of money that you are generating. As discussed above, you should look for ways to cut down on expenses by seeking sponsorship or donated goods. Generally, when planning a gaming event, you should consider the following potential expenses:


Cost to rent the facility.
Gaming equipment rental and dealers.
Decorations and props.
Food and drink costs.
Insurance for the space.
Clean-up costs., With an event of this caliber you should begin planning the event at least 9 months in advance. This will provide sufficient time for you to acquire any necessary permits or licenses, reserve the facility and properly promote the event., Once you have decided on the type of event and the number of people you need to meet your fundraising goals, you need to determine what equipment you need. Most importantly, you need to order enough gaming tables so that attendees who want to play can sit down with only a short wait. You should have at least enough tables or games so that half of the guests can be playing a game at any one time. If you are hosting a casino night you may need to rent the following:


Poker tables.
Roulette wheels.
Craps tables.
Blackjack tables., If allowed by state law, you should consider hiring professional card dealers. While this may seem at first like an unnecessary expense, by having professional dealers you can ensure smooth operation at the gaming tables. Also, with experienced dealers, individuals who like to play card games may stay and play for a longer duration because of the professional service. This can help increase your revenue., If you are serving alcohol at the event, you want to hire a licensed and insured bartender. People should not be allowed to serve themselves because this exposes the organization to liability if someone gets injured. A licensed and insured bartender knows when to stop serving individuals and has insurance for any alcohol-related damage.
 Depending on your state, you may be able to offer a variety of noncash prizes. Some states restrict the type of prizes based on the projected value of the prize. For example, you may not be able to auction of an all-inclusive trip valued at $20,000 if your state caps prize values at $10,000., One of the keys to a successful event is promotion. You want as many people as possible to attend your event so that you can increase revenue. You may choose to advertise the event in local newspapers, use flyers, or rely on social media. By choosing a theme and encouraging parents to enjoy a “night out,” you may increase the number of attendees.Some states restrict the types of promotion that you can use for a charitable gaming event. For example, Texas does not allow the use if the internet for promotion of a raffle. Make sure that you comply with all state and local laws.