 Wear an outfit that makes you feel comfortable and confident. For a casual date, wear something that is slightly nicer than your usual casual clothes. If there is a formal dress code, adhere to that.


Before the date, do basic hygiene—brush your hair, brush your teeth, apply deodorant, and check your breath.
Do not dress in something you are uncomfortable in, or something that you would not wear if it was not for this date. You want to be impressive, but still very natural, and look like the real you.
Don't feel like you need to show off a lot of skin. Dress in what makes you comfortable.;
, You might want to put on some lip gloss or lipstick that matches what you're wearing (unless it's purple, black, or blue), something like brown or red or pink is good. A little mascara and eyeliner doesn't hurt, either.


If you don't have much experience with makeup, keep it minimal. Heavy makeup can look artificial unless it's done by someone who has plenty of practice. Save the experimentation for another day.
 Be kind, considerate, and respectful to your date and everyone else. Avoid criticizing your date or others. Just use the typical advice: Don't say anything you wouldn't say in front of your Grandma.
 Keep your mouth closed when you chew, and avoid talking with your mouth full.
 Many dates involve a back-and-forth: you will ask questions about your date, and they will ask questions about you. Tell as much of your life story as you are asked for and you feel comfortable with, and ask questions about your date so you can get to know them better. Ask about their...


Hobbies
Job, and/or job they want to have
Family
Passions

, Exes (yours or theirs) do not make good conversation topics. If your date seems uncomfortable about a certain subject, then find a new one that both parties can enjoy discussing.


Some people have bad family lives and don't enjoy talking about it. If this is the case, ask about something else, like their friends.
 Feel free to tell any stories about your life, and listen to stories they have to tell you. Being a little silly on dates gives you the opportunity to laugh together.

