 These shops buy secondhand and lightly used items to resell them for a reduced price. There are good and bad points to this:


The upside is that you can quickly and easily sell most of your shoes at a single online consignment shop.
The downside is that these shops often offer less for your shoes than you might have made elsewhere., Do an Internet keyword search for "Online consignment shops," and list the ones that seem likely prospects for your shoe sales. After you have a list, check user reviews to get a read on other users' experiences.You don't have to come up with a list that's too long. Out of five shops, at least one is likely to be suitable for your shoes.
User reviews should be approached with a little bit of skepticism. Oftentimes, companies will pay users for favorable reviews.
If user reviews are unavailable or seem suspicious, like if all the reviews are positive, you might want to check and see how the Better Business Bureau ranks that particular consignment shop., Some consignment shops may pay you directly for your shoes and then sell them. Others may sell the shoes on your behalf and keep a percentage of the selling price. Determine which is best for you according to your situation.Shops that pay you directly and then sell the shoes are often the quickest way for you to make money, though they may not offer as much as you might get on a marketplace.
Percentage based consignment shops encourage sellers to work hard for you. The more they sell your shoes for, the greater their cut of the sale will be. This can take longer, but can be more profitable., Some sites may have policies that make it impossible to get your shoes appraised without some kind of commitment. However, in many cases, you can check consignment shops against each other by having several shops appraise the same items.


This is a good way of identifying disreputable consignment shops. Those offering substantially below the average selling price are likely trying to rip you off.
 After you've done your homework and determined the best shop for you, it's time to sell. Contact the consignment shop you have chosen, follow their directions, and sell your shoes.


Frequently, online consignment shops accept items after a digital evaluation of the item (e.g., after you've emailed them pictures). After that, they'll buy/sell the shoes according to their terms and conditions, earning you money.