 Measure the distance from which your audience will be viewing your sign. Go to certain spots where people pass by, and notice how much you can see from that distance. Scout out other business signs in the nearby area to see how large they are making their signs. If you are a store far away from the road, you might want to make the sign larger, and vice versa. Make the text and any graphics on your sign large enough people can read them from a distance., In order to make a vinyl sign, you will need to have a word processor, like Microsoft Word or Google Docs. You will want to change the orientation of the document to "landscape." If your word processor has specific functions as a sign maker, you can use that as well. There are also numerous websites online which have programs specifically designed for making signs.Remember that you will not be able to print these signs at home. So, if you use an online website to create your design, you will have to save it to your computer.
Make sure to buy a USB flash drive. That way when you have the design saved to your computer, you can transfer it to the USB and take it in to your nearest printing business.
 Sans-serif fonts are good choices, such as Helvetica, Arial or Verdana. They are clear fonts that don't incorporate extra curves or decorative aspects to the letters. Some sign makers incorporate several fonts into their signs. That's a good idea as long as you use the fonts to emphasize specific points or copy on the sign. It is not advised to use more than three fonts on your sign. In order to break up your text, feel free to include italics, bold and underlines in your copy., When light and dark colors are used next to each other, it creates an attention-drawing image that not only is pleasing to the eye, but is also easy to read. For instance, white and black is the most obvious light/dark color combination, but other combinations include orange/blue, gray/red or cream/dark green. While using contrasting colors for your sign, attempt to stay true to your organization's logo., Use action verbs within your phrases and headlines. Your copy should direct the reader or tell the reader what to do. Examples are "Come see us!" or "Buy now!" If you are attempting to target a younger audience, use slang, or shorter words. Adult audiences prefer larger words and a more sophisticated vocabulary., Remember that viewers read your sign from top to bottom. The most important information should be toward the top of your sign in order for your reader to absorb it. If words are randomly placed throughout the sign, it may be hard for your audience to read it. The name of your business should also be included in the message. In case your audience can't make it into the store, you want them to know what to search for online., Do this for a specific reason. Don't just interject them for fun or because you like them. They should help fill in space, tell something about your business or product, and help viewers understand your message. For example, if you are a flower shop, include vines to underline words, and place flowers within some of your letters. If you have a business logo, this would be the time to add it in. Remember, the simpler the better. You do not want to clutter your sign with pictures.
 Tell them how to get to your location or how to contact you (email, phone number, etc.) You might also want to include, in smaller print, the hours your business is open. An arrow also helps lead your potential customers in the appropriate direction. If this sign winds up being miles away from the actual store, include the number of miles it will take to get there., Go to "File" and click "Save." Plug in your flash drive to the USB port on your computer. You then want to go to your list of files on your computer, and find the saved document. Click and drag it over to where it says the name of your flash drive. Simply let go, and the file will download onto your flash drive. Click "Eject" and then safely remove the flash drive from the USB port., Big name companies like FedEx and UPS offer large scale printing services. You may also have someone you know who has a large scale printer that you can use. Give them the flash drive, let them know the dimensions of your sign, and they will print it for you.