 The most common symptom of UC is blood in the stool (poop).It may be in the form of fresh red blood, a mixture with mucus or a streak on the surface of a hard stool. A bloody stool indicates bleeding in the digestive system somewhere. If it's bright red in color then it signifies bleeding from the colon or rectum.


The blood may also be accompanied by pus (dead white blood cells).
Blood in the stool is also a common symptom of colon and stomach cancers.
Blood that looks like coffee grinds comes from the upper digestive system, such as the stomach or small intestine.;
, Many types of problems in the digestive system cause diarrhea, so it's not specific to UC, but the timing of it is important.Watery diarrhea after taking a meal or at nighttime is indicative of UC. This happens because the intestines rapidly push the digested fecal material past the ulcerated area to avoid aggravating the inflammation.


Although acute (short term) diarrhea usually passes quickly, chronic diarrhea for more than a few weeks is a sign of a significant digestive tract problem.
If the rectum becomes really swollen from UC, the intestines will slow down the digestive process to spare the rectum from holding feces for a prolonged period. Consequently, constipation can occur after long bouts of diarrhea.
Diarrhea can quickly lead to dehydration, so keep yourself well hydrated by drinking eight 8-ounce glasses of purified water daily.
 Along with cramping from chronic diarrhea, another sign of UC is vague lower or central abdominal pain.The pain is from the ulceration through the mucosal layers of the large intestine/bowel. There's not as many nerve endings there as other places on your skin, the pain is more vague and often described as a mild-to-moderate burning sensation.


This type of pain is very different from that caused by Crohn’s disease (another type of IBD) or appendicitis, which are usually felt in the lower right side of the abdomen.
The burning abdominal pain of UC is usually not relieved by defecation (taking a poop).
 With UC, the body's immune system is constantly activated and trying to heal the ulcers, and the chronic diarrhea and abdominal pain often causes nausea. Consequently, people with UC typically lose their appetite, eat less and start to drop a significant amount of weight.People with UC often avoid food in efforts to reduce irritating the intestinal ulcers, although it doesn't usually make the pain much better. This situation can mimic the wasting phase of cancer, called cachexia.


Eat small, healthy meals with plenty of fresh produce, whole grains and lean fish. Avoid processed and refined foods, especially spicy types, and dairy products.
By not eating, people with UC are at higher risk of developing nutritional deficiencies. As such, consider supplementing with multivitamins and minerals.
Chronic fatigue and a mild fever are other factors with UC that contribute to loss of appetite and weight loss.
 If you notice any of the above-mentioned intestinal symptoms, make an appointment with your family doctor as soon as you can. Your doctor is likely not an internal specialist, but they can take a stool sample and send you for blood tests to help confirm a diagnosis of UC.Other conditions that cause similar symptoms to UC include: Crohn's disease, irritable bowel syndrome, celiac disease, colon cancer, intestinal infection (bacterial, fungal, parasitic), food poisoning and appendicitis.Red blood cells and white blood cells (due to an immune response) in your stool can indicate UC. A stool sample can also help rule out other conditions, particularly intestinal infections.
Blood tests are ordered to check for anemia (common consequence of UC due to internal bleeding and loss of red blood cells and iron) and potential infections.
Low albumin or protein in blood samples is a common finding in patients with severe UC., Your doctor can refer you to a specialist (gastroenterologist) to get a colonoscopy, which is exam that allows visualization of your entire colon using a thin, flexible, lighted tube with a camera on the end.The "scope" is definitive for diagnosing UC and determining how advanced the disease is. Continuous deep ulcers throughout the mucosal lining of the colon is indicative of UC, whereas Crohn's disease is characterized by intermittent (noncontinuous) ulcers that can occur anywhere along the GI tract.For a colonoscopy, the patient lays on a table while the doctor inserts the scope into the anus and slowly guides it through the rectum and into the large intestine (colon).
If the doctor suspects UC, they will take a tissue sample (biopsy) of the patient's colon/rectum with the scope and look at it under a microscope for telltale signs.
 Your family doctor/gastroenterologist can also order other diagnostic tests to rule in or rule out UC, such as sigmoidoscopy, abdominal x-rays, CT scan, MRI and/or chromoendoscopy.Check with your health insurance plan to make sure these test are covered under your plan.


A flexible sigmoidoscopy is like a mini-colonoscopy — just for the last portion of your colon called the sigmoid. If your colon is severely inflamed, your doctor may do only a sigmoidoscopy to save you the discomfort.
If your symptoms are severe, your doctor may take abdominal x-rays with a contrast material to rule out complications, such as a perforated colon.
A CT scan can distinguish between UC and other types of IBD and can also determine how much of the colon is inflamed/ulcerated.
A chromoendoscopy uses a scope and sprayed dye to highlight abnormal tissue changes in the colon, because a serious risk associated with UC is colon cancer., While no drugs can cure UC, many can reduce symptoms and improve a person's quality of life. Anti-inflammatory medications are typically the first step in the treatment of UC and other types of IBD.They most common ones to start with include: aminosalicylates and corticosteroid drugs, such as prednisone and hydrocortisone.


Sulfasalazine (Azulfidine) is an aminosalicylate that's effective in combating the inflammatory symptoms of UC, but it tends to trigger a number of side effects.
Other aminosalicylates include mesalamine, balsalazide and olsalazine. All are available in oral and suppository (anal) forms.
You may need to take an enema, which involves flushing dissolved medication into your rectum using a special wash bottle.
Corticosteroids are usually only used for moderate-to-severe UC that doesn't respond well to other medical treatments. They are only given short term, but still tend to cause lots of side effects, including: puffy face, reduced immune response, night sweats, insomnia and osteoporosis., These powerful medications reduce inflammation and suppress the immune system, which is helpful if the ulceration is caused by an autoimmune (hyperactive immune) response.These immunosuppressors are typically taken as tablets by mouth. Corticosteroids are also used in conjunction with immune system suppressors, which include: azathioprine, mercaptopurine, cyclosporine, infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab and vedolizumab.


Azathioprine (Azasan, Imuran) and mercaptopurine (Purinethol, Purixan) are the most used immune system suppressors for UC and other types of IBD. However, these drugs can be hard on your liver and pancreas.
Cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune) is usually reserved for cases of UC that don't respond well to other drugs. Serious side effects are relatively common with cyclosporine use.
Infliximab (Remicade), adalimumab (Humira) and golimumab (Simponi) are known as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha inhibitors or biologics, and recommended for moderate-to-severe UC. They work by neutralizing proteins produced by your immune system.
Vedolizumab (Entyvio) is the most recent drug approved for UC. It works by blocking inflammatory cells from getting to the site of the ulceration and making things worse.
 Surgery can often eliminate or cure UC, but it usually means removing your entire colon and rectum in a procedure called a proctocolectomy.In many cases, you can also get a procedure done (ileoanal anastomosis) that eliminates the need to wear a collection bag for your stool. However, in other cases, a bag is attached to an opening in your abdomen (ileal stoma) to collect the stool.


Full recovery from a proctocolectomy takes between 4-6 weeks.Without a colon, the ability to reabsorb water and produce vitamin B12 from friendly bacteria is severely disrupted. Immune function is usually reduced also.

