 Mixing is the process of affecting parts of a single track and the overall master track. You can edit the high, low, and mid frequency range for each track. Once the tracks sound good together, experiment with panning the tracks to the left or right. Panning is a good way to isolate a track and blend it in with other tracks.


Most multitrack recorders come equipped with an equalizer (EQ).
Mixing can help accent parts you want to be more present, or even hide parts you're not thrilled about.
Equalize each track and balance everyone. Low sounds should be the strongest for a good balance.
For inspiration listen to the Beatles with headphones. They only had a four track recorder and you can hear multiple complex parts interacting and balancing each other out.
 Once you record your album, you can add certain effects that will improve the sound of the album. Popular post-production effects are compression and reverb. Compression squeezes the track together, lessening the dynamic range between the loud and quiet parts of the song.As compression brings elements of the sound together, reverb redistributes the sound to fill a space. Reverb widens the sound wave by stimulating the sound bouncing off multiple surfaces.
 Mastering is a compression technique used in post-production to ensure every song is equal in volume. You also strive to achieve an equal balance in each speaker. Mastering is not an easy process and may require a more experienced engineer.


Some music software programs come equipped with a simple form of mastering.
Record labels will typically have their own engineer to master an album they plan on releasing.
There are different techniques for mastering, depending on the form you release your album (vinyl, CD, cassette, or stream).
 Burn the CD through the recorder or computer and give it a listen. If it does not sound good in a stereo system or headphones, decide if you want to record certain songs again.


Pass a few copies of the demo out to trusted friends and fellow musicians. Ask them for constructive feedback on the album to determine if the songs are working., Create album art and make the album look good. You can create an image using a design software like Photoshop or Illustrator. Another option you could do is to use a photo of something.


Look at your favorite album covers to decide if you want to pay an artist to do something special like Santana's album Abraxas.
Then there are famous album covers that are nothing but a picture like The Beatles' Abbey Road.

