 Your Miniature Schnauzer will need a high-quality food meant for small breed dogs to help him thrive. High-quality foods often list meat (not meat by-products) as the first two ingredients on the label, so read the ingredients before you buy.


Miniature Schnauzers do well with a dry food that has about a 10 to 15% fat content, so you should also check the label’s nutritional information to see if the food is within this range.;
, Feeding your miniature Schnauzer two meals per day on a regular schedule will help to encourage good eating habits and it may also help with potty training.You can use the recommended feeding amount listed on your Miniature Schnauzer’s dog food packaging to help you determine how much to feed him at each meal. Take this amount and divide it in half to determine how much food to offer your Miniature Schnauzer at each meal.
Try feeding your Miniature Schnauzer one meal in the morning and one in the evening.
If you have a puppy, then you will need to feed him three or even four times per day. Check with your veterinarian or a breed expert to be sure.
 Your miniature Schnauzer must always have access to plenty of clean, fresh water.Make sure that you keep a bowl of water somewhere that is easy for him to access. For example, you might place his water dish in your kitchen or a few feet away from his bed.


Change his water daily and check it often. Make sure that the water is always fresh and clean.
Clean your Miniature Schnauzer’s water dish once per day to keep it hygienic. Try using a stainless steel bowl since they are durable and less likely to harbor bacteria.
 All dogs are prone to obesity as well as humans, so it is important to limit your Miniature Schnauzer’s treat foods. Instead of giving your pet table scraps that might make him sick, offer a small portion of something healthy as an occasional treat. Some good examples include:


cooked sweet potato
cooked green beans
cooked peas
fresh blueberries
broccoli
baby carrots
watermelon chunks
banana, Some foods can make your Miniature Schnauzer ill and may even kill your dog if he eats them. These foods include:alcohol
grapes and raisins
walnuts, almonds, pecans, and macadamia nuts
onions, garlic, and chives
foods that contain caffeine and chocolate
avocados
foods that contain yeast
foods that contain xylitol