 As a first job in the data entry profession, you may find an employer who is willing to train you over a period of months to use a specific type of software. These jobs are often low-paying, so you may want to supplement job training with other certificates.
 Research online programs that range from 1-subject certificates to 2-year associate's degrees. Look for the following courses to be included in your program.


A data processing course. In order to complete this course you will need to type at least 25 WPM. You will learn how to type and format for maximum organization and efficiency.
A Microsoft course. Students should learn how to work with all aspects of the basic window's system, including Word, Excel, Access and even PowerPoint.
A bookkeeping course. This course trains students in how to keep track of basic financial data and formulas on spreadsheets. It will teach computations and organized tracking.
A computer computation course. This similar course teaches more advanced computer and software calculations that could be used with many software programs. After basic math, this will give you enough math knowledge to work in data entry.
 These 2 industries have specific language, terms and needs. Many law and medical data entry jobs will require a qualification or applicable experience.


Advanced medical data entry is called medical billing and medical coding. This usually requires an associate's degree and it can significantly increase your job prospects and pay. Medical coders and billers learn the information needed to submit medical procedures to insurance companies.
Legal data entry is valuable to the still growing legal profession. You may be called upon to transcribe complicated legal documents at an office or at home. Seek an associate's degree in order to be eligible for legal data entry.
 In order to work from home or garner a higher salary, you must have a proven record of accurate, speedy work. If you have the basic qualifications to work in data entry, work experience may be enough to help you learn other necessary skills.


For example, audio transcription may not require extra training. However, by taking a few speech, focus group or dictation transcription jobs, you may be able to increase your WPM and make more money.

