 Some states do not allow garnishment for certain debts. Texas, for example, allows garnishment only for child support, alimony, taxes, and student loans.Federal law limits garnishment to the lesser of 25% of the debtor’s disposable earnings or whatever weekly income he makes in excess of 30 times the federal minimum hourly wage (recently $7.25). Some states may offer even greater protection.
In other words, if the debtor does not make at least $217.50 per week (30 X $7.25), there can be no garnishment at all. Check with your state's Department of Labor to see how much of someone’s weekly wage you can garnish. If the amount is too low—or if you can’t garnish at all— you should consider other methods of collection.
 You must notify the debtor that you are moving to garnish his wages. You do this by serving a notice on the debtor at his last known address.


Each state requires different forms of notice. Contact the clerk of the court that issued your judgment.
Typically the court will have a form for you to fill out. This form will ask for the debtor’s name and last known address, the amount of the judgment, the employer’s name, your name and address, and the amount still due.Some states require that you wait after making a demand. Ohio requires you to wait 15 days. Check with your local court for requirements.
 Each state has its own form to submit to the court. In Illinois, for example, you file a “Wage Deduction Affidavit.” In Arizona you fill out an Application for Writ of Garnishment. Check with the court for the appropriate form.


Attach a copy of the judgment to the writ or affidavit as well as a copy of the notice you sent to the debtor.
 You must pay court fees in order to file the writ or affidavit.


When you pay the fee, ask the court to issue a summons to the debtor. The summons will call him into court.
 In many states, the debtor’s employer must be served notice so that they can review the debtor’s wages and tell the court how much he earns. Have the sheriff or a process server deliver the forms.


Using either the sheriff or a process server will cost a fee. A reputable process server typically charges $20 to $100 per service. You should not deliver these documents yourself. Include a list of interrogatories. These are questions asked of the employer. For example, the employer must certify under penalty of perjury the debtor’s gross wages, taxes withheld, and any child support withheld. The court should have pre-printed interrogatory forms for you to fill out and send to the employer.
 The debtor may challenge your attempt to garnish his or her wages. States determine whose wages may be garnished.


For example, many states exempt a head-of-household’s wages. Other exemptions apply for Social Security, retirement, disability, or child-support payments. , Once the debtor has satisfied the judgment, you should file a second writ in the court. This writ will ask the sheriff to notify the debtor’s employer that the debt has been paid and that wages no longer need to be garnished.
 When the debtor satisfies his debt, you should obtain and fill out a Satisfaction of Judgment form, which is available from the court clerk.


Mail a copy to the debtor at his last known address and keep an official copy for your records.
Failure to file a Satisfaction of Judgment can expose you to liability for any damages suffered by the debtor.

