 Use these opportunities to learn to accept other people and widen your horizons. Broaden and diversify your experiences by sharing the lives of individuals you wouldn't normally hang out with;
, High school is a time when you're young and not held down by the reality of day-to-day responsibilities. Prevent drudgery by inviting a friend to hang at a school game or maybe go wild at the movies or the swimming hole.
 Do not cater to the will of others unless it aligns with your inner spirit. Chances are you won't meet these people again after high school. Therefore, be yourself and do what you want to. Stop caring so much about what other students think and just do that which brings you pleasure and deepens your experience in things that you, personally, care about.
 Clubs are a great way to befriend people with similar interests and elevate your college resume.
 Usually, people are too scared rejection or succumb to feelings of inferiority. Rise up and go for it. Chances are, the person you're asking out probably is so immersed in feelings about themselves that they won't notice your personal flaws. Certainly, they will not target the areas of your present concern exactly. Be prepared to address issues as they arise and slide a bit for the sake of your togetherness. If you give it your all, the worst you can say is that you enjoyed the experience or that you gained experience in personal relationships. Both are of benefit to you and you will not regret your going for the gold.


If it is your last year, realize that you and your crush may depart upon divergent paths, never to arrive at an opportunity to come together again. Really, it's "now or never." Just make sure to take something positive away from putting it all out there. You will find that everything is in how you choose to look at it. So, if you look at rejection as a tool to improve future encounters, you will be well on the way to eliminating regret.
 Also known as "senioritis". This is the absolute worse thing you can do. Colleges pay special attention to senior grades when the time comes for choosing among applicants, and good grades can help with scholarships.
 Stay away from developing bad habits like smoking, drinking, drugs, or sex. A lot of addictions are formed and cemented during the high school years. Addictions are costly— financially and emotionally. Most wreak havoc on your physical and mental well-being. Live cleanly and fully and you will look back and say, "Hey, I did it right!"

, Again, socializing is one of the most fun parts of high school. You now have, perhaps, the most freedom and opportunity to form close, lasting friendships. Do not squander this opportunity and you will have nothing to regret on the social front. If you see a theme emerging, it is go forward with confidence in yourself and you will grow, broaden, and enrich your inner self. You will be forever grateful that you rose out of self-doubt enough to reach into the wonderful world of new relationships and knowings.
 Don't let not getting onto the varsity squad stop you from playing the sports you enjoy. Play at the level you are most comfortable with. In developing your skills, measure along two rulers— personal improvement and enjoyment. Play for fun, join a gym, or play on local teams and be the best you can be. Don't beat yourself up. Instead, fully recognize the growth and improvement you have experienced through the years of pursuing your sports and activities.
 This is tough battle, so approach with caution. Be confident in knowing that you are building yourself and your life as strong and as well as you are able.
 If it's your senior year, meaning last year of high school, then your prom photo will be a good memoir.
 It's a great way to remember your classmates in the future when high school ends and a great opportunity to socialize with others from different cliques.
 Your score can be a gateway to scholarships, getting into college, and certain programs. Try to get at least the benchmark ACT or SAT score in each category to avoid having to take extra remedial courses in college.
 Especially during fun events, field trips, and days you accomplish something. In the future, these photos make memories that just might make you smile.
 This could be a friend that betrayed you or maybe forgiving an ex-boyfriend or ex-girlfriend that broke your heart. Grudges is a waste of time you could be using making the most of high school.
 Honors, AP, and dual-credit are some that will positively impact your GPA if you do well, in addition to improving your knowledge and college application.
 Taking a career-related elective that interests you is a great way to do so. Though you don't necessarily have to know exactly what you want to be when you grow up, having a general idea of what career area (ex: business, nursing, engineering, teaching, etc) before senior year makes the college application process way easier and faster.

