 Hold the skirt of the dress away from your legs and rub the underside of the fabric with the dryer sheet. This will be more difficult if the static is toward the center of your chest or an area that is hard to get the dryer sheet under. Do your best. This should help remove the static quickly and easily. If you do this correctly the static should immediately transfer to the dryer sheet. , Spray the outside of the dress anywhere you can feel the static clinging to you. You can use an old Windex bottle or a bottle you use to spray your plants, just make sure it’s something that doesn’t spray too much water. The plan is to slightly wet the fabric in any area where you feel the static cleaning to you.This will help remove the static quickly, but don’t spray too much or over too large of an area. You don’t want to be damp on your way to whatever event you are wearing a dress to. Don't worry, the static won't come back once your dress is dry again.
 This spray is available at some pharmacies and can help you quickly remove any static from your dress easily. Once again, you'll want to use the spray to spray the outside of your dress in any place that you feel the static. The spray will put you back about $20.00, but some people swear by them. . If you have time to go buy the spray or if you have the spray on hand this is a great option to get rid of the static.
 Hold the aerosol spray far enough away from your body that it isn't a completely direct hit on your dress. Arms length should do the trick, and be careful to close your eyes so you don't accidentally spray yourself in the face. You can also rub lotion on your hands and then rub your body underneath the static parts of your dress. Once again, make sure you don’t rub too much. Unscented lotion is probably the best bet too, as you don’t want to smell really strongly of moisturizing lotion. , Any piece of metal that goes directly into the ground should instantly remove static. Try to avoid touching metal objects that are not grounded, such as doorknobs. You might give yourself a big static shock and sometimes these can be pretty painful. A metal fence is a great example of a piece of grounded metal.
 The lotion prevents static from building up on your skin. If the static can’t build on you then it won’t stay on the dress either. This option because more difficult if the dress has static all over it, but if the static is localized you should give this option a shot. You can also use some talcum baby powder but this is much messier than moisturizer and has a very recognizable smell. If you choose to follow this option just get some on your hands and rub it gently on your skin wherever the static sticks your dress. Use very little.
 Synthetic fibers are the ones that end up getting so filled with static. It gets complicated quickly, but basically natural fibers retain moisture more easily and therefore prevent there from being too many charged electrons flying around on your dress. If you want to prevent static electricity issues going forward, it's probably just to buy a dress made out of natural fibers. Problem solved! 