 Most boys forget about opening doors, letting the girl walk first, etc, believing that the behaviors are "old-fashioned." But nothing makes a girl notice you more than if you hold the door for her, help her with her books, or pull her chair out for her. Channel your inner gentleman. This isn't about patronizing her or acting like she isn't independent, it's about taking the time to be kind and thoughtful.


Offer her your arm when she's in heels, or hold hands through busy crowds.
Let her go first through doors, down the street, and into the car.
Offer her your seat, especially when they are limited (like on the bus).
Avoid showing off or talking about yourself., Don't talk about other girls' booties or how big their boobs are. It shows you are disrespectful and may only see women sexually. This includes talking about your own girl's assets. While some girls don't mind the occasional compliment about it, over-emphasizing their physical attributes makes you seem uncreative and single-minded.


Try not to use words like "hot" or "sexy." Instead, try "gorgeous" or "beautiful," which are a little gentler and apply to more than just her breasts and butt.
 Be nice, kind, and generous. Avoid bodily noises. Don't be obnoxious, putting on your music, your movies, and your shows all the time. Show her that you have been raised well and been taught to treat women with respect, which is really attractive.


It is perfectly okay to have things you talk about with the boys but not your girl. You don't ever need to lie to her, you just don't have to bring up certain things. Some topics, like the new Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition, are meant to stay between the guys., This doesn't mean you need to be joined at the hip. Spend time with your own friends as well, but check in with each other regularly to make sure she's not alone in the corner.
 Show her you care by kissing her all over (forehead, hand, ear) and making her feel like she's special every day. However, you each need to respect each other's boundaries. If something makes her feel uncomfortable, you need to pull back. She has the right to determine what she wants to do, and trying to pressure her into something is rude, disrespectful, and wrong.


During a quiet, calm moment, ask her about her sexual preferences and desires casually. Don't have this conversation in the heat of the moment, but some other time, where the talk can be cool and casual.
 How you talk about your girl to your friends will tell them how it is okay to talk about her to you. If you are disrespectful, cracking jokes and sharing secrets, they will feel like they can do the same thing. Remember that the things you and your girlfriend do together are personal and should not be talked about with your pals.


Don't treat her any differently in public than you do in private. Living a dual life is not only hard, it's unsustainable. Treat her with the love and respect she deserves both at home and in the wider world.