 It has become pretty popular to use pink eye shadow recently. It can be tricky to pull it off, but try out different shades of pink eye shadow, and layer it with other shadows (e.g. gold) to find a look that you like. Remember, too, that pink eye shadow doesn’t necessarily have to mean hot pink. You can also pick more neutral shades of pink if you want a more toned down look.If you are worried about looking as though your eye is inflamed or infected, try using black eyeliner and mascara to help tone down the pink. It may also be a good idea to confine the pink shadow to the top lid, especially if you don't use another color to break up the pink.
The best way to find a pink eye shadow that looks good on you is to experiment. Since there are many factors that play into how the eye shadow will look on your face (e.g. eye color, hair color, skin tone, etc.) it is hard to pin down what shades will look best without trying them out.
 One of the most classic ways to incorporate pink into your makeup is to use a pink lipstick or lip gloss. However, though it is a very common color, it can be difficult to choose a color that will flatter you. Try out a few different shades to see what you think suits your skin tone and your personality.If you have pale or fair skin look for pinks in lighter, more sheer shades. If you have reddish undertones, choosing a peachy pink color will help to neutralize the redness in your skin.
If you have medium or olive toned skin you can probably pull off just about any shade of pink that you like. However, try to avoid pinks that have a blue undertone or you might end up looking washed out.
If you have dark skin, a bright and bold pink will look great on you. Avoid the more neutral shades of pink in order to avoid looking washed out. You can even opt for a more purply-pink color if you want to be adventurous.
 These days it is very trendy to dye your hair a more bold color. If you’re very adventurous, you could dye your hair pink. Though you can buy do it yourself hair color, for non-traditional hair colors, it may be a good idea to visit a professional salon so that you avoid damaging your hair unnecessarily.For a less permanent look you can use hair mascara, hair chalk, or temporary hair colors to put some pink in your hair for a night out.
Alternatively, don’t forget that you can always accessorize with pink hair accessories instead of applying color directly to the hair.

