 Do not make statements based solely on your own personal experiences or opinions. The statements you make need to be backed up by concrete and proven facts from reliable sources.When writing, ask yourself if everything you are presenting as facts are things you believe, things you remember, or things you have researched.
When they are things you believe or things you remember, always fact check them with credible sources before including them in your writing.
Remember that references to credible sources add a lot of weight to the points you are laying out in your piece.;
, Use reliable and credible sources. Using scholarly journals and websites that have “.edu,” “.gov,” or “.org,” are good ways to ensure that you are accessing reputable sources that should be free of their own biases. You can also look to reputable news stations like CNN or magazines and newspapers.These types of sources are known for holding their writers to higher standards. This is what makes them more credible.
Cite these types of sources when possible so that readers will develop a sense of trust in what you have written.
Remember that over-relying on citations can make you seem as if you can’t expand ideas. This may make you seem like a less capable writer.
 Make sure your paper is balanced by presenting all sides of a topic. Provide your reader with research-based facts for each side of a topic and both sides of an argument. You can refute one side of a topic or argument within your paper, but only by proving that particular side is stronger based on evidence.This requires a great deal of research and fact checking.
Doing what it takes to get all the facts you can about both sides of an argument will greatly enhance the credibility of your article.
The more credible your articles are, the more credible and respected you will be regarded as a writer.
 Your objective is to give all of the relevant information so that your reader can draw their own conclusions. Taking this outsider and observational approach will help you avoid bias and write objectively.It is easy to add opinions without knowing. For example, writing, “The accident probably happened because he was distracted,” without knowing for sure if the driver was distracted, is adding information based on opinion not facts.
If you are writing on a topic related to an event, ask or consult a credible source for details of which you are unsure.
Don’t rely on your memory alone. Always check the facts.
 Instead of using “he” or “him” to represent a group, include “he or she” and “him or her.” Using only the male pronoun to refer to both men and women is bias.For example, it is bias to say something like, “Every person at the meeting said that he would be at the fundraiser.”
Instead, include both gender pronouns. “Every person at the meeting said that he or she would be at the fundraiser.”
Some people are beginning to use they or their instead of gender pronouns.For example, "The shopkeeper paid their bills on time."

, Gender neutrality is key to writing free of bias when you are talking about both sexes. When referring to a group of law enforcement officers, it is not fair to assume that they are all male. The same goes for any profession.Instead of saying fireman, use firefighter. Change chairman to chairperson, stewardess to flight attendant, mailman to courier, and actress to actor when referencing a profession in general and not writing about a specific professional.
Using gender neutral titles is not only politically correct, it is also a way to be inclusive.
 Not all women are stay-at-home housewives and not all men are the breadwinners of the family. Do not perpetuate ideas that are not factually backed.For example, “A single parent has to divide her time between her career and her children.” This statement is stereotyping that all single parents are women, when a single parent can be a man or a woman.
Instead rephrase this statement to say, “A single parent has to divide their time between their career and their children.” Or, you can replace “their” with “his or her.
 Never write about a specific group of people for the purpose of humor. Racial jokes are distasteful and serve no purpose in your writing. Report the facts about a group of people, not opinions.


Doing so may infuriate many people.
It may also make you popular with people or groups with whom you may not want to be affiliated or associated.
Avoiding these things keeps you credible.
 To make a statement about a particular group, there must be evidence and statistics to back up your objective statement. Some examples of non-factual statements include:"All white Americans are obese."
"All African Americans are good at basketball."
"Elderly citizens are helpless and need to be put in a home."
"All Jews are good with money."

, Refer to a specific group of people (racial, religious, sexual orientation) by what they prefer to be called. When in doubt, always research the politically correct title. Politically correct lexicon has changed over the years and continually changes. Avoid offending anyone by being respectful and well-informed.Become familiar with websites and other sources that provide current guidance on politically correct terms.
Politically correct titles change from time to time for different groups, so always check.
Once you start being aware of being politically correct, it may become second nature.
 A person’s sexual orientation, skin color, religious beliefs, disabilities, age, gender, or occupation do not define them wholly. Only report these details when they are essential to your topic or argument.For example, it is not necessary to include a person’s sexual orientation as a means of describing them. If you were writing a current events article about a firefighter who saved a kitten from a tree, it would be unnecessary to mention that the firefighter is a gay man, if that was the case.
 Do not make a statement within your writing that ropes everyone together by using the term “all.” Use specific numbers based on credible research to make informative claims. Present specific facts and numbers.


It is bias to state something like, “All criminals have troubled backgrounds;” this is making a general and opinionated statement. Your writing will be a great deal more credible with facts that are researched instead of generalizations.
Rephrase your statement to express free of bias facts, “According to a study of 1,435 newly sentenced prisoners performed by the Ministry of Justice, 49% reported having a troubled childhood.”

, Regardless of your personal feelings, it is imperative that you do not include those in your writing. Do not make assumptive statements about gender-roles, cultural backgrounds, religious beliefs, occupations, or socio-economic classes.Doing these things has the potential of angering some or all who read your piece. This can create hostile feelings towards you.
Instead, always ask yourself if what you have written applies to everyone in the group about which you have written or if it is just what you believe.
Statements like "all Christians believe that," or "Sarah did that because she is a lesbian" should be warning signs that you are being biased about a group.
It is best to write about individuals and not include things like linking them to religion, racial groups, sexual orientation or socio-economic statuses. For example, write, “John won the award,” not, “John, a gay man, won the award.”

, Once you have completed your piece, read over it carefully. You would be surprised how often your opinions or beliefs sneak in, even when you know what to avoid writing.


You may find that you have included information you believed to be true, but did not check.
While proofreading, if you see something in your piece that makes you ask yourself about its veracity, it is in your best interest to check it.
It doesn’t hurt to have another person read your piece. They may be able to spot questionable content.
 Common knowledge would be things like who was elected president and the length of his term. Uncommon knowledge would be things like his stance on given issues.


If you only believe you know something, fact check it. Don’t just rely on memory for details about anything.
 When we fact check something that many people are talking about, we may insert information that many agree upon but is their opinion.


An example would be, “Donald Trump said that Muslims would be fully vetted before entering the country. This is because he doesn’t trust them.” When adding, “This is because he doesn’t trust them,” you added an opinion. It is easy to commit this kind of error. Make sure you have only written the facts.
Think if you have ever read in credible articles or books or heard reported on credible news stations those things you are adding .

