 Known in the church as an "examination of conscience," reflecting on your spiritual and moral life is imperative before you end up in the confessional. Make a note, either mentally or on a piece of paper, about the sins you've committed since your last confession. Pay particular attention to the ones that still feel fresh, or that you really want to confess for. To start this examination, ask two questions:


"In what ways did I sin?"
"When did I fail to do the good or right thing when I should have?";
, You should focus on the sins most pressing on your mind. That said, nothing is too small for confessional. If it weighs on your soul, now is the time to let it out in a safe environment. Think about:


Insults, fights, or rudeness to loved ones.
Cheating, even small amounts.
Lying, stealing, or hurting someone for personal gain.
 Even if you didn't do something obviously wrong, we can all improve on the times we forgot to do something right. Think about ways you've cut corners or ignored the plights of others. Remember, while confession is about releasing your sins, it is also about becoming a better person who sins less in the future. Think about times you didn't do anything negative or positive and find ways to make those moments positive in the future.


Have you prayed every day? Do you feel connected to God?
Do you do the bare minimum for you loved ones, or do you go above and beyond?
Do you take the easy way out, or push yourself to be a better person and servant of God?

, This is probably the least remembered type of sin, though everyone goes through periods of it in their life. Think about the times you were filled with self-pity, they days you cheated yourself out of a life goal or happiness, and the times you abused or neglected your own well-being. You need to treat all people with love and respect -- but that has to start with yourself.
 Know this: confession is not some mechanical exchange where just entering the booth immediately washes away your wrong-doing. If you don't actually feel bad about what you've done then confession means absolutely nothing. Remember, this is between you and your God -- not just you and the priest., Sometimes the best way to see your flaws is to turn to an outside source. The Catholic Diocese published "sample examinations" for various groups of people. They contain useful questions, information on certain sins and current issues, and perspective on the problems you're currently facing. To start, check out their guides for:Married Couples
Single People
Young Adults
Children

