 To make homemade popcorn, you'll first need the proper supplies. You can find most supplies to make homemade popcorn at a local supermarket. You will need the following:


A bag of corn kernels
Cooking oil, such as canola oil, vegetable oil, or olive oil
Two large bowls
Oven mitts;
, You want to make sure you have the proper kernels to oil ratio before making your popcorn. In general, you will need 3 tablespoons of oil for every 1







, Place the proper amount of oil into your first pot, as well as 2 to 3 kernels of popcorn. Turn the stove to medium heat. Let the oil sit on the stove until it's hot enough to cook your popcorn.








Make sure to watch the oil the whole time. You do not want to leave a pot on the stove unattended.
 You want to make sure your oil is neither too hot nor too cold. Watch the kernels you placed in the oil. As soon as they pop, the oil is ready and you can add the rest of your kernels.








Measure out your kernels before you place the oil over the heat. You need to transfer them quickly as soon as the oil heats up.
 As soon as the kernels are in the pot, cover the lid. You want to keep it covered until you're done making the popcorn. Resist the temptation to lift the lid and peak, as this can cause your kernels to heat unevenly.








If you like to watch the popcorn pop, you can use a clear lid. This may eliminate some of the temptation to peak.
 Exactly how long the popcorn will take to heat varies depending on how much you're making, the heat of your oil, and other factors. In general, it should not take more than 20 or 30 seconds. Listen to the pot. You should hear a lot of popping noises. Once these noises slow to a few seconds between pops, your popcorn is ready.








Carefully remove the lid. Make sure to use your oven mitts, as the lid will be hot.
Stand back a little in case any popcorn flies out of the pan. It will be hot and can hurt your skin.
 Once the popcorn is in the bowl, shake the bowl vigorously. This should cause any un-popped kernels to shift to the bottom of the bowl.








Here, use a bowl that's larger than you need. You should only fill the bowl about half of three quarters of the way full of popcorn. This way, you can shake the bowl without having the popcorn fall on the floor.
 Use a large cooking spoon to transfer your popcorn to the second bowl. You should get all the popped corn out, and the un-popped kernels will be resting on the bottom of the first bowl.








Throw the kernels into the garbage to dispose of them. They may clog your skin if you flush them down the drain.
 If you do not want to use the stove, you can also make homemade popcorn in the microwave. To start, you will need the following:Half a cup of corn kernels
1 teaspoon of vegetable oil
1/2 a teaspoon of salt
A brown paper lunch bag

, To start, place half a cup of kernels in a small mixing bowl. Drizzle the half teaspoon of vegetable oil over the kernels, and then sprinkle on the salt. Use a spoon to mix the oil, kernels, and salt together. You can also mix by shaking the bowl slightly until the oil is evenly dispersed throughout the bowl.
 You want to seal the bag to make sure the kernels pop correctly. To do so, fold the top of the bag over twice. Make sure to crease your folds with your thumbnail to make sure they're secure.
 You will have to listen to know how long to leave the popcorn in the microwave. Usually, it should take between 2 and 3 minutes. You should hear popping noises while the bag is microwaving. Remove the bag when the popping slows down to the point there are a couple of seconds between pops. Your popcorn should be ready at this point., Melted butter is a classic popcorn topping. How much melted butter you want to add is up to you. Usually, a few tablespoons should be sufficient. Too much butter can make the popcorn soggy, however, and it also adds calories.








If you melt butter over the stove, do not melt it on high heat. This can burn the butter. Butter should be melted slowly, over medium or low heat. You can also melt butter in the microwave if you cut it into sections first. Cover the butter with a paper towel and only heat it for 10 to 15 seconds at a time.
When adding butter to your popcorn, it's a good idea to pour the butter around the edge of the bowl. This way, the butter will disperse more evenly throughout the popcorn.
Sprinkle some salt over the popcorn and taste. If you feel it still needs more flavor, you can add a bit more salt.
 Brown butter can add a sweet, nutty flavor to your popcorn. You'll end up with something like kettle corn. Brown butter is butter that is heated until it gains a brownish color.








Place your desired amount of butter in a pan with a light-colored bottom. You want the bottom of the pan to be a light color so you can monitor the butter's color.
Watch the butter as it heats. When the butter begins to foam slightly, it will turn a lemon color, then a golden color, and then a brown. Remove the butter as soon as it turns brown to avoid burning it.
Let the butter cool for a few minutes and then add it to your popcorn.
 A cheesy flavor for your popcorn can be nice, but cheese powders are full of additives and cheese itself has a lot of calories. To preserve the health benefits of homemade popcorn, try adding nutritional yeast instead of cheese-based products. Sprinkle nutritional yeast over your popcorn, tasting as you go until you reach your desired flavor.








Nutritional yeast can be somewhat hard to find. It may be in the health food section of your supermarket. However, not every supermarket carries nutritional yeast. You may want to call ahead of time and check.
If you can't find nutritional yeast at a conventional supermarket, health food stores like Whole Foods usually carry nutritional yeast.
 Caramel corn can be a fun treat for the holidays. To make caramel corn, you'll need 3








Melt your butter over medium heat. Add the sugar and mix until it's moist. Turn the heat up to medium high and heat the mixture until it starts to boil. Allow it to boil for 3 to 4 minutes as you stir.
Remove the mixture from the heat and add the remaining ingredients until the mixture is thick and frothy. Pour the mixture over your popcorn, mixing as you go so it's dispersed evenly. Place the popcorn on a baking sheet and bake for 10 to 15 minutes at 250 degrees. Let the popcorn cool before serving.
 You should not remove the lid from your popcorn until it's done. If you remove the lid, popcorn could fly out, making a mess and burning you in the process. Wait for about 20 to 30 seconds before removing the lid., You do not want to remove the lid until the popcorn is ready. Removing the lid too soon will result in a lot of un-popped kernels. Removing it too late will cause the popcorn to burn. Listen carefully while the popcorn is popping. Wait until popping has slowed to one pop every few seconds before removing the lid.









Do not leave the popcorn unattended on the stove. This could start a fire.
 You should not make homemade popcorn without oven mitts, especially if you're making something like caramel corn which requires baking. The lid of your pot will be hot to the touch when popping is done, and you could burn yourself if you touch it without oven mitts. You should also be sure to use oven mitts when lifting the pot to pour your popcorn into a bowl.