 Each program has different requirements for completion. Your program handbook will let you know which courses you are required to take. Some programs will require extensive prerequisite courses or certain electives before you can take a nursing class.Some classes you might take include:Anatomy
Biology
Nutrition
Chemistry
Microbiology
Pharmacology
Communication

, It might be helpful to create a map of the courses you need to take over the course of your program. For each semester in your nursing course, you can mark which required courses you will take so that you can complete your degree on time. Refer to your school’s course catalogue to see which courses are available during certain semesters.


Many programs have a set course map because certain classes have to be taken in a certain order, and certain ones are only offered during the spring, summer, or fall — not every semester.
Some programs might offer the opportunity to take extra courses in the summer, online, or at night. If you want to complete your degree early, talk to an advisor about these options.
 You will be required to memorize a large amount of information about health care. It is generally suggested that you study three hours for every one hour of classCertain study skills can help you memorize information more efficiently. You can try to:


Rewrite your notes after class
Join a study groupTake online practice quizzesTalk to your professors for help, Student nurse associations can help you build a network that prepares you for your future career. Many of these organizations aim to support you through the training process while providing resources that can connect you to jobs after your degree. Some large societies include:


National Student Nurses’ AssociationChi Eta Phi SororityNational Association of Hispanic NursesNational Black Nurses Association, Known in some places as practice placements, clinical training gives you firsthand experience in hospital wards.Here you will be taught the skills you need to be a good nurse. Even if you plan to use your nursing degree to pursue a career in administrative duties, you will still have to complete intensive clinical training.


Requirements for clinical training vary by region. In general, a clinical rotation is meant to take up at least 40% of your program's length.You may be required to fill out a request for placement form and a HIPAA form before you begin. HIPAA states that you will protect patient privacy during your rotations., Once you have completed your course work and your clinical rotation, you will be ready to graduate. To become a registered nurse, you will still have to fulfill national and regional licensing requirements, such as exams or registration with a nursing board.


In the US, you will take the National Council Licensing Examination (NCLEX) after receiving your degree. This examination is given by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing.If you trained in the UK, you will need to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC). You can apply on their website. You will have to provide proof of graduation and declare any criminal convictions.Canada’s requirements vary by province, but in general, you must register with the province’s nursing board. This registration will often require you to pass an exam.In Australia, you must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia (NMBA). Your nursing program may register you with the NMBA prior to graduation.