 Getting out and seeing friends can be a great way to spend less time on the computer. You can actually use the internet and technology to enhance social experiences. Try using social networking sites to make plans for physical get-togethers with friends.


Start making concrete plans when chatting with people online. Instead of offering vague promises, like "Let's get dinner some time," offer a real plan. Say something like, "Are you free next Tuesday? Do you want to get dinner at 7 o'clock?"MeetUp is a site where you can join groups based on your interests. From there, leaders of those groups plan face-to-face meet ups where you can make new friends. Try joining MeetUp and attending some events.You can also use online applications to plan events. Use Google Calendar or Facebook to schedule a game night, for example., Make a point of making plans with friends each week. Even something small, like grabbing coffee after work, can encourage you to spend less time online. You could also suggest you and your friends take up a new hobby together. You could start hiking on the weekends or join a local sports league.
 Not everyone can spend less time on the computer by themselves. Internet addiction is a psychological disorder in which you develop an emotional addiction to using your computer. If you believe you suffer from internet addiction, seek out psychological counseling.


If you have internet addiction, you may feel a compulsive to be online all the time. You may experience anxiety and depression when separated from the computer. When using the computer, you may feel euphoric and isolated from the rest of the world. People suffering from internet addiction are also dishonest about how they spend their time. If you find yourself lying to others about your time online, you may have internet addiction.Make an appointment with a therapist if you display any of the above symptoms. You can ask for a referral from your doctor or call your insurance company and ask for a list of providers in your network. If you are a student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your college or university.

