 This will help you to control your weight and lower your risk of heart disease. Eat no more than three tablespoons of fat per day and five sweets per week. Easy ways to quickly cut fat and sugar include:Substituting fruits for dessert rather than the more traditional, fatty and sugary foods like pastries, cookies, cakes, puddings, and candies.
Eat dry sandwiches rather than adding mayonnaise or butter.
Reduce the amount of oil and butter you cook with. Avoid lard, solid shortenings, coconut oil and palm oil.
Do make sure ensure you are eating the proper amount of recommended "good" fats, like monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, which are found in foods like olive oil and avocado.
 Eating too much salt can contribute to high blood pressure. The DASH diet, which is stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, permits only 2,300 mg of salt each day. Ways to cut salt include:Cutting down on prepackaged, processed snacks. These often have a lot of salt added for flavoring. Look at the packaging to see how much salt they contain. Foods like salted pretzels, chips, and salted nuts are better avoided all together.
Check the labels on canned foods. Many vegetables are canned in salt water. You can reduce your salt intake by purchasing only frozen or fresh vegetables. If it must be canned, the look for veggies in unsalted water.
Reduce the amount of salt you cook with. At first you may miss the salt, but then your palate will adjust and you will enjoy the foods’ natural flavors.
 This is a great way to quickly improve your diet. The DASH diet recommends four to five servings of fruit and four to five servings of vegetables. A serving size is a half a cup. Because fruits and vegetables are great sources of potassium and magnesium, they will start to control your blood pressure right away. Add more fruits and vegetables in your diet by:Snacking on fruits and vegetables between meals. A fresh apple, pear, carrot, or green pepper is neat and easy to pack with you on a busy day.
Buy frozen vegetables. Frozen vegetables make it convenient to eat tasty, nutritious vegetables year round. They are also very easy to thaw and add as a side dish to a meal.
Top off your meals with a salad. This is a great way to add diverse fruits and vegetables. You can go for hearty salads with carrots, tomatoes, peppers, and lettuce or get creative with sweet notes from orange or apple slices. Monitor your use of salad dressings. They are often salty and fatty.
 The DASH diet recommends six to eight servings of grains daily. Whole grains contain more nutrients and fiber than processed white flour. This means that you will get more nutrition per serving and feel less hungry. A slice of bread or half cup of cooked pasta qualifies as a serving. Ways to up your intake of whole grains include:Baking with whole wheat flour instead of white.
Purchasing whole wheat pasta instead of white.
Eating brown rice instead of white.
Reading the packaging on breads to see if they say they are made from whole wheat.
 Lean meats like poultry and fish are best, but don’t overdo it. Meats and fish are excellent sources of iron, zinc, protein, and vitamins. However, because they also have high amounts of fat and cholesterol, they will contribute to clogging your arteries. Reduce your meat and fish intake to six ounces per day.Cook meat in low fat ways. Instead of frying, try baking, grilling, or roasting.
Red meats are often particularly high in fat. If you do eat red meat, trim off any fat you see around the edges.
Salmon, herring and tuna are high in omega-3 fatty acids, which will help control your cholesterol. Try to eat fish once or twice per week.
 Dairy is rich in calcium and vitamin D, but it is best to eat low fat dairy rather than whole milk sources. This lowers the amount of fat you get with it. Two to three cups of low fat dairy per day should be sufficient.Milk, cheese, and yogurt products will generally tell you on the packaging what percentage of fat they have. Low fat or skim products have much less fat than whole milk products.
Start your day with a healthy breakfast of whole-grain cereals with low fat or skim milk or yogurt.

