 To get a drink you will enjoy, it is important ordering something based on what you are craving. Ordering at Starbucks does not necessarily mean that you must order coffee; in fact, there are dozens of drink choices including tea, smoothies, and hot chocolates. Consider the current outside temperature and season to decide what sounds just right.


If you are not sure what sounds good, do not be afraid to ask your barista for suggestions or help. They can give you choices based on your drink preferences to help make one that is tailored to you.
Remember to think about if you want the drink hot, iced, or blended, as well as the sweetness and caffeine.;
, Starbucks is known for having their name-specific sizing. Don’t fear, getting the sizes down is easy. A tall is the equivalent of 12oz, a grande is 16oz, and a venti is 20oz in hot and 26oz. in iced. Some Starbucks also offer a short drink equalling 8oz, or a Trenta, which is equal to 31oz.


A tall typically comes with a single shot of espresso, a grande comes with a double shot, and a venti also comes with a double shot, unless it is a venti iced drink, in which it comes with a triple shot of espresso.
If you want more espresso than the size you order comes with, simply ask for extra shots. These will cost more, but you will be able to get that perfect amount of espresso without having to size your entire drink up.
 It does not matter if you order coffee, tea, or any other drink - you always have the ability to add sugar or a syrup flavor. Adding a flavor will typically give you two extra pumps of syrup, so if you want your drink extra sweet be sure to specify and be ready to pay more. Sugar is free, but a syrup flavor is not.


If you’re uncertain what flavor you want to add, ask to see a flavor menu or ask the barista what popular flavors are available. There are dozens of flavor choices, so don’t feel like you are limited to simply “sugar” or “no sugar.”
Most of the popular syrup flavors like vanilla, caramel, and hazelnut all come with sugar-free options. If you are trying to be a bit healthier, order a sugar-free syrup flavor for your drink.
Ask about seasonal flavors when you order, as there are many specialty syrups that are available at different times of the year. In the fall and winter, pumpkin is available while in the summer coconut is often out in participating locations.
 Some drinks are made with milk while others are made with water as the base. If you prefer one over the other, specify that when you order. Typically, nonfat, 2% milk, soymilk, and half-and-half are the available milk options. Some Starbucks also carry speciality milks such as almond or coconut milk.


You can get any drink hot or iced, and many coffee drinks blended. If you change the form of your drink, you might also have to change the liquid base. For example, blended coffee must be made with a milk base instead of water to get the right consistency.
When milk is steamed, it creates a richly aerated foam. This is like warm whipped milk on the top of your drink. If you like foam, you can order your drink with extra, or if you don’t like it ask for your drink to go without.
 Espresso and coffee both naturally have caffeine, as do black and green teas. If you want less caffeine in your drink, order half-caf (1/2 the normal amount of caffeine) or decaf (with no caffeine). You can also add extra shots of coffee if you are looking for a bit more energy from your drink., This is just your basic drip coffee you might make at home, but prepared in many different flavors. Most Starbucks have multiple brews going during the day, so you can sample several different roasts and blends. Brewed coffee is the cheapest and easiest thing on the menu to order.
 Lattes are a basic espresso drink made out of steamed milk and espresso shots. Any flavor can be added to a latte, and any type of milk can be used. Lattes can be made hot or iced.
 These are one of the most popular drinks for coffee enthusiasts, as the espresso taste is very strong. Americanos are made with espresso and water only, and have one extra shot more than any other drink. Cream and sugar can be added just like with drip coffee, as well as any flavor you might like.
 These are similar to lattes because they are made solely of steamed milk and espresso, but cappuccinos are comprised mainly of foam. This means that your drink will be light and fluffy more than it is liquid. When you order a cappuccino, you must order it as “wet” (not so much foam) or “dry” (mostly foam). Add any flavors or sugar alterations you would like.
 Macchiato is the Italian word meaning, “marked.” It is used in this drink to describe the mark of espresso poured over the top, instead of being stirred into the drink. Caramel machinates are made with vanilla syrup, steamed milk and foam, espresso, and caramel drizzle.
 Mochas are lattes (milk and espresso) with the addition of chocolate. The two mocha variants are milk chocolate or white chocolate. The former is a bit richer while the latter is much sweeter. Mochas are typically made without any foam, so if you like the creamy milk ask for a little extra on top.
 If you are a real espresso lover, order it straight up! Ask for a single or double shot of espresso, and then add a modifier of choice. Often espresso shots are served macchiato style with a dollop of foam, or con panna with a bit of whipped cream.
 If you are not a coffee lover, try getting one of the many teas available. Most teas are made with hot water, but there are several latte teas made with milk. These include the ever-popular chai tea (spicy cinnamon flavored tea) and the London fog (a sweet vanilla and earl gray tea blend). You can order any tea to be made with milk or water, and hot or iced.
 Frappuccinos are blended drinks, typically made with coffee. Starbucks offers many specialty Frappuccinos, so ask your barista what ones are offered if you don’t see them on the menu. Some Frappuccinos, like the strawberries and cream, aren’t made with any coffee. These often come with whip and a drizzle of chocolate or caramel.
 If you are not interested in coffee or tea, don’t worry - there are several other non-coffee drinks available at Starbucks. For hot drinks you can get hot chocolate, a steamer (milk with a syrup flavor), or an apple cider. You can also do lemonade or different smoothies if you want something cold and coffee-free.
 Once you have decided on your coffee and all the possible variables, make your order. Start with the size of the drink, then the name, then any amendments you want to make. For example, order a “grande chai tea latte with extra foam.” Don’t be afraid to be specific!