 Mulethi, or licorice, has traditionally been used for arthritis, stomach ailments, and overly oily hair. In addition, it has been clinically show to have some effectiveness for:Heartburn
The skin condition eczema
Low blood pressure
Addison's disease (suppressed adrenal gland functioning)
Maintaining blood potassium levels for people undergoing dialysis
Increased fertility in women with polycystic ovary syndrome
Sore throats and mouth sores
Reducing body fat
Prostate, breast, colon, liver and lung cancer
UlcersImmune disorders;
, Combined 1 tsp (5ml) or mulethi powder in 8 oz. (250ml) of lukewarm water and stir until the powder is completely dissolved.Gargle this solution four to five times a day to help soothe and heal mouth sores. When used for mouth sores, this solution should not be swallowed.Similarly, gargling a solution made with 1/4 cup (60 ml) warm water and 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) mulethi extract can help reduce or eliminate bad breath.
 Combine 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of crushed mulethi root with 2 cups (500 ml) of water in a small saucepan. Simmer the mixture on your stove over low heat for 15-20 minutes.Filter before drinking.


Drink the tea while still warm to help treat a cold, cough, or upper respiratory infection.
Consume the tea once a day for a month to help heal acid reflux and peptic ulcers.
To maximize the benefits of mulethi tea during menstruation, take it once a day starting three days before menstruation.
 Mulethi is believed to help increase the effectiveness of many other herbs when consumed simultaneously. You can blend mulethi with certain other herbal teas, and the conditions those teas may treat can become even more beneficial.


Combine a ¼ cup of mulethi root with a 1-inch (2.5-cm) piece of ginger (sliced) and 2 quarts (2000 ml) of water. Bring to a boil, then lower heat and simmer for 10 minutes. Strain and drink while still warm. This particular blend can be used to treat colds, sore throat, and indigestion.Combine equal parts mulethi, chamomile, and peppermint. Use this mixture in a one-to-five ratio of herbs-to-water and steep over low heat for 10 minutes. Strain and drink as a way of treating indigestion and heartburn., Cut off a piece of raw licorice and chew on it for 5 to 15 minutes.


Licorice both numbs the throat and acts as a demulcent, coating your throat in a thin layer of mucus that soothes it.Licorice contains anti-bacterial compounds that fight the bacteria that cause cavities and bad breath., While teas and rinses are preferred for sore throats, mouth ailments, and indigestion due to their soothing effects, other conditions are best addressed by taking supplements in pill or extract form. Licorice supplements have anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antiviral effects that make them effective at treating low blood pressure, Addison's disease, infertility due to polycystic ovary syndrome, ulcers, indigestion, cancer (as a supplement), and immune disorders.


Use DGL (Deglycyrrhizinated Licorice) if possible. It lacks the chemical glycyrrhizin, which can cause high blood pressure and muscle weakness.The correct dose of non-DGL licorice is 2mg per kg of weight per day.
WARNING: If your licorice is not DGL, do not take more than 100mg/day – approximately 1 ml of extract. Licorice overdose results in an excess of the hormone aldosterone, which can lead to muscle weakness, headaches, and high blood pressure.
 In the U.S., it is common to use anise oil instead of licorice in many "licorice" products.

