 The iTaste VV 3.0 has three buttons, the +, –, and the power/fire button on top. To turn the device on, press the fire button three times in a row. When the device turns on, the light around the fire button will flash three times.


The triple click to activate the device is a safety feature that prevents the fire button from being pushed unintentionally and juice being wasted.;
, Put your lips over the tip of the mouthpiece and seal your lips around it. You don’t have to purse your lips tightly together, but you do have to pinch them together firmly enough to create a seal around the mouthpiece.
 When the device is turned on, pressing the fire button will engage the battery and vaporize the juice inside the device.As you press the fire button, suck on the mouthpiece to pull the vapor into your mouth.


The puff counter on the device will keep track of how many times you press the fire button and vape.
 Once you’ve taken your pull of vapor, release the fire button to stop the vaporizing process. Inhale the vapor that you drew into your mouth, and then exhale it like you would a normal breath.


Once you exhale, wait a moment and decide if you want to take another puff.
 To turn the vaporizer off, push the power/fire button three times.You don’t have to turn the device on and off every time you vape, but it will help conserve the battery.


Be aware that when you turn the device off, the puff counter will reset.
If you're trying to keep track of how much you vape throughout the day, leave the device on until you're done for the night.
 The iTaste VV 3.0 has a micro USB port in the bottom, and this is where you charge the battery. Insert the micro USB into the bottom of the device, and then plug the other end of the USB into a computer or charger adaptor.


The power/fire light will be green when it’s fully charge, yellow when it’s half charged, and red when it’s almost dead.
You can still use the device to vape when it’s charging.
Total charging time takes 1.5 hours., The iTaste VV 3.0 has variable wattage and voltage settings that let you control the temperature of your vapor. You can customize your vape by changing the settings. To check the settings, turn the device on by pushing the power/fire button three times. Hold the + and – buttons together for two seconds. Look at the display screen for your current settings:The first reading is the clearomizer resistance
The second reading is the battery voltage
The third reading is the puff counter
The fourth reading is the current voltage setting (U) or the current wattage setting (P)

, With the iTaste VV 3.0, you can either control it by wattage or voltage. On the variable wattage setting, the device will regulate the voltage based on the clearomizer you're using. To set the device to the wattage setting, hold the fire and + buttons. The display will say P and the wattage setting.


If you're just starting out and haven't figured out what you like yet, start out using the variable wattage on the lowest setting, which is 6.Once you’ve tried that setting a few times, you can increase the wattage to see how it affects the temperature. The higher the wattage, the hotter the temperature of the vapor.
Use the + (increase) or – (decrease) buttons to adjust the wattage when the display is on the P reading.
 When you use the voltage setting instead, you have to control the voltage based on the clearomizer and juice you're using. This means you have to fine-tune the settings more than with the wattage control, and it can take some trial and error.To switch to voltage control, hold the fire and – buttons.
Use the + (increase) or – (decrease) buttons to change the voltage when the display is on the U reading.
The higher the voltage, the higher the temperature.

