 Unlike the previous boxes discussed, you will need to do some cutting and gluing. Don't let this intimidate you; pillow boxes are actually the easiest type of paper box to make. It's best to use cardstock or another type of thicker paper for these boxes. In addition to paper, you'll need scissors, a ruler, and glue.You will also need a scoring tool if you use cardstock., Find a template you like online. You can pick a minimalist pattern or an elaborate one.


You can even print out a blank template that you can decorate yourself. If you choose to decorate the paper, do so before you start folding. Decorating an already-folded box is both difficult and runs the risk of collapsing it.
You can also print a blank template directly onto decorative paper., Using your scissors, carefully cut along the lines designated by the template. A standard pillow box template has two parallel straight sides and four curved sides. They look similar to a wide hour glass. Some may be more elaborate, but they still tend to keep a "pillow" shape.
 For straight fold lines, line your ruler up next to the marked edges on the template to guide you. The curved fold lines will be trickier, since you'll need to freehand them. Gently run your scoring tool up and down the lines until an indent forms. Don't be so rough that you cut through the paper., If your template is meant to face outside (such as most decorative ones), flip your paper over first.Fold inward to keep your design facing outward. Use your ruler again to guide you if you have trouble.
 Fold the second straight line inward. The skinny flap will be what holds the box together. Flip the box back over and apply glue evenly on the tab.
 Fold the box in half again, decorative sides facing out. Tuck the flap under the far edge of the box. Line up the flap so that its crease is now flush with the far edge. Place your box in a heavy book while the glue dries to seal the edges., Once the glue has dried, gently fold the round scored lines down towards the center of the box with your fingers. They should now form two parallel sides each shaped like a pointed oval.Because of their concave shape, the edges should hold together without any additional glue. If you used thin paper, though, glue may be necessary.

