 Atomic mass (the amount of matter in your atom) increases as you go to the right across a row, or down a column. The periodic table is ordered in such a way that each element has one proton more than the element before it, and the mass is the sum of protons and neutrons in an atom. Electrons are negligible when calculating mass because they possess so little in comparison to the larger particles., The inner shells of an atom’s electrons are full and stable. For the most part, they contribute little to the way the atom reacts. The largest factor in how an atom reacts is the makeup of its outer shell electrons. The periodic table naturally groups together elements with similar outer shells (Transition metals, halogens, etc.)., For a number of reasons, an electron closer to the nucleus of an atom will generally be held tighter than an electron further out. Because of this, electronegativity (ability to accept and keep electrons) increases as you go to the the right of a row and the top of a column. The noble gases (the column furthest to the right) are typically inert and do not accept or donate electrons.For example fluorine is will more effectively gain electrons than bromine, even though they are both halogens.
 The periodic table also groups elements into metals, non-metals, and metallic categories. Metals are usually shiny solids at room temperature, conduct well, and are malleable. Non-metals are usually dull in appearance, may be solid, gas, or liquid at room temperature, conduct poorly, and are not malleable. Metalloids share properties of metals and non-metals.There are also different groups of metals (alkali metals, transition metals, etc.).
 Each block of the periodic table contains the atomic symbol if one of the elements. There is also a lot of information about the element in that block including things like mass number and average atomic weight. Learn to Read the Periodic Table well, and you will be on your way to understanding the elements it contains.

