 A proper sleep schedule is crucial to having sufficient energy throughout the day. Your sleep schedule should be more like a sleep pattern — you will be able to train your body to feel awake and tired at the right times if you maintain a good sleeping pattern.


Get an appropriate amount of sleep each night. Adults should get seven to nine hours each night, and teenagers need eight to 10.Avoid napping if possible. Napping can interrupt your sleeping pattern.
Avoid stimulants such as caffeine after noon.
Get moderate exercise closer to bedtime and intense exercise in the morning or the middle of the day.

Relax before bed. Try to leave your stresses outside the bedroom, but definitely out of the bed. Don't have emotional discussions or arguments in bed if you can help it.
Make sure your bedroom has adequate exposure to natural light. Being able to see the darkness and the light can help you establish a proper sleeping pattern.
Avoid eating or watching TV in bed. Try to maintain your bed a a place for sleeping only or you might find it difficult to fall asleep there., If you maintain regular sleep patterns but still feel fatigued, you may need to seek help. Speak to your doctor about your sleep issues.


Keep a record of your sleeping pattern to see if there are any anomalies.
If you do see the doctor, make sure to mention that you maintain a normal sleep schedule if your records show that you do.
Your doctor may wish to test you for conditions that often lead to fatigue, such as thyroid disease, depression, anemia, or chronic fatigue syndrome.
 Keeping your life organized is essential to feeling energetic. By preventing as much as stress as possible, you will be able to have time to focus on other fun activities.


Use a planner or a calendar to prioritize your tasks.
Be sure to check your plans regularly, and don't miss them.
 Sometimes we have to stop and realize that we simply don't have time to do everything we want to do. Instead of filling every free moment with an engagement or meeting, allow yourself some free time to reduce stress.


Make time in your schedule for free time and free time only. Just as scheduling daily activities is important, so is scheduling free time.
Set rules for down time.Turn off your cell phone, for instance, or avoid email and social networking accounts. You can even purchase software that disconnects your internet access for pre-determined periods of time. These applications are meant for productivity, but can be used to schedule down time as well.

