 With the right programs and equipment, it's not difficult to measure the decibel level of a sound using your computer. Listed below are just a few ways to do this. Note that better recording equipment will always give you better results — in other words, while your computer's default internal microphone may be sufficient for some tasks, a high-quality external microphone will be much more accurate.


If you're on Windows 8, try downloading the free Decibel Reader app from the Microsoft App store. The app uses your computer's microphone to read noises up to 96 decibels.Similar devices are available from the iTunes app store for Apple products.You can also try using a third-party program to measure decibels. For instance, Audacity, a free sound recording program, includes a simple built-in decibel meter , For measuring sound levels on the go, mobile apps can be extremely convenient. Though the microphone on your mobile device isn't as likely to be as high-quality as the sorts of external mics you can connect to a computer, they can be surprisingly accurate. For instance, it's not uncommon for readings from mobile apps to be within 5 decibels of the readings from professional equipment.Below is a brief list of decibel-reading apps available for common mobile platforms:


For Apple devices: Decibel 10th, Decibel Meter Pro, dB Meter, Sound Level Meter
For Android devices: Sound Meter, Decibel Meter, Noise Meter, decibel
For Windows phones: Decibel Meter Free, Cyberx Decibel Meter, Decibel Meter Pro

, Though it's not usually cheap, perhaps the most direct, accurate way to find the decibel level of a sound you with to analyze is to use a decibel meter. Also called a "sound level meter", this specialized tool (available from online retailers and specialty stores) uses a sensitive microphone to measure the amount of noise in the environment and give you a precise decibel value. Since there isn't generally a large market for these tools, they can be somewhat expensive — often at least $200 even for low-cost models.Note that decibel meters/sound level meters can go by other names. For instance, another type of tool called a "noise dosimeter" performs basically the same function as a standard sound level meter.

