 In some cases, you don't need to reinvent the wheel. Others have created lists of great story ideas for you to build off. Story starters or story prompts are pre-written scenarios or phrases you can use as jumping-off points for stories. You can find story starters as exercises in writing classes, in writing group newsletters, or online.
 Pick a word (e.g. farm, president, chalk, hungry, daughter...etc.). It doesn't matter what that word is. Then write down as many words that relate to it. For a fixed period of time. Set a timer for 5 to 15 minutes, then write down as many story ideas as you can think of before the timer sounds.
Challenge yourself to write down a large number of ideas, such as 50 to 100. Keep writing ideas down until you've met your goal. You can also challenge yourself to write this many ideas for a fixed period of time, provided you allot yourself a reasonable amount of time to do so. # Be sure to allow yourself enough time and put in enough effort to come up with a reasonable amount of possible ideas. In most brainstorming sessions, the majority of your ideas won't be worth pursuing. Keep at it.
Whichever brainstorming method you use, don't stop along the way to evaluate the ideas you've generated until your time is up or your goal is met. At that point, you can then review the lists you've made and pick out what works best to you. You can also then identify any related ideas and see if they generate any additional ideas.
For instance, you could begin with the word "storm". Then you list words that relate to "storm" like: wind, water, damage, clouds, danger...etc. Then pair one of those words with your original and try to tell a story about it.
 Take the name of a person or place from the newspaper, the phone book, or somewhere else and then imagine what he, she, or it would look like.


Build a backstory. For a person, this would include information about their line of work, friends, family, aspirations, and fears. For a place, you could discuss the area's geography, local history, population, and wildlife. Then, add an element of conflict, a problem that plagues the person or happens in the place you've created. Build a story about what happens as a result.Write backwards. Alternatively, you may know the outcome of a story. Now make a list of possible reasons why the character is so angry. Choose the most interesting possibilities and flesh them out, defining the event that triggered the rage and the prior events that led to it. Add more specifics to each step until you finally have the elements of a story.
 Instead of trying to write the story right away, act as though you're talking to somebody else, either by carrying on a conversation in your head or by talking into a recording device. Try to think of what questions another person might have about your idea or story. Transcribe the results of that conversation onto the page.
 For whom are you writing this piece? You will choose topics differently if you are writing for adults vs children, Americans vs Canadians, highbrow vs lowbrow people, or men vs women. Try to think about your audience's preferences and then go from there., Are you trying to entertain? Are you trying to inform? If you can identify why you are writing something, you can build off that initial inspiration.