 Curls tend to fall out of hair that's a little oily, so don't use too much conditioner before you plan to curl your hair. Don't curl wet hair, either; as your hair dries, the curls will fall out, especially if your hair is long and thick.;
, Using direct heat from the curling iron can damage your hair, so it's a good idea to apply serum before you get to work. Serum meant to protect your hair from heat damage is available in the hair styling section of drugstores.
 If you want big, loose curls, use an iron with a bigger barrel. For tighter curls, choose one that has a smaller barrel. Either way, try to use a ceramic curling iron. These get hotter than other curling irons, creating a longer-lasting style for thick, long hair.
 Start with the hair that grows above your forehead, and wrap a two-inch section of hair around the barrel. Roll it over so that the hair gets pulled back from your forehead, not toward your face. Hold it there for three seconds, then remove the curling iron and use a pin to hold the curl in place.


Don't hold the curling iron in your hair for too long. Too much heat exposure can cause your hair to dry out.
If you have bangs, don't wrap them with the rest of your hair. They should be styled separately.
 Wrap it in two-inch sections around the curling iron, hold in place for three seconds, then slip out the iron and pin the curl to your head.









If you need help curling the back, ask a friend to help you out. It can be difficult to make neat curls on the back of your head.
For a tousled look, experiment with curling sections of your hair in different directions, rather than uniformly curling them toward the crown of your head.
 When all of your hair is pinned up in curls, spray it with hairspray. If you want tight curls that stay in place all day, use a maximum hold spray; for looser, more natural-looking curls, use a loose hold spray.
 After your hair has cooled from the iron, remove each of the pins and let the curls drop to your shoulders. Apply more hair spray if you wish. You can also run your fingers gently through the curls to make them look softer.








