 The calf might not show much interest in anything but the bottle at first, but it is important to keep fresh water and alfalfa nearby.The calf will soon become curious and begin nibbling at the alfalfa and sipping the water.


A salt or mineral lick should also be provided. You can find these easily at feed stores.
 This will help your calf get used to eating solid foods.The pellets can be purchased from a feed store.


Continue providing pellets for the calf until it is eight weeks old.
Fresh water and alfalfa should still be provided, as well as the salt lick.
If the calf is reluctant to eat the pellets, try putting a few in its mouth right after bottle feeding., Once the calf is two months old you can diversify its solid food by adding ground feed to the starter pellets. Continue giving the calf pellets mixed with ground feed from eight to twelve weeks of age.Ground feed can be purchased from a feed store or you can make your own.
To make your own ground feed, mix equal parts of ground corn, wheat bran, and oats with a bit of powdered molasses.Initially, just mix in a small amount of ground feed until the calf gets used to it. The, gradually increase the amount of ground feed as you reduce the amount of pellets.The calf should be fed two pounds of the pellet and ground feed mixture daily.Continue providing water, alfalfa, and salt. You can also let the calf begin grazing on green pasture grass rather than give it alfalfa., At this point, the calf should be given two quarts of formula or milk by bottle just once a day.Let the calf pasture graze daily.


Continue providing ground feed or grains, fresh water, and salt.
At this point, you can choose to offer ground feed or grains without any starter pellets.
 At four months of age, the calf should be getting enough nutrition from the grains and alfalfa or pasture grass to no longer need bottles of formula or milk. You can stop giving the calf the bottle at this point. Be sure to provide enough grains (ground feed) daily based on the calf’s weight and allow it out to pasture daily.