 You should be able to trust a true friend and they should return this trust. Does your friend confide in you? Tell you secrets that no one else knows? Let you share secrets? Ask you for advice? These are sure signs that your friend trusts you. However, if your friend hides things from you and acts secretive, this could be a sign that they do not trust you, but it could also mean your friend keeps to themselves or doesn't like to reveal too much about themselves. Of course, we all need a friend who we can be confident in confiding in. People who trust are usually trustworthy people themselves.;
, How comfortable is your friend when they are around you? Watch them, are they being themselves or are they timid around you? Are they acting fake - perhaps hiding an insecurity? True friendships can take a while to develop, but if your friend is true they should feel comfortable around you, and vice versa.
 This is not meant in a romantic way, but consider whether your friend is comfortable with touching you. If your friend is fine with hugging you, leaning on you, resting their head on your shoulder, and so forth, then you can be almost certain they love you in a platonic way and are, therefore, a true friend.


If your friend shies away from physical contact, there are various reasons for it. They may not be comfortable around you yet, they may be insecure or shy, they may dislike touch, and so forth. It varies among people.
 True friends are always there for one another. If you are in need of a helping hand, your true friends should be there to offer it to you. True friends do not "backstab" and do not try to get one another into trouble. You should be able to trust a friend with anything, knowing that they will be by your side. During a fight, a true friend will remain loyal and will not reveal your secrets.
 Nearly all best friends fight, so if you and your friend have a little dispute, don't sweat it! True friends will remain faithful and find their way through a fight, no matter what the size. They will not tell each other's secrets and they still care about each other. If you have found yourself a true friend, it should be easier to sort out your differences and move on from a fight (depending on the severity of the fight).
 Some friends enjoy insulting or teasing each other in a friendly way. If you and your friend "insult" each other without either of you feeling offended, then they may be a true friend. If you insult your friend in a playful way, they should know that you are not serious - this comes under trust. (Keep in mind, however, that not all friends do this.)

, A lot of close friends love to give each other nicknames! If your friend is giving you nicknames, this is a great sign - it shows they care enough to actually think of one for you. If you are given a nickname, try to think up one for your friend in return - nicknames should come naturally. Think of the nickname your friend has given you. Does it suit you well? If so, this shows your friend must know you quite well and is a good sign.


If your nickname isn't such a great one or is insulting, be sure to let your friend know if you are offended.
 Best friends usually have a never-ending list of inside jokes. An inside joke shows that you share a special connection with your friend that others don't. It also shows that you have enough fun and spend enough time with your friend to develop such jokes. An inside joke should be between the two of you, and should also be a cherished memory.

