 When harvesting corn for seed purposes, the corn is usually ready to harvest four to six weeks after you would harvest it to eat.

The husks should be brown, dry, and papery before you harvest the corn. The stalk does not have to be fully brown yet, however.






Note that any corn harvested for seed must first be pollinated.
 As with corn harvested for eating or for popcorn, the process for removing the ears off the stalk is quite simple. Hold the stalk with one hand while twisting the ear off with your other hand. You should be able to remove the ear easily by bending it down and twisting it side to side.


Shears or other garden tools should not be needed.
 Pull the husks back to expose the kernels underneath. Store the corn in a cool, dry location until the kernels are completely dry.Place the corn in mesh bags and hang them in a dry, cool area for a month or two. Check the corn periodically through this stage starting at the third week. After you check the first time, check the corn once or twice a week until it is ready.






You can check the corn by twisting off a few kernels. Place the kernels in a small plastic container or bag and seal it. Put the container in the refrigerator and watch it for a day or two, noting whether or not any condensation forms. If condensation forms, the corn is not yet dry enough. If none forms, the kernels are dry and ready for shelling.
 When the corn has dried sufficiently, grab the ear in both hands and twist them firmly yet carefully. The kernels should drop off without much effort.

Any silk or chaff that remains should be filtered out before it drops into the container.






Clean shelled kernels by rinsing them. Place the on top of a screen with 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) gaps, placed on top of a screen with 1/4 inch (0.625 cm).Dry completely after cleaning the corn.
 Place the dried kernels in an airtight container. Seal and store in a dry, dark, and cool location until you plan to plant them.

When stored under the right conditions, corn seed can stay usable for five to ten years.

