 If your teen is procrastinating on tasks at home, be clear in what you expect of them. When it comes to school, you may tell your child that you expect them to put in a good effort, not just get all A’s. If you ask your teen to clean the kitchen, be specific in what needs to be done such as washing the dishes, clearing the counter, washing the floor, etc.If you have certain expectations for their role at home, put these things in writing so that they can reference them if they need to.
 A large project may seem overwhelming to your teen, and the thought of starting it may worry them, leading them to avoid it. If your child is delaying a project, encourage them to start working on it. They don’t necessarily have to complete the whole task, but they can at least complete a part of it.For example, help your teen break down their research assignment by having them first choose a topic then researching it and writing notes. Once it comes time to write, help them create an outline and fill it in. Make sure, however, that you aren’t the one doing the actual work!

, Your teen might wait until the last minute to start a project, only to run out of time or do a sloppy job in order to finish. If your teen tends to underestimate the time needed to complete something or think they have plenty of time to finish, help them learn to better manage their time. For example, have them plan extra time than they think they might need to account for any problems that might occur.For example, if your child thinks they need two hours to write a paper, tell them to plan for two and a half hours so that they can properly edit and review it.
 From supplies to ideas, help your teen get organized. When doing homework, make sure your teen has all the necessary things nearby, like a pen, pencil, calculator, or other items. Create a box or area for school supplies or project supplies. Encourage your teen to use sticky notes as a way to remember what needs to get done or go with them in the morning.If your child really struggles to get organized, color code things and have a system for what goes where and what comes first.
 Have an area set aside specifically for doing their homework. If your teen usually works at the kitchen table yet is easily distracted by the television, pets, siblings, or other things, move their homework area. Choose a space that is quiet and clutter-free. It should be well-lit and comfortable, yet not distracting.Put a desk or table in a quiet place in your home and designate this the homework space.
Consider having your teen turn off their phone during study time and use a program or browser extension that allows you to block certain distracting sites.

