 Shotguns in particular can produce devastating consequences when discharged negligently, so pay special attention to rules 2 (watch where you point that thing!) and 3 (finger off the trigger!).
 Depending on whether your shotgun is tube-fed (utilizing a tubular magazine permanently affixed to the shotgun), magazine-fed or break-open, this procedure will vary.


On most common tube-fed shotguns like the Mossberg 500, Remington 870 or Remington 1100, shotgun ammunition or "shells" are loaded into a cavity at the bottom of the shotgun's receiver. Place a shell on the lifter - the metal lever sitting inside this cavity - and Insert a shell with the base of the shell towards the back of the shotgun. Push the shell down and forward firmly until it clears the lifter and loads into the magazine tube.
On a magazine-fed shotgun like a Saiga 12 or Akdal 1919, the loading procedure is identical to that of a rifle - insert shotgun shells into the magazine and then insert the magazine into the shotgun.
On a break-open shotgun design, a mechanical release will cause the shotgun to swing open, allowing access to the shotgun's chamber.
 In a pump-action or semi-automatic shotgun, this will mean working the pump or the bolt handle to load a shell into battery. For magazine fed shotguns you will need to operate a charging handle in a fashion similar to a semi-automatic magazine-fed rifle.
 Bring your shotgun up to your shoulder in a smooth motion, while being aware of rule 2 (watch what your gun is pointing at!) and look down the top of the barrel.
 Unlike rifles and handguns, shotguns often have very simple sighting systems.


For a shotguns with a bead sight, your eye will act as the rear sight for the shotgun; you will verify alignment of your barrel with your target using the top plane of the barrel. Focus your eye on the front bead and level the shotgun at the target so that the top of the barrel is either completely or partially hidden, depending upon the type of shotgun.
On a shotgun with rifle sights, ghost ring sights or similar "iron sights", focus your eyes on the front sight as with a rifle and place the front sight upon the desired point of impact.
For shotguns with red dot sights or scopes, follow the same procedure as for rifles with these types of sights.
 Follow the same rules for trigger safety with shotguns as you would with any other firearm - finger off the trigger unless you're shooting!


Depending on the type of shotgun you have, there may be more than one trigger, or the trigger may actuate more than one firing mechanism (for instance in over-under or side-by-side shotguns). Use the same safety precautions for these triggers as before, and remember rule 1 (the gun is always loaded!).
 As with rifles and handguns, many shotguns will lock back the bolt when the shotgun is empty, indicating that it needs to be reloaded.


A tube-fed shotgun may require that a shell be placed in the chamber, or the bolt be allowed to go forward on an empty chamber, before shells can be loaded into the magazine tube.

