 Social media pages can help you drum up support for your project or organization. You also can advertise the donations of businesses who have pledged their support.Seek connections with local businesses that your research indicates are in tune with the goals for your project or your organization at large.
Ask individual connections to point you to other businesses or organizations that might be interested in your ongoing projects.
 Showing up at community events and making your presence known with local business organizations is a way to get your project or organization noticed without doing a lot of extra work.Focus on community events or business networking functions that have something to do with your project or organization. For example, if you're raising money to build an animal shelter, you might go to community dog shows or talk to local pet stores and dog groomers.
Don't hassle people for donations at an event – they'll feel as though you are putting them on the spot, and you'll leave a bad impression. Instead, simply tell them about your project or organization and offer to send them more information if they're interested.
 People often love when they're treated like an expert and asked for advice. If your project or organization needs any assistance, or if you have a problem you can't figure out, asking a business leader is also a good way to drum up support.For example, suppose you've asked a local real estate agent for advice on finding a suitable building for an animal shelter you want to build. The real estate agent points you to a few great locations. Let them know you still need donations. Since the agent has helped, they may now feel they have a vested interest in seeing your project succeed.
 Even if you were only soliciting a donation for a single, short-term project, keep in touch with the business owner or representative. This communicates that their donation is appreciated.Send out an email newsletter updating everyone who donated on the progress of your project, or the status of your organization. Talk about your accomplishments and how the donations are being used.
You also can send birthday or holiday cards to your donors to express appreciation. Treat your donors – both individuals and businesses – as though they are part of the family.
Patronize the business and encourage others to do the same. Tell people to let the business owner know that you sent them.

