 Use an eyebrow brush here. Gently run it through your eyebrow, using light stroking motions, to brush each eyebrow smooth. It's important to start with a nice smooth brow before applying glitter., Take the glue out of your glitter brow kit. As the glue will dry fast, you're going to be applying glitter and glue in sections. To start, you should apply some glitter on the corner of each eyebrow nearest to the bridge of your noseUse the applicator that came with your glitter brow kit. Apply the glue in quick swiping motions.
Only apply glue about a centimeter into your eyebrow.
 Take the glitter that came with your glitter brow kit. Use the applicator designed to apply the glitter. You will now apply glitter to the corners of each eyebrow. Remember to work quickly, as you don't want the glue to dry before you're done applying glitter. Choose the lightest color glitter from your kit for the corners of your eyebrows.Apply the glitter using light, dabbing motions to each eyebrow.
If the glitter looks a little sparse, don't worry. You will go over the eyebrows again when you're done.
 Choose a darker color to proceed. You want your eyebrows to get darker as they move away from your nose. This creates a nice ombre effect that can look fun and festive.Keep in mind, you can do your eyebrows all in the same color if you choose. However, many glitter brow kits are designed to produce an ombre effect.
 Move another centimeter inward. When you're done, about half of your eyebrow should be covered in glue and glitter.Remember to apply the glue in quick, swiping motions and gently dab on the glitter. Again, you will be apply a top coat when you're done, so don't worry if the glitter is a little sparse.
Work quickly so you can get the glitter on before the glue dries.
 Choose the darkest color from your glitter brow kit. Move to the end of each eyebrow, applying the glue and then the glitter. You should now have one layer of glitter on your eyebrows., While the glue will not be as sticky as it was last time, it should still be wet enough for another light layer of glitter. Dab on another layer of each color to fill in gaps and finish your glitter brow look., You probably got some glitter around your eyebrows and forehead. Dust this off after applying glitter brows.Use a clean mascara brush to dust glitter from your forehead and the space below your eyebrows.
Use gentle, swiping motions to remove glitter.
 Concealer can help highlight the skin around your eyebrows, making the effect more dramatic. Take a thin, angled brushed and apply a line of concealer that outlines each eyebrow.After you have an outline, use the same brush to dab around the outline and blend the concealer into your regular skin tone.
Keep blending until there are no visible lines left by the concealer.
 Some people have reported hair loss when removing glitter brows. Remember, the glue used is a powerful adhesive. Take your your time and remove your glitter brows slowly, using a makeup wipe, to avoid hair loss., Never use an acetone-based makeup remover to get rid of glitter brows. There is a risk of acetone getting in your eyes, which can cause potentially serious health issues., To remove your glitter brows, take a makeup wipe and press against the brow. Work it into your brow using your fingers. From there, remove the wipe. This should take off the first layer of glitter.After the first layer of glitter is removed, use the makeup wipe to roll the glue from the corner of your eyebrow near your nose outward.
The glue should peel off in one solid chunk.

