 Stress can significantly impact your sleep, as well as your health overall.While lowering the amount of stress in your life is not always possible, try to reframe the stress to make it more manageable. Breathing exercises, connecting with other people, and time management can all help reduce stress. This can be a fairly cost effective method, assuming you don't have to give up a source of income in order to lower your stress.Working to reframe your stressful thoughts can also help lower the stress in your life. For instance, instead of saying to yourself “I only got 6 hours of work done today,” say “I am proud that I got six hours of work done, and I accomplished a lot in that time.”Lowering the stress in your life can help you sleep better.
 While there are strategies for dealing with stress on your own, if anxiety or depression is impacting your life in detrimental ways, including interrupting your sleep, you may need to see a mental health professional. They can teach you techniques that you will be able to use long term and help you decide if you need medication.While this is often not the cheapest method of dealing with sleep problems, it can be cost effective if it helps you address the root of the problem rather than just dealing with the symptoms.
 Frequent urination, trouble breathing, and chronic pain can all negatively impact your sleep.Your doctor may be able to recommend some home treatment as well as focus on treating the underlying issues that are causing you to have sleep issues. If you have a chronic condition that is affecting your sleep, the costs can vary widely, depending on the condition, the severity, and the treatment plan.
 Medications can often have side effects that affect your sleep. If it is a medicine you take long term, be sure to see a doctor to see what you might do, such as adjusting the dosage, changing the time you take it, or trying some other home remedies to alleviate the side effects. Again, assuming that you don't have to change from a less expensive medicine to a more expensive medicine, this may be a cost effective strategy for dealing with sleep problems., Aging will affect the sleep cycle, and it might be necessary to make adjustments to your lifestyle to help with sleeplessness or other sleep issues. Talking to a doctor will help you make the right decisions for your body, your lifestyle, and your overall health., Some severe cases of sleep apnea, for example, may require surgery. Don’t underestimate the impact of your sleeping problems. If you are unsure whether you need a doctor, you may call a nurse’s line to assess the situation from home. Many insurance providers now provide this service for free., There are support groups available for many common sleep problems, including sleep apnea and insomnia.A support group can help re-assure you that you are not a lone, and help you find resources you may not have known about. Sharing common experiences can also lead to less anxiety, and may help with sleep as well. This can be an inexpensive way to deal with sleep issues, as support groups are often free to attend.