 If your child has some sight but is visually impaired, this activity can be a fun way to create bold abstract art with a group of kids. For this project, you'll need large white paper, paints, tennis balls, and a small plastic wading pool.Use puffy paint or add sand to the paint to incorporate a tactile dimension for kids who are blind.
Pick paints in bold colors, and secure the paper to the bottom of the wading pool. Have the kids dip the tennis balls in the paint, then drop them in the pool and roll them around.
It helps to have several kids for this project, especially if they're younger, so they can lift and move the pool together. This also teaches them cooperation.
 Scented crayons and markers incorporate the sense of smell into the art project, helping your blind or visually impaired child distinguish between colors by associating them with a particular smell.You can buy scented crayons or markers at specialty arts and crafts stores as well as many discount stores.
If you buy more than one set of crayons or markers, make sure the scents and colors match up. Having the same color with two different smells can cause confusion.
 Collages are a great way to incorporate different textures, and help your child further develop their sense of touch. Many blind or visually impaired children also enjoy working with glue and sticky surfaces.Prepare the collage surface by covering it with glue using a glue stick, or using double-sided sticky tape. That way the whole surface is sticky and the child can place objects anywhere they want.
Use a variety of different textures, and talk to your child about the different textures and where they are commonly found. For example, you might include something soft and fuzzy, a piece of felt, and pieces of sandpaper.
 You can buy coloring books or sketchbooks with raised lines, so your blind or visually impaired child can experience coloring objects by feeling the edges. You also can trace the lines of a regular coloring book with puffy paint pens to get the same effect.Scented crayons or markers allow the child to have a better understanding of the colors they are using.
Have the child trace the lines with their finger and talk about what object is represented by those lines.
 Visually impaired children will be better able to differentiate colors if you simplify your color palate and only use colors that contrast sharply with each other, such as red and blue.If your child or children who will be present at the play date are colorblind or have color sensitivity issues, keep those in mind as you choose your colors.
Keep contrast in mind with other items as well. For example, if you have a game involving Cheerios, place them on a navy blue or black surface so they will contrast sharply and be easier to see. Use white surfaces for dark or brightly colored objects.

