 Maybe you like intricate black jewelry, neon skinny jeans, and pink frilly shirts? Buy whatever it is that you like, and make sure not to follow the crowd. Trends are bad to follow too, as you're constantly changing and spending money. Only follow trends that you like, but remember that trends mean everyone is doing them so you aren't unique in that way.;
, It makes you look like an indecisive, fashion wanna-be if you change schemes everyday or week. If you can't decide, go with either a fashion that fits your personality, or one that's the total opposite of your personality (so that people are surprised when they find out you're actually a very tough girl under all that pink!).
 You can wear neon blue skinny jeans, platform boots, pearls, an off the shoulder dark blue shirt, and a flower headband all at once. Just make sure your outfit mostly resembles that of the fashion scheme that you picked. Don't be afraid to change it up and lean towards another style you've incorporated some days, it's all about what you want to do!

, Even if you really like something, it serves no purpose if it doesn't look good on you. Honest friends will actually tell you if they think something doesn't fit your figure. Also, never buy anything that you plan to wear once you lose ten pounds; there's a lot of reasons why. It could take you (depending on your personality) a year to lose the pounds, and by the time you pull out the clothing, you'll find it's out of style/you may not like it. Or you might not even end up losing the pounds!

, You don't want to rush into this, because not only will you come off as a fake, you might make some major fashion mistakes. Try starting off with changing the accessories, like headbands and jewelry, move onto accessory clothing, like vests and jackets, and then the core clothing.
 If you like to run around and scream whilst wearing chains and lace, continue to do so! Same with dressing totally girly, while being into football and sports. Just because you change your outfit doesn't mean you need to change your personality. You should feel happy and freer with your new fashion choices!

