 While you can buy clothing designed specifically for climbing, any regular workout apparel typically will be just fine at a rock climbing gym. There's no need to invest in a whole rock-climbing wardrobe, especially if you're just trying out a local climbing gym.Your clothes should fit well (you can't adjust a shoulder strap during a climb), but loosely enough to allow for full range of motion.


If you are wearing long trousers or long sleeves, they should fit fairly close at ankles and wrists.
Wear moisture-wicking fabrics to avoid chafing and other skin irritations.
While some people are fine wearing shorts for indoor climbing, keep in mind that the harness can cause them to ride up. For modesty reasons, you may prefer ¾ length or capri length pants, or leggings with shorts over them.
Climbing shoes are recommended, but in most gyms regular sneakers or running shoes will work as well. Many gyms also allow you to rent shoes, in addition to other gear.;
, If you have no experience rock climbing, bouldering may be less intimidating for you. This style of climbing involves shorter walls, and doesn't require you to use any harnesses or other equipment.The floors below bouldering walls are covered with thick padding to protect you if you fall.
Because of the lack of equipment, bouldering can be a great introduction to the sport of rock climbing and allow you to work into more advanced climbing at your own pace.
Bouldering also may be more attractive to you if you're afraid of heights.
 Most climbing gyms offer a training course to teach you knots and equipment use, as well as provide you with vital safety information. You may be required to pass a basic safety test before you're allowed to climb.Many of these lessons relate to belaying. If you're just going bouldering, you'll probably still have a minimal amount of instruction before they let you loose on the wall.
Read any materials you're given carefully, and pay attention to the gym staff as they explain equipment and techniques to you. Speak up if you have any questions or concerns, and don't worry about sounding stupid. The staff knows you're there to learn, and much of rock climbing's safety relies on communication and trust between climbers.
Practice knots and get familiar with the gear before you start climbing. If you feel uncomfortable in the harness, speak to someone on staff about adjusting it.
 Like any sport or discipline, rock climbing uses a lot of words and phrases that may be completely unfamiliar to you. Additionally, you may hear words you know that are used in a different way to mean something specifically related to rock climbing.If you don't understand something, or if it doesn't seem to make sense in the context, ask what it means. Gym staff understand that you're a beginner, and will be more than happy to "translate" or define unfamiliar terms.
For example, you may be familiar with the word send in other contexts, but in rock climbing it means that you've climbed a route from the ground up without falling. If you do that on your first try, that's called a flash.
When climbers or gym staff talk about beta, they're referring to the basic information about a climb, such as its difficulty, style, or length, along with advice on how to complete it successfully. The beta helps you plan mentally for your climb before you begin your ascent.
If you hear someone talking about "rock shoes," they're referring to specific, light climbing shoes with smooth soles made of sticky rubber for extra grip on the footholds., The holds on rock climbing gym walls are marked with colored tape to identify the route. Each of these routes is graded using a standard grading system, so you can pick a route that best corresponds to your skill level.In the United States, the Yosemite Decimal System is used. The system starts at 5.0, and the higher the decimal, the more difficult the climb. The system is open-ended, so theoretically there could be a 5.30 or even 5.50 route, but the most difficult most gyms will have will be a 5.15.
If you're using a rock climbing gym in another country, be sure to ask what grading system they use, so you'll have a better understanding of how to choose your route.
The way the route system is designed, you pick the color that corresponds to the route you want, and you can complete the route by using only the hand and foot holds marked with that color of tape.
 Most rock climbing gyms have all the equipment you'll need available to rent for a small additional fee. However, if you start using the rock climbing gym on a regular basis, it may make sense for you to buy your own gear.The rock climbing gym you visit may have its own shop where you can purchase gear for your personal use. You also may be able to find rock climbing gear at outdoor specialty shops or even general sporting goods stores.
One of the advantages of buying your own gear is that you can customize the gear to your own personal preferences, and you won't have to spend time adjusting each time you go climbing.
If you plan on moving your climbing outdoors, you'll definitely need to buy your own gear. Talk to experienced climbers and gym staff to find out the best places near you that sell the gear you need.
 If you've decided to stick to bouldering, you don't necessarily need anyone to climb with you. However, if you decide to move onto belaying or rope climbing, you may want your own partner rather than having to pay for staff assistance every time you go to climb.Most climbing gyms require both of you to take a class on belaying before you'll be permitted to do it, even if your partner is only belaying you and won't be climbing themselves.
Part of the role of a good partner is to help guide you, so it helps if you choose a partner who also is interested in the sport of rock climbing, even if they don't plan on doing any indoor climbing themselves.
Trust also is a big factor with belaying, so make sure your partner is someone you trust – especially if they have less experience with rock climbing. If you hook up with someone at the climbing gym who has a lot of experience, you can trust that they will use that experience to help you and keep you safe.
 When you think of rock climbing, you may think the point is to climb higher and higher until you reach the top. However, if you focus on going around the gym at roughly the same height, you can help build muscle endurance.As you move around the gym, try to keep your movements continuous. You don't have to go at a sprint, and it doesn't matter whether any particular move is challenging or easy, as long as you are in continuous motion.
Make sure you're using proper technique. Your goal shouldn't be to wipe yourself out, but rather to get your muscles used to doing climbing movements correctly for long periods of time.
 When you're building endurance, keeping time isn't about racing – it's about lasting as long as you can on the wall with good technique and form. Build endurance by gradually increasing the length of time you're on the wall every couple of sessions.Start with shorter, 10- or 15-minute sessions – especially if you're new to rock climbing. Go for that length of time for two or three sessions, then add a couple of minutes.
Focus on your technique and continuous movement, not on going as fast or as far as you can in the time period.
 Once you've mastered continuous movement with proper technique, take your bouldering to the next level by completing routes as quickly as possible.Start with the easiest routes and work your way up in difficulty. Doing shorter routes as intervals makes this workout a lot like high-intensity interval training (especially if you add intervals of other exercises between your climbs).
Short bursts of high-intensity activity will help build muscle, and the high intensity of your exercise will help you increase your muscular endurance over time.
The mental challenge of following the route (while still moving continuously, and as quickly as possible) also helps you build the focus you need for continued concentration over longer periods of time.
 Rope climbing requires a partner to belay on the ground below. Ascending walls as high as 50 feet can be the ultimate in muscular and cardiovascular endurance – think of it as the marathon of rock climbing.You typically want to have a solid background in bouldering before you make the move to rope climbing. You need to build up the strength in your muscles, particularly your forearms and your grip strength.
When you first start, you'll feel the muscles in your upper body working harder than your lower body. The tendency of most beginners is to try to pull themselves up, rather than using their lower body to push.
As you get more practice, rope climbing will become an intense exercise in endurance while evenly working and conditioning your entire body.
Keep in mind that most rock climbing gyms require you to complete training and take an additional test before you'll be allowed to belay., The campus boards involve climbing a series of rungs affixed to a board using only your upper body as your legs swing free. Using gravity and your body weight as resistance, campus boards are a tremendous way to build upper body and grip strength.Some campus boards hang flat on a wall, while others are set at an incline for a more difficult challenge.
You can simply ascend the campus boards, or you can move across them. For a real challenge, go in a box formation: up one side, then across, down the other side, then across to your starting point.
You also can increase the difficulty by skipping rungs, or by gripping only with two fingers.
 Hangboards consist of different types of grips, each of which can be used to practice a different type of hold. You can find them in many rock climbing gyms, and they're used to build strength in your hands and fingers and improve your grip strength.Use holds no more than a fingertip deep, so you're hanging by your fingers. Contract your muscles to make sure you're not hanging directly off your joints. Hang with your fingers straight on the board, rather than angled or crimped under your thumb.
Do repetitions by doing different hangs for a couple of seconds, gradually increasing the number of seconds you're able to hang. You should do a variety of hangs, from four-fingered hangs to two-fingered hangs. Use different combinations of fingers as well.
When you can successfully hang for several seconds, increase the resistance by strapping on weights.
 Indoor climbing walls use a number of different molded holds to simulate the grips you'll find on actual rock faces in the outdoors. Each of these holds trains your grip in a different way, building strength and flexibility in your hands, wrists, and forearms.Not only should you practice with different holds, but you also should practice gripping them in different ways. For example, many of the holds are pocket holds with bowls for your fingers to fit inside. If you can grip a pocket hold with your whole hand, it can be one of the easiest – but doing it with only a couple of fingers will increase your finger and grip strength.
You also should incorporate slopers, large holds that require you to use the muscles in your palm to grasp them with a mostly flat hand while keeping your body close to the wall.
Try the holds from different angles as well, so you can get used to adjusting your body weight and staying close to the wall.
 If you're already doing bouldering sprints, intersperse them with five-minute intervals of exercises that will fatigue your muscles. Doing a bouldering sprint after your muscles are already fatigued will build strength as well as muscle endurance.Push-ups and pull-ups are exercises that build strength and power in your upper body.
Exercises such as planks and mountain climbers build strength in your core and lower body.Challenge yourself to do a bouldering route in five minutes, then immediately do five minutes of push-ups and pull-ups. Do another bouldering route, then immediately do another interval of lower-body or core exercises such as planks. After that, do another bouldering route.

