 This gives them the chance to listen to your thoughts. (They won't know that you disagree if you don't tell them.) Explain what you're worried about, and try to work together to solve the issue. Are there changes that could be made that could make you both comfortable with the situation?


"Honey, I'm worried that putting our daughter in a naughty corner would make her feel bad about herself, instead of giving her space to consider why her actions are wrong. What if we talked to her and gave her some calming down time instead?"
"I'm having a hard time with this article. I'm worried that if I push myself to complete it by Friday, I'll overwork myself and end up with a rush job that doesn't read well. Could I turn it in on Monday instead?"
"Jacob, an eating disorder is serious business. You need to tell someone. I'll help you if that makes it easier. If you don't let someone know, then I will, because I care about you and want you to be safe."

, It's better for your relationship if you directly tell the person that you disobeyed them, instead of letting them wait to hear it from someone else. Talk to them face to face, or write a note or email explaining.


"I just wanted to let you know that I modified the robot design. It kept getting stuck on tables, so I added a bumper. Feel free to take a look."
"I don't feel comfortable putting my daughter through an intensive program. Yes, I know she's disabled, and she certainly needs extra support. But she's also a child, and I want her to have the opportunity to enjoy her childhood."
"I told your brother about your suicidal thoughts. I did so because it hurts me to see you hurting so much without getting help, and I'm scared of losing you. I want things to get better for you."

, Disobeying them doesn't mean that you need to cut off the relationship. Take time to listen to their concerns, and validate their feelings (even if you disagree with them). Treat this as a simple difference of viewpoint.


Acknowledge their concerns as important and meaningful.
Use a respectful tone of voice.

Use "I" language. For example, instead of "You make me so angry," say "I feel frustrated and belittled when you criticize my clothing choices."

, It could be anything from calm respect to anger, and it depends on the person and situation. Accept their response, listen to what they have to say, and accept punishment if it is fitting. You did your best.


If you believe their actions are unfair, explain your concerns. If they refuse to listen, it may be time to talk to an authority figure or mentor to get help.
If the person is acting cruel or abusive, or if you feel unsafe, this is a serious problem. You may need to distance yourself or break things off completely.

