 Have your shield ready on one of your controller’s Action buttons. Press the “Start” button on the controller of whatever Nintendo console you’re using to open its menu.


Using the Arrow buttons, select the shield from the list of items you have and press the Action button you want to assign it to, like X or Y (Wii), or A or B (Game Boy).
Press the “Start” button once more to go back to the gameplay.;
, Stalfos won’t immediately attack you. It will circle around you and wait for an opportunity to strike. Just stay where you are and keep your eyes on the enemy. Make sure to watch its every move and be aware when it’s about to strike.
 Right at the moment Stalfos is about to strike you with its sword, press the Action button on your controller and use the shield to accept the full blow of Stalfos’ attack. This will send the enemy stepping back a couple of steps from where you are, losing its balance and dropping its guard.


Timing is the key to deflecting Stalfo’s strike, which is not very hard to do since this enemy’s moves are pretty much very predictable.
 Once you've hold off Stalfos’ strike, it’s time to fight back. Using your sword, quickly slash at the enemy while it’s still out of balance. Once you've damage Stalfos, it will quickly return back to its fighting stance.
 Ready your shield while Stalfos circles around you. This will tempt you to move away too, which you shouldn't do since it will only make Stalfos chase you instead of attacking you. Stay right where you are and ready your sword.
 Stalfos will suddenly stop moving, crouch, and get into a jumping position. This is your queue to prepare. Wait for it to leap into the air before you make a move.
 Once Stalfos leaps into the air, quickly press any of the directional arrow buttons on the controller to immediately jump out of the way. If you’ve dodged the attack on time, Stalfos will only hit the ground, making the sword stuck and rendering it defenseless.


Just like deflecting a hack-and-slash attack, timing is also the key to successfully carrying out this counterattack.
 While the enemy is trying to pull its sword out of the ground, quickly strike it with your sword. Once you've inflicted damage, Stalfos will quickly return back to its fighting stance.

