 Consider starting with zucchini (green), patty pan (round) and crookneck (yellow) squash to get a variety of shapes and flavors.;
, If you have not checked what your hardiness zone is, go to http://planthardiness.ars.usda.gov/PHZMWeb/ Since squash is native to North America, it can grow in sunny summer seasons in zones three through 10.
 The answer will depend upon the amount of space you have and the climate where you live.


Consider purchasing squash seedlings or starts from the Farmer’s Market or garden centers if you have never grown it before. Purchase more than you need, since some may be lost in the transplanting process. Buy them two weeks after the last frost.
Start seeds inside if you have a shorter growing season. Start the seeds in peat seed pots two to three weeks before the last frost. Use warm water when planting to keep the soil above 60 °F (16 °C).
Plant seeds directly into the garden soil if you have a long, hot growing season. Plant them two weeks after the last frost.
 Amend your soil with compost before you plant. Squash like a nutrient rich, well-drained soil.
 Plant summer squash away from short plants, since the leaves are likely to shade and kill them. If you don’t have a lot of garden space, consider building a trellis.
 Space them three feet (1m) apart and at the edges of your garden bed to avoid overcrowding.Consider planting them in large, deep pots if you are worried about other plants.


Plant six seeds or three seedlings in each hill. You will need two to three plants to grow per hill, in order to pollinate the flowers and yield fruit.
If you are planting starts or seedlings, be sure to keep the entire root ball intact.
 Mulch can be made with straw, leaves or other material. It helps to drain the soil and provide nutrients to the hungry plants.Apply organic fertilizer once per month to improve your harvest.
 Squash plants can develop powdery mildew if sprinkled from above. If you only have a hose, water underneath the leaves.
 You can use a paintbrush to gather pollen from the male flowers and brush it into the female flowers. Squash blossoms can be harvested for use in recipes; however, you should ensure that they are pollinating well and only pick the male blossoms.Female blossoms mature into the fruit.
 Pick round squash at a diameter of less than eight inches wide. Larger squash will lose its sweetness and tenderness.
