 To position yourself for the Baby Freeze, you need to squat all the way down, low to the floor. Your legs should be a little less than shoulder-width apart with the weight on the balls of your feet.If this position is not comfortable, you can also start with one knee on the floor and the other leg bent with your foot on the ground. Make sure the foot on the ground is the same side as your strongest arm., To properly distribute your weight for the Baby Freeze, you need to position your arms correctly.Place your less strong arm on the other side of the opposite knee. Your leg will eventually rest on the back of that arm above the elbow.Use your dominant arm to take the brunt of the weight. The elbow will go into the side of your body, near the hip and below the rib cage., Keeping your arms in position (you may need to stretch out the dominant arm a bit), place your palms face down Place both of your hands on the ground on the outside of your dominant leg., Slowly tilt your body to the side, moving your legs away from your arms to balance yourself.Put your strongest arm back into position, resting it at a 90-degree angle firmly against your abs near your hip, fingers splayed slightly on the ground and pointing away from you.Your other arm should be about shoulder-width away from the first. It should also be at a 90-degree angle up against your knee, balancing your stance., Slowly lean your head towards the floor in front of your arms, resting your head on the mat.Once the side of your head is on the ground, shift most of your weight to your strongest arm, using the side of your head and other arm for balance. Both of your arms should still be bent.
 Once you feel comfortable, lift your legs off the ground, resting them on your non-dominant arm. Your leg should rest on the bicep.This step may take you a few tries. If your arm isn't strong enough to hold you for long, try doing it a little bit at a time until you get the hang of it.Make sure only the top part of your head is on the ground. Don't rest on your cheek., Once you've gotten your legs in the right position, you need to hold yourself in that position, the "freeze" part of the move., This move may take a while to get perfectly. Keep trying, building up the muscles in your arms and training yourself to balance. Once you completely master this move, you can use it as a transition between other breakdancing moves.