 Look on YouTube to see what videos are "Most Viewed" or "Most Subscribed." This will give you a chance to see what other kids are doing, and help with ideas about things you might do.Look for things you can do better than the kids in the video.
Think about if you can make alterations to something other people are doing to make it better, or more outrageous.
Talk to your friends and family for ideas. Maybe you can do something together with them. After all, even the most famous singer has a band and backup singers to help. You don't have to do this alone.
 You'll need to have videos to show people what you've done. This involves getting a video camera, and learning to record, edit and upload to the internet. Make sure the video has good sound quality. If it doesn't, consider adding music soundtrack.One video might be enough, or you might need to make several.
Make your video more interesting by adding cool effects like animation or stop-motion.
If you wouldn't be interested in watching your video, other people won't either. Be entertaining, funny, and friendly.
Don't break the law to do your idea, or your video won't be allowed on social media.
 Make yourself a website, a video channel, and get active on social media. Don't stick just to the most popular social networks, but seek out trendy new social networks.Don't share your personal phone number, home address or other personal information about where people can find you on these websites. Not only is this unsafe, but it makes you seem less popular.
Make sure that everything about you online supports the idea of yourself you're trying to market. For example, if you're trying to become famous for gymnastics, make sure that people get to see you doing a lot of gymnastics, not getting drunk at a party.
Seek out other people on social media. Twitter is a great medium for marketing yourself directly to other famous people. Don't overdo it though, or you'll be a pest. It's a fine line between promotion and spam.
 There is a well-known expression by the artist Andy Warhol: "In the future, everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes." Being famous isn't always a long-lasting thing. It might only last a day or two, or it might last for several weeks or more.Learn from other famous people. What do they do, once they're no longer as famous as they once were? Find the role models who live the life that seems good to you.
You might notice that being famous is not so easy. Constant attention may seem like a good thing, but it can be exhausting. Depending on what kind of celebrity you are, you'll have different constraints on your activities, what you do and the way you present yourself. Once fame passes, you won't have to worry about this as much.
 If you become famous, this will impact your family. You want to make sure that they will continue to support you. Being part of your family will always last longer than being famous. This is true for the most famous celebrities, and it's also true for you.Your family might help you with ideas. They might have noticed skills and talents you have, and help you think of ways to market them.
If you need help with transportation or paying for things, your parents might help with this.
If you're under 18, your parents might need to sign certain permissions for you. It will be good to have them on board beforehand, so that you're not busy explaining things to them at the last minute.

