 Before you can create a coded message, you will need to think of the message itself. You can encode any word or phrase using an acrostic code. However, you should try to keep your messages short. Longer messages can be difficult to encode and may be noticed by people that shouldn't see them.For example, you might want to hide a message like “HELP IN DANGER”
You would likely want to avoid a message like “PLEASE HELP ME I AM IN DANGER”.
 Building an acrostic will require you to break down each word into its individual letters. These letters will be inserted into a larger body of text. It's important that you use each letter of your phrase or word in the acrostic code.If you wanted to hide the word “HELP”, you would need to use H, E, L, and P in your message.
Make sure you don't miss any letters, as this can change the code. For example, missing the letter L in “HELP” would result in the code reading “HEP”.
 Now that you have each letter of your word ready, you can begin building the code. Every letter will have its own sentence written after it. The code will be revealed by reading each first letter of every sentence. Make sure each letter is included in the document you are creating to ensure the code will be readable. As an example, imagine that you are trying to encode the word “HELP”.
Your first sentence would have to start with the letter H. “How is everyone at home?” would be a good choice.
The next sentence would need to start with the letter E. “Everything still going well in town?” could be used in this case.
Continue in this way until the message is fully encoded.
It's important that your sentences and message don't draw attention to the encoded message. Keep your tone and content neutral and natural.
 Complete the acrostic code and double check it. You will want to make sure that each letter of your original phrase or word is included. Every sentence in your document should start with a letter from your original message. If you read the first letter of each sentence, you should find your original message.If you missed any letters, add them to your encoded message to make sure it's readable.
Make sure you didn't add any sentences that aren't part of the code. This could change the meaning of the original message you were trying to encode.
“How is everyone at home? Everything still good? Looking forward to coming back. Please take care of my dog until then!” would be an example of encoding the word “HELP” using the acrostic method.

