 You can use herbal oils to spot treat pimples on your chest that need treatment. These essential oils have either antibacterial or antiseptic properties, meaning they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect the skin and cause pimples. Using these oils can help prevent the formation of pimples and help them heal. These oil treatments can dissolve the sebum that clogs up the pores and is part of the cause of acne.Try spearmint, peppermint, calendula, lavender, or tea tree oil.When making herbal oil treatments, you need to combine the essential oil with a carrier oil.Try hemp seed oil, safflower oil, mineral oil, castor oil, almond oil, avocado oil, olive oil, peanut oil, apricot kernel oil, camphor, hazelnut oil, grape seed oil, and evening primrose oil.
Combine the essential oil you chose with your choice of carrier oil. Mix 10 drops of the essential oils for every ounce of carrier oil.Dab the mixture on any problem areas.
Always test any herb for sensitivity before using. Add a drop of your chosen essential oil to about eight ounces of water. Take a cotton ball and soak it in the water. Squeeze out the excess water and apply to the cotton ball to your skin. Wait for about an hour and check for any skin reaction. If you have no reaction, you can go ahead and use the oil.;
, Apple cider vinegar can help treat acne on your chest and reduce red marks. Apple cider vinegar has antibacterial and antiseptic properties. It can also be used to spot treat pimples.Mix ½ cup of apple cider vinegar with ½ cup of water. If possible, use organic apple cider vinegar.
Wipe the toner over your chest with a cotton ball. Let it dry and do not rinse it off.
Store the remaining toner in a glass bottle. Keep it in a cool, dark place. Make sure to shake the toner before each usage.
 Sea salt is great to treat acne because it cleans the area and helps eliminate the acne-causing bacteria.Add one cup of sea salt to a tub filled with hot water. Try adding the sea salt to the running water so it will dissolve more easily. Soak your chest for at least 10 to 15 minutes.


Try a sea salt compress. Mix one cup of warm water with three tablespoons of sea salt. Stir well to dissolve. Soak the cloth in the sea salt water, and then place the cloth over your chest. Let it rest on your chest for three to four minutes. Remove and rinse. You can do this up to four times a day.Women should make certain they are soaking the skin under the breasts. This can be a particular problem for larger-breasted women.
If you want, add about three to five drops of one of the acne-fighting essential oils.
 Aloe juice has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, along with healing properties. To help your acne, cut a sliver from an aloe vera plant. Squeeze the gel from inside directly onto the acne on your chest., To help reduce acne, shower often, preferably once a day. This helps to remove bacteria, dirt, and sweat from your skin. Use a gentle product to clean yourself, like one labeled as non-comedogenic which means the product doesn’t promote the formation of acne. You can try washes from brands like Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay.If you sweat a lot, for example after a workout, you should take an extra shower afterwards.
 To help get rid of your chest acne, wash the fabrics that touch your skin. Sweat and dirt can clog pores. Wearing dirty clothes and bras or sleeping on dirty sheets can transfer bacteria to your skin and cause acne. Wash your clothes after you wear them, especially if you sweated in them.Make sure to wash your bedding regularly. This may mean once a week or every few days. This also may depend on whether you sleep shirtless or not and the severity of your acne. While you are trying to heal up your acne, consider washing your sheets more often. After it has cleared up, switch to washing it once a week.
If part of your chest acne is between your breasts, make sure to wash your bras often to help reduce the bumps.
 Chest acne may occur because of a reaction to the products you are using. Try switching your body wash or soap to one with less fragrances, dyes, or additives. Do the same thing for body lotions. Try baby lotion on your chest because it is made for sensitive skin.Try switching shampoo, conditioner, or hair products. Often, these products can end up on your chest.
Switch to a laundry detergent for sensitive skin, with fewer dyes and no fragrance.
 Chest acne can occur due to sweat or clothing that doesn't breathe. Cotton allows sweat to evaporate more efficiently. Excessive sweating and sweat trapped against your skin can make acne worse or cause it to appear. To help with chest acne, wear cotton shirts and cotton bras or clothing made from breathable material. Polyester shirts may hold bacteria from sweat that can cause acne.Use cotton sheets for bedding as well.

