 Every city's regulations about press credentials vary a little bit. Generally, you need press credentials from the police department to cover news events. That is, if you want to get behind the scenes to take pictures, talk to people, and gather information, you are probably going to need credentials of some sort from the police department. Therefore, start by contacting your city's police department or searching the department's website for information., In some cities, such as New York City, you will need to schedule an appointment to begin or renew your press credentials with the city. You will need to talk to a police officer or someone in the department who will verify that you are with the media., You will need to file an application with the city that provides basic biographical information, along with information about the nature of your work. The city will likely want to know about who you have worked for and what you have covered in the past.Often, you will need to pay a fee along with your application., Most departments require you to prove that you are in the media. To do so, you must provide examples of articles, books, blogs, or other media to show that you need access to crime scenes to continue your work. Most require that these examples be recent. For instance, in Los Angeles, they need to be in the last three months.If you are a new applicant, talk to the department about what you need to get credentials without having examples., If you freelance for different outlets, you may need letters stating that you have written for particular news outlets recently. These letters can be fairly basic, and your news outlets should be happy to provide them., Most of the time, you will, at least, be provided with a photo identification card. In addition, you may be provided with a special identification to place in your car, as well.Remember that only you are allowed to use these pieces of identification. They may be taken away if other people use them., Even with press credentials, you will likely not be let on certain crime scenes or in certain areas. Follow all orders given by the police officers on duty, or your credentials could be revoked.