 Most state lottery programs offer charts showing how often each number has been drawn during a given time frame. For instance, it shows how often the number 1 was chosen as a Powerball number between 1997 and 2015. You can view a Powerball frequency chart via the Iowa State Lottery. here).If you can look up the all-time frequencies, that's the best possible data set for you to analyze. It’s more comprehensive, and you should base your numbers on as large a time frame as possible.
There's no clear way to know if you should be looking up frequent winning numbers or numbers that come up less frequently. Look up both types of numbers and play sequences with a combo of both if you wish.
However, winning numbers that come up more frequently are likely to remain frequent winners. If you play a number that doesn't come up as frequently, then you simply may need to wait a while to see if it comes up when its "due" to win.
Make sure you're looking up the right frequency chart for the lottery game you plan to play. For instance, Powerball stats will differ from Mega Millions stats.;
, Review the numbers that are the most frequently chosen and the least frequently chosen. Review the odds for those as well as the numbers in between.After you've looked over the odds, you have two options:


Select numbers that are drawn frequently. If you notice that a few numbers stand out for being drawn significantly more often than the others, consider including them in your pick. Be aware, though, that several other people will be trying this tactic; if you win with frequently picked numbers, you might be at a greater risk of having to share the prize with other winners.
Select numbers that are drawn less frequently. Choosing numbers that aren't picked very often might seem counterintuitive, but consider this: If everyone else is busy picking frequently drawn numbers and you win with your “long-shot” picks, you might not have to share the prize with as many other winners.
 Looking at frequency charts might show you which numbers tend to be drawn, but keep in mind that when the actual lottery drawing comes around, each number still has an absolutely equal chance of being picked. It’s all in the luck of the draw.