 Mary-Jane shoes are the quintessential Lolita footwear. The shoes can be flat for a simple touch, or you can opt for high platform Mary-Janes if you want a more authentic and bolder style choice. Stick with black or white shoes for the most versatility, and pair the shoes with white knee-high or over-the-knee socks. Avoid sheer tights or ankle socks.
 The headdress should arch over your head like a headband. You can even opt for a headband, but look for a fabric band with lace or ruffles to mimic the Lolita style.
 An Alice bow refers to a large bow that sits at the center top of your head, based on the look of the titular character in Alice in Wonderland. You can also vary this style by wearing a large hair bow tilted off to the side, which may help the style blend more easily into your everyday attire.
 Small hair bows also call to mind Lolita fashion. Wear your hair in high pigtails and tie them up with fancy bows. Alternatively, look for a small, lacy hair bow to pin on the side of your head, regardless of your hairstyle.
 A hair corsage is a fancy flower arrangement you pin or weave into your hair. The flowers are usually made of cloth, and one or more cloth flowers can be used. Choose a more ladylike flower, like a rose, over a girlish flower, like a daisy.
 Find a decorative apron with frills, ribbon, bows, or lace. You can select a half-apron that only covers your skirt, or a full apron that also comes up over your torso. It should be decorative, however, and reminiscent of a stereotypical “French maid” apron, so ordinary kitchen aprons may not work.
 Pearls have an old-fashioned, classic aura to them, and ribbons call to mind a sense of demure femininity. If you wear jewelry, look for large pearl or mock pearl pieces held together by glossy satin ribbons. Make it stand out even more by choosing ribbons with a lace edging.



Brush a pale foundation over your face.
Dust your cheeks with a light pink blush.
Make your lashes stand out with a light coating of mascara.
Add a light pink lip gloss to your lips to complete the look.
Alternatively, skip the blush and outline your eyes in black eyeliner to create a Gothic Lolita look. Instead of pink gloss, opt for red lipstick, instead.

