 Interval tuning will make sure your strings are in tune with each other, but will not tune your bass to the actual pitch. Interval tuning is perfect for solo playing or for situations where you have no other method of tuning.


If you are playing with a group and nobody has a tuner, you could interval tune your bass and then have other players tune their instruments to yours. As long as everyone tunes to the same root, the players should sound in tune., This is also known as the E string. Playing the E string fretted at the fifth fret will produce a similar sound to that of its neighbor, the A string, when played unfretted (open). These notes should be the same. To achieve this:









Alternate between playing your fifth fretted E string and your open A string. Hold the two tones in your head as best you can.
Adjust the A tuning peg to change the A string to match the fifth fretted E string note. The A tuning peg, in most cases, will be the second from the body of the guitar., This is the D string. Now that A has been tuned to the E string, you can use A to tune D. Play A string while holding the fifth fret, then alternate and play the D string open. These tones should be the same. To tune your D string:









Play both notes and try to hold each in your head. The D string note will be tuned to the fifth fretted A string by adjusting its tuning peg.
The D string tuning peg should be the third closest to the body of your guitar. Turn the peg until the tone made by your D string matches that of your fifth fretted A string., This is also known as the G string. Since D has been tuned relative to A, you can use D to tune G. Fret D again while holding the fifth fret and play the note. Then play the G string open. Both these should be the same, so you'll need to:









Alternate between notes and try to hold both in your head. The G string pitch will need to be adjusted through its tuning peg.
The G string tuning peg is usually the farthest peg from the body of your guitar. Turn this peg while alternating between fifth fretted D and open G until the notes match. Your bass is tuned.