 Rosin is a mild adhesive that's used in string instrument playing to increase the friction between the hair of the bow and the string. The rosin temporarily "sticks" to the string until its limit of adhesion is reached, and then releases. When a bow is new, or has been rehaired, the initial layer of base rosin may take some time to get in place, depending on the "roughness" of the hair-string (stallion vs. mare, cold vs. warm climate, what the horses ate, etc.) it may take very little time, or quite a bit more time.


Rosin is basically the same substance that you see pitchers use on the pitching mound in a baseball game to increase their grip on the ball. It is generally produced as a refining by-product while distilling turpentine from tree saps (mostly various species of pine) - it's the goo that's left after the spirits have been evaporated off.
Contrary to many old beliefs, the hair does not have microscopic hooks that are raised up by rosin. Under a microscope, the hair looks like a swamp reed, with slightly ragged growth rings that themselves don't have enough friction to do any more that just tickle a whisper from a string. However, they do have enough friction to provide a way for the rosin to transfer and hold to the hair. Once there, the rosined hair will begin a succession of "grab and release" catches of the string to cause a somewhat sustained vibration of the string.;
, There are also various types of rosins, most notably by color: some are lighter, and some darker. The best rosin is the one that works best under the playing conditions you are presently experiencing, which is why many advanced players carry a variety of rosins with them to meet the needs of varying playing conditions.


As a somewhat general rule, darker rosins tend to be softer, melt at a lower temperature (like in the summer sun), and grip better in colder weather.
Very light rosins tend to be just the opposite: harder, work better in warmer weather where a darker rosin might tend to soften and became gooey while playing.
 Using new rosin on a bow depends on what instrument you have. You cannot use the same rosin from a cello or a bass on a violin's bow. The result would be a change in tone in your violin playing. If continued, this will render the violin's bow useless. However, it's okay to use a viola's rosin for a violin – or vice versa.

