 Aegean cats love to be outside and lie in the sun. In Greece, they often lay around the docks, interact with fisherman, and even fish for themselves. Because of their love of outdoors, you may consider setting up an enclosed area outside for your cat lay in the sun and even play in the water.This may be an enclosed deck or an enclosed area in your backyard.
You can put cat trees or shelves in your outdoor space to give your cat somewhere to lay in the sun. If you have small natural trees you can enclose in the area, you can use those. Just make sure your cat has room to roam and lay in the sun.
Make sure the enclosure doesn’t have any holes that your cat can get out of.
 Aegean cats are active and athletic cats. This means they need exercise every day to keep from getting obese. Daily exercise also helps your cat stay mentally stimulated. The breed should average around nine to ten pounds.You can use laser pointers and feather wands to play with your cat. You can also try to play fetch by throwing soft balls for your Aegean to chase.
Provide a scratching post for your cat. This gives them a way to play and exercise, and it helps keep their claws healthy.
 Aegean cats love to be active, and they can be quite independent. Placing cat trees or tall cat shelves around your home will let them expend energy and give them a way to get away by themselves if they want to.If you build an outdoor area for your cat, you can put cat trees, shelves, tunnels, boxes, or anything else in your outdoor space. Small natural trees enclosed in the area can provide climbing places.
 This breed is very social and friendly. They also love people. You should make point to spend time with your cat each day. Play with them, interact with them, and just enjoy being around them. Let them cuddle with you and curl in your lap when they want.Aegean cats are very vocal and like to talk to their owners. You can try talking to them and letting them vocalize back.
 Aegean cats love water and love to fish. If you have any open water areas in your home, make sure to secure them when you bring home your Aegean cat. Otherwise, they will get in the water and try to hunt for fish.If you have a fish tank or aquarium, make sure you secure it so the cat cannot get into it. If you have a koi or fish pond outdoors, make sure your cat cannot get to it.

