 Stress forces you to breathe faster and shallower than normal. When you practice deep breathing techniques, you will be able to lower your stress and cortisol levels. Abdominal breathing exercises for twenty to thirty minutes every day will significantly reduce anxiety and stress levels. Deep breathing increases oxygen flow to the brain, which stimulates a state of calmness. Mastering your breathing techniques will connect your body and mind while stopping the stress response caused by the release of cortisol.Combine deep breathing and visualization to stop the devastating effects of cortisol. Imagine holes in your feet where hot air can enter your body. Take a deep breath and visualize hot air flowing in from the holes and then throughout your body. Relax your muscles as you exhale, pushing the hot air back down your body and out the holes. This exercise takes six seconds to complete and is known as the “quieting response.”
Harmonize the body, mind, and emotions through specific natural rhythms of breathing. Rhythmic breathing techniques help eliminate stress, fatigue, and anger.
Try lying on your back and then place one hand on your chest and the other on your stomach. As you relax your entire body with your eyes closed, breathe in slowly through your nose. The hand on your stomach should rise (not the one on your chest). Hold your deep breath for three seconds and then release it. Do this exercise until you feel completely relaxed.;
, Taking a shower, fixing breakfast and lunch, getting the kids ready for school, putting your work clothes on, and dealing with rush hour traffic are just some of the responsibilities that might be part of your morning. Relax twelve minutes after you wake up before you begin the range of activities that get you ready for the day.Studies have shown that cortisol, “the stress hormone,” can be lowered by taking approximately twelve minutes in the morning to relax. Cortisol is often released early in the morning and is responsible for maintaining homeostasis.
Instead of jumping right into the workday by checking email messages or turning the computer, prepare a cup of tea and sit in the sunlight outside until you clear your mind.
 Mediation has long been known for its ability to help reduce stress and quiet the mind, but now mediation has been discovered to have a biochemical benefit: it can change brain chemistry to reduce cortisol levels, increase serotonin, and release endorphins.Mediation produces alpha (focused alertness) and theta (relaxed) brain waves.
All forms of mediation activate a relaxation response, which puts your body at ease and reduces the impact of cortisol on your body.
New research makes clear connections between mindful mediation and a lowering of stress, anxiety, and fatigue.
 Yoga helps clear your mind and reduce your stress levels. Research shows that practicing yoga, even for the first time, will normalize cortisol levels, bringing balance to the body. Yoga reduces muscle tension and thereby neutralizing the stress response. The exercises performed during yoga opens your mind to experiencing the thoughts, feelings, and emotions of your true nature.Relax your facial muscles and breathe deeply and slowly through your nose to reduce stress and anxiety. Be aware of your surroundings while keeping your eyes shut and remaining in the moment.
The combination of exercise and mediation produce healing hormones that have proven to effectively reduce cortisone levels and improve the ability to heal.
Or, you can get a massage instead. A nurturing massage is the ultimate muscle relaxation response activator that aids in other self-healing processes.
Yoga classes can be purchased on dvd or on the internet if you don’t have time to attend a session at a local studio.
 Relax both your mind and body by taking a walk through the woods or a local park. Nothing brings peace to the mind like walking through the forest with birds chirping in the background, leaves falling to the ground, and the rustle of squirrels and chipmunks running up trees. Nature brings stillness and immediate silence from the hubbub of modern society.If you are going to enjoy nature and relax your body from all the noise pollution, then, leave the cell phone, iPod, or tablet at home. Don’ let modern technology disrupt the peace and quiet.
Or, if you live in the city, snuggle with a pet. Playing with pets fills us with oxytocin, endorphins, and many other healing hormones. Let Fido cut your cortisol levels while your body heals itself.
 Listening to music prior to a stressor positively affects the psycho biological nervous system with a faster recover from stress. Listening and playing music increases the body’s production of the antibody immunoglobulin A – the cells that attack viruses and help to boost the effectiveness of the immune system, as well as lowering cortisol.Making, playing, listening to music, or creative expression, promotes the release of endorphins and other positive neurotransmitters.
Music can help reduce depression, anxiety, improves your autoimmune system, relieves physical pain while lowering your heart rate, decreasing your blood pressure, and slows down your breathing.
Vibrations from the sound of music also have a cathartic effect on the body.
 Besides the satisfaction of growing healthy food, gardening is considered an exercise that will help lower cortisol levels. Studies show that during the “recovery period” after gardening significant decreases in cortisol were detected, reducing acute stress.Reduction in stress, the release of aggression, and the reduction of weight were all results from the physical exertion of gardening.
Known as “horticultural therapy,” gardening’s physical activity, awareness of natural surroundings, and cognitive stimulation and the satisfaction of a job well done has had an important impact on both physical and mental health because of its ability to reduce cortisol.

