 Children will naturally come up with questions while learning something new. Take time to listen to their questions and try to formulate the best answer you can think of that directly answers their question. Sometimes you might have to ask if you understand their question correctly. You can find out by rephrasing it and saying, “Is that what you’re asking?” After you answer, you can ask, “Did that answer your question?”


If your child asks questions at home at times that aren’t good for you, be sure to explain to them that it’s not a good time and why. This also goes for any time your child talks to you. Children don’t always understand that sometimes when you’re in the middle of cooking a complicated dinner it’s not a good time to discuss what happened to them that day.
Be sure to say, “I really want to hear about that (or talk about that), but right now isn’t a good time. Can we talk during dinner (or at another specified time)?, It’s important to talk to children, and to other adults while you’re around children, the way you would like for them to talk. Children learn best by imitating. If you want your children to be polite, be sure to use manners. Pay attention to the tone of your voice.


Be sure to say “please,” “thank you,” “excuse me,” and “I’m sorry” appropriately while interacting with your children or with other adults in front of them.
Listen to the tone of your voice through the child’s ears. Children often pay more attention to tone than they do to what you’re actually saying. Have you ever had a child say to you, “Why are you yelling at me?” when you weren’t actually yelling? This is most likely because your tone sounded angry, frustrated, or unhappy in some way, possibly without you even realizing it., Children have very strong emotions, and sometimes they are about things that don’t appear important to adults. It’s important to not downplay how a child feels about a certain event or situation. Help children to make sense of their emotions in a helpful way. You can start by saying, “I understand this is upsetting to you. Let’s talk about why you’re upset.” You can then try to calm them down by talking about ways that they can cope with feeling upset, or explaining other points of view that they may not have thought of., Patience is an extremely important quality to have while working with children. It can be a challenge, but the best thing to do is remember when “kids are being kids.” They are usually not intentionally trying to irritate you. Unless they are… and in those cases sometimes you just have to ignore them. When you spend lots of time with kids in any capacity, it’s important to take care of yourself too. Get enough sleep, drink enough water, exercise and eat a healthy diet, and allow yourself some occasional breaks away from them to regroup and gather your thoughts.