 Guns are effective at extended ranges, so it is essential to reduce distance if attacked with a firearm. Each of these techniques can be adapted for pistols and also long rifles.


If the attacker is pointing the gun at your face, it is essential to redirect the line of fire upwards to reduce the chance of collateral damage. Do so by placing the balls of your hands together and making a V with your hands. Your fingers should remain spread, however, to ensure that you can grasp the gun. Remember that your opponent is expecting some sort of reaction, so try to fuse this with a feigned raising of your arms. Grasp the barrel of the gun from underneath with the aforementioned V hand positioning. Do not grab the handle or your opponent's hands. Push up and then quickly pull down. As you pull down, step in and push your hands forward to crank the opponent's wrist back and point the gun vertically. Kick the knees or groin to disconnect your opponent. You are also in a position to twist the gun sideways. Doing so, and then quickly pulling back should force your opponent to release the gun by hyper extending the thumb.






For a gun pointed to the chest, the defense is the same as for a knife thrust to the chest. The choke hold is particularly useful here as an arm bar may be hazardous.






If the gun is aimed to the back of the head, rapidly turning into the attacker will result in his arm being next to your head. Clamp it down and finish with knee strikes to the groin, bladder, and liver, and palm strikes to the head.






If the gun is behind you, glance over your shoulder. Your opponent will be expecting this reaction. Turn and use your hips to push the arm towards the assailant's line of symmetry. Finish as in the first example.
 Create distance.
 Tap the magazine well to ensure that it is properly seated, pull back on the feeding slide to insert a fresh round and clear any jam that may have resulted from the struggle. Check the safety and aim the gun with both hands.


If the gun is a revolver, pull the hammer back into single action mode because some revolvers are single action only. Also, the trigger pull will be lessened, making a reflex shot easier.
 However, if you must fire, fire two reflexive shots to the chest with minimal effective aiming followed by a single shot to the head with careful aiming.


If you must fire while backing up, (before the tap, rack, aim) fire from the hip. Clamp the gun against your hip, being sure to lower the shoulder so that the slide doesn't hit your forearm. Stand with the gun-side foot back.







