 Thread your arms underneath your opponent's arms (if they clamp their elbows to their sides and go into a "prone position", you can make a fist and knead it into the space between their elbow and body to create space for you to drill your hand through).;
,, It can be the left or right side, of your opponent. For now, though, assume that you want the chicken wing on the left side.
 Use your right hand to push down on their head. Drive your weight into your opponent and place your scapula (shoulder blade) in the middle of your opponent's back, corresponding with the location of their sternum. Then (assuming that you are parallel with your opponent, and your own legs are not crossed) bring your right leg up and over your left leg so that you are out to the side. You are now "laying" sideways, perpendicular, across your opponents back. All of this step is one continuous and quick series of motions

, Put all your weight onto your scapula and drive into their back. Take your right hand and grasp your opponent's fingers on their left hand. Do not let go of the wrist with your left hand, though

, Now, keeping the fingers captured with the right hand, release the wrist with your left hand and quickly bring your left hand over the triceps, under the biceps at the elbow joint or higher, and place your hand on their back so that your forearm is perpendicular with their back. This should be done in one fluid motion. You may now release their fingers with your right hand and bring your right leg back across their body so that you're parallel with them once more.
 Take your right arm and grasp their right wrist (go under the arms as before). Do not let go of the right wrist or the chicken wing!

, The base of your forearm is your fist which is on their back. Bring your elbow up so that it forms about a 60° angle with the ground.
 This will turn them to their back. As you run, try to place the palm of their chicken- winged hand (which if they know what they're doing, they'll probably be trying to post on your knees to keep you from running around their head and pulling off the pin) above your left hip. Lock and squeeze with your upper arm. This keeps them from posting on your knee. Don't let go of their far wrist. If you're arms aren't very flexible, this pinning combination may feel a little uncomfortable for your shoulders, but you can bet your opponent feels much less comfortable. They should wind up stacked on their shoulders with their legs in the air and you holding their right wrist and chicken winging their left arm.
 To do this, simply bring your legs in front of your hips and sag towards the ground. This redistributes your weight onto the shoulders of your opponent, forcing his/her shoulders down into the mat.

