 Global trendsetters tend to be musicians, actors, and other celebrities. They often bring existing subcultural trends to the mainstream or kick start crazes based simply on their personal tastes. Regardless, they tend to be a good barometer when you're trying to spot a trend. Pay close attention to what they wear.


If you see a celebrity sporting a unique look that you love, borrow it. Don't copy the outfit exactly, but take inspiration from it.
Fashion trends can be fabric types, color palettes, and specific garments. When planning a similar outfit, use one or two of these aspects instead of all three. That way, you may start a trend in your peer group without being accused of simply being a copycat.
Fashion magazines are also a great way to research what's on-trend., Social media has become an extremely important tool for trendsetters as a way to both track and disseminate information. Follow users who are popular and are in line with your own sensibilities. Check out the "trending" sections of popular websites. Create a personal feed for yourself using an aggregator to help keep track of what's trending in your personal area of interest.Some experts are now using high tech computer algorithms to create and even predict style trends. If you're technologically inclined, consider researching and possibly using these methods yourself., If you can afford to travel, try going to cities known for fashion like Paris, New York, and Shanghai. If you live in a rural or suburban area, visit the nearest urban center to get an idea of what's trending. If you already live in a fashion-forward city, go to restaurants, shops, clubs, and neighborhoods that you know to be trendy.


Check out what other people are wearing to guess at what may be the next trend to hit the mainstream. If you notice multiple people sporting a style you haven't seen before, it's probably the sign of a new trend., Remember that looks come back in style over the years. Don't get rid of any quality clothing or accessories just because a trend has passed. Instead, save these items for when that look is back in vogue. That way, you'll have a partial wardrobe ready to go for next time., Spotting when a trend is waning is just as important to a trendsetter as tracking its start. In order to stay on-trend, you will need to recognize when a trend begins to end before anyone else does. From there, jump ship to the next potential big thing as soon as possible.An easy way to tell when a trend has gone stale is how ubiquitous it becomes. If you start to see a style that was once quirky and unique become mass-marketed, it's safe to say it's no longer trendy.