 It’s important to remember that your bust size or any aspect of your physical appearance does not define who you are as a person. Instead of dwelling on your bust size or worrying about how others perceive your bust, consider the qualities and traits that make you unique and amazing.Try not to emphasize physical appearance when you do this. Instead, consider your interesting personality and special character traits.;
, Making negative comments about your bust size or other people’s bust size is a major obstacle in your quest to accept your bust size and improve your overall body image. Don’t allow yourself to talk or think negatively about your body and do not make negative comments about other people’s bodies.Constantly making comments about your bust size can become a bad habit and even a fixation that will prevent you from accepting your large bust.
You shouldn’t make negative comments about other people’s bodies because you wouldn’t want people to make those comments about yours. In addition, research suggests that when we say negative things about other people’s bodies, our brains actually internalize this message and we direct the message to ourselves.
 Unfortunately, our society and culture often make false assumptions that women with large busts are sexually promiscuous and unintelligent. You can prepare to deal with these situations in advance, and challenge these negative assumptions in the process.Many women with large busts often receive unwanted male attention. Don't be afraid to be forceful if necessary and report inappropriate behavior to a teacher, supervisor, or the police. It's also not a bad idea for women to take a self-defense class and carry pepper spray.
Rehearse your response to rude comments or sexual advances so you'll be ready even if taken by surprise.
Sticking to conversation topics about class, business, and work helps send the message that you are smart and not merely a sexual object.
Some women have reported that talking about their mothers and grandmothers forces guys to see them more as daughters or sisters rather than sex objects. Hopefully, guys will adjust their behavior accordingly.
If possible, remove yourself from the situation and avoid people who objectify your body and make you feel bad about yourself.
 If you have a negative or disparaging thought about your bust size, try to immediately replace it with a positive one. For example, if you have a moment where you feel that your bust is too large, think about how nice you look in a certain outfit or type of outfit.Writing these positive affirmations down and leaving them on your mirror, in your wallet, or in your purse can help you feel more confident and comfortable with your body., Through television, movies, magazines, video games, toys, articles, and online media we are inundated with images of idealized body types. It can be challenging not to compare your own body—especially bust size—to these images and feel that it is deficient in some way. Avoiding images that make you feel bad about yourself can help you accept your large bust.It’s unrealistic to think you can totally eliminate your exposure to these images, but minimizing your exposure will help you combat social pressures and prevent you from comparing your own bust size and body to these unnatural images.
 If there’s someone in your life who makes negative comments about your large bust size or makes you feel negative about it, try talking to this person about how you feel. They may not realize their comments or attitude are hurtful.


If you don’t feel comfortable talking with the person or they dismiss your concerns, it might be best to avoid being around these individuals. Instead, surround yourself with people who help you feel good about yourself and your body.
 Meditation can help you push away and eliminate negative thoughts, so the next time you are having a hard time accepting your large bust size, try to sit for 5 to 10 minutes, close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. To accept your bust size and prevent negative thoughts from gaining too much power, say something positive about your body while you meditate such as “I love and accept my body.” Then take a deep breath, and repeat this as needed.
 Many women report that they have a hard time accepting their bust size and feeling good about their bodies. As a result, you shouldn’t feel isolated or alone.Consider joining an online support network, forum, chat group, or social media group about body image or bust size so you can connect with women who are dealing with similar struggles. This will help you feel less alone, and is an excellent opportunity to learn and share tips for accepting your bust size and promoting a healthy body image., Improving your body image and accepting your large bust size will likely not happen overnight. It’s a process that will be more effective if you are patient and understanding with yourself.


If you continue to worry about your large bust size or other body-image issues, consider talking with a counselor. They will be able to offer support and help guide you toward self-acceptance.

