 Type 2 diabetes is primarily the result of lack of exercise and poor diet. In particular, eating refined carbohydrates (things such as white bread and white pasta) and sweets, as well as exceeding the calories your body requires all contribute to the development of type 2 diabetes, as well as the worsening of the condition with time.If you can substitute these with other alternatives you will be doing your body a great service! For instance, switching to whole grains and carbohydrates with a lower glycemic index (such as brown rice, quinoa, or whole-grain bread) is much better for you.
If you can limit your sweets to less than they were before (whether this means cutting down to one a day, or one a week — it depends what is manageable for you), you will decrease the sugar load on your body and, in turn, improve the long-term course of your diabetes.
Remember that fruits and vegetables are also carbohydrates, so make sure you are taking this into account when you are counting your carbohydrate intake.
 To satisfy the urge to eat, try eating something healthier rather than reaching for the treats in your cupboard. For instance, some great foods to snack on include:


Vegetables. Try making a salad, or simply cutting up some veggies with dip.
Yogurt, or nuts (such as almonds), are a great option as these contain protein and will give you a "full" feeling.
It is also better to eat frequent healthy snacks as this will prevent your cravings for too many carbohydrates and sweets.
 In this way, the sugar does not linger in your bloodstream, because high sugar in the blood over time causes damage to your body.


What happens in type 2 diabetes is that the insulin stops working properly. In a way, it is like you have "taxed the system" too much, oftentimes by eating too many sugars and refined carbohydrates, or simply by eating too many calories (more than your body needs).
You then become unable to process sugar in the same way you used to, before developing the disease. This causes elevated blood sugar levels, which, over time, leads to the long-term complications of the disease, such as heart disease, kidney disease, eye-related diabetic conditions (blindness), peripheral neuropathy to name a few.

