 Being told "I love you" is a good thing; you want it to make their day awesome, right? Good news like that might even cheer them up if they're in a bad mood, but sometimes it just isn't the right time. Just wait for bad things to soothe over a bit.;
, For Pete's sake, don't rent a plane to spell it in the sky unless you know FOR SURE your target will appreciate it! You don't want to embarrass them or scare them off.
 Going full-on-romance-movie-rose-petals-on-the-bed should probably be saved for later on in the relationship. One, you might come on too strong. Two, don't pull out all the stops at once! If you're too eager, you'll burn through your love way too quickly, and it could fizzle out just as fast. Always keep the anticipation of more creative, romantic tricks as your trump card.
 You know them better and you can tell what they would like to hear/see more. But maybe you just want something that will really knock his/her socks off? No problem. Basically, the best thing to do is ask yourself about your lover. You know him/her way better than any wikiHow does! You'll know what exactly to give them, just as long as you don't pressure yourself!

, Cute, little gestures like secret notes or special surprises throughout the week will get him/her used to the notion of you dropping little "I love you" signs everywhere. They'll start to wonder about your next move.
 For example, if this is the first time you're confessing your love and you're not sure how you'll be received, have a nonthreatening back-up plan. Getting him/her alone or in a very public scene may both seem like different but equally romantic things, but you might surprise the person and offend them. It's best to give a little warning. Something like "Do you like surprises?" How they react will give you the best idea of how to go through with your operation.
 Even if your admission goes well, a big show-stopper like serenading someone in front of the whole restaurant can be a hard act to follow. Make sure you know ahead of time if you'll want to leave afterwards with them, or if you'd like to suddenly tone it back down and leave them feeling more eager for things to come.
 You've GOT to have some friends who'd be willing to help set something up, if your plan is that big. If it's something simple, just having a reliable friend to pass the word around that you shouldn't be bothered tonight can still ease some stress of the situation.
 A shy girl might not find a fireworks show arrange just for her romantic--she might be frightened. Ladies who are working on admitting love to guys creatively should know that men are BLUNT. They don't typically speak in euphemisms or poetry. Having him figure things out might just confuse him and put him off. Girls value creativity and originality when receiving a confession; men value bravery and confidence. You don't need to be anyone but you when it comes to showing your love. Just give it your all. If it's meant to be, it'll work out, no matter what.

