 Look for an oral medication containing pyrantel pamoate. This medicine paralyzes the nervous system of pinworms, forcing them to exit the body in one's stool. Follow label instructions to determine the dosing amount and frequency.
This medication should not be used if you have liver problems, are pregnant, or are breastfeeding.
Pyrantel pamoate can interact with other medications and supplements so it’s a good idea to ask a doctor or pharmacist if this medicine is safe for you to use before taking it.
 Individuals with pinworm infestation are often treated with an anti-parasite medication that quickly wipes out adult pinworms.


The two most common anti-parasite medications used to treat pinworm infestations are albendazole and mebendazole. Both of these drugs prevent worms from absorbing sugar, thereby causing them to lose energy and die.These drugs may cause mild gastrointestinal upset, including stomach pain and nausea.More severe side effects include sore throat, fever, unusual bleeding or bruising, shortness of breath, and fatigue. If any unusual side effects appear, stop use and contact your doctor.Your doctor may advise against these prescription treatments for patients who are pregnant or under the age of two years.
 Ask your doctor for their recommendation on an anti-itch cream safe for use near the anus. You may receive an over-the-counter or prescription cream.Even though the anti-parasite medication will be enough to kill the pinworms, you may still experience itching after the initial round of medication. This can be both uncomfortable and problematic, since eggs may remain in the system even after all matured pinworms have died off. Scratching can spread these eggs, making the matter worse.
 A second round or "repeat" treatment kills any pinworms that hatch from eggs that were not destroyed by the initial treatment.
 Although pinworm medication is effective, it's imperative that you and your family observe good hygiene practices to reduce the risk of re-infection and transmission of pinworms. Follow the guidelines in Method 1 to prevent re-infection from occurring and to reduce the risk of transmitting pinworms to other people.

