 If you plan to purchase debt as a business venture, it may be best to start your own factoring business, or accounts receivables financing company.Factors are businesses that buy companies’ accounts receivable at a discounted rate (the money owed to a company by its debtors) and attempt to collect the debt for a profit.They are sought out by companies that need additional cash flow in order to maintain their business.A factoring company purchases a company's accounts receivable for a discount of the amount owed. It makes profits by collecting interest on the outstanding balances of the accounts purchased as well as the difference between the discounted value and the amount collected.
 If you are new to the factoring business, you may want to attend factoring training workshops run by those in the factoring profession. These workshops may provide you with critical skills to run your business successfully. You can locate these training sessions by conducting an internet search for “factoring training courses.”

, Once you have established your factoring business, it is important that you locate clients. You can do this by advertising your business, which includes using social media.


You may also want to consider joining a factoring business association, which may provide you with networking opportunities.
 Businesses that need an inflow of cash will look to factoring business to purchase their accounts receivable. Once you have identified a potential client, you should evaluate their accounts receivable. In order to determine whether the debt is a sound investment, consider the following:


Determine whether their invoices are easily collectable. In order for this to be a good investment, you must be able to collect on the outstanding invoices. Review the accounts receivable and evaluate whether the individuals or businesses have the resources to pay off their debts.
Determine whether the assets of the debtor are already encumbered. If the accounts receivable is full of businesses or individuals with liens or claims against their assets, it may not be a sound investment. You can determine whether assets are subject to any liens or claims (also referred to as an “encumbered asset”) by conducting a public records search.
Determine whether the potential client has properly managed their accounts receivable. It is important to be able to easily take over and manage the accounts receivable. If the client has not properly maintained their database, it may be difficult to collect on the debts., Once you have determined that a company’s accounts receivable are collectable and appear to be a sound investment, you can make an offer to purchase the company’s accounts receivable.


Typically, a finance company would purchase a business’ accounts receivable in two installments. The first usually covers 70 to 90% of the gross value of the outstanding invoices.
The second payment, for the remainder of the gross value minus financing fees, is made when the customers pay their invoices in full. Financing fees are generally between 1.5 and 3.5 percent per 30 days and depend on a variety of factors including your industry and customer creditworthiness.A factoring business buys the accounts receivable at a discount and charges a fee for collecting on the invoices. This allows the factor to make a profit on the purchase of the accounts receivables., In contrast to factoring, accounts receivable financing allows the borrower to take out a loan against the value of their accounts receivable. In other words, the borrower pays back the lender directly, like in a normal loan, rather than signing over the rights to collect on their accounts. This reduces risk for the lender because they don't have to worry about collecting on unpaid accounts. Consider this as a less-risky alternative to offering factoring.Keep in mind that this lower risk also generally translates into lower interest rates paid to you as the lender.

