 Measure and cut three 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) long pieces of 22-gauge wire. Measure and cut a 50-inch (127-centimeter) long piece of 26-gauge wire. You can use any color of wire you want, but black or silver would look best for this project., Hold the three short wires together and find the middle. Place the long wire behind them, a with 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) long tail sticking out from beneath. Wrap the long wire four times around the bundle., If the stub that's left on the bundle is sharp, carefully press it down using a pair of needle nose pliers. Do not cut off the rest of the long wire.
 Take the three 22-gauge wires, and spread them out evenly to form a star or "*" shape. They may slip and slide through the wrapped wire, so make sure that they are all the same length.
 Once the spokes are the way you want them, weave the long wire over and under them, like making a basket. Keep doing this until you are back where you started, then repeat for a second round.Push the long wire down into the crevices every so often.
Keep the long wire pulled nice and taut.
 Bring the long wire under the next spoke and pull it taut. Bring it up, over, and around the spoke. Give it a gentle tug, and push the wrapped part down. Move onto the next spoke.
 Keep the spokes nice and straight, and the long wire pulled taut. Remember to push the wrapped "knots" down to the previous one. If the web starts to warp, pinch it between your thumb and fore finger., When the wire is too short to reach the next spoke, you are done weaving. Use a pair of needle nose pliers to wrap it tightly around the current spoke three times., Use you pair of flush wire cutters for this. You will have long spokes sticking out all around the web. Don't cut these off just yet.
 Squeeze a pair of wire looping pliers over the last spoke you wrapped, close to the "knot." Pull the tail-end of the spoke down behind the looping wires, towards the center of the web.If you can't find any wire looping pliers, you will need to trim the spokes down, and wrap them using a pair of round nose plies.
 Bring the tail-end of the loop towards you, then wrap it around the "neck" of the loop. Trim the tail-end off. If you need to, use your needle nose pliers to tuck in any sharp ends. Remove the wire looping pliers when you are done.This wrapped loop will be the top of your earring or pendant.
 Use a pair of needle nose pliers to open up an earring hook. Slide the two ends past each other, not away. Slip the loop onto the hook, then close the hook by pushing the ends back towards each other.


If you wish to make a pendant, use a large jump ring instead. Slip the jump ring onto a plain necklace.
 You do not have to wrap the tail-end around the neck of each loop this time. Simply, make the loop, close it, and trim off the tail., Use a pair of needle nose pliers to twist open the loop on the bottom of your earring. Slip a spider charm onto it, then twist the loop back shut.Some charms have big, clunky jump rings. If your charm has one, you might want to remove it first. This will make your earrings look nicer.
 You can have the second earring match the first one, or you can make it a little different. For example, you can use a different spider charm, or you can skip it altogether.

