 Some schools or workplaces may have policies that prohibit this kind of lunch sharing. This means that planning your lunch swap without permission could land you in trouble. Ask your manager or supervisor something like:


"I've been reading a lot about how lunch swaps help employee morale. It's like a mini-potluck at lunch time. Do you think we could try this here?"
"Lately, I've been wanting to share some old family recipes with my friends here at work. May I organize a lunch swap so we can all share recipes together?"
"Principal Smith, I think it's important for us to learn how to cook to prepare for living on our own. Do you think we could practice cooking by having a lunch swap at school?";
, Not everyone has to participate in your lunch swap for it to be a success. As a matter of fact, it may be best to start with a smaller group, as fewer people will be easier to coordinate. However, you lunch swap could be as large as you desire.


Be sensitive when asking classmates and coworkers to join your lunch swap. Some people may prefer to eat alone, or they may be self-conscious of their cooking ability.
If you have enough people bringing food, you might want to open up the lunch swap to the entire office or class to show people how much fun it can be., Food allergies can be deadly, so before you decide any dishes, inquire with other lunch swappers about dietary restrictions.Once you know what ingredients to avoid, you can begin planning dishes.


The quantities and kinds of food for your lunch swap group will be determined by its members.
Generally, there should be enough food for each person to get a portion of a main dish, a salad, one to two sides, and a drink.
Just because one swapper is allergic to a dish doesn't mean you can't make it. However, it should be kept separate from other food and clearly labeled., This will help you keep track of who's part of your lunch swap group and who's bringing what. This is important, because your lunch swap group might change week to week, or even day to day.


You could post your sign up sheet visibly in a common area, or you could use a shared online document for planning.
You can have as little or as much information on your sign up sheet as you desire, though you may want to include name, dish, and contact information on it., You can organize your lunch swap as a monthly, weekly, or daily event.You may have to experiment a little bit to see what frequency works best for your lunch swap group.


Many schools and workplaces have a calendar posted for group events, birthdays, deadlines, and so on. Mark lunch swap days here so everyone knows.
A shared lunch swap calendar through your email or phone can be set to notify lunch swappers when the day approaches.