 Turn the oven on to 200 °F (93.3 °C) (90 C). Get out two baking sheets and lay parchment in each of them. Take a pencil and draw 24 circles on each parchment sheet. Each circle should be 1 1/2-inches (3.8 cm) in size.The circles will act as a guide for creating evenly sized meringues.
 Place 3 large egg whites into a large mixing bowl along with 1/2 teaspoon of cream of tartar. Use a stand or electric mixer with a whisk attachment to beat the mixture on high speed for several minutes. The eggs should become bright white. If you lift the beater away, the egg whites should form soft peaks.If you use room temperature eggs, you'll get more volume when you whisk them.
 Keep the mixer running on high speed and add a total of 3/4 cup (150 g) of sugar one tablespoon at a time. This should take you several minutes to beat in and you'll notice the egg whites stiffen.The egg whites will also look glossy once you've beaten in the sugar.
 Use a rubber spatula to carefully fold in 1 ounce (28 g) of the grated semisweet chocolate and 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla into the meringue mixture.Avoid over mixing the meringue or you'll lose all the volume you beat into it.
 Scoop the meringue mixture into a piping bag or resealable plastic bag. If you're using the plastic bag, cut a 1/2-inch (1.3 cm) hole in one bottom corner of the bag. Squeeze the meringue into a circle directly onto the circles you drew on the parchment.You should end up with about 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of the meringue mixture on each circle.
 Put the baking sheets in the preheated oven and bake them for 70 minutes. Once they've cooked, they should become dry. Transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely., Place the remaining 2 ounces (56 g) of grated semisweet chocolate into a small saucepan or microwave safe bowl. Heat the chocolate on low heat until it's melted. Stir in 1/4 cup (65 g) of creamy peanut butter and let the mixture cool.If you'd like a crunchier texture, you can use chunky peanut butter.
 Once the meringues and filling are cool, take an offset spatula and spread filling on half of the meringues. Spread each flat side of half of the meringues with about 1 teaspoon of the filling. Sandwich the cookies with the remaining unfilled meringues.Serve the meringue cookies immediately or store them in an airtight container.

