 You can find these in Amazon.com, eBay or your local auto parts store. No matter which way you go, you'll have to order it and wait for it as they generally do not keep them in stock. You can expect to spend $50 ~ $70 for this item.

Do not touch or disturb the new clock spring until later in the installation process.;
,, Advance Auto Parts lends those tools in Atlanta. Check in your area with the various Auto parts store. If they have one be sure to ask them to reserve it for you so you don't drive just to find it gone. Expect to leave a deposit for it with your credit card or cash. It should be around $20 which you'll get back when you return the tool. Then, park your truck in a safe place where you can work and if you don't finish you will not block anyone (including yourself)

Do not touch or disturb the new clock spring at this time

, Start with the negative post (black, on left)

, Note the 2 holes in the back of the steering wheel where the nuts are that hold the airbag. Also note the tilt lever right below the turn signal, windshield wiper stalk.
 There is a little wrench flat area just under the knob. If you find a wrench that fits it, use that to help turn it, otherwise use pliers or a small adjustable wrench.



you'll need a Phillips-head screwdriver

,,


The black wire is the cruise control (upper left)
The yellow wire is the airbag (lower center)

,


Use 2 of the bolts supplied with the wheel puller that will fit the 2 diagonal threaded holes to the upper right and lower left of the center bolt to attach the puller block.
Push the center bolt provided with the puller against the center bolt, but use a wrench to hold the center bolt so it does not turn.
After a few turns of the puller center bolt, the steering wheel with pop loose from the spline
Mark the position of the spline and the steering wheel so you will install it in the same place.
Remove the center bolt that holds the steering wheel.
 Now you see the clock spring exposed.


Look at the wire that connects to the ignition switch and pay particular attention at it's location.
Pull away the wire clip from the ignition switch.
With a torx driver remove the 3 screws that hold the clock spring to the steering wheel column. Save these screws, you'll need them later
Follow the yellow and black wires to the connections to the harness under the dashboard.
You can pull the connectors out of the metal bracket to make it easier to disconnect the plugs. You'll get new connectors that will snap back into the holes in the sheet metal bracket.
Notice the routing of these wires so you can route the new wires in the same way.
 Do not remove the 3 pronged white center piece yet!!


Route the wires back to the connections under the dashboard
Re-connect them as they were and fix them in the sheet metal bracket, be sure to route them as they were before.
Replace the clip and connector onto the ignition switch. This could be a bit of a problem. You might want to try reinstalling the old one back in to give you an idea of how it goes in, before forcing or breaking the new one.
Tighten the torx head screws that hold the clock spring in place
Remove the 3 pronged white plastic center part but take care not to rotate, move or spin it in any way.
replace the steering wheel on the spline routing the wires from the clock spring the same way they were before.
Replace the center bolt that holds the steering wheel and tighten it until it's seated. Torque the bolt to the correct tension using the torque wrench. Do a search for the correct torque value for the size of the screw (the size of the body, not the head).
Connect the cruise control wires to the steering wheel.
Bring the airbag and position it in the correct relative position to the steering wheel so you can re-connect the yellow wire to the airbag.
Replace the airbag onto the steering wheel and fasten it using the same 10mm nuts that you removed from it.
Replace the bottom plastic cover under the steering wheel using the Phillip-head screws you removed earlier.
Replace the tilt lever by turning it clockwise into its bracket. You might need a wrench or pliers to tighten it.
 You are done.