 Exercise must be a regular activity in your day even after the week is up if you want to continue to lose weight or maintain a healthy weight. Exercise also builds your energy and increases your metabolism, and both help make your weight loss endeavor more successful. Because exercise methods for losing weight are subjective and dependent upon your health, meet with your doctor to discuss the best exercise routine for your personal needs.


Cardio burns more fat than strength training, but both are needed for maximal weight loss. If running isn't your thing, choose an easier-on-the-knees activity like swimming or the elliptical machine.

Look into High Intensity Interval Training, or HIIT. The National Institute of Health says HIIT "involves repeatedly exercising at a high intensity for 30 seconds to several minutes, separated by 1-5 minutes of recovery (either no or low intensity exercise)." They also say that "...such benefits, especially weight loss, are amplified with HIIT."So, next time you get on that machine, rotate going all out with relaxing and you're done in 15 minutes.


Plenty of activities count as a cardio workout that you may not even realize. Here are the calories burned in 30 minutes of each activity:

Aerobic dance - 342
Boxing - 330
Jumping rope - 286
Tennis - 232
Basketball - 282
Swimming (freestyle) - 248



, Those who do cardio and strength will burn the most fat and build muscle. If you're new to weights, use a buddy or consult a trainer at your gym.


No time for the gym, huh? No problem! Invest in hand weights or dumbbells for your home. You can get a workout in wherever, however, and without the monthly fee.
 Let's face it: 10 pounds in one week is a steep goal. You need to burn as many calories as possible. So why not do some Yoga while Homeland is playing in the background?


Yoga burns 3-6 calories a minute. After an hour in front of the TV, you've knocked off 180-360 calories.

Yoga is not the most intense workout, no. However, it has shown to lead to mindful eating (which other workouts do not correlate with) which, in turn, leads to greater weight loss.
 So, you've been to the gym 5 times already this week and you're yoga-ed out. What else can you do?


Bike to work. Take the stairs and skip the elevator. Take whatever little opportunities you can to burn those calories and get active.
Do those household chores you've been putting off. You'd be surprised how washing the car, tending the garden, and rearranging the furniture can make you break an unintentional sweat.

