 The complaint may contain mistakes or inconsistencies that you can use as a defense against the plaintiff's claim.


Check the deadline. If the complaint was filed in federal court, you must file your answer to the lawsuit within 20 days.If the employee hasn't met the legal requirements to file a suit, you may be able to have it dismissed on those grounds.For example, an employee filing an ethnic discrimination lawsuit typically must have a Right-to-Sue letter from the EEOC before he or she can initiate a lawsuit. If this letter isn't present, or the employee has not filed a charge with the EEOC, you may be able to get the lawsuit dismissed.;
, If an employee files a lawsuit against you alleging ethnic discrimination, it likely isn't the first time you've heard of the problem.


Typically an employee must go through the dispute resolution processes provided by state and federal government agencies before he or she can file a lawsuit in court.
If the employee previously filed a charge with the EEOC, you should review the information contained in the charge and the investigation that followed. You may have a defense if the employee's lawsuit exceeds the scope of the original charge, or if he or she alleges discriminatory acts that were not included in the original charge.If you haven't already, make sure you have a full copy of the EEOC or state agency file on any discrimination charges the employee has filed and provide those to your attorney., Even if the employee has the right to file a lawsuit, he or she still must file in the correct court with proper jurisdiction over the dispute.


For example, if the employee filed his or her lawsuit in state court, you may be able to have the case moved to federal court if you are covered by federal law.If the court is far away from your business, you should review whether the court has personal jurisdiction over your company, or whether a closer court might be a more convenient venue. These are defenses you must raise in your initial response to the complaint, or you lose the right to raise them later., State and federal law require employees to notify you of a potential discrimination claim before filing suit.


Both state and federal law require the employee not only to notify you of discrimination, but also to give you a reasonable amount of time to investigate and handle the issue. If you did not receive adequate legal notice of the claim, you have a defense against the ethnic discrimination lawsuit.