 Not all bats will be well suited for use in a bat rolling machine. Alloy or metal bats are not meant for rolling and won't gain much benefit. Composite bats are the best to roll and can gain a noticeable increase in performance. Make sure your bat is a composite bat before having it rolled.Rolling a bat will simulate the wear and tear that will come from regularly using your bat.
Composite bats are made from graphite and carbon layers. These bats will perform better the more you use them, allowing them to benefit from being rolled.
Aluminum and wooden bats won't benefit from being rolled.
Because rolling your bat increases its performance levels, you may have an unfair advantage over other players. This advantage is the reason that juiced bats are illegal to play with.;
, You will need to have access to a bat rolling machine in order to get the best results. Rolling a bat is an accelerated way to break the bat in and increase its performance during play. Bat rolling machines will evenly break the bat in, targeting all areas along the “sweet spot” and giving your bat a bit more power.


A bat rolling machine is a vice with three rollers. These rollers allow the bat to move while it is compressed.
There are bat rolling services that will roll your bat for you.
You can try purchasing your own bat rolling machine.
 You will begin by rolling the length of the bat first. Place the bat into the machine perpendicularly to the machine's rollers. You'll then need to turn the top lever to increase the pressure and compress the bat. Use the side lever to move the bat back and forth, compressing the bat's “sweet spot”.Insert the bat into the machine, perpendicular to the the rollers.
Start with one quarter turn of pressure.
Do around 7-10 passes for each pressure increment.
Increase the pressure on quarter turn.
Don't go any further than 1 or 1¼ turns of pressure.
Avoid getting to close to the taper or the end cap.
 Once you've rolled one section of the bat, you can move on and roll the next. You will need to roll the entire face of the bat in order to get a fully balanced roll. After you've completed rolling each area of the bat's barrel, you can move onto rolling the bat parallel to the rollers.Rotate the bat about ¼” and roll this new section.
Once the section is rolled, move to the next section on the bat.
Roll all the way around the bat and end at your starting point.
 Now that your bat has been rolled perpendicularly, you can roll it parallel to focus on areas that may have been missed. Insert the bat in the side of the rolling machine so that the rollers are hitting the area between the bat's end cap and the taper. Try to focus on this area as you work to roll the bat parallel to the rollers. Start with a quarter of a turn of pressure.
Do around four or five full rotations before increasing the pressure another quarter of a turn.
Continue until you've reached around 1 ¼ turns of pressure.

