 A gambling addiction may bring up a lot of distrust and issues in the relationship. One thing you should do to help resolve the issues in the relationship is to demonstrate a commitment of to your treatment. This is includes going to all of your therapy sessions, meetings, and following other lifestyle changes.Your partner may be skeptical that you will follow through with your treatment based on your past behavior. The more you follow your treatment and continue down the road to recovery, the more reason your partner will have to trust you.
 With an any addiction, a relapse is possible. Slip-ups and minor lapses are common during the road to recovery. You and your partner should talk about the possibility of a relapse. If you have a relapse, there should be a plan in place, including treatment, rehab, and financial matters.Discuss what a relapse will do to your relationship. Ask your partner if they will stand by you in a relapse, and what boundaries should be put into place should a relapse occur.
 Recovering from addiction is a very difficult process. It is difficult to do it alone, so you need your partner’s support to help you get through the tough times. Ask your partner if they would be willing to support you and be there for you as you work through your recovery.Discuss how you will need your partner and what role your partner will play if you have a slip-up or lapse.
Being accountable to your partner can help you want to fight harder to recover and overcome your addiction.
You may want to say, "I could really use your help while I recover. It’s not going to easy, but I hope you will be there for me even if I have bad times or slip-up."

, You and your partner may need to set boundaries due to your gambling addiction. These boundaries may include open access to your financials and check-ins to discuss your accounts to check for debt. Your partner may want you to let them manage all the finances, including your own, until you have successfully gone through recovery.Your partner and you may agree that they will not help you if you get into any more debt or legal trouble due to your gambling. They will help you work on a plan for you to pay your debt, not bail you out or pay your debt for you.
You might set a boundary by saying something like, "If I gamble again and get into financial trouble, I do not want you to help me out. If I ask you to help me out, please tell me "no" and remind me that I asked you not to help me."

, Because of your gambling addiction, you may be in a lot of debt. When you tell your partner about your addiction, you may want to ask for help coming up with a plan to pay your debt. Avoid asking for money. Instead, ask for helpful suggestions and solutions for your problem.Though your partner may be angry or hurt by your past behaviors, ask them to be part of the solution. Ask for their input about things and how they think you should proceed.
Ask your partner to help you seek legal or financial advice if needed.
You may say, “I would like you to help me come up with a plan to repay my debt. I think your input would be valuable.”

, Because of your financial troubles, your partner may want to set up separate finances. This may include cancelling any joint credit cards or bank accounts and taking over the payment of the bills.Your partner may need to first take care of debt accrued in their name or on joint accounts.
Try to understand that your partner is looking out for their needs as much as yours.
 As you are working through your recovery, you should make a vow to spend more time with your partner and your family. This can help you stay away from situations that may trigger you, or to get into situations that may lead to gambling.For example, you may agree to spend every Saturday together, or you may decide that weekends are set aside for family time.

