 You can choose to use yoga pants for any activity from weight lifting to running. The nature of your activity will put different strains on your pants. Will you be doing minimal movement (e.g., running or hiking)? Will you need full range of motion (e.g., weight lifting)?

, Loose cotton materials will keep you warm in the cold. Consider tight fitting, synthetic fiber pants when running in the heat. Loose cotton pants may work well when weight lifting for your upper body, but stretchy synthetic pants may be better when working your lower body.


You may also want to consider durability in your choice of fabric. Some yoga pants are stretchy but thin and prone to wear if worn for running. Some yoga pants designed for running are less stretchy because they are thicker thereby increasing the longevity of the pants.
 Compression can be used to highlight the shape of your legs or to attempt to enhance performance. It can also make pants feasible for bikers who can't afford to get a loose pant leg stuck in a gear. In general, this is a matter of your preference so try different levels of compression to see what works best for you.


Be careful when assessing the compression of a pair of yoga pants. A lot of compression may be a sign they simply do not fit. If your pants are so tight you can barely move or you can see your underwear then they are too tight.
 Simply an elastic band within already stretchy material. You may opt instead for a drawstring instead to hold up looser fitting pants. A pocket for your ID or keys is also a good idea for people running or biking outdoors. Be sure to pick a waist that is comfortable during your chosen activity.
 If you are working hard, you may want a darker color to hid any sweat. If you like to draw attention, bright colors will do the trick. Many athletic yoga pants will include patches of material woven together to provide breathability and stretch in certain locations. Make sure that the seams and unique characteristics do not interfere with any repetitive motions.

