 Tip the flour into the sieve, and patting the sides, gently sift it through to the bowl below.;
, Using your wooden spoon, create a well in the centre of the sifted flour. Pour the egg yolk into the centre of the well and set aside for later.
 Tip the lard into the saucepan and add the milk. Place the pan onto a medium heat and allow the lard to melt. Once melted, bring it to a rapid boil.
 Immediately add the boiling lard into the well in the bowl of flour. It is very important that it is boiling when added. Using your wooden spoon, draw the ingredients into the centre of the bowl.
 Dust your working surface lightly with flour. Place the ball of dough into the flour and also dust it lightly. Knead the dough, using both the heel of your hand and fingers, for roughly 5 minutes. This will pump some air into the dough and keep it light, so do not rush this step!

, Take a sheet of cling film and completely wrap the entire ball of dough. Set it aside in a warm place for 20-30 minutes to rest.
 Set the oven to 200ºC (400ºF/gas mark 6).
 Add the bacon pieces into the bowl of diced pork meat. Follow with the anchovy oil, thyme, sage and all spice. Sprinkle in some salt then pepper and 3 tbsp of the stock. Mix in well with your wooden spoon. Set aside to rest, while we concentrate on the pastry.
 Unwrap the pastry after it has rested, and cut off two thirds. Re-wrap the remaining pastry as we will need it later on. Sprinkle the work surface with flour and place the dough into it. Dust the dough with flour. Carefully start to roll it out with the rolling pin, into roughly into the size of the tin. Lay the cake tin, upside down, into the centre of the dough and cut around the sides. Remove the excess pastry but do not discard. Remove the cake tin, place the parchment paper in the bottom of it, and sliding the knife under the circle of pastry, lift it up, and lay it into the bottom of the tin, pushing it down to mould.
 Roll out the second part of the pastry and cut down the middle. Pick up one half and lay against the side of the tin. Gently knead into and around the mould. Take the remaining half and lay it against the other side of the tin and knead in and around the mould. Trim away any excess pastry and reserve for later.
 When the dough is nicely molded around the tin, take the meat mix and spoon it into the tin. Push it down lightly, then set it aside for a minute.
 Roll out all the remaining pastry. Place the cake tin into the middle of the dough and cut around it to create a circle. Take away the excess pastry and reserve for the decoration, later on. Taking your tin, begin to cut away and tidy up any excess pastry from the sides, but leaving enough to make a tight seal, when we put the lid on. Take your pastry lid and lay it gently over the meat, pushing it down lightly with your fingers, to create the tight seal. Finally cut a small hole in the centre of the pastry lid, to pour the liquid in later on.
 Dust some flour onto your work surface. Roll out any of the remaining dough, dusting it occasionally with flour to avoid sticking. Then with your pastry cutter, cut out three shapes and place them decoratively around the hole on the pie.
 It is now ready to bake!

, Place the tin into the centre of the oven and bake at 200ºC for 20 minutes. After this time, reduce the heat to 180ºC (350ºF/ gas mark 4). Cook for a further 2 hours. Brush with the egg wash again, and cook for a further ten minutes, after this time. Remove from the oven.
 After removing the pie, leave it to cool completely before continuing with adding the stock (step 19).
 Place a small saucepan on a medium heat, pour in the stock and bring to the boil, which will take approx 5 minutes. Add the gelatin into the boiling stock and whisk well to dissolve.
 Now that your pie has cooled, pour the stock into a jug and carefully begin to add the stock in little amounts through the hole in your pastry. Allow it to seep through. Then add a little more. Continue to add and allow to soak until all the stock is used. Be patient, as this will take some time. Allow to cool overnight.
 When completely cooled, remove your pie from the tin. Slice into generous portions and serve with a good English mustard.

